09-06-2020||Comment||What Modi should do now: Roosevelt, not Wilson||Confusing myth with history and reading Indian history and its figures wrongly has been central to BJP’s Hindutva politics and idea of India. Now, that wrong reading of history and desperation to co-opt its figures has been extended all the way to America, and to India’s economic future. To compare Narendra Modi to Woodrow Wilson, of all America’s presidents, is strange, but that’s what Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat did in a newspaper article some days ago. Shekhawat compared Modi’s new slogan ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ to Wilson’s ‘America First’ slogan, writing that Wilson “after understanding that too much global dependence had made America a victim of Spanish Flu and World War I, announced the ‘America First’ movement to be economically self-dependent, that went on to make America a superpower in the next two decades…Narendra Modi’s clarion call of Atmanirbharta is reminiscent of the America First policy, the alchemy that actualised the American dream.” Shekhawat should fire his research team. Obviously, neither he nor his research team know what Wilson’s ‘America First’ was about, so they imagined its chronology, causes and consequences to fit their narrative.   Wilson’s ‘America First’ was not about economic self-reliance. It was the articulation, at the start of World War I in 1914, of a foreign policy of neutrality between the warring European blocs – the Allied Powers and the Central Powers -- because he wanted America to be able to trade with both sides. Indeed, Wilson reduced America’s high tariffs, which he said, "cuts us off from our proper part in the commerce of the world…and makes the government a facile instrument in the hands of private interests." What’s more, Wilson’s ‘America First’ died a quick death, and he took the US into World War I.   America did not become “a Superpower in the next two decades”, either.  It slipped into the Great Depression of 1929-32 (the reasons for which, again, the minister gets wrong) and then into World War II. It was out of the Great Depression and WWII that America emerged the greatest power in the world. It was for the most part under President Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR), and it was not merely because America built a formidable war machine and the atomic bomb in those years. If Modi wants to emulate any US president at this moment in our history, it should be FDR, specifically his ‘New Deal’.    The most innovative part of the New Deal were two programmes to provide jobs to the millions rendered jobless by the Great Depression and the millions more who were coming into the labour force. These were the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) and the Works Progress Administration (WPA). The CCC was Roosevelt’s ‘Tree Army’. FDR put unemployed youth between 18 and 25 to work to conserve and enhance America’s natural beauty and build the infrastructure for people to go out and enjoy the ‘Great Outdoors’. Between 1933 and 1942, the CCC employed some 3.4 million youths, who lived in tented camps across the country and planted over three billion trees on public lands, built hundreds of parks and wildlife areas, trails and roads. They strengthened bridges, check dams and vegetation for erosion control, built dams, dug ditches (yes, the very thing that Modi made fun of about our own NREGS) and channels for flood control, rejuvenated forests, and landscaped and developed public camp and picnic grounds, lakes and ponds. They were given food, clothing, shelter and a wage of $30 per month (of which they had to send $25 home to their families!). They were also given literacy and job training to prepare them for jobs when the economy revived. Today, again, as unemployment has risen, the US Congress is set to take up a draft legislation called the Great American Outdoors Act to revive the New Deal-era green infrastructure in a programme that will once again provide jobs and give a fillip to outdoor recreational activity – now a $778 billion industry with over 100,000 businesses built around Americans going hunting, fishing, biking, hiking, camping, diving, skiing, etc.      The WPA employed millions of unskilled workers to carry out public works projects, and in the seven years the programme ran, they built golf courses, airports, hospitals, sports stadia, schools, parks and playgrounds, bridges and public buildings, and more than a million kilometres of roads and highways. The WPA also gave livelihood to some 40,000 writers, artists, musicians and directors through five ‘Federal One’ projects. The Federal Writers’ Project employed over 6,000 writers who, among other things, created the American Guide Series, guidebooks for towns and historic sites across the US. The Historical Records Survey project, employing over 4,000 people collected and conserved US historical records. The Federal Theatre Project paid over 12,000 performers who gave more than 1,000 public performances each month, produced 1,200 plays, and introduced dozens of new playwrights. The Federal Art Project employed over 5,000 artists who, among other things, conducted art classes for millions of children and adults and set up over 100 art centres across the country. The Federal Music Project employed over 16,000 musicians who gave over 130,000 performances across the US and taught music to millions of children and adults. The UPA government’s National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) provides a base programme and template for Modi to build on into his own New Deal for India. Let’s hope he takes the opportunity to do so, because millions of Indians desperately need it. There are, of course, improvements and expansions needed. An urban counterpart of NREGS must be created, to build sustainable urban infrastructure. Wouldn’t it be wonderful if the government also came up with a programme to employ writers, artists, musicians, directors to cause a cultural rejuvenation! And how stupendous it would be if millions of our youth were put to work to build the ‘Great Indian Outdoors’ just as Roosevelt’s CCC did! Most importantly, NREGS itself and these new programmes need a passionate national champion to run them, rather than leaving them to be run by the ministries. Roosevelt had Harry Hopkins. Modi must find his Harry Hopkins, someone who does not think the NREGS is a “monument to Congress’ failures.”   The government has addressed liquidity issues on the supply side by announcing a package of easy loans to help various sectors of the economy, especially MSMEs, survive. But for it to work, it must urgently address demand-side needs – and that’s for jobs and cash in hand. For that, Modi must take the Roosevelt road at this juncture when India is set for hard times for the next 4-5 years, at least, if he wants to keep the country peaceful, stable and growing. Of course, Modi can take the other road of pursuing a divisive social and legislative agenda and expanding the BJP’s IT Cell troll army and misinformation specialists to manage headlines to win elections. As a citizen, which road would you like Modi to take?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/what-modi-should-do-now-roosevelt-not-wilson-847353.html
09-06-2020||Comment||India must stand firm against China||Like a bad memory, Sino-Indian border tensions have a way of making their presence felt at precisely the moment they are least needed. The world is struggling with Covid-19 pandemic and governments across the world are busy trying to deal with a health and an economic crisis it has engendered. India is no different, where the health crisis is yet to peak even as a burgeoning economic crisis is challenging policymakers. And so, in the midst of the health pandemic, the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) is once again on the boil with border clashes between the militaries of India and China seemingly at their highest since 2015. The Chinese military has enhanced its troop presence in areas around Pangong lake and Galwan valley along the LAC in Ladakh amidst growing Indian pushback. China has accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory while New Delhi has asserted that it’s the Chinese military that is hindering normal patrolling by its troops. A number of meetings at the level of local commanders and then last week at the level of senior military officials have failed to defuse tensions. Management of the border with China is India’s topmost strategic priority and New Delhi has over the years tried various options. There are formal mechanisms to talk about the boundary issue and since 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also started an informal summit-level dialogue. Modi’s first informal summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in April 2018 resulted in “strategic guidance to their respective militaries to strengthen communication in order to build trust and mutual understanding and enhance predictability and effectiveness in the management of border affairs.” While it did manage to stabilise a seemingly free-falling Sino-Indian relationship in 2018, it has clearly failed to bring any stability at the border.                                                               Part of the reason for growing Chinese belligerence on the border has to do with India’s better management of its peripheries. India’s border infrastructure has witnessed a significant improvement over the last few years. This has given newfound confidence to the Indian military and they are now visible in areas where the Chinese military was not used to seeing them. Indian military’s patrolling along the LAC has also become more effective and their pushback against Chinese aggression stronger. For a border that is not well-defined and demarcated, growing contestation is producing local instability which the armies of both nations are having to contend with on a daily basis now. But it would be easy and simplistic to dismiss this instability primarily as a function of local level factors. To do so would also lead to sub-optimal policy outcomes for India. Any serious assessment of Chinese behaviour vis-a-vis India today should take into account larger structural and institutional factors. New Delhi is not being challenged by any nation -- it is being challenged by a nation that deems itself to have arrived as the next global superpower, replacing the US; it is being challenged by a nation that is led by an insecure authoritarian Communist Party; it is being challenged by a nation that has a leadership whose ability to provide high rates of economic growth is increasingly under question; and it is being challenged by a nation that is beset with multiple internal challenges from Hong Kong and Xinjiang to Taiwan and is facing an increasingly hostile global community that is demanding answers for the mismanagement of Covid-19 in the initial stages. The Trump administration’s trade and technology war with China is resulting in a reassessment of China’s own economic projections, especially in the context of a global economy beset with Covid-19. The Communist Party of China (CPC) has acknowledged the severity of the economic challenge it faces by scrapping its annual economic growth target for the first time since 1990. There are increasing questions about China’s use of economic globalisation for geopolitical leverage which the world got the full exposure of during the coronavirus pandemic, generating an intense backlash against China. For the leadership of Xi Jinping, whose success is predicated on the “great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation,” these can seem like tough times when the world is rallying against Beijing and internal pressure is mounting. From an overambitious Belt and Road Initiative to an initial mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis, from a ham-handed approach to the Hong Kong crisis to further alienating Taiwan, questions are being raised in China against Xi’s leadership style. And so, to salvage his reputation around the time of the National People’s Congress, the Chinese military comes to his rescue to generate a sense of nationalism on territorial matters. From the maritime space of South China Sea to South Asian continental borders, we have seen a ratcheting up of pressure by China. It sends a message to Xi’s domestic audience that he and the CPC remain firmly in charge and it also makes it clear to the target nations that they need to behave. New Delhi has challenged Beijing on a number of fronts in recent months – it has tightened its FDI rules, it supported the group of nations who have called for an independent enquiry into the origins of the coronavirus and two Indian MPs even virtually attended the swearing-in ceremony of Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen. Raising tensions on the border is Beijing’s way of telling New Delhi to rein in its ambitions. It would be a mistake for India to think that by giving in to Chinese aggression it would be able to mitigate tensions with China. Chinese belligerence towards India is a function of its own global ambitions and domestic insecurities. The best that India can do is to build deterrence capabilities vis-a-vis its more powerful northern neighbour. Standing firm on its own red lines is the first step for a nation in enhancing its deterrent credibility. And that remains a challenge for New Delhi as the latest round of border tensions continues to fester||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/india-must-stand-firm-against-china-847686.html
09-06-2020||First Edit||BJP is back in election mode||The BJP launched its campaign for the Bihar Assembly election, to be held later this year, with a virtual rally held on Sunday by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The election will be held when the state, like the rest of the country, may still be fighting the Covid-19 pandemic or will hopefully be seeing it retreating. As the virtual rally shows, the nature of the campaign will change but, as Amit Shah’s performance shows, the narrative and substance of the campaign will hardly change. The BJP is going into the campaign with Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar on its side. They had fought each other in the last Assembly elections in 2015. The combination has caste arithmetic on its side, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar to fetch votes and Amit Shah to strategise the campaign. These are favourable factors for the NDA.  Amit Shah has declared that the NDA would form the next government with a two-thirds majority, and has underlined the declaration with a pronouncement that Nitish Kumar will lead the contest, lest there be any doubt about the leadership of the NDA in the state. The themes to be unveiled inthe campaign are the expected fare: the various claimed achievements of the Modi government, including the scrapping of Article 370, the abolition of triple talaq and the fight against the coronavirus. While the traction of the first two in a state election is debatable, the coronavirus situation is still developing. Some of the consequences of the sudden lockdown imposed by Modi, like the distress of migrant workers, have hit Bihar hard. The claim that the government has managed the Covid-19 situation may not appeal to the people now, and is yet to be tested. The social and economic impact of the return of migrants could influence voting behaviour in the state where migrants’ remittances play a big role in the economy. Nitish’s image has taken some knocks, too. Shah also raised the banner of nationalism, as no BJP campaign is complete without an appeal to it. The Opposition is in disarray, with RJD leader Lalu Prasad in jail and the Congress and other unrecognisable parties not able to make any significant contribution to an alliance that can credibly challenge the NDA. But the protests staged by the RJD before Shah’s virtual rally evoked good response and the criticism of the Nitish government over the handling of the migrant issue has found some resonance. It will take some time, however, for the scenario to become clear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bjp-is-back-in-election-mode-847685.html
09-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Byrathi Basavaraj writes to Hardeep Puri to sanction Smart City projects for Ballari, Mysuru, others||Expressing a wish to include all municipal corporations in Karnataka under the Union Government's Smart City Mission, Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj on Tuesday stated that he has written a letter to Union Urban Development Minister Hardeep Puri to sanction 'Smart City' project for Ballari, Mysuru, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi also. "I will personally meet him soon, and also seek funds required for our department to solve various problems," he said. Tender has been called to install LED streetlights in all 10 municipal corporations in Karnataka, at a cost of Rs 64 crore, and the government would give final shape to it shortly, Basavaraj noted. 'Give progress card' Expressing dissatisfaction about the progress of different 'Smart City' works taken up in the twin cities, the minister asked officials concerned to speed up the work, and to give him a progress report when he would return in 15 or 20 days. "I agree that some works are delayed, but, we want to complete all sanctioned 'Smart City' works within two years on a war footing," Basavaraj said, during his maiden visit to the twin cities after becoming the minister. For the work to develop major markets, vendors have to be shifted, he said. Officials of Urban Development Department and Directorate of Municipal Administration are asked to speedily approve the files of urban local bodies, he noted. Rs 492 crore proposal There is a proposal for Rs 492 crore to provide underground drainage network and drinking water supply to new extension areas in Hubballi and Dharwad, which are growing fast. The issue would be discussed with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Officials are instructed to improve drinking water supply frequency, to maintain better cleanliness, and to complete ongoing works fast, but with good quality, he stated. Early in the morning, the minister inspected 'Smart City' works, Nala bridge construction and other works, and interacted with Pourakarmikas. Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) Managing Director C W Shakeel Ahmed, and others accompanied the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/byrathi-basavaraj-writes-to-hardeep-puri-to-sanction-smart-city-projects-for-ballari-mysuru-others-847488.html
09-06-2020||In Perspective||Does Thyagaraja need our approval to survive?||When Michael Angelo painted his astonishing vision of the Genesis on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, the entire hierarchy of the Vatican abused and hurled insults at him for desecrating the catholic church and the sacred chapel with “shameless, naked and obscene” figures. They advised Pope Julius to tear them down and banish this heretic. When the pope asked him what he had to say to these accusations, Michael Angelo answered “Nothing.” And continued to paint. I am sure the 18th century composer, Thyagaraja, would have responded in the same way to the recent controversy concerning his accepting alms in the name of Lord Rama. A true artist does not let anything stop his creativity which is an inspired thing, not to be denied. Michael Angelo was driven by a frenzy when he painted or carved his larger-than-life figures, while every composition of Thyagaraja was an epitome of quiet devotion to his god. The essence of his music was bhakti, which flowed like a peaceful river in his immortal keerthanas. True, it brought him no monetary rewards. He gratefully accepted whatever food that was given to him as “unchavratti,” which was a common practice in his time. Kamal Haasan may have had this in mind when he said that Thyagaraja begged in the name of Rama. In an online conversation with another theatre person, Vijay Sethupathi, he used this example to show how a truly committed artist does not sell his art for fame and money -- both of which Thyagaraja had rejected to live a life of simplicity.      It is surprising that a complimentary remark like this one should provoke such angry reactions from musicians. Haasan is no mean artist. A gifted actor, dancer, filmmaker who has displayed remarkable sensitivity in his own career, why would he try to diminish Thyagaraja? He actually marvelled at the way he pursued his art by discarding wealth and opulence.     “Dadhi navanita kshiramulu ruchiyo, Dasarathi dhyana bhajana sudha rasamu ruchiyo...” speaks eloquently about the bard’s own preferences. When generations of musicians, critics and music lovers have endorsed Thyagaraja’s lifestyle, this controversy reflects a poor understanding of his philosophy that asserted: “Nidhi chala sukhama, Ramuni sannidhi seva sukhama?” Yet, he was no empty philosopher. He was a singer/composer par excellence. In addition to thousands of keerthanas that he composed, he created two plays with rare krithis set in different ragas and metres. Kamal Haasan, as a filmmaker, would be the first to acknowledge such theatrical skills. As for the bhakti element in his music, it was not empty adoration either. To Thyagaraja, Rama was real. Not merely a god to be worshipped. He did not hesitate to censure Him for not answering his prayers. Sometimes, he scorned Him for His indifference. Then, where is the question of begging in the name of Rama when he was ready to take on his god with anger, contempt or even subterfuge? Look at the way he scoffs at Him when he says His glory is only because he held the hand of Sita: “Ma Janaki chetha pattaga, maharaja vaitivi…” It has become commonplace today for musicians to act as the moral conscience-keepers of music. This is not the first time that they have denigrated artists for what they think is an insult to the great composers. They exposed their own mediocrity when they attacked eminent artists like OS Arun and Nityashree for singing on Christian themes. Their stupid trolls even made the two artists apologise for their ‘crime’! If TM Krishna chose to sing “theliyaleru Rama bhakti margamunu” in a Jewish synagogue, it did not dilute the sanctity of Thyagaraja’s composition. On the other hand, the beauty of his music was enhanced in that magical space. So, I sought the views of this singular musician on the ongoing controversy and this is what he wrote:  “In an interview with Vijay Sethupathi, Kamal Haasan was asked to comment on commercial cinema vs art cinema. In this context, he spoke of Thyagaraja singing in praise of Rama while begging on the streets of Thanjavur. He actually placed Thyagaraja on a very high pedestal by stating that unlike artists like himself who want fame and money, Thyagaraja created art for art’s sake, least bothered about his own economic wellbeing. But the problem was the Tamil word “picchai” that Kamal used to describe Thyagaraja asking for alms. It conjures images of a shabby beggar belonging to the “lower caste”. To see Thyagaraja in that frame is inconceivable for conservative brahmins. If Kamal had used the Sanskrit equivalent “bhiksha,” no one would have objected, because it bestows respect upon the act of begging. The Carnatic music community has displayed its own caste-ridden prejudices by making this an issue and stigmatising people who ask for alms. Some have even tried to argue that the nuance lies in the difference between “unchavritti” vs “picchai.” While unchavritti is seen as a lofty, selfless, divine service, picchai is simply a lowly act born of despair. The sly attempt to disconnect unchavritti (as practiced by brahmins in bygone days) from alms begging is sheer brahmin arrogance. I must add that historical context, Thyagaraja’s biographies as well as his own kirtanas reveal that he was a person in dire need.” Carnatic music is at a crossroads today. Whatever direction it may take, great composers like Thyagaraja or Purandara Dasa will remain unchallenged. No slander can hurt them. Nor do they need the approval or validation from their self-styled guardians to retain their place in the archives of music.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/does-thyagaraja-need-our-approval-to-survive-847687.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||3 foreigners held for trespassing into Bandipur||Three Portuguese nationals were detained by Karnataka Forest Department (KFD) officials for allegedly trespassing into the Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Chamarajanagar district on Sunday. Nuno Ricardo Bernardes Miranda Paciencia, Angelo Miguel Garrido and Tomas Pinho Marquez were caught roaming inside the reserve on motorcycles, at a time when it is closed to public due to the lockdown. T Balachandra, Conservator of Forests and Field Director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve, told DH that all the three were handed over to the Gundlupet police on Monday. “Our front-line staffers alerted about people's movement inside the reserve on Sunday afternoon. We detained them around 4 pm. During interrogation, they refused to cooperate with our officials and were rude with the Range officials. Since we do not have power under the law to book foreign nationals, we only registered a Forest Offence Case (FOC) under the Karnataka Forest Act and produced them before the magistrate and handed them over to the local police,” Balachandra said. The department has seized the trio’s bikes. Forest Department officials said that as per the papers they produced, they were not supposed to travel out of Bengaluru. They were on business visas and were assisting a premier organisation in maintaining aircraft. "But all the three had hired motorcycles and entered the forest area without prior permission.” Sources at the Foreigners' Regional Registration Office (FRRO) told DH that all of them were in the city business visas. "They were visiting the Centre for Airborne System (CABS), DRDO, for inspection of NETRA Airborne Early Warning and Control System (AEW&CS). Their visa validity was from January 20 to April 17. They had to stay back due to the lockdown," a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-foreigners-held-for-trespassing-into-bandipur-847329.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Legislative Council polls to 7 seats to be held on June 29||The election for seven seats of Karnataka Legislative Council is scheduled to be held on June 29. As per the calender of events announced by the Election Commission of India,  June 18 is the last date for filing nominations  and June 22 is the last date for withdrawal of nominations. The election and counting of votes will be held on June 29, said a release.  Seven sitting members Naseer Ahmed, Jayamma, M C Venugopal, N S Bosaraju, H M Revanna, T A Saravana and D U Mallikarjuna will retire on June 30. The seven members will be elected with the votes from  members of Karnataka Legislative Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-legislative-council-polls-to-7-seats-to-be-held-on-june-29-847444.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar reports first COVID-19 positive case||A medical student, a returnee from Maharashtra, tested positive, said Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi.  However, the patient's brother and mother tested negative.   The trio had reached Bengaluru by train from Mumbai on Friday. From there, they travelled in a car to Palimedu in Hanur taluk.  On Saturday, they visited the fever clinic in Kollegal, where their blood and throat swab samples were taken, the DC explained. The DC has appealed to the people of the district not to panic as the person who tested positive was from Mumbai and Chamarajanagar remains a green district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-reports-first-covid-19-positive-case-847494.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two Covid positive cases in Mysuru||After a gap of nearly a week, two more Covid positive cases were detected in Mysuru. Both are men and inter-state cases. Meanwhile, three patients were discharged from the designated Covid Hospital, following recovery. The patients detected on Tuesday are designated as P-5920, 22-years-old, and P-5921, 60-years-old. While the former has a travel history from Delhi and the latter has travelled from Tamil Nadu. A portion of Ittigegud, the locality of the former in Mysuru city, and Neelakanta Nagar in Nanjangud, the locality of the latter, have been turned into containment zones as a precautionary measure. As on Tuesday, the total number of persons observed for suspected Covid infection is 7,275, while 5,807 persons have completed 14 days quarantine. At present, 1,386 persons are under home quarantine for 14 days and there are 77 persons under institutional quarantine for seven days. A total of 11,827 samples have been tested and 101 have tested positive. There are a total of five active positive cases as 96 among 101 positive cases have been recovered and discharged. Earlier, on Thursday, June 4, a 29-year-old pregnant woman, a Maharashtra returnee, tested positive at Hosapenjalli village in Hunsur taluk, She was designated as P-4219.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-covid-positive-cases-in-mysuru-847657.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||All factories should be privatised: Nirani||Former minister and chairman of MRN Group Murugesh Nirani said not just sugar factories, but all factories should be privatised, through global tenders in a transparent way. Speaking to media persons here, on Tuesday, he said that national leaders, including former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Prime minister Narendra Modi, have said that the governments should concentrate on development works and formulate policies for the welfare of the people and nation, instead on running profitable businesses, like industries. Commenting on the opposition by leaders like former chief minister Siddaramaiah and former minister D K Shivakumar to privatisation of factories like Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK) and Mysore Sugar (MySugar) factory in Mandya district, Nirani said the criticism should not be politically motivated. It has to be noted that MRN Group, headed by Nirani, has taken PSSK on lease for 40 years. “PSSK has been taken on lease through a global tender. The first tender did not receive any response. In the second tender, there were three bidders and MRN Group won it in a transparent way. Critics like Shivakumar are also wealthy businessmen. They could have bid for the tender, instead of criticising now,” he said. “I understand the concern of the critics. They have the welfare of the farmers and youth in mind. But, it has to be noted that despite spending Rs 600 crore over 12 years, MySugar failed to take off. The factory which has a capacity to crush 10 lakh tonne of sugarcane could process around two lakh tonne over the past three years, under ‘Operation and Management’ arrangement. It neither helped farmers nor youth in getting employment,” he said. “I understand the emotional bonding of the people with their local factories. But, this is not selling off of the factories. It is only leasing out, for efficient management of available resources. I also oppose the sale of such industries to private parties,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/all-factories-should-be-privatised-nirani-847659.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Wadiyar to launch crushing of sugarcane in PSSK||Former minister and chairman of MRN Group Murugesh Nirani said that Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, member of the erstwhile royal family, would launch the crushing of sugarcane in Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK) in Pandavapura taluk, Mandya district. After greeting Wadiyar at Mysuru Palace here on Tuesday, he said, “As Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the last ruler of erstwhile Mysuru state, opened the factory, his descendant has been urged to grace the second innings of the sugar factory.” It has to be noted that MRN Group has taken PSSK on lease for 40 years, for Rs 405 crore. Nirani said, “The factory has been taken over in the interest of farmers and employees of PSSK. It stopped crushing sugarcane since several years, due to various reasons. Several attempts to revive it failed. This is the second attempt to run the factory by private participation.” “New jobs will also be created as the factory would be run in a professional way. The factory will be reopened in two months. The factory will be expanded and upgraded in phases. Besides manufacturing sugar, the establishment will concentrate on byproducts like ethanol, which can be used as an alternative to petrol; power generation; production of carbon di-oxide (CO2); and compressed natural gas (CNG),” he said. Earlier, ethanol could be produced only from molasses. Now, following change in government policies, ethanol can be produced from other sugarcane products. During the launch of crushing of sugarcane, those who have contributed to the establishment and development of PSSK will be feted, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wadiyar-to-launch-crushing-of-sugarcane-in-pssk-847660.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||DPI extends last date||The Department of Public Instructions has extended the last date to gather opinion of parents, teachers, students and other stakeholders about reopening of schools in the state. The exercise can now be conducted till June 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dpi-extends-last-date-847725.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Selection of VCs caught in COVID-19 connundrum||The selection of vice chancellors for four of state-run universities has been delayed due to the COVID-19 crisis. The posts of vice-chancellors at Gulbarga University, Karnatak University,  Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University in Mysuru and Sanskrit University, Bengaluru are vacant for a year. The search committees were constituted for selection of the new vice chancellors. However, the committee members nominated are residing outside Karnataka are refusing to attend meetings citing the pandemic and quarantine complications. Sources from the Higher Education department told DH that that the meeting schedule was communicated to the members several times and the latter sought to defer the meeting. Meanwhile, the department is also looking at convening an online meeting. But some of the members said, online mode of search committee meeting would be confusing and it may be difficult to come to conclusions. "There is no option and we have to wait for few more months to convene search committee meetings," added a source. "We requested them to take part in the meeting as inter-state travel is allowed. But, most of them are retired vice chancellors and expressed concerns over quarantine rules," mentioned source. There are over 14 members in the search committees (all four) and 8 of them are from outside Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/selection-of-vcs-caught-in-covid-19-connundrum-847728.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police held for playing illegal card game||A team of police led by DySP Thirumalesh nabbed five police constables on charges of playing an illegal card game in the restroom of Davangere Rural police station on Tuesday night.  Following the directions given by Eastern Range IGP, police team raided the restroom and caught them red-handed while playing illegal card game. The team also seized Rs 29,000 from their possession. The arrested have been identified as Lohith, Nagaraj, Manjappa, Mahesh and Balaraj. KTJ Nagar police registered a case against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-held-for-playing-illegal-card-game-847729.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP central leadership discussed with me before announcing candidates for RS polls: CM B S Yediyurappa||BJP’s Rajya Sabha election candidates Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti filed their nomination papers Tuesday even as Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said the decision to field them was “discussed with me”.  The BJP's central leadership on Monday had sprung a surprise by fielding Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti as its candidates for the Rajya Sabha election ignoring the recommendations of the party's state unit.  By picking Kadadi and Gasti, the BJP central leadership overlooked the Karnataka BJP’s recommendation of fielding incumbent Prabhakar Kore, former MP Ramesh Katti and hotelier Prakash Shetty. “Our core committee had sent some names, but finally, our national leaders discussed with me and said they had decided to field ordinary party workers,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “This was decided at a meeting presided by PM Modi. It's not just here, but in all states that they're fielding ordinary party workers.” Yediyurappa hailed the decision to field Kadadi and Gasti. “This is a big gift to our party workers. For this, I thank PM Modi, our national president JP Nadda and Amit Shah,” Yediyurappa said, adding that he was confident Kadadi and Gasti would do well in the Rajya Sabha. “I think only the BJP can take a decision like this...giving opportunities to ordinary workers.”  Yediyurappa, his Deputy Laxman Savadi, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Tourism Minister CT Ravi and Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi were present when Kadadi and Gasti filed their nomination papers.  Speaking to reporters here, he expressed confidence that both candidates would work effectively in Rajya Sabha. "Only BJP can take such decisions and give an opportunity to ordinary karyakartas. From our core committee (state) we had sent some names, but ultimately our national president spoke to me and said it has been decided to give tickets to ordinary party workers, we discussed it, after which the two names have been finalised." The state BJP core committee on Saturday had recommended three names to high command as probable candidates - Ramesh Katti, the brother of senior MLA Umesh Katti, incumbent Prabhakar Kore and hotelier Prakash Shetty. Ignoring the state unit's recommendation, two low-key workers Kadadi and Gasti, who have been associated with the party organisation for long, were announced on Monday afternoon by the central leadership. Responding to a question about new names other than the ones decided by the state core committee being announced, Yediyurappa said, "We had sent names after deciding in the core committee. In Delhi under the leadership of the prime minister, senior leaders have met and decided to give tickets to ordinary party workers." "It is not for our state alone, the decision is applicable to other states also, I welcome it," he said. While, Kadadi, a Lingayat is party's Belagavi division in-charge; Gasti from Savitha Samaj (barber community) from Raichur district is party in-charge for the Bellary division. Both have backgrounds with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and have worked for the organisation at the grass-root level for decades. They will be filing nominations today. The announcement of two names came as a complete surprise to the party's state unit and has certainly given a clear message to its leadership, a senior party functionary said, adding "it is a clear indication that loyalty to the party and ideology is what matters, and not to any particular leader." It is also part of a strategy to nurture and elevate second-rung leaders, he noted. The move is also being seen as a setback to Yediyurappa, as names considered close to him have not been considered. This has come at a time for Yediyurappa when there are speculations about dissidence within the state BJP against his leadership, with several MLAs, especially from north Karnataka recently holding separate meetings. The election is scheduled on June 19 to fill four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka, represented by Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad of Congress, Prabhakar Kore of the BJP and D Kupendra Reddy of JD(S) that will fall vacant on June 25, with their retirement. The BJP, with 117 members in the assembly (including Speaker), can ensure easy victory in two seats.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-central-leadership-discussed-with-me-before-announcing-candidates-for-rs-polls-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-847437.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||There is no dissidence in the party: Jagadish Shettar on Centre rejecting state's list of candidates for RS polls||Downplaying the issue of BJP central leadership rejecting the Karnataka state BJP's list of proposed candidates for Rajya Sabha elections, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday stated that state and central BJP are not different. He said that there is no dissidence in the party, and even Prabhakar Kore did not express dissatisfaction on not getting ticket. He further added that the party would give due position to its honest workers including Kore. "We did not even discuss the issue of change in list in the state BJP committee," he said. MSME issue When asked about special package for stressed MSME sector announced by Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman not taking off even after nearly one month, mainly due to non-issuing of guidelines by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Shettar said that he has already spoken to Nirmala Sitharaman in this regard. "Discussions are being held at various levels, and the problem would be solved within 10 days," he said. Hubballi flyover "The proposed full-fledged flyover at Chenamma Circle in Hubballi requires Rs 900 crore. Union Government has sanctioned Rs 350 crore in the first phase, and tender process has started. There is another Rs 350 crore proposal before the Centre, for the second phase, and the State Government would also be urged to provide Rs 200 crore," Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/there-is-no-dissidence-in-the-party-jagadish-shettar-on-centre-rejecting-states-list-of-candidates-for-rs-polls-847484.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ashok Gasti, family own assets worth Rs 19.3 lakh||With the combined declared wealth at Rs 19.30 lakh, Ashok Gasti, one of the two BJP candidates for the Rajya Sabha election, is arguably among the poorest candidates fielded by a national party in recent memory. According to his affidavit, Gasti, a law graduate, has movable assets worth Rs 2.85 lakh, which includes two 2-wheelers, one of them purchased in 1996. Gasti’s wife - Suma Gasti - is four times as rich as her husband with a total worth of her movable and immovable assets at Rs 12.45 lakh. Two of his dependent daughters have movable assets worth Rs 2 lakh each. According to his affidavit, Gasti’s income was “below taxable limit, hence no return of income filed.” On the other hand, BJP’s Eranna Kadadi's net worth is around Rs 2.35 crore. His movable asset declaration, worth Rs 1.02 crore, shows that a revolver worth Rs 60,000 is among his possessions. Kadadi owns a petrol bunk near Sanganakeri cross near Gokak in Belagavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ashok-gasti-family-own-assets-worth-rs-193-lakh-847664.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||HDD acknowledges BJP, Cong role in RS nomination||Former prime minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda said Tuesday that he had the support of even the ruling BJP to get elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha. Speaking to reporters after filing his nomination papers, the 87-year-old veteran said that both national parties - BJP and Congress - had a role in his eventual nomination to the Upper House of Parliament. “While BJP fielded only two candidates, Congress fielded one,” he pointed out. Both national parties have allowed my nomination. “Nobody can question my credentials,” he said. Though he hadn’t decided on contesting any elections after his loss in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gowda said that several leaders such as AICC president Sonia Gandhi, the Left parties and even JD(S) MLA as well as incumbent Rajya Sabha member D Kupendra Reddy wanted his nomination. After his loss in 2019 elections, Sonia had told that she had “lost” him in the Lok Sabha, to which he had promised her to cooperate in all issues. Due to subsequent pressure, “on Sunday evening, I informed Madam Gandhi that I would file nomination,” he said. “I don’t know whether it is my last battle,” the senior leader said, adding that he would stick to his secular values. Earlier in the day, the JD(S) leader along with his sons - former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and former minister H D Revanna - and other legislators of the party, filed his nomination at Vidhana Soudha. An independent candidate - Sangamesh Chikkanaragund, a resident of Ramdurg taluk, Belagavi district - also filed his nomination. However, his nomination is likely be rejected as the number of legislators backing his candidature seems insufficient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hdd-acknowledges-bjp-cong-role-in-rs-nomination-847669.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||RS polls: After snub, state BJP puts up unity show||The BJP put up a united front as its Rajya Sabha election candidates Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti filed their nomination papers on Tuesday. Giving them the tickets was seen as a snub on the state leadership, which had pushed for its own list. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the nomination of ordinary party workers was insisted by the party central leadership. “Our core committee had sent some names, but finally, our national leaders discussed with me and said they had decided to field ordinary party workers,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “This was decided at a meeting presided by Prime Minister Modi. It’s not just here, but in all states that they’re fielding ordinary party workers.” Yediyurappa hailed the decision to field Kadadi and Gasti. “This is a big gift to our party workers. For this, I thank PM Modi, our national president J P Nadda and Amit Shah,” Yediyurappa said. He added that he was confident Kadadi and Gasti would do well in the Rajya Sabha. “I think only the BJP can take a decision like this...giving opportunities to ordinary workers.” Both the candidates filed nominations at Vidhana Soudha during the noon, accompanied by the chief minster, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel and Tourism Minister C T Ravi. Eight-time MLA Umesh Katti, his brother Ramesh Katti and incumbent Rajya Sabha MP Prabhakar Kore - said to be unhappy with the list of candidates - also arrived at Vidhana Soudha ahead of the nominations. While Umesh Katti refused to comment, Ramesh said that though he was hopeful of the nomination, he welcomed the decision of the high command. Kore, meanwhile, thanked the party for nominating him for two terms. Kadadi, speaking to the media, said that national and state leadership had nominated him and there was no bitterness among its leaders. To a question, he said that he might be new to the media but not to the party, which he had served for long. “Based on my experience, I have the capacity to take decisions that would benefit the state,” he said. Gasti, to a question, dismissed allegations that he worked against Yediyurappa in the past. Speaking to reporters, Kateel said that both the candidates had worked for the organisation. “This has showed that BJP is a different party and increased faith among lakhs of workers about the party,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rs-polls-after-snub-state-bjp-puts-up-unity-show-847672.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Denying permission for event to mark official takeover of KPCC prez vendetta politics: Karnataka Congress||Karnataka Congress on Tuesday accused the ruling BJP of indulging in "vendetta politics" as the government today denied permission for an event to mark D K Shivakumar's official takeover as party president. The event was planned for June 14 after it was postponed twice in the past- on May 31 and June 7- due to COVID-19 related restrictions in place. "It is hereby informed that as per central government guidelines, your request cannot be considered," the letter added. Shivakumar had written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on June 5, seeking permission for the event. "On June 14th, 'PRATHIJNA DINA' was to be held at 7,800 locations across Karnataka with 10 lakh+ Congress Karyakartas attending it, with care taken w.r.t safety precautions for COVID & social distancing. By denying permission to it again, BJP Govt is indulging in vendetta politics," the state Congress tweeted. Shivakumar earlier had termed it a "political conspiracy" on the part of the ruling BJP when his official take over had to be postponed from June 7 due to restrictions. After remaining in a virtual vacuum for nearly three months, the party high command on March 11 appointed the six- time MLA, known to be the Congress' chief troubleshooter in crisis situations, replacing Dinesh Gundu Rao as KPCC chief. Rao had quit the post in December after the party's dismal show, winning only two of the 15 seats in the bypolls, yielding 12. Shivakumar vowed to build Congress as a cadre based party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/denying-permission-for-event-to-mark-official-takeover-of-kpcc-prez-vendetta-politics-karnataka-congress-847692.html
09-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||PAC to seek permission again to visit Covid-19 facilities||The heated stand-off between Public Accounts Committee chairperson H K Patil and Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri appears to have fizzled off. Following the PAC meeting held on Tuesday, it was decided to write to the Speaker again seeking permission to visit Covid-19 facilities as part of an investigation into alleged corruption in the procurement ofequipment. Earlier, Patil had mulled moving a privilege motion against Speaker Kageri, who barred the house committees from taking up field inspections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pac-to-seek-permission-again-to-visit-covid-19-facilities-847722.html
09-06-2020||Mysuru||'14-day home quarantine for those coming from other states'||Health Minister Sriramulu said that people who come from outside the state will now undergo 14 days home quarantine with the houses being sealed. He told reporters that people who travel to the state will not be in institutional quarantine. Though the risk is high, all attempts are made to combat challenges by issuing stringent guidelines/SOP (standard operation procedures) for people in home quarantine. Those in institutional quarantine will also be sent home and strictly monitored.  Police, Asha/Anganwadi workers and home guards will be part of the monitoring system. Neighbours will also be told about the sealing down of the house, with the seal mark made more visible. Any violation will lead to institutional quarantine and a case being registered against the violators. The deputy commissioners will be given all powers to decide on SOPs. Poor families will receive food kits from the nearest temples. At present, 1,100 people are in institutional quarantine in the district and they will be sent to home quarantine. He said people who are symptomatic will be tested.  The government is treating patients free of cost and private hospitals are also compelled to do so. The demands of NHRM workers will be considered after the committee set up to look into issues submits its report, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/14-day-home-quarantine-for-those-coming-from-other-states-847680.html
09-06-2020||National||Former Union minister Arjun Charan Sethi dies at 79||Former Union minister Arjun Charan Sethi died in a hospital here on Monday following a brief illness, family sources said. He was 79. Sethi was admitted to the private hospital on Sunday night, they said. An eight-time MP from Bhadrak Lok Sabha constituency, Sethi was the Union Water Resources Minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government from 2000 to 2004. Active in social and political spheres since his youth, soft-spoken Sethi was also elected to the Odisha Assembly twice. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik condoled Sethi's death, describing him as a veteran parliamentarian and an able administrator. During his long stint as an MP and an MLA, the late Arjun Sethi had earned the goodwill of the people for his dedicated service and commitment. In his death Odisha has lost a political leader of high stature, he said. Union Petroleum and Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Sethi's death has created a void in the politics of the state. Leader of the Opposition in Odisha Assembly, Pradipta Kumar Naik and state BJP president Sameer Mohanty said Sethi's death has created a vacuum which is difficult to fill. Expressing grief over Sethi's demise, former Union minister Srikant Jena said he was a popular figure not only in Bhadrak but in entire Odisha. Senior BJD leader Sanjay Dasburma said Odisha has lost a seasoned politician in the passing away of Sethi. Born on September 18, 1941, Sethi was elected to the Lok Sabha from Bhadrak constituency in 1971 and 1980 as a Congress candidate. He was re-elected from the same constituency in 1991 on a Janata Dal ticket and won from the seat in subsequent elections in 1998, 1999, 2004 and 2009 as a Biju Janata Dal (BJD) candidate. In the run-up to the simultaneous Lok Sabha and Odisha Assembly elections held in 2019, Sethi had quit the BJD and joined the BJP along with his son Abhimanyu Sethi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-arjun-charan-sethi-dies-at-79-847345.html
09-06-2020||National||Jammu-based institute given nod for clinical trials of anti-cancer drug: CSIR||The Jammu-based Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine has received approval for clinical trials of its anti-cancer drug IIIM-290, to be used against pancreatic cancer, after successful completion of the preclinical development, the CSIR said on Monday. The IIIM is a constituent of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. The approval was given by the New Drugs Division of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the CSIR said in a statement. "The proposed clinical trial is aimed to assess the safety, tolerability and exposure of the compound in humans along with the early efficacy indicators in pancreatic cancer patients," it added. This drug was discovered and developed at the natural-products driven drug discovery programme of CSIR-IIIM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-based-institute-given-nod-for-clinical-trials-of-anti-cancer-drug-csir-847346.html
09-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 9, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-9-2020-edition-847365.html
09-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 9||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):    2,74,411 as of June 9. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 7,710 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,29,215 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-9-847366.html
09-06-2020||National||How COVID-19 upended 2 crore lives in India’s finance hub||By Ronojoy Mazumdar and Dhwani Pandya When the bubonic plague arrived on ships in 1896, death and fear emptied half of Mumbai. Ensuing labor shortages devastated the city’s cotton mills, the mainstay of the contemporary economy. Although the coronavirus pandemic’s toll has been much lower, there are grim parallels. Almost a million workers who built Mumbai’s skyline -- from the Trump Tower to skyscrapers owned by global firms such as Blackstone Group LP on erstwhile mill land -- have fled to their native villages, short of money after a stringent government lockdown brought the economy to a standstill. A plague-era law is being used to draft doctors into the coronavirus fight, and calls are increasing to decongest infection hotspots including Asia’s most crowded slum. A megapolis of about 20 million, few cities face the reckoning around labor and life that Mumbai must now contend with. When authorities resumed some public transport on Monday, television channels showed dozens of people rushing to board a bus, a sign of how desperate residents are to return to their livelihoods even as the city remains India’s Covid-19 epicenter. Here, six Mumbaikars, as the city’s residents are known, share how the virus has changed their lives and workspaces: J. R. Bhosale, 79, has seen a lot during his six decades with Mumbai’s railways. A labor strike in 1974 -- the world’s largest recorded industrial action -- suspended services for 20 days and terrorist bombs in 2006 kept trains quiet for 24 hours. Yet, under the lockdown, passenger services have been halted for more than two months. Authorities are concerned about the risk of contagion because on a typical day trains run so crowded that latecomers would hang out of doorways. “It is impossible to maintain safe distance,” says Bhosale, general secretary of the Western Railway Employees Union. He’s worried about how the system will cope after the lockdown, but reopen it must, he says. The trains are Mumbai’s main artery, ferrying 8 million people each day from the teeming suburbs to the glass-and-concrete financial districts midtown, traversing colonial-era docklands funded by the opium trade before they reach the old neighborhoods that house the stock exchange and central bank. Vincent Valladares, 48, heads commercial banking at RBL Bank Ltd. Authorities termed financial services as “essential” amid the lockdown, so Valladares, armed with an official letter in case he’s flagged down by police, drives to office that stands on former mill land in central Mumbai. Valladares and his colleagues have been bombarded by a series of policy changes from the Reserve Bank of India and the government in recent weeks. Evolving instructions -- from how to sanitize branches to how much capital to retain -- takes up most of their time and there’s little new business. For now, focus is on figuring out how clients will emerge from the crisis, and which parts of the loanbook could develop into default hotspots. “There’s a tendency to become more conservative,” says Valladares.  The Food Delivery Guy: Nitin Sawant, 32, is one of Mumbai’s dabbawallas, the city’s renowned lunch-box service. They’ve delivered homecooked meals to officegoers since 1890, and are so famous for reliability that Harvard professors have sought to understand their mastery of logistics. Now most of the 5,000-strong force has returned to their villages, says Sawant, who is also secretary at the Mumbai Dabbawala Association. His colleagues have decided they won’t work till Diwali -- India’s main holiday that takes place in November this year -- because their business involves contact with dozens of people, increasing the risk of contagion to themselves and others. “People of this city never sat at home even after bomb blasts, riots, floods,” says Sawant. “Now they will be scared. Many may not resume the tiffin service fearing risk of infection.” Kalima Mujawar, 29, washes dishes and cleans floors in four homes in Worli, close to the headquarters of several banks and financial institutions today but one of the villages devastated by the plague a century ago. Only one household continued to pay her after the lockdown prevented her from going to work. “Even after the lockdown lifts it doesn’t seem like people will want maids to visit their houses for the rest of the year,” she says. Mujawar is one of millions of people who lost their jobs in recent months, threatening to widen what was already a vast disparity between lifestyles in the city. Mumbaikar Mukesh Ambani, Asia’s richest man, has negotiated billions of dollars in investment despite the lockdown, holding Zoom calls to haggle out details. Yet, families like the Mujawars typically access the internet only through screens of the cheapest China-built phones.                                                             Anita Gandhi, 56, whole time director at Arihant Capital Markets, is seeing technology being put to another use.               About 1.2 million new stock-trading accounts were opened with the Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. in March and April, up from a combined 900,000 in the first two months of the year. India’s benchmark index, which gave up nearly 40% of its value in a matter of weeks when the virus began spreading, has made up some ground as the country begins dismantling the lockdown.               “Those who are tech savvy realized that this is another way money can be made,” says Gandhi. “They started to see investing in the market as a good alternate income stream.“               The Actor:               Alistar Bennis, 24, a theater and screen actor, is also scouting for alternate opportunities.               Bollywood -- as Mumbai’s film industry is called -- came to a virtual standstill and though authorities have allowed some work to resume with strict restrictions, producers are moving film-shoots to less infected parts of the country. But Bennis tries to stay optimistic.               “The spirit of Mumbai seems very dead if you wander the streets at night,” he says. “People in business are frowning, shops are closing, but if you take a step and talk to people, they will say: ‘I know a guy, who knows a guy, who will get your job done.’”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-covid-19-upended-2-crore-lives-in-india-s-finance-hub-847369.html
09-06-2020||National||DH Toon: Kejriwal's COVID-19 treatment policy for outsiders draws criticism from all fronts||All hospitals in the national capital, barring those run by the central government and private hospitals performing specialised surgeries, have been reserved for treating only Delhi residents to ensure that an influx of people from outside do not squ... Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-treatment-for-outsiders-in-delhi-for-some-months-kejriwal-846667.html All hospitals in the national capital, barring those run by the central government and private hospitals performing specialised surgeries, have been reserved for treating only Delhi residents to ensure that an influx of people from outside do not squeeze availability of COVID-19 beds with the easing of lockdown. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-terms-aap-govts-decision-on-delhi-hospitals-insensitive-846880.html Opposition BJP and Congress on Sunday attacked the AAP government for reserving its hospitals along with private ones for Delhi residents, alleging it was an insensitive move to divert attention from "collapsing" health services and "failures" to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday asked whether he qualified as a Delhiite as he worked in the national capital, questioning Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's announcement that Delhi hospitals will treat only locals. Setting the stage for a confrontation, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday junked Arvind Kejriwal government's decision to reserve city's hospitals only for its residents, saying it is "impermissible", and ordered that treatment is ensured to everyone "without discrimination."     Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-treatment-for-outsiders-in-delhi-for-some-months-kejriwal-846667.html   All hospitals in the national capital, barring those run by the central government and private hospitals performing specialised surgeries, have been reserved for treating only Delhi residents to ensure that an influx of people from outside do not squ... Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-treatment-for-outsiders-in-delhi-for-some-months-kejriwal-846667.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-treatment-for-outsiders-in-delhi-for-some-months-kejriwal-846667.html||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-kejriwals-covid-19-treatment-policy-for-outsiders-draws-criticism-from-all-fronts-847371.html
09-06-2020||National||Fuel prices hiked for third straight day; Petrol to cost 54 paise more per litre, diesel 58 paise||Petrol price on Tuesday was hiked by 54 paise per litre and diesel by 58 paise a litre - the third straight daily increase in rates after oil PSUs ended an 82-day hiatus in rate revision. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 73.00 per litre from 72.46, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 71.17 a litre from Rs 70.59, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. This is the third daily increase in rates in a row. Oil companies had on Sunday restarted revising prices in line with costs, after ending an 82-day hiatus. Prices were raised by 60 paise per litre each on both petrol and diesel on Sunday as well as on Monday. In all, petrol price has gone up by Rs 1.74 per litre and diesel by Rs 1.78 a litre in three days. Oil PSUs - Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) - had put daily price revisions on hold soon after the government on March 14, hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each. Oil companies did not pass on that excise duty hike, as well as the May 6 increase in tax on petrol by Rs 10 per litre and Rs 13 a litre hike on diesel by setting them off against the decline in retail prices that should have effected to reflect international oil rates falling to two-decade low. International rates have since rebounded and oil companies having exhausted all the margin are now passing on the increase to customers, an industry official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-for-third-straight-day-petrol-to-cost-54-paise-more-per-litre-diesel-58-paise-847392.html
09-06-2020||National||GSEB Gujarat Board SSC 10th Result 2020 declared: How to check result on GSEB website||Here are the details of the GSEB Gujarat Board SSC 10th Result 2020: Total Number of students - 10.83 lakhsTotal Passing Percentage - 60.64%Districts - Surat (94.66%)Rajkot - (64.08%)Ahmedabad - (64.69%) Medium wise Passing percentage:English (86.75%)Gujarati (57.54%)Hindi (63.94%) According to data, 1,671 students have scored 90% marks in the Gujarat Board SSC 10th Result 2020.  Here's how you can check Gujarat Board SSC 10th result 2020 online:  Step 2: On the homepage, click on the link that reads, ‘GSEB SSC result 2020’ Step 3: Fill in your roll number and other log in details Step 4: Gujarat SSC result 2020 will be displayed on the screen Step 5: Download your results and take a print out for further reference In 2019, a total of 7.90 lakh regular students appeared for their Class 10 exams, out of which 5.33 lakh had passed. Surat outranked all the other districts in terms of passing percentage with 80.06 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gseb-gujarat-board-ssc-10th-result-2020-declared-how-to-check-result-on-gseb-website-847395.html
09-06-2020||National||Record single-day spike of 9,987 cases in country; death toll 7,466: Health Ministry||India is the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK, according to the Johns Hopkins University data. The number of active novel coronavirus cases stands at 1,29,917, while 1,29,214 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.   "Thus, 48.47 per cent patients have recovered so far," the ministry said.   The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 266 new deaths reported till Tuesday morning, 109 were in Maharashtra, 62 in Delhi, 31 in Gujarat, 17 in Tamil Nadu, 11 in Haryana, nine in West Bengal, eight in Uttar Pradesh, six in Rajasthan, four in Jammu and Kashmir, three in Karnataka, two each in Madhya Pradesh and Punjab and one each in Bihar and Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-single-day-spike-of-9987-cases-in-country-death-toll-7466-health-ministry-847419.html
09-06-2020||National||Community spread in Delhi: Centre, AAP at loggerheads||A confrontation is brewing between the BJP-ruled Centre and AAP-led Delhi government on Tuesday over declaring community spread of COVID-19 in the national capital with central officials ruling out the city entering third stage of virus transmission and state administration insisting that there is no point in indulging in technicalities. Central officials at a meeting of State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), chaired by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, said that there is no community transmission of COVID-19 in the capital while the capital is expected to have 5.5 lakh cases by July 31, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told reporters after the deliberations. It was said at the meeting that COVID-19 cases are expected to shoot up to 2.25 lakh cases and 33,000 beds are required. The estimate is that there will be 44,000 cases by June 15 with a need for 6,600 beds while it would rise to one lakh cases by June 30 when 15,000 beds would be needed. Sisodia said none in the meeting disputed these figures while Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain emphasised that only Centre has the authority to declare community spread. It should not dig deep into technicalities, as capital’s health authorities could not trace the source of infection of around 50 per cent of COVID-19 patients, Jain said as he referred to AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria's remarks on Monday that there is community spread in Delhi’s containment zones. "We are 10 days behind Mumbai in terms of the spreading of cases and in Delhi the number is increasing in the same proportion. It is expected that in Delhi we will reach 50,000 cases in the next 10 days," Jain said. The SDMA meeting chaired by Baijal came a day after he reversed Delhi government’s order reserving state government-run and private hospitals in the city for Delhi residents. Sisodia, who attended the meeting in place of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who is in self isolation after developing COVID-19 like symptoms, said he requested Baijal to restore Delhi government’s order to reserve the hospitals for Delhiites but he refused to. He said the LG was asked whether he had statistics on how many beds would be needed in case people from outside flock to the capital. He claimed Baijal did not have answers while on Monday night he had accused the BJP of putting pressure on the LG to rescind the government order.  With the LG not in a mood to restore the order, he said, they would abide by his decision and would try to implement it to the best of their ability. LG's office issued a statement saying Baijal told Sisodia in the meeting that he had reversed the order as it violated the Constitutional rights of Equality and Right to Life which include Right to Health.  A similar directive issued by the Delhi government to discriminate in providing healthcare facilities to patients based on their residence was stuck down by Delhi High Court in 2018. "It is unfortunate that any responsible government should attempt to discriminate amongst patients on grounds of residence. Rather than discriminating between the patients, the goal of the government should be to plan and prepare for adequate infrastructure. We are all Indians and Delhi belongs to all," it said. Raising the pitch on the issue, AAP tweeted how many Covid-19 patients are being treated in Centre-run hospitals like AIIMS. It also said BJP-ruled Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were given Rs 245 crore and Rs 966 crore respectively for Covid-19 activities but Delhi received not a single paisa. "The Centre is not helping Delhi but wants it to treat patients from all over the country," it added. As on Monday, Delhi had reported 29,943 cases and 874 deaths since the first case was reported on March 2. In June alone, there were 10,099 cases, which is 36.54% of the total cases. In May alone, there were 16,326 cases (54.52% of total cases as of now). Except for June 1 when the capital reported 990 cases, the city has seen more than 1,000 cases every day. On June 2, it recorded 1,298 cases and it rose 1,513 the next day, the highest spike for any single day. Since then, there has been a decrease in the number of cases but it has not gone below 1,000 mark. On June 4, there were 1,359 cases while it was 1,330 on June 5, 1,320 on June 6, 1,282 on June 7 and 1,007 on June 8. Also, Delhi is witnessing a gradual decrease in the number of testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/community-spread-in-delhi-centre-aap-at-loggerheads-847455.html
09-06-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown throws porters life off track, burdens them with debt||For years, the red-uniformed porters have been an integral part of the railway life and have also inspired some Bollywood films, but they are now facing a big challenge of how to sustain their livelihood. Yusuf Shah, a porter at the Aurangabad railway station in Maharashtra, every day stares at the deserted platforms and rail tracks in the hope of getting some business, but returns home empty-handed. The porter, who has a big family of six daughters to look after, is now worried how to sustain their livelihood and how to repay his debt of Rs 8,000. Following the Maharashtra government's announcement of 'Mission Begin Again' for phase-wise reopening of the economy and public activities, he is hoping to start earning but can't get over the bitter memories of the two-and-a-half-month long lockdown. "There are 14 porters at the Aurangabad railway station who used to earn Rs 300 to Rs 400 every day prior to the lockdown. But after the trains came to a halt, this meagre income also stopped," Shah told PTI. "I have not earned a single rupee since almost two months. My debts are mounting. I have to repay a loan of about Rs 8,000. Same is the story of every porter here," he said. The starting of Shramik Special trains last month to ferry migrant labourers gave some hope to Shah. "We expected some income from train travellers, but nothing happened. Passengers were being medical screened and we also got scared of contracting the coronavirus infection," he said. Shah claimed only one train is currently being operated from Aurangabad. "Two of us (porters) went to the railway station to seek work a couple of days back. But only one of us, a woman, got work worth Rs 100," he said. Shah said that during the lockdown, the Railways provided them limited ration only once. "We expect a fixed income from the Railways as we have spent a long time here working as porters. The Railways inducted porters into service in 2008. We also expect similar help now," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-throws-porters-life-off-track-burdens-them-with-debt-847461.html
09-06-2020||National||NCW chief writes to health minister Harsh Vardhan on plight of pregnant women during COVID-19 pandemic||National Commission for Women (NCW) Chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on the plight of pregnant women and alleged denial of treatment to them during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the letter, Sharma said that it has come across many cases where non-availability of adequate ambulances for maternity services and denial of admission in hospitals led to delay in reaching the heath facility, whereas in some cases it has also resulted in the death of the mother and the newborn baby, according to a statement issued by the NCW on Tuesday. The Commission said that it is a matter of "great concern" and a note has been taken regarding the lapse on the part of hospitals and authorities in these crucial times. The statement said the NCW chief mentioned that it had earlier written to all states and union territories regarding proper implementation of programmes and schemes for institutional delivery mechanism to control maternal and infant mortality rate in India. The Commission has urged the health minister to intervene in the matter. It has also requested the Union Health Ministry to issue a direction to health departments of every state and union territory for ensuring non-COVID-19 ambulance services, allocation of separate beds for pregnant women and a dedicated helpline number to safeguard the health of women and their newborn babies, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-chief-writes-to-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-on-plight-of-pregnant-women-during-covid-19-pandemic-847466.html
09-06-2020||National||UP kept COVID-19 spread under control despite being most populous state: CM Adityanath||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the spread of COVID-19 is under effective control in Uttar Pradesh despite it being the most populous state, and emphasised that prevention is the only cure for the virus until a vaccine is found. Addressing a review meeting, the chief minister also mentioned his visits to Basti, Gorakhpur, Azamgarh and Varanasi divisions in the past two days. He said the coronavirus situation in Uttar Pradesh is in a better position as "good work" has been done in all areas. "Despite being the most populous state, the spread of COVID-19 is under effective control. Till a vaccine for the coronavirus is found, prevention is the only cure," Adityanath was quoted as having said in a statement issued here. "A small mistake can be dangerous. The initiative to provide relief to poor and check spread of the virus has given good results," he said. He said that relaxations have been given under 'Unlock-1' but precautions should be taken. He said that attempts are on to provide jobs to people in the MSME sector and directed to develop a software to find how many are given jobs and also those who are left without one. The government will provide "Bharan-Poshan Bhatta" (allowance for food) to street vendors, the chief minister added. He said surveillance systems adopted here are giving positive results in minimising the death rate due to the novel coronavirus. Uttar Pradesh on Monday reported eight more coronavirus deaths, taking the toll to 283, while 411 fresh cases pushed the state's infection count to 10,947, officials said. There are 4,320 active COVID-19 cases in the state, while 6,344 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals, Principal Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad said. According to the Census (2011), the population of Uttar Pradesh is over 19.95 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-kept-covid-19-spread-under-control-despite-being-most-populous-state-cm-adityanath-847483.html
09-06-2020||National||Delhi LG calls all-party meeting to discuss COVID-19 situation||The meeting will be held after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's high-level meet to assess whether coronavirus has entered the community spread stage in the national capital. "The LG has called a meeting with all political parties at 3 pm on Tuesday to discuss the present situation of COVID-19 in Delhi and measures to contain the spread of the same," an official said. On Monday, Delhi recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 29,000, while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-lg-calls-all-party-meeting-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-847486.html
09-06-2020||National||Jyotiraditya Scindia tests coronavirus positive, admitted to hospital||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia has tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to a private hospital here, sources said on Tuesday. He was admitted to Max Hospital, Saket on Monday, they said. "He has tested positive for COVID-19," a source said. Scindia had shown some symptoms of coronavirus following which he was brought to the facility. Recently, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon after showing symptoms of COVID-19.  Patra, who has been discharged, tweeted in Hindi on Tuesday to inform people about his return back home. Patra said he will take some more time to recover fully. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital has surged in the last several days. Delhi recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 29,000-mark. The death toll due to the disease has mounted to 874.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jyotiraditya-scindia-tests-coronavirus-positive-admitted-to-hospital-847491.html
09-06-2020||National||V Narayanasamy buries the hatchet, greets Kiran Bedi on her birthday||Virtually burying the hatchet, senior Congress leader and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamyon Tuesday greetedits Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on the occasion of her 71st birthday. He told reporters that he was greeting the former IPS officer on behalf of the territorial government and the people. "I have sent a message of greetings to Bedi," he said. Narayanasamy had been at loggerheads with Bedi on various administrative and fiscal matters. Every now and then their differences would come to the fore. The two have been levelling charges against each other since Bedi assumed the gubernatorial post. There was hardly a press conference without any criticism of the Lieutenant governor by the Chief Minister. On her part, Bedi had greeted Narayanasamy on his 73rd birthday on May 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/v-narayanasamy-buries-the-hatchet-greets-kiran-bedi-on-her-birthday-847496.html
09-06-2020||National||Disinvestment secretary tests COVID-19 positive||Pandey got himself tested for COVID-19 after developing mild fever and was found to be infected by coronavirus, said one of the sources. Following this, joint secretaries in the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) have gone into home quarantine, sources said. The department, which is in the CGO complex, has been sealed for sanitisation.  This is the third case in the department. Sources added that all laid down protocols on contact-tracing and quarantining of people are being scrupulously followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disinvestment-secretary-tests-covid-19-positive-847497.html
09-06-2020||National||Kashmiri woman who tested COVID-19 positive in NIA custody denied bail in terror case||A Kashmiri woman, who was found COVID-19 positive during her NIA custody, was denied interim bail on Tuesday by a Delhi court in a case of allegedly planning a terror attack in the country during the anti-CAA protests here. Hina Bashir Beg, currently lodged into Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital, was arrested along with her husband Jahanzaib Sami and another accused Abdul Basith earlier this year. The judge denied her bail saying the allegation against the accused was of serious nature and that she would be given adequate medical treatment. The judge also asked advocate M S Khan, appearing for the accused, to suggest any private hospital for her treatment after he claimed that there was a lack of proper treatment facilities in government hospitals. The accused were arrested for allegedly promoting the Islamic State's ideology and instigating protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the NIA had alleged. COVID-19 tests of the accused persons were conducted on June 6, on the directions of the court, while their 10-day custodial interrogation ended on June 7. “The report of COVID-19 test of accused persons namely Jahanzaib Sami and Mohd Abdullah Basith is negative but report of Hina Bashir Beigh is found positive,” the NIA informed the court. Thereafter, the court had directed the NIA to shift her to the hospital with immediate effect. “Delhi is struggling to cope up with the rising number of Corona positive cases that have gone up to 27,000 as of now and due to the lack of proper treatment facilities in Government Hospitals, which has also been highlighted in the media, the Delhi government has been compelled to issue a list of 56 Private Hospitals for Corona treatment,” the bail application had said. The three accused, allegedly having links with Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), were arrested by the special cell of Delhi Police in March and sent to the judicial custody on March 23. Basith was already lodged in jail in another case being probed by the NIA when the Delhi police arrested him in the present matter. The case was later transferred to NIA, which lodged a case on March 20 under the sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (provocation for causing riot) of IPC and sections 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) and 20 (being member of terrorist gang or organisation) of stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The NIA later approached a special court here seeking the custodial interrogation of three accused, which was allowed for 10 days by the judge on May 20, with a direction to the Tihar jail authorities to hand over their custody to NIA “after conducting their COVID-19 test and ensure that its found negative”. The NIA took their remand on May 29, after the test result had come negative. The custody ended today. The agency said the accused were actively following the ideology of ISIS and planning for terror strike in India and also recruiting cadres for ISKP. The Delhi police had earlier said, "In one audio message Abdul Basith said to Jahanzaib to motivate and prepare some guys who may be used for lone wolf attack and kill the people through a truck or lorry by running them over on people." The police said that the trio was in contact with Abu Ushman al Kashmiri, who is the head of Indian affairs of ISKP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmiri-woman-who-tested-covid-19-positive-in-nia-custody-denied-bail-in-terror-case-847500.html
09-06-2020||National||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh moves Delhi court seeking bail||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh, arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year, moved a Delhi court on Tuesday seeking bail. Singh and two other accused in the case - Irfan Shafi Mir and Sayed Naveed Mushtaq - moved the applications, claiming they are not required further custodial interrogation. The court is scheduled to hear the matter on Wednesday. Advocate M S Khan, appearing for the three accused who are lodged in Tihar jail, told the court that no purpose will be served by keeping his clients in further custody. Plea stated that Singh, Mir and Mushtaq were arrested on March 14, 19 and 27 respectively and are no longer required by the police for the purpose of investigation.  “The accused are wrongly and falsely implicated in the case. There is no material/ evidence to show the existence of any conspiracy to commit any act with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India and there is also no material to substantiate that the accused had the intention or conspired to carry out terror strike,” Khan said in the application. The plea also added that the accusations against them are not well founded nor substantiated by any material and do not give rise to the existence of prima facie case against the accused.  Singh was suspended from the Jammu and Kashmir Police in January this year. The Special Cell had brought him to Delhi from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir. He was arrested in a case related to planning/ execution of terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country. According to the police, he used to chat with other co-accused and militants of Hizbul Mujahideen through various internet platforms. Earlier, the police had told the court that Mushtaq and others were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country as well as carry out targeted killings of protected persons. The police said Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahiddeen, used to chat with the other co-accused and militants through various internet platforms, including dark net chat. "Mushtaq, along with other militants of Hizbul Mujahideen, was planning to execute terror attack in Delhi and other parts of the country and targeted killings of protected persons," the police told the court. Delhi Police has filed an FIR under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR said the youths of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab are being trained for carrying out terrorist activities. The FIR also mentioned the mafia's D Company and Chhota Shakeel. According to the FIR, Delhi Police's Special Cell had received an input that the D Company, run by fugitive Indian underworld kingpin Dawood Ibrahim, is funding pro-Khalistan terrorist organisations in Punjab. Davinder Singh was taken in custody under the same FIR. The Special Cell had also interrogated Singh regarding the Khalistan angle, police said. Although Singh is not named in the FIR, the Special Cell has some inputs on the basis of which the enquiry will be carried out and he will be questioned, the police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-jammu-and-kashmir-dsp-davinder-singh-moves-delhi-court-seeking-bail-847502.html
09-06-2020||National||NGOs deserve all appreciation for helping migrants during COVID-19 pandemic: Supreme Court||Though it is the responsibility of government to take care of migrant workers, the contribution and role played by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) "deserves all appreciation" for coming forward to help them by providing food, water and transport during the "difficult time" of COVID-19 pandemic, said the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The apex court also praised the individuals who contributed and played an important role in extending helping hand to the migrants and said the society, which was moved by their miseries and difficulties, has exhibited its "passion and devotion". "Although it is the responsibility and duty of the States and Union Territories to take care of all the needs of migrant labourers but in this difficult time non-governmental organisations and individuals have also contributed and played an important role in extending helping hand to the migrants," said the bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah. "Non-governmental organisations coming forward to help the migrant workers and to fight the pandemic and extend help by providing food, water and transportation at their cost which deserves all appreciation," the bench said in its 30-page order by which it also directed all states and Union territories (UTs) to transport all the stranded workers to their respective destinations by train, bus or other mode within 15 days from today. It also said there was a need for states and union territories to streamline the vigilance and supervision of actions of their officers and staff for taking appropriate action so that the measures and schemes reaches to the beneficiaries. The apex court, which has taken suo motu (on its own) cognizance on the plights of migrant workers during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown period, noted that during the arguments in the matter it was brought before it that various high courts across the country have also taken notice of cases of migrant labourers. "High Courts being constitutional courts are well within their jurisdiction to take cognizance of violation of fundamental rights of migrant workers and we have no doubt that those proceedings shall proceed after considering all aspects including the response of concerned authorities," the bench said. The top court noted that states and UTs have claimed before it that they have been following the orders, guidelines, policies and decisions of the Centre as well as the concerned authorities and are taking necessary steps in this regard. "There can be no exception to the policies and intentions of the State but what is important is that those on whom implementation of circulars, policies and schemes are entrusted are efficiently and correctly implementing those schemes," the bench observed. It said that lapses and short-comings in implementing the schemes and policies have been highlighted before it by various intervenors in the matter. "The responsibility of the States/Union Territories is not only to referring their policy, measures contemplated, funds allocated but there has to be strict vigilance and supervision as to whether those measures, schemes, benefits reaches to those to whom they are meant," it said. "We impress on States and Union Territories to streamline the vigilance and supervision of actions of their officers and staff and take appropriate action where required," the bench said. The top court had on May 28 directed that no fare would be charged from any migrant workers for their travel either by train or bus. It had directed that migrant workers would be provided "food free of cost" by the states and UTs where they are waiting for their turn to board train or bus after being stranded following the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngos-deserve-all-appreciation-for-helping-migrants-during-covid-19-pandemic-supreme-court-847508.html
09-06-2020||National||SC takes note of excess against migrant workers, says they needs to be dealt humanely||Migrant workers, who were forced to return to their native places after "cessation of their employment" during the COVID-19 lockdown, are already suffering and they have to be dealt with in a "humane manner" by the police and other authorities, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. Taking note of instances of "excess with regard to migrant labourers" by police officers and paramilitary forces, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the concerned Director General of Police or Police Commissioner may issue necessary directions in this regard. "The migrant labourers, who were forced to proceed to their native place, after cessation of their employment are already suffering. The financial difficulty being with all the migrant labourers invariably they have to dealt by the police and other authorities in a humane manner," said the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah. "We further notice from the materials on record that police officers of states, para-military forces wherever deployed are doing commendable job but some instances of excess with regard to migrant labourers are also there," the bench noted in its 30-page order. The bench observed that most of the officers, staffs of administration and police are discharging their duties with "devotion and hard-work" but the lapses have to be taken note of and remedial action have to be taken. The apex court, which has taken suo motu (on its own) cognizance on the plights of migrant workers during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown period, directed all states and Union territories (UTs) to transport all the stranded workers to their respective destinations by train, bus or other mode within 15 days from today. The top court, which on May 28 had passed a slew of directives including asking the states not to charge fare from the workers and provide them food free of cost till they board trains or buses, issued further directions to ameliorate their plights and asked authorities to consider “withdrawal” of criminal cases lodged against them for allegedly violating social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-takes-note-of-excess-against-migrant-workers-says-they-needs-to-be-dealt-humanely-847522.html
09-06-2020||National||Parties should rise above politics over China issue: SP and BSP||"In East Ladakh, the encroachment of Chinese forces for past one month is unacceptable to the country. The government should initiate strict steps to raise the morale of our forces. As BJP takes 'akadhikari' decision (decision by itself), it's feeling itself weak even though the people and opposition are with them on this issue," SP national president Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. BSP chief Mayawati attacked the BJP and the Congress on playing "dirty politics" on this issue when the people are facing hardships due to coronavirus pandemic. "It's unfortunate that at time when people are facing difficult times due to the pandemic, the BJP and Congress are playing dirty politics and allegations and counter allegations on the border dispute with China. This is not in the nation interest," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "The dispute with China and also Nepal is becoming very serious. In such a situation all parties should rise above party politics and think in nation interest. In such a matter, it would  be better if the Centre takes all in confidence," she said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parties-should-rise-above-politics-over-china-issue-sp-and-bsp-847523.html
09-06-2020||National||Central teams deployed in over 50 districts, municipalities with high COVID-19 caseload: Health ministry||High-level central teams have been deployed in 15 states and UTs with more than 50 districts or municipal bodies that are witnessing a spurt in cases to assist the local administrations in containment and management of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. These multi-disciplinary teams are helping the states and UTs address challenges like testing bottlenecks, low tests per million population, high confirmation rates, risk of capacity shortfall over the next two months, potential bed shortage, growing case fatality rate, high doubling rate and sudden spike in active cases, etc, it said. These states and UTs are Maharashtra (seven districts/municipalities), Telangana (four), Tamil Nadu (seven), Rajasthan (five), Assam (six), Haryana (four), Gujarat (three), Karnataka (four), Uttarakhand (three), Madhya Pradesh (five), West Bengal (three), Delhi (three), Bihar (four), Uttar Pradesh (four), and Odisha (five). "The aim is to assist the state governments by providing technical support for containment and (to) facilitate management of COVID-19 outbreak," the ministry said in a statement. With 9,987 fresh infections, India saw a record daily rise in COVID-19 cases for the seventh consecutive day on Tuesday. The country's tally stands at 2,66,598. The death toll due to the disease mounted to 7,466 as 266 more people died. The three-member central teams comprise of two public health experts/epidemiologist/clinicians and a senior joint secretary level nodal officer for administrative handholding and improving governance, the ministry said. These teams are working in the field and visiting healthcare facilities to support the state health department in implementation of containment measures and efficient treatment and clinical management of cases within the districts and cities, it said. The ministry said, "In order to ensure better coordination, quick action on the ground, adoption of a more granular strategy, it is proposed that these districts and municipalities should regularly remain in touch with central teams which are already coordinating with the states." Such frequent interaction would further strengthen the surveillance, containment, testing and treatment-related action on the ground. Many districts and municipalities have already formalised a dedicated core team at the district level comprising of medical and administrative officials to coordinate on a regular basis with the central team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-teams-deployed-in-over-50-districts-municipalities-with-high-covid-19-caseload-health-ministry-847526.html
09-06-2020||National||Pre-owned cars strike chord with customers as COVID-19 lockdown eases: CARS24||The preferred top five models in pre-owned cars continue to be Maruti Suzuki Swift, Hyundai Santro Xing, Hyundai Grand i10, Honda City and Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire. CARS24 had conducted a customer survey when the lockdown was imposed to find how the COVID-19 pandemic was likely to impact consumers with regards to owning a car in the post-lockdown era. "In that research what actually came out was in favour of the auto industry with 40-45 per cent customers saying they would want to commute via their own cars after lockdown is over, primarily because of the fact that they would feel safer and avoid infection," CARS24 Co-founder and CMO Gajendra Jangid told PTI. The company then asked customers who were planning to buy cars before the lockdown was imposed and how their decision has changed post-lockdown. "We found that 23 per cent of respondents have changed their preference of buying a new car to a used car. That was primarily driven by the fact that their budget has decreased, they have a crunch and they don't want to spend that much money. There is a shift in car ownership in favour of used cars as well," he added. Now one month into easing of lockdown restrictions, Jangid said,"I could clearly see what we have predicted in our research is actually panning out as well in reality." "What we started observing is that the buyer side traffic was increasing more than the seller side traffic. I am seeing better recovery of buyer traffic on our website than the seller traffic, which kind of indicates that buyers are showing more and more interest," he said. As of the first week of June, Jangid said,"Our buyer side traffic (recovery) is already complete. We are right now already at pre-corona level from the buyer side." CARS24 had clocked around 2 to 2.5 million visits per month on the buyer side and the seller side traffic was around 2 million before the lockdown. The average selling price of used cars has also gone down to Rs 2.25 lakh in "post-lockdown" as compared to Rs 2.6 lakh in pre-lockdown period, according to CARS24.   Explaining the trend, Jangid said,"Post lockdown, the need of owning a car is not aspirationally driven. It is more need or utility driven, to move from point A to point B, unlike before when a customer wanted to feel good and show presence in the society." He further said,"When you are going for a need-based purchase you will always go for best value for money, which used-cars always give."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pre-owned-cars-strike-chord-with-customers-as-covid-19-lockdown-eases-cars24-847534.html
09-06-2020||National||Options explored for 'hybrid', virtual session of Parliament: Sources||The prospects of a routine session of Parliament have come under question with existing government buildings found inadequate to accommodate all MPs if COVID-19 physical distancing norms are to be followed, according to highly-placed sources. With neither the central hall of Parliament nor the Vigyan Bhawan plenary hall large enough to seat all the MPs while maintaining a minimum distance of one metre, the presiding officers of both houses are learnt to have been exploring options of holding a 'hybrid' session of Parliament or a virtual one, the sources told PTI. The hybrid session would allow some MPs to be present physically in Parliament with the remaining ones attending it virtually. The sources said one of the options discussed is to enable attendance in the Chambers of both the Houses of only those many members who can be accommodated according to social distancing norms by drawing up lists of such members whose participation in various items of business is required on a daily basis. The monsoon session of Parliament is normally held in the month of July. At a meeting convened by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the secretary generals of both houses are learnt to have told the presiding officers that neither the central hall nor the Vigyan Bhawan plenary hall have a seating capacity to accommodate all MPs together. The meeting was convened to review various options for holding the ensuing monsoon session of Parliament. Briefing Naidu and Birla on various possibilities, the secretary generals reported the outcomes of their assessment of seating capacity in the Chambers of both the Houses, the central hall of Parliament and the plenary hall of Vigyan Bhawan. They informed that while the Rajya Sabha Chamber can accommodate about 60 members as per the norms of social distancing, the Lok Sabha Chamber and the central hall are adequate enough for a little over 100 members. They said even if the members were to be accommodated in the galleries, the total seating capacity would be much less than the required, if all members were to be accommodated.   Naidu and Birla directed the two top officials to examine in detail various issues related to enabling virtual participation of members in the proceedings of both houses. This includes the maximum capacity available for enabling such virtual participation of MPs, feasibility of enabling participation of members as per the rules of business of both the Houses and other technical issues. Regarding virtual meetings of the parliamentary committees, it was explained that any change in the rules concerning such meetings required a motion to be carried in both the Houses of Parliament. The Parliament officials also informed the presiding officers of certain other limitations if the central hall and Vigyan Bhawan were to be used for the session. These included non-availability of air-conditioned facility during the day in the Central Hall and problems of enabling simultaneous interpretation service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/options-explored-for-hybrid-virtual-session-of-parliament-sources-847535.html
09-06-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 pandemic, newborn makes 380-km journey for heart surgery||Rohit Chavan is only two and a half months old, but he has already survived a ten-hour journey by road from Sangli in western Maharashtra to Mumbai amid lockdown, and then an open heart surgery. Now he is back in his village. It became possible because of coordinated efforts of doctors in the two cities and the Sangli district administration. Rohit was born on March 16, barely a week before lockdown to contain coronavirus was announced.  "He had transposition of great arteries, which meant the two main arteries were reversely connected with the heart chambers, resulting into the body getting low oxygenated blood," said Dr Laxmikant Magdum, medical officer of the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Mission for Sangli district. "The complication was further escalated when the body scan revealed the lungs supplying purified blood were getting drained through the liver. It was the first such case in my entire professional life," he said. "The baby was in dire need of oxygenated blood as well as corrective surgeries, so we contacted hospitals in Mumbai," he said. Rohit's parents had taken him to the Sangli civil hospital after he became seriously ill, but the surgery which he needed could not be performed there. "The only option we had was to shift the baby to Mumbai in the midst of coronavirus pandemic," said Dr Magdum. The officials in the Sangli district collector's office arranged ambulance transport for the baby patient. When asked how the family raised the funds for the treatment, Magdum said, "Most of the cost was covered under the Union government's Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram.  "As we had no facility here for conducting open heart surgery, we recommended that the baby be taken to NH SRCC Children's hospital in Mumbai," he said. The hospital in Mumbai, which is run by a charitable trust, agreed to bear some of the cost of the surgery. Before leaving for Mumbai, 380 km away, Rohit had to undergo a coronavirus test and get ascertained that he was not carrying the infection. During the journey, the doctors had to ensure that he was supplied with oxygen all the time. "We equipped six ambulances with oxygen supply equipment, and they transported the patient from Sangli to Mumbai (in relay) which took over ten hours," Dr Magdum said. After undergoing the surgery in the third week of May, the baby and his parents stayed at the hospital for a few days before returning to their village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-pandemic-newborn-makes-380-km-journey-for-heart-surgery-847537.html
09-06-2020||National||Only 20 staff in offices, face mask and shield mandatory: DARPG||The Government has allowed 100 per cent attendance in its offices but the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) under the Ministry of Personnel has come out with more stringent measures restricting the number of officers and staff in a day to 20 and mandating the use of face shields along with face masks. It has also warned officials and staff that they will face disciplinary action if they do not wear face masks and shields and discard them in normal waste bins instead of biomedical waste baskets. The government has clarified that these directions are limited to the DARPG only. The circular came against the backdrop of rising number of COVID-19 cases among central government employees. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), another department under the Ministry of Personnel that manages the offices under the Centre, had also issued an order to all departments and ministries earlier regarding the functioning of offices but had not mandated the use of face shields or restricted the number of employees working at a time. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare's Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) also did not mention these. According to the DARPG circular issued on June 5, not more than 20 staff and officers will be attending office in a day and remaining staff would continue to work from home for which roster would be reworked. As per the plan, Under Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries sharing a cabin will attend office on alternate days as part of ensuring social distancing norms. Sections will not have more than two officials at a time while staggering of office hours will be followed. "As far as possible, windows may be kept open to ensure proper ventilation in halls," the circular issued last week has said. Used masks and gloves should be discarded carefully in yellow colour bio-medical waste bins only, it said adding that strict action will be taken against those found throwing them in normal waste bins. Face to face meetings should be avoided and intercom and video intercoms should be used as far as possible. "Hand-washing in every half an hour is a must to prevent the spread of infection. Hand sanitising dispensers shall be installed at prominent places in corridors. Frequently touched places such as electric switches, door knobs, elevator buttons, hand rails, wash-room fixtures etc shall be cleaned every hour with sodium hypochlorite," it said. Officers and staff are also advised to clean their personal equipment like keyboards, phones and AC remote by themselves by using any ethanol based disinfect frequently. Visitors' chairs in officials' cabins should be placed keeping the norms of social distancing, the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-20-staff-in-offices-face-mask-and-shield-mandatory-darpg-847538.html
09-06-2020||National||Centre focuses on 50 municipalities with maximum COVID-19 case load||The Health Ministry on Tuesday (June 9) deployed central teams to 15 states with more than 50 districts and municipalities that were witnessing a high caseload of COVID-19 patients on the day the total number of infections touched 2.66 lakh across the country. India’s COVID-19 count rose by 9,987 cases to touch 2,66,598, while the fatalities due to the infectious disease touched 7,466. The central teams – comprising two health experts and a joint secretary-level officer – would address challenges faced by the state authorities in testing samples, organising hospital beds, and growing fatalities. These States/UTs are – Maharashtra (seven districts/municipalities), Telangana (four), Tamil Nadu (seven), Rajasthan (five), Assam (six), Haryana (four), Gujarat (three), Karnataka (four), Uttarakhand (three), Madhya Pradesh (five), West Bengal (three), Delhi (three), Bihar (four), Uttar Pradesh (four), and Odisha (five). The decision to deploy the central teams was announced after the meeting of the Group of Ministers on COVID-19 chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. “These teams are working in the field and visiting health care facilities to support the State health department in the implementation of containment measures and efficient treatment/clinical management of cases within the districts/cities,” an official statement said.  It added that in order to ensure better coordination, quick action on the ground, adoption of a more granular strategy, it is proposed that these districts and municipalities should regularly remain in touch with central teams that are already coordinating with the states. “Such frequent interaction would further strengthen surveillance, containment, testing and treatment-related action on the ground,” a senior official said. As on Tuesday, 55% of the total cases in India were from hotspot states of Maharashtra (88,528), Tamil Nadu (33,229), Delhi (29,943), and Gujarat (20,545). Tamil Nadu reported an increase of 1,562 new cases in a single day – their highest so far. Jharkhand and Manipur also added 157 and 100 new cases respectively, their highest so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-focuses-on-50-municipalities-with-maximum-covid-19-case-load-847547.html
09-06-2020||National||I am working for migrants purely out of love for them, says Bollywood actor Sonu Sood||Catapulted to the national spotlight for his work in helping migrants reach their homes, actor Sonu Sood brushes off allegations that he is interested in politics and says he is doing what he is “purely out of love”. The actor, viewed as a messiah of sorts for migrants and also the unlikely centre of debates over his motivations and possible political leanings, has been arranging for transport for thousands of migrants desperate to return to their home states. “I have nothing to do with politics. I am doing this purely out of my love for migrants. I want to help reunite them with their families," Sood told PTI. He estimates that he has helped 18,000-20,000 workers to go back to their homes in states such as Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. "I intend to work till the last migrant reaches his home. The journey has to continue in full force. No one should be rendered homeless. We want them to reach home safely,” Sood said. On Monday night, he was stopped outside the Bandra Terminus by police from meeting labourers. The last days have been a ceaseless whirl for the 46-year-old, who came to Mumbai from Moga in Punjab and has made his mark in films such as “Dabangg” and “Jodha Akbar”. Sood has met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari who praised him for helping the workers as well as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. He also came under attack from Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who asked whether the BJP had propped him to offer help to workers from north India, stranded in Maharashtra amid the lockdown, with the intention of showing the Thackeray government in poor light. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh backed Sood for his work for migrant labourers, stranded in the state with no work and no money in the extended lockdown to stave off COVID-19. “I feel strongly about them because I came to Mumbai as a migrant. I boarded a train one day and landed up here. Everyone comes to a city with a dream of a better life,” Sood said. He said he can empathise with their plight. It was heartbreaking to see migrants travelling on foot for their homes, Sood said. The lockdown led to a massive exodus with tens of thousands of people leaving the cities to return to their villages – walking, cycling or hitching their way home, hundreds, maybe thousands, of kilometres away. Some died of hunger or collapsed in sheer exhaustion. “Seeing their struggle reminds me of my own here as an actor. It was difficult initially for me. When I see them I can recollect my journey,” Sood said. He said he first came to know about migrants leaving Mumbai while distributing food to workers on May 9 with his childhood friend Niti Goel. The workers told him that they were going back to their homes in Karnataka.   “It is because of them that we have houses and offices, roads, etc. How can we leave them like this? The images that I saw gave me sleepless nights. And when I saw migrants walking on the highway, risking their lives, I realised it is important to come forward and do something. “I spoke to them and was able to convince them to stop so that I can get permission from the authorities to help them go back home safely,” Sood said. Within two days, the first batch of buses was arranged for about 300 people after acquiring permissions from various state authorities and getting their medical tests done.  He was there to see the workers off, and has continued the practice since. The actor has been inundated with requests from every corner of India. He said his friends and family are helping him connect with every request that comes to him personally, through social media or through the helpline number he has launched. “The whole wave started when people from different states started approaching me and they would cry. They were in bad shape. I have kept all my focus on that. “I spoke to a lot of people from ground to top level, got all the permissions, be it from police or medical department... We do all the required paperwork.” The actor said he is happy that people have faith in him and send him messages for help. “They feel they will be able to reach their destination. That’s why I have to be active and convey them that I will make this journey possible.” Sometimes, the actor said, there are challenges in implementing the requests that come to him. “The biggest difficulty has been getting permissions. It is not an easy job to convince everyone. I want to help people in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana. But Telangana is not accepting people from Maharashtra. Some people respond fast and some take time.” The philanthropic work has led to memes and cartoons on social media and even some quirky requests, one asking him for help to meet his girlfriend, and another if he can help procure alcohol. Sood accepts it all with a smile. “This kind of banter on Twitter will keep people entertained,” he said. He credits his parents Shakti and Saroj Sood for inspiring him in his humanitarian efforts, said celebrity status can be put to use in speeding up the process. “Everyone should come forward to do their bit. Every kitchen should make an extra meal for someone, be it a vegetable vendor or a watchman or anyone else. No one in the country should sleep hungry or stay homeless,” he concluded. Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap is among those who have spoken out in his support. “You are doing a great job @SonuSood. Ignore the naysayers and haters. You are doing more than the respective governments even when it’s not suppose to be your responsibility. More power to you. Just be at it brother,” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-working-for-migrants-purely-out-of-love-for-them-says-bollywood-actor-sonu-sood-847548.html
09-06-2020||National||Centre mulls trimming of syllabus, shorter school hours||With no signs of easing on the COVID-19 outbreak, the Centre has embarked on a plan to reduce the school syllabus for the academic year 2020-21, as well as the hours of instruction. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said he had received suggestions from several parents and teachers for trimming of the syllabus to ensure that students can cope up with studies in times of the pandemic. “I would like to appeal to all teachers, academicians, and educationists to share their points of view on this matter using #SyllabusForStudents2020 on MHRD’s or my Twitter and Facebook page, so that we can take them into consideration while making a decision,” the minister said. On Monday (June 8), the HRD ministry kick-started consultations with states and other stakeholders on reopening of schools which have been closed since March due to COVID-19 outbreak. Secretary School Education Anita Karwal chaired a meeting the state education secretaries also deliberated upon health and safety of students, hygiene measures in schools and issues regarding online and digital education. The HRD Minister said the suggestions made by the state governments will be examined and sent to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Home Affairs for appropriate action regarding the framing of guidelines for the education sector.  Obtained valuable suggestions from state governments regarding issues related to school education. Our priority has always been the safety and security of students and teachers,” the minister had said. State governments had favoured staggered classes, no compulsion on attendance, calling students on alternate days for re-opening of schools. Several government-run schools are being used as COVID-19 Care Centres and camps for housing migrant workers and may not be available for classes if the outbreak continues unabated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulls-trimming-of-syllabus-shorter-school-hours-847549.html
09-06-2020||National||Man nabbed in raid tests COVID-19 positive, 4 Maharashtra FDA men quarantined||Four Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration personnel who raided a godown in Bhiwandi in Thane district last week and seized gutkha and tobacco products have been quarantined after one of the three people they nabbed tested positive for novel coronavirus, an official said on Tuesday. Samples of the four FDA personnel have been sent for testing and results are awaited, he added. "They had raided a godown last week and seized gutkha and tobacco products worth Rs 37.80 lakh. The accused were lodged in Narpoli police station in Bhiwandi and the personnel there too would be tested," the official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-nabbed-in-raid-tests-covid-19-positive-4-maharashtra-fda-men-quarantined-847552.html
09-06-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh lawyer 'rapes' minor molestation victim in court complex chamber||He, being a lawyer, was hired to ensure justice to the minor, who had been molested by a youth, by pleading her case in the court.  Instead, he allegedly raped the minor inside his chamber in the court complex in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur town. A case has now been lodged against the lawyer, identified as Nagendra Singh Gautam. According to the police sources, Gautam was representing the minor in a case of molestation lodged against a youth a few days back. Sources said that the lawyer asked the minor to come to his chamber inside the court premises on Saturday as he wanted to take her statement. The victim, who reached there with her younger brother, said that the lawyer sent her brother for bringing stationery. A little later the lawyer's assistant also left the chamber and bolted the door from outside. The lawyer allegedly raped the victim and also threatened to implicate her family in false cases if she told anyone about it, sources said. The victim, however, told her parents about the incident, who then approached the cops on Tuesday for registration of a case against the lawyer. ''We are investigating the matter,'' said a senior police official in Kanpur. The lawyer was absconding, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-lawyer-rapes-minor-molestation-victim-in-court-complex-chamber-847556.html
09-06-2020||National||Provide residual demand for Shramik trains for movement of migrants by June 10: Railways to states||The railways has written to the states asking them to provide a "comprehensive residual" demand for Shramik Special trains to ferry migrants to their homes by June 10, hours after the Supreme Court directed the Centre to complete the process in the next 15 days. The railways has run more than 4,347 Shramik Special trains to transport approximately 60 lakh persons to their destination states since May 1. In a letter to the chief secretaries of the states, Chairman Railway Board V K Yadav said the Supreme Court in its order has directed that in event of any additional demand -- in addition to the demand of 171 Shramik trains already projected by the states/UTs -- the Railways shall provide Shramik Special trains within a period of 24 hours of the request of states/UTs to facilitate the movement of migrant workers. "In this context, you may please advise the comprehensive residual demand for Shramik Special Trains for the movement of stranded workers from your state/UT along with the number of travellers, originating station, destination station, schedule and dates by which the transportation shall be completed. "The details may kindly be communicated through an official letter by June 10," he said in the letter issued on Tuesday. The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and state governments to send all the migrant workers to their native places within 15 days and formulate employment schemes after conducting their skill mapping to rehabilitate them. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah also directed the Centre to provide additional trains within 24 hours of states making the demand for sending the migrant workers back to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-residual-demand-for-shramik-trains-for-movement-of-migrants-by-june-10-railways-to-states-847561.html
09-06-2020||National||India better positioned in fight against COVID-19 but no space for complacency: Harsh Vardhan||India is better positioned in the fight against COVID-19 compared to other countries but there is no space for complacency, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday as the death toll due to coronavirus infection rose to 7,466 and the cases mounted to 2,66,598 in the country.   Vardhan chaired the 16th meeting of the high-level group of ministers on COVID-19 which reviewed the containment strategies pertaining to the pandemic via video-conferencing here, the heath ministry said. The GOM was briefed about the latest status, response and management of COVID-19 in the country.  A brief snapshot was presented to the GOM highlighting the comparative position of India vis-a-vis other countries in similar stage of easing lockdown, underscoring the benefits that have accrued from the lockdown and how this can be leveraged in management of disease, the ministry said. As the country entered the "Unlock 1.0 phase" when restrictions have been eased and curbs lifted, Vardhan stressed that people need to be more disciplined and adopt appropriate behaviour to ensure norms of physical distancing, use of face covers, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette are followed.  India is better positioned in fight against COVID-19 compared to other nations, "but there is no space for complacency," Vardhan strongly reiterated. He also reminded everybody to download Aarogya Setu app which will help in self risk assessment and in protection against COVID-19.  More than 12.55 crore people in the country have downloaded the app, as on date, the ministry said in its statement. In the wake of all government offices opening now, Vardhan appealed to the heads of departments, “Let us also not forget the 'social vaccine' against COVID-19 through strict adherence of norms of physical distancing, hand hygiene and mask/face covers."  The GoM was informed that as on June 9, COVID-related health infrastructure in the country has been strengthened with the availability of 958 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU and 73,469 oxygen supported beds.  Also, 2,313 dedicated COVID health centres with 1,33,037 isolation beds, 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.  Moreover, 7,525 COVID care centres with 7,10,642 beds are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country. The ventilators available for COVID beds are 21,494, the ministry said. The Centre has further placed an order of 60,848 ventilators, it added.   The Centre has also provided 128.48 lakh N95 masks and 104.74 lakh personal protective equipment (PPEs) to the states, union territories and central institutions.  ICMR's testing capacity has increased through 553 government and 231 private laboratories (total of 784 labs).  More than 49 lakh cumulative tests have been conducted in the country so far with 1,41,682 samples been tested in the last 24 hours till 9 AM. Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityananda Rai, Minister of State for Shipping and Chemical and Fertilizers Mansukh Lal Mandaviya and Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey along with other senior officials took part in the meeting which was held following norms of physical distancing, the ministry said. Parameswaran Iyer, Chairman of Empowered Group-5, presented the critical strategies adopted by the EG to ease the burden of lockdown while enabling supply of critical items for the country to fight the pandemic. Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar presented details on the status of testing labs, augmented capacities for testing across the country, and also enlightened the GoM on various issues related to hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, and sero-surveillance studies. The number of active novel coronavirus cases stands at 1,29,917 till Tuesday 8 AM. So far, a total of 1,29,214 people have recovered with 4,785 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours.  "This takes the total recovery rate to 48.47 per cent," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-better-positioned-in-fight-against-covid-19-but-no-space-for-complacency-harsh-vardhan-847565.html
09-06-2020||National||HC asks Centre to reconsider fixing price cap for N95 masks||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday, asked the Union government to reconsider its pricing policy for N95 masks to ensure that the protective gear remained affordable and prevent hoarding during the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde said the Centre must take into account the law involving pricing of essential items and accordingly cap the price of N95 masks, said senior counsel Mihir Desai. The court had earlier asked the Centre to clarify whether it plans to cap the price of N95 masks. It was hearing a PIL filed by Sucheta Dalal and Anjali Damania, claiming that prices need to be capped to prevent black marketing of masks during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In the previous hearing on May 19, Desai had informed the court that there was a shortage of N95 masks for frontline health workers and it was imperative to prevent hoarding or black marketing of the protective gear. However, the Maharashtra government had told the court at the time that it had already written to the Centre seeking that a ceiling price be fixed for N95 masks. On Tuesday, the Union government's counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court that there were no plans to cap the price of such masks, as they were already being sold at a "reduced price by 47 per cent" following the government's intervention. On May 21, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority had issued an advisory asking all manufacturers, importers and suppliers of N95 masks to maintain parity in prices for non-government procurements and ensure that masks were sold at reasonable prices, Singh said. Following the advisory, prices had been slashed by 47 per cent, he said. The ASG, however, agreed to further reconsider the pricing after the court said otherwise, it will pass appropriate orders. As per the PIL, although N95 masks had been categorised as essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act, hoarding and profiteering from the sale of such masks by black marketeers continued in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-centre-to-reconsider-fixing-price-cap-for-n95-masks-847568.html
09-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Centre, Delhi govt lock horns; Fire breaks out in Assam||Confrontation is brewing between the Centre and the Delhi government. Fire breaks out at Oil India Limited's gas well in Assam. Jyotiraditya Scindia tests positive for COVID-19 and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on the two "low-profile" party workers as candidates for June 19 Rajya Sabha polls from Karnataka.  Download the Deccan Herald app for Android devices here: https://bit.ly/2UgttIO Download the Deccan Herald app for iOS devices here: https://apple.co/30eOFD6 For latest news and updates, log on to www.deccanherald.com Check out our e-paper www.deccanheraldepaper.com To read news on the go, sign up to our Telegram channel t.me/deccanheraldnews||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-delhi-govt-lock-horns-fire-breaks-out-in-assam-847569.html
09-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Validity of motor vehicle documents extended till September 30||The government on Tuesday announced further extension till September 30 for validity of motor vehicle documents, including driving license and vehicle fitness, in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, the Centre through an advisory on March 30 announced extension of the validity of fitness, permit (all types), driving license, registration or any other concerned document till June 30. "Given the current circumstances to avoid hardships being faced by transporters and citizens, state governments are further advised that these documents be considered valid till September 30, 2020 for enforcement purpose," Road Transport and Highway Minister Nitin Gadkari said. He said the government had earlier on March 30 extended the validity of documents till June 30, 2020. "Taking into consideration the grim situation still continuing due to conditions for prevention of spread of COVID-19 across the country, it is advised that ...the validity of Fitness, Permit (all types), Learner's License, Driving License, Registration or any other concerned document whose extension of validity could not or not likely be granted due to lock-down and which has expired since Feb 1, 2020 or will expire till September 30, 2020, the same may be treated to be valid till September 30, 2020," as per the notification from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways issued today. In order to facilitate citizens during the period and conditions for prevention for COVID-19, the ministry had also issued a gazette notification on May 21, relaxing the fees validity and /or additional fee under the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, till July 31, 2020. Now the state/UTs have also been requested to consider provisions available under the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 or other such provisions available under other Acts, for considering relaxation in requirement of permit, or fees or taxes for renewal / penalty for permits etc to provide relief during these extra ordinary circumstances of COVID-19, as per the notification. "... considering the situation for prevention of COVID-19 still continues, and as per the requests received, Shri Gadkari directed his Ministry to issue advise for extension of this period till 30th Sept for treating the documents valid for enforcement purposes," the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-extended-till-september-30-847570.html
09-06-2020||National||Open sand reaches, store 70 lakh tonnes of sand before onset of monsoon: AP CM||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday directed district collectors to open all sand reaches and aim at storing 70 lakh tonnes of sand before the onset of monsoon. During a digital 'Spandana' meeting with district collectors, Reddy also said that hereafter, orders for sand can be booked at village secretariats from June 11. A directive in this regard was also issued in the meeting.   "All sand reaches should be opened and enough stock should be piled before the monsoon becomes active," an official statement quoted Reddy having said in the meeting. The activity at sand reaches should be stepped up and sand mining escalated in Srikakulam, East and West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Nellore and Kadapa districts where the number of reaches are more in number, he said. "New sources should also be identified and reaches should be set up," the chief minister said, adding that the aim should be to store 70 lakh tonnes of sand before the onset of monsoon. Reddy also announced that from June 11, people can book sand at village secretariats as well. A joint collector should take full responsibility and the collectors should supervise the transactions, he said.   People with smaller needs can draw sand from any source within 5 km of a sand quarry and the matter should be informed to the village secretariat, while bulk orders should be dealt by a joint collector, the chief minister said. A standard operating procedure in this regard will come into force from June 10, Reddy said and asked officers to maintain transparency in all deals. On the liquor policy, the chief minister said the state government has taken effective steps to bring down the consumption of alcohol in Andhra Pradesh. "We have closed down 43,000 belt shops and reduced the number of liquor shops by 33 per cent, besides cutting down the number of working hours after taking over the liquor trade," he said. To supplement the government's efforts, there is a need to ensure illicit liquor is not manufactured and there is no smuggling of liquor from outside the state. "We are very serious about these matters. Any illegal sale and transport of liquor and sand and will be dealt with firmly," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/open-sand-reaches-store-70-lakh-tonnes-of-sand-before-onset-of-monsoon-ap-cm-847571.html
09-06-2020||National||Another locust attack likely in a few weeks: Officials||Centre's Locust Warning Organization will press into service 25 drones and buy 60 more vehicle-mounted insecticide spraying machines to counter the attack of locust swarms in the near future, an official said on Tuesday. Authorities are worried that millions of locusts may enter India along with monsoon winds from the Arabian Sea to destroy kharif crops. "The locust swarms may attack in late June and early July. There is every possibility that locust swarms will come towards India from African countries along with monsoon winds rising from the Arabian Sea," K L Gurjar, Deputy Director of the Faridabad-based Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), told PTI. He said the summer and rainy weather is favourable for locusts and they move from one place to another during this time, travelling 150 km in a day. India faced a locust attack last month and the swarms reached Jaipur for the first time. Swarms of locusts travelled through several areas of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh amid their worst invasion in years. The swarms entered Rajasthan in April from Pakistan and then spread to areas across the western states, helped by strong winds. Gurjar said the LWO is making full preparations at its level. For the first time, a team of 25 drones is being prepared to fight the locust swarm, which will be ready in a day or two. It will be used for spraying insecticides. Apart from this, the organization will get 60 more vehicle-mounted sprayers by the end of this month. State Agriculture Commissioner Dr Omprakash told PTI that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations is predicting that grasshoppers will come so "we have made full preparations". Around 800 tractor-mounted sprayers were already being used, and now the district collectors have been authorized to take into service more such vehicles as per the requirement. He said there is no dearth of resources to counter attack locust swarms. The state government has already given about Rs 6.5 crore to the districts. The department has asked for around Rs 4 crore additionally. The government has decided to purchase 100 fire fighting vehicles from the Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), which can also be used for locust control. In a meeting with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot recently, State Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said a large number of locust swarms could come to Rajasthan in the coming days. He said swarms are breeding in African countries. A large number of these swarms are expected to reach Rajasthan. In such a situation, a district-wise strategy will have to be made to deal with them, Kataria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-locust-attack-likely-in-a-few-weeks-officials-847573.html
09-06-2020||National||SC directs states to set up counselling centres for employment of migrant workers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed all the States and Union Territories to establish a counselling centre at village and block level for identifying the avenues for the employment of migrant workers. Over one crore such workers returned to their native places on losing employment after imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25 to contain COVID-19 pandemic.  A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed to finish transportation of all stranded migrant workers within 15 days. The court said "immediate steps" should be taken to facilitate registration of workers at local or police station level with adequate publicity through local newspapers, and TV channels for their travel by trains or buses. Passing a slew of directions in Suo Motu case registered as "problems and miseries faced by migrant workers" on May 26, the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said, besides 171 Shramik Special Trains being run between June 3 and 16, Railways should make additional train available within 24 hours of demand by the States. "The process of transportation by rail and road has to be completed by all States and Union Territories so that the next stage of attending the needs of migrant labourers be looked into i.e. source of employment and providing food and ration for them," the bench said.  The court noted that substantial number of stranded workers have already been taken back. But still there are migrant labourers in Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.  It also directed for maintaining details of all migrant labourers, who have reached their native places, with information on their skill, nature of employment, earlier place of employment.  "The State shall establish counselling centres, help desk at block and district level to provide all necessary information regarding schemes of the government and to extend helping hand to migrant labourers to identify avenues of employment and benefits which can be availed by them under the different schemes," the court directed.   Such centres would also help who wanted to return to their places of employment, it added. Among others, the court directed the States to consider withdrawal of prosecution of the migrant workers for offences related to breaking of lockdown lodged under the Disaster Management Act as they were "forced to proceed to their native place, after cessation of their employment are already suffering". The court said States and Union Territories are taking necessary steps for running the relief camps, shelter camps, attending the needs of food and water of the migrants, and working for their transportation to the native places. However, it said certain lapses and instances of excesses were noted for which remedial action is to be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-states-to-set-up-counselling-centres-for-employment-of-migrant-workers-847575.html
09-06-2020||National||Haryana's home minister suffers thigh bone fracture after slipping in bathroom||Haryana's Home minister Anil Vij fractured his left thigh bone when he slipped in the bathroom of his Ambala Cantonment residence while taking a bath on Tuesday. Vij, who also holds the health and urban local bodies portfolios in the state, was taken to a private hospital at Ambala Cantonment, where a team of senior doctors examined him. Dr Prabhakar Sharma, who attended to the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, said an X-ray revealed that the fracture was a major one and may require surgery. Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma and Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh also reached the hospital when the minister was being examined. Subsequently, Vij, a six-time MLA from Ambala Cantonment, was referred to a private hospital near Chandigarh. According to sources, after attending to some people who had come to meet him at his residence in the morning, Vij went to the bathroom on the first floor of his house, where he slipped and fell down while taking a bath. He was rushed to the hospital in an ambulance. A number of BJP workers reached his residence as soon as they got to know about the incident. This was the second such incident in the recent past. A few months ago, Vij had slipped in the bathroom while taking a bath and sustained minor injuries on the chest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryanas-home-minister-suffers-thigh-bone-fracture-after-slipping-in-bathroom-847586.html
09-06-2020||National||696 teams formed in Punjab's Jalandhar to check home quarantine protocol violation||As many as 696 teams have been constituted here to keep a check on people violating home quarantine guidelines, officials said on Tuesday. People who are coming from outside and are symptomatic are put in home quarantine to curb the spread of COVID 19, they said. To ensure that these people do not endanger the lives of others by violating the quarantine protocol, the civil and the police administration have decided to take strict action against the offenders, the officials said. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, in an official release, said 696 teams of the civil and the police administration have been constituted to keep a vigil on the people who are home-quarantined in the district.  He said 202 teams have been constituted at Shahkot, 232 in Phillaur, 150 in Nakodar, 41 in Jalandhar I and 71 in Jalandhar II. Sharma said the teams have been directed to take strict punitive action against those violating the home quarantine guidelines.  The deputy commissioner said those violating the norms would be booked under provisions of law besides being fined for it. He solicited support of the people to keep an eye over any violation of the home quarantine protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/696-teams-formed-in-punjabs-jalandhar-to-check-home-quarantine-protocol-violation-847587.html
09-06-2020||National||Indian Railways seeks demand from states to run Shramik special trains||Indian Railways on Tuesday (June 9) asked the states to provide a "comprehensive residual" demand for Shramik Special trains to ferry migrants to their homes by June 10. Hours after the Supreme Court directed the Centre to complete the process of ferry migrants to their home in the next 15 days, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav in his letter to Chief Secretaries of all the states said that following the apex court direction, the railways would provide Shramik Special trains within the period of 24 hours of the request from the states to facilitate the movement of migrant workers. "...You may please advise the comprehensive residual demand for Shramik Special Trains for the movement of stranded workers from your state/UT along with the number of travellers, originating station, destination station, schedule, and dates by which the transportation shall be completed. The details may kindly be communicated through an official letter by June 10," he said in the letter.  Since May 1 the railways have operated over 4,300 Shramik Special trains to transport approximately 60 lakh persons to their destination states.   The top court on Tuesday directed the Centre and state governments to send all the migrant workers to their native places within 15 days and formulate employment schemes after conducting their skill mapping to rehabilitate them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-seeks-demand-from-states-to-run-shramik-special-trains-847597.html
09-06-2020||National||COVID-19 social distancing norms may delay Parliament's Monsoon Session||The COVID-19 social distancing norms may end up delaying Parliament's Monsoon Session with top officials telling the presiding officers of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha that the existing arrangements could accommodate a few MPs only. During a review meeting convened by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and attended by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the Secretaries General of the two Houses briefed the presiding officers about the various possibilities of holding the session. In a previous meeting on June 1, the top officials were tasked to examine the possibility of shifting the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha to Lok Sabha and the Lok Sabha to the Central Hall. Usually, the Monsoon Session starts in the third or fourth week of July and adjourns just before Independence Day on August 15. Sources said the officials reported the outcomes of assessment of seating capacity in Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, the Central Hall and the Plenary Hall of Vigyan Bhawan. Lok Sabha has 545 MPs and Rajya Sabha has 245. According to the assessment, sources said, the Rajya Sabha Chamber can accommodate about 60 MPs as per the norms of social distancing while the Lok Sabha Chamber and the Central Hall is adequate enough for a little over 100 lawmakers. Even if the members were to be accommodated in the galleries, the total seating capacity would be much less than the required, if all members were to be accommodated.   The Secretaries General were also of the view that the Plenary Hall of Vigyan Bhawan would not be adequate to accommodate all Lok Sabha MPs. They also pointed out that the Central Hall and Vigyan Bhavan have limitations when it comes to availability of air-conditioning and enabling of simultaneous interpretation service. The meeting also discussed another option of only allowing MPs whose participation in various items of business is required on a daily basis. Sources said Naidu and Birla also directed the two officials to examine in detail various issues related to enabling virtual participation of MPs in House proceedings, including the maximum capacity available for enabling such virtual participation, feasibility of enabling participation of MPs as per the Rules of Business of both the Houses and other technical issues. The officials also briefed that virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Committees could not be convened as any change in the rules concerning such meetings required a motion to be carried in both the Houses of Parliament. There was another proposal earlier that the sittings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on alternate days during the upcoming Monsoon Session but a section of MPs felt that it was not feasible as the MPs could be held up in the capital without much work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-social-distancing-norms-may-delay-parliaments-monsoon-session-847609.html
09-06-2020||National||4G in J&K: Plea filed in SC for contempt action on failure to comply with court order||A plea has been filed in Supreme Court seeking contempt action against top officers for "willful failure" to comply with the order for setting up a special committee “immediately" to determine the necessity of continued restriction of mobile internet speeds in Jammu and Kashmir to 2G only.  The petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals sought action against Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs and Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir also for violating the judgement on May 11, 2020. The contempt petition has been drafted with assistance by advocates Vrinda Bhandari and Apar Gupta and Devdutta Mukhopadhaya of the Internet Freedom Foundation.  They pointed out the special committee, separate from the review committee, prescribed under the Telecom Suspension Rules, had to consider the alternatives and determine whether 3G or 4G internet could be provided to certain regions in Jammu and Kashmir on a trial basis. "Despite the directions of the court, no such committee seems to have been constituted, and no order has been published by them, reviewing the orders on continued 2G restrictions," the plea said.  The FMP claimed that it had sent two representations but it did not receive any response or acknowledgement. The petitioner also filed a separate application for bringing on record subsequent orders issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration under the Temporary Telecom Suspension Rules 2017 after the Supreme Court delivered its judgement on 11 May 2020.  "Even after the Supreme Court's clarification that restrictions on internet access must be temporally and territorially limited to what is absolutely necessary, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has directed internet service providers to slow down mobile internet speed to 2G in all districts without providing any specific reasons," it said.  The petitioner also questioned the government's assertion that internet speed restrictions have not hindered Covid-19 control measures and access to online resources. Besides, it said, "Restoration of 4G internet services is a broad based demand which has been endorsed by Ram Madhav, National General Secretary of BJP as well, and a statement by Amit Shah, Minister of Home Affairs about Jammu and Kashmir experiencing lowest incidents of terrorism since 1990 after the abrogation of Article 370." The petitioner sought a direction to notify the special committee within three working days and for the Special Committee to determine the issue in three working days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4g-in-jk-plea-filed-in-sc-for-contempt-action-on-failure-to-comply-with-court-order-847618.html
09-06-2020||National||56 more test positive, Punjab's COVID-19 tally crosses 2,700||Fifty-six more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Punjab, pushing the virus count to 2,719 in the state, officials said on Tuesday. Among fresh cases, 20 were reported in Amritsar, which is leading the coronavirus tally in the state. Fifteen new cases reported in Ludhiana; five each in Mohali, Sangrur and Jalandhar; three in Pathankot; and one each in Patiala, Tarn Taran and Rupnagar, according to a state government's medical bulletin. Four among the fresh cases are foreign returnees and two interstate travellers, the bulletin said. The state has witnessed over 300 COVID-19 cases in the last six days. On the brighter side, 39 coronavirus patients were discharged from various hospitals, taking the number of total cured people to 2,167 in the state, it said. There are 497 active cases in Punjab. Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 502 coronavirus cases, followed by Jalandhar (311), Ludhiana (266), Tarn Taran (160), Gurdaspur (152), Patiala (139), Hoshiarpur (135), Mohali (133), Sangrur (116), SBS Nagar (109), Pathankot (94), Faridkot (73). Seventy-one cases each were reported in Rupnagar and Muktsar, 70 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 67 in Moga, 55 in Bathinda, 48 in Fazilka, 46 in Ferozepur, 40 in Kapurthala, 34 in Mansa and 27 in Barnala, according to the bulletin. Five patients are critical and are on ventilator support, the bulletin said, adding Punjab has seen 55 coronavirus deaths so far. A total of 1,36,343 samples have been taken so far for coronavirus testing, it said. PTI CHS VSD CK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/56-more-test-positive-punjabs-covid-19-tally-crosses-2700-847623.html
09-06-2020||National||470 new COVID-19 cases take Gujarat tally to 21,044; 33 die||Gujarat reported 470 new coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 21,044 on Tuesday, while the death toll rose to 1,313, the state health department said. With 33 more COVID-19 patients dying, the toll in the state rose to 1,313, it said. The state also reported recovery of 409 more patients, taking the number of discharged people to 14,373, the department said. Gujarat now has 5,358 active cases, out of which 64 patients are on ventilator, the department said. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 21,044, new cases 470, deaths 1,313, discharged 14,373, active cases 5,358, people tested so far 2,61,587.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/470-new-covid-19-cases-take-gujarat-tally-to-21044-33-die-847626.html
09-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 8.5 lakh Madhya Pradesh students take board exam||Nearly 8.5 lakh students appeared in the Madhya Pradesh Higher Secondary Board’s class 12 examination in 4,000 centres across the state wearing masks and observing social distancing as the precaution for the COVID-19. The board examinations for class 10 and 12 were to end in March but due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown the dates for remaining examination papers were extended. For the remaining papers of class 10, the state government announced a general promotion. The school education department and administration were jittery as such a large number of students came out to examination centres after 79 days of lockdown. No student, however, was barred from taking the examination as all cleared thermal screening at the centres. The health department had posted a doctor at each examination centre. Students were allowed to carry sanitizers, gloves, water bottle along with a pen and pencil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-85-lakh-madhya-pradesh-students-take-board-exam-847627.html
09-06-2020||National||COVID-19: NDRF to provide PPE kits, HCQ, immunity-booster to personnel during disaster rescue ops||The National Disaster Response Force has decided to provide a set of five PPEs to each of its personnel involved in any rescue operation during the time of COVID-19, officials said Tuesday, a day after 51 jawans on cyclone 'Amphan' duty tested positive for the virus. NDRF Director General (DG) S N Pradhan said the force has got stocks of regular and 'modified' personal protective equipment gear to protect its rescuers from coronavirus and natural vagaries during floods and other disaster scenarios. A total of 51 NDRF personnel who worked during the recent cyclone 'Amphan' in West Bengal have tested positive till now, officials said. They were tested in Cuttack after they came back to their 3rd battalion base in Mundali sometime back. Almost all the personnel who have been found infected are asymptomatic. More tests are being done, officials added. The NDRF had deployed 19 teams, with about 45 personnel each, in West Bengal in response to the cyclone Amphan that made landfall on May 20. The federal contingency force has a total of 74 active COVID-19 cases, as per the latest data. The force has now formulated new standard operating procedures for disaster rescue and relief operations that include use of various types of PPEs, administration of prophylactic medicines and preparations as recommended by the AYUSH ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research and case-specific usage of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets. "Every personnel will have five PPEs with them for use during operations," DG Pradhan told PTI. "While two of these body gear will be regular ones for operating in the COVID-19 environment, three will be modified or raincoat-like PPEs that will give protection to them from rains and against surfaces that could be contaminated with coronavirus," he said. The NDRF chief said immunity-boosting medicines and homeopathy preparations as mandated by the AYUSH ministry are being given to the personnel of the force. "In certain cases, as per medical advice, the troops may be given HCQ tablets too." "We are ready for the battle even as the COVID-19 pandemic is continuing and with these measures in place we have ticked all our boxes," Pradhan said. He added that every battalion camp will have quarantine and isolation centres so that troops who return from operations are kept at safe distance from those already present on the campus. The force has also tied up with all states for COVID-19 testing of its personnel on task, in their respective jurisdictions. In an another incident, two NDRF personnel deployed for the recent cyclone 'Nisarga' in Maharashtra have been injured and are recovering. While one cut his toe when he was working on an electric saw, the other suffered a mild fracture. "The doctors have done a great job and stitched the toe of our jawan. He is doing well." "I am thankful to the Maharashtra government and the state police for creating a 'green corridor' to quickly transport this injured jawan to the hospital for treatment," Pradhan said. He added the other personnel who suffered a limb fracture is stable now.   The 2006 raised force has 12 battalions spread across the country for quick response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ndrf-to-provide-ppe-kits-hcq-immunity-booster-to-personnel-during-disaster-rescue-ops-847630.html
09-06-2020||National||Govt rescued nearly 89,000 women from various situations during lockdown: Smriti Irani||The government has rescued nearly 89,000 women across the country from various situations during the lockdown, and ensured that helpline numbers, as well as crisis centres, are functional throughout the pandemic, Union Minister Smriti Irani said on Tuesday. Her comments came in the backdrop of some reports citing that the lockdown led to an increase in domestic violence against women in India. The Minister for Women and Child Development observed that Indians do not embrace a "Chalta Hai" (complacent) attitude anymore. "I think that our country is extremely vociferous in its outrage when it comes to violence against women, and I am very proud of the fact that irrespective of our political ideologies our nation's citizens stand as one when it comes to such issues," Irani said. She also said emergency response numbers, including helplines through various state police departments, have been functional throughout the pandemic. "We rescued close to 89,000 women during lockdown from various situations in various states across the country. The government has provided a platform where real-time data is entered through all women helplines through all one-stop crisis centres," Irani said. The minister was addressing a virtual interaction organised by the Ficci Ladies Organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-rescued-nearly-89000-women-from-various-situations-during-lockdown-smriti-irani-847637.html
09-06-2020||National||Three men arrested for robbing pilot at gunpoint on IIT flyover in southwest Delhi||Three men have been arrested days after a 30-year-old pilot of a private airlines was allegedly assaulted and robbed at gunpoint on IIT flyover in southwest Delhi, police on Tuesday. The accused -- Rahul (24), P Silva (22) and Aasish (24), all residents of Madangir in south Delhi -- were identified with the help of CCTV footage and technical surveillance, they said. Rahul was recently released on parole for 45 days, they said. With the arrest of the three, the police claimed to have solved six cases. The trio earlier used to commit crimes using the 'Thak Thak' modus operandi in which they used to divert attention of the victims by making some excuse and then commit robbery. However, since the traffic on roads significantly decreased after the lockdown was imposed, they took to armed robberies to meet their needs, police said. On the intervening night of June 2 and 3, the pilot was on his way to Indira Gandhi International Airport in his office cab from Faridabad when the three men on two-wheelers intercepted the vehicle on IIT flyover and took his wallet which contained Rs 10,000 and other essential documents. They looted the pilot at gunpoint and when he resisted, they attacked him with a knife, police said. An Emergency Response Vehicle (EVR) of the police which was patrolling the area managed to chase two of the assailants till Mehrauli but they managed to escape.  Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Devender Arya said during investigation it was found that the crime was committed by criminals residing in Madangir area who were part of "Thak Thak" gang. One of them -- Rahul -- was arrested after the police conducted raids, he said. Rahul then disclosed the names of his associates who were also later arrested, he added. "During interrogation, Rahul disclosed that he formed his own 'Thak-Thak' gang and started committing theft by breaking windows of cars parked outside shopping malls and other isolated stretches. "On the day when they robbed the pilot, they gathered in Madangir and  hatched a plan to rob someone. While they were roaming on the street and looking for a potential target, they saw the victim and robbed him at gunpoint," the DCP said. They also broke the window of the car using baseball bats. After their arrest, they also admitted to their involvement in several other robberies, he said. Two scooter used in the crime, a country-made pistol with one live round, two knives and the robbed Aadhaar card of the pilot was recovered, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-men-arrested-for-robbing-pilot-at-gunpoint-on-iit-flyover-in-southwest-delhi-847648.html
09-06-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: One more Indore doctor dies of coronavirus||One more senior doctor in Indore succumbed to COVID-19 on Tuesday. Dr Ajay Joshi, HoD of surgery department in Index medical college was admitted in Choith Ram hospital on May 24 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He is the fourth doctor in Indore to have lost the battle to the pandemic while treating patients. Under Dr Joshi’s leadership, his team of medical staff had cured 700 patients of coronavirus, according to the Index medical college Covid-19 coordinator Dr Deepti.      Earlier, three doctors— Dr Shatrughan Panjawani, Dr Om Prakash Chouhan and Dr BK Sharma— had died of the pandemic in Indore. Indore is one of the worst-hit cities in India having 3830 cases. Of these 2566 patients have recovered but 159 have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-one-more-indore-doctor-dies-of-coronavirus-847649.html
09-06-2020||National||Arvind Kejriwal tests negative for COVID-19, Scindia tests positive||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday tested negative for COVID-19 while Congress-turned-BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia tested positive for the virus infection. Kejriwal's samples were collected on Tuesday morning after he went into self isolation from Sunday afternoon following mild fever and sore throat, which are considered as COVID-19 symptoms. The Chief Minister, who is diabetic, had cancelled all his appointments since Sunday, after attending a Cabinet meeting and a digital address during which he announced that Delhi hospitals will be reserved only for the residents of the national capital. Kejriwal has been holding most of his meetings via video conferencing for the past two months. Scindia was admitted to Max Hospital in south Delhi's Saket a couple days ago and his COVID-19 test results have returned positive. His mother is also admitted to the hospital but her results are awaited. Scindia, who had quit Congress in March, developed COVID-19 symptoms and was brought to the hospital on Monday. Union Disinvestment Secretary Tuhin Kant Pandey has also tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-tests-negative-for-covid-19-scindia-tests-positive-847652.html
09-06-2020||National||Rahul's remarks on Sino-India border issue against national interest: Former army officers||A group of retired officers of the armed forces on Tuesday deplored Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's statements on India-China border issue, terming them as ill-conceived and against national interest. They said the Congress leader's tweets and statements on border dispute with China "betray his lack of knowledge or are a convenient attempt to ignore historical blunders of Jawaharlal Nehru era". "We, as a group of senior armed forces veterans, strongly deplore the ill-conceived and ill-timed statements and tweets of Rahul Gandhi questioning the handling of India-China border disputes by our armed forces and the Government of India," the group of nine retired army officers, including Lt Gen Nitin Kohli, Lt Gen R N Singh and Maj Gen M Srivastava, said in a statement. His statements are "patently harmful to our national interest. In the past too, Rahul Gandhi and Congress leaders questioned the Indian armed forces' ground and air strikes", they said. "Does Rahul Gandhi not know that Tibet was handed over to China on a platter by Mr Nehru and China constructed roads through Aksai Chin and later occupied it when Nehru was the prime minister," retired army officers asked. They blamed the Congress for the lack of infrastructure in border areas and said the party that ruled India for the longest period, is "squarely responsible for neglecting the border infrastructure development". Underlining that opposition parties need to be sensitive and supportive in such important matters of national security and sovereignty, the group said they should support the government in its endeavour to resolve the border issue with China. Any attempts to the contrary are unforgivable and prejudicial to national interest. The veterans were all praise for the present government saying that it is committed to developing the required infrastructure in border areas, which had not been done after the 1962 war to enhance India's combat effectiveness. "Indian government is also dealing very deftly diplomatically and supporting armed forces in resolutely protecting our borders," the statement said. The Congress leader had on Monday taken a dig at Union Home Minister Amit Shah for his remarks that India is strong in protecting its borders, and said the truth seems dormant as "everyone knows" the reality of the situation at the country's borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahuls-remarks-on-sino-india-border-issue-against-national-interest-former-army-officers-847655.html
09-06-2020||National||HC issues notices to Gujarat govt, ICMR over COVID-19 testing||The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the state government and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on a plea challenging a health department circular regarding revised COVID-19 testing policy. The pea, moved by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Gujarat unit, has challenged the government's circular on COVID-19 testing policy in the state. The IMA petition has also sought the court's direction to allow asymptomatic health workers to get tested for coronavirus without prior approval of authorities as required under the circular issued by the health department on June 2. A division bench issued notices returnable on June 19 and tagged the petition with a PIL being heard along with suo motu pleas on various issues related to coronavirus, while granting the IMA freedom to approach the Chief Justice for early hearing in its matter. The division bench consisted of Justices Sonia Gokani and N V Anjaria. In its plea, the Gujarat chapter of the IMA has sought the court's direction to set aside the circular that requires prior approval for conducting RT-PCR test for asymptomatic frontline healthcare workers. As per the revised circular on testing policy, tests for certain categories of patients, including symptomatic healthcare workers and patients, can be conducted on the basis of prescription of a private doctor without prior permission of health officers. The IMA plea seeks the HC's direction to the government to test "asymptomatic frontline health workers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, pharmacists. "And also other supportive staff of medical colleges/ hospitals/clinics working in hospitals, containment as well as micro containment zones without seeking any prior or any other kind of approval/permission of the CDHO (Chief District Health Officer) or DHO from GMERS, Sola Civil Hospital," as required under the revised rules. The plea seeks the court's direction to allow private doctors to test asymptomatic frontline for COVID-19 without any prescription and approval from any authority. As per the circular, symptomatic patients and symptomatic healthcare workers can be tested on the recommendation of doctors. If a patient shows symptoms of coronavirus, he/she should be admitted to hospital and discharged only if test result comes negative, according to the circular. The government had relaxed COVID-19 testing norms at the direction of the High Court, whose ruling was based on the recommendation of a three-member committee formed by the government. Earlier, for coronavirus test of any patient, private hospitals and doctors required permission of Medical Superintendent of Sola Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad or respective CDHOs or MOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-issues-notices-to-gujarat-govt-icmr-over-covid-19-testing-847663.html
09-06-2020||National||Javed Akhtar is 2020 Richard Dawkins Award winner, confirms British evolutionary biologist||Clearing the air around the 2020 Richard Dawkins Award, the British evolutionary biologist on Tuesday confirmed that lyricist-writer Javed Akhtar was the recipient this year for his "courageous public stands on behalf of atheism, rationality and freethought". "Javed Akhtar @Javedakhtarjadu is the 2020 Richard Dawkins Award winner and I could not be more pleased. The Center for Inquiry, on whose board I sit, has designated him this year's recipient for his courageous public stands on behalf of atheism, rationality, and freethought," the author, on whose name the award is designated, tweeted.   The announcement came on the same day Akhtar's wife, veteran actor Shabana Azmi, dismissed a claim by an anonymous Twitter user that her writer-husband was only nominated but didn't win the award.   The Twitter user uploaded a screenshot of an apparent Whatsapp chat claiming that Akhtar's name was merely "proposed" for the award which he mistook as an announcement.    Quoting that tweet, Azmi said the 75-year-old writer had received an email from Dawkins himself, announcing the honour.  "This is patently untrue! We have an email from Richard Dawkins on 5th June offering the award and also from Robyn Blumner who heads the Centre for Inquiry, USA. I feel sad for these pathetic trolls who do not care that they will stand exposed in seconds for such a preposterous claim," the actor said.  After Dawkins confirmed that Akhtar will be the recipient of award for the year 2020, Azmi tweeted, "From Richard Dawkins. Now where will the Dirty Tricks Department of the Right Wing hide their faces?" Akhtar also tweeted, saying, "Please check Mr Richard Dawkins latest tweet. Thank you."   Every year, the award recognises a distinguished individual from the field of science, scholarship, education, or entertainment, who publicly proclaims the values of secularism and rationalism and upholding scientific truth.  British actor-comedian Ricky Gervais received the honour last year.   Akhtar had told PTI on Sunday that he was "deeply honoured" to be receive the award.   "I have been a great admirer of Richard Dawkins ever since I read his first book 'The Selfish Gene'. I received an email from him informing me that I had been unanimously selected for the award by the board of Center for Inquiry USA, in which The Richard Dawkins Foundation is housed," Akhtar said.   Azmi earlier told PTI that the award's relevance becomes more prominent, especially in the current times when secularism is under attack.    "I am thrilled. I know what a hero Richard Dawkins has been for Javed. The award gains all the more significance because in today's time when secularism is being attacked by religious fundamentalists of all hues, this award comes as a validation of Javed's long service to rational thinking," Azmi had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javed-akhtar-is-2020-richard-dawkins-award-winner-confirms-british-evolutionary-biologist-847667.html
09-06-2020||National||Discrimination due to faith is part of racism too: Irfan Pathan||Former India pacer Irfan Pathan on Tuesday contributed to the global debate around racism, saying "it is not just restricted to the skin colour" and one could also be racially abused due to his religion. The killing of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis last month triggered mass protests around the country and reignited the racism debate world over. "Racism is not restricted to the colour of the skin.Not allowing to buy a home in a society just because u have a different faith is a part of racism too," Pathan wrote on Twitter. When asked if he wrote out of his personal experience or it was something he observed, Pathan told PTI: "It is an observation and I don't think anyone can deny this." Pathan, who retired from all forms of the game earlier this year, played 29 Tests, 120 ODIs and 24 T20s. In the wake of Floyd's death, international cricketers too have come out and spoken on the issue of racism in the game. The cricketers include West Indians Chris Gayle and Darren Sammy, who has alleged that he was racially abused by some of his Sunrisers Hyderabad teammates during the 2014 IPL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discrimination-due-to-faith-is-part-of-racism-too-irfan-pathan-847670.html
09-06-2020||National||NHRC may consider framing guidelines to protect bonded labourers during COVID-19 pandemic: SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday said the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) may consider framing guidelines for protection and rehabilitation of bonded labourers, especially during the prevailing situation of COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Krishna Murari was hearing through video-conferencing a plea which has alleged that authorities concerned in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have failed to take prompt action to help 187 victims of bonded labour who are working in brick kilns in these states. The bench, which disposed of the plea, observed that NHRC had already passed directions on the issue and asked the petitioner to approach the commission for further directions. "The NHRC may consider issuing guidelines for protection and rehabilitation of bonded labourers," the bench observed. The apex court had on June 3 issued notices to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar seeking their responses on the plea, filed by social worker Zahid Hussain, seeking urgent release and rehabilitation of victims of bonded labour, including pregnant women and children, who are being allegedly held at three different brick kilns in these states. The plea, filed through advocate Srishti Agnihotri, had said that on May 11 this year, the NHRC had taken cognisance on the complaints filed on this issue and directed the district administration of Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh and Rohtas in Bihar to depute team of officers for conducting spot inquiry and file an action taken report (ATR) within 15 days. During the hearing on Tuesday, the advocates appearing for both the states apprised the bench about the action taken by them in the matter. Advocate Gopal Singh, appearing for Bihar government, told the bench that authority has taken steps in the matter. Singh told the bench that Bihar is dealing with the issue of migrant workers, who are returning to the state, and the authority has taken appropriate steps in the matter as per the available resources. The top court had earlier asked the district magistrates of Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh and Rohtas in Bihar to submit a report regarding action taken by them in "liberating 187 bonded labour victims working in brick kilns whose details are given in the order passed by the National Human Rights Commission". The plea had also sought a direction to the authorities to frame "specific guidelines to release, protect, rehabilitate and repatriate bonded labourers during the COVID-19 pandemic taking into account measures to ensure access to shelter, food supplies, compensation and healthcare" during the pandemic. It had alleged that despite NHRC's direction, the administration has not taken appropriate steps as a result of which these bonded labours are working in "perilous and inhuman working conditions".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-may-consider-framing-guidelines-to-protect-bonded-labourers-during-covid-19-pandemic-sc-847676.html
09-06-2020||National||No printing of tickets; ticket checking by RPF; outsource cleaning: Proposals on streamlining Indian Railways||The railways may not print tickets, station masters could double up as signal maintainers, RPF staff and onboard technicians could check tickets-if a slew of proposals from zonal railways to streamline the national transporter is accepted by the Railway Board. The railways is planning to streamline its operations by training and multi-skilling its staffers to take on multiple jobs, officials said. The national transporter is already working on the modalities to unify eight of its services into one central service -- Indian Railway Management Service -- after the Union Cabinet nod for the restructuring of railways in 2019. While the proposals from various zones are still coming in and no decision has been taken on the matter yet, officials said the process once completed will lead to better work management across the rail network. The proposals pertain to the merger of key posts in the accounts, commercial, electrical, mechanical, engineering, medical, personnel, operating, stores, signal and telecommunication departments and other posts. “No ticket printing should be undertaken on the lines of airlines. Passengers should be permitted to show their tickets on mobiles or get them printed on a self-ticket printing machine on the lines of self-printing boarding pass at airports,” one of the proposals said. Another railway zone proposed that technicians onboard trains can be utilised to check tickets, while another suggested that Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff should be allowed to check tickets at stations. “Technicians be utilised for checking tickets and maintenance of coaches... retiring room attendants and waiting room attendants can be merged,” it said. According to the proposals, all ticket checking, reservation and enquiry posts from the commercial department be merged. The proposals are a part of an exercise by the railways to ensure that the staff utilisation is maximum and each category will get proper training in multi-skilling before they take on their new roles, officials said. Many zones have also suggested that the national transporter outsource certain jobs that are not core railway works like that of safai karmacharis, upkeep of station buildings and platforms which can be maintained by private agencies supervised by the environment and housekeeping department of railways. “The posts of masons, plumbers, carpenters, fitters, valvemen and electricians can be merged,” said three other zones’ recommendations. The railways may also merge the medical cadre categories into four from the seven at present. The national transporter had last month formed an eight-member committee to look into various issues pertaining to re-skilling of its staff, including identifying cadres who can be trained and used for multi-skills, the scope and details of the kind of skills to be imparted to the chosen railway officials, fixation of seniority in the merged cadres, pay grades in the merged cadres and medical classifications. The proposals will be scrutinised by the committee before being finalised and sent to the Railway Board for approval. The committee has a month’s time to complete the entire process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-printing-of-tickets-ticket-checking-by-rpf-outsource-cleaning-proposals-on-streamlining-indian-railways-847695.html
09-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Experts rubbish Centre's denial of community spread in India||A poor understanding of the epidemiology of COVID-19 is probably what prevents the Union government from declaring the community transmission of the coronavirus in big Indian cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai, say veteran virologists tracking the pandemic. While doctors, managing the epidemic in the field and medical researchers studying various facets of the disease, are of the opinion that such transmissions are happening since March, the Centre has so far steadfastly refused to admit that the disease has progressed to stage-3 level. In fact, the topic was a bone of contention at a meeting on Tuesday involving the Delhi government. “Lack of epidemiological understanding may be one reason for the government to remain silent on community transmission,” T Jacob John, one of India’s leading virologists and a retired professor of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told DH. Preliminary reports from an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) sero-surveillance also confirm the trend though the report has not been made public. The survey finds 100-200 times more infections than the reported numbers at some sites in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. This implied that the infection was much more widespread and containment strategies had not worked well. In some of the areas with high exposure, 15-30% of the population has been exposed to the infection, which is high in big cities but very low in rural areas. The survey was carried out in 60 districts and 10 hardest-hit cities. Asked why the government was silent on community transmission, John argued that the officials probably have a mindset that they knew “all sources of infection”, which was an “obviously untenable claim”. “This may have made them deny community transmission defined as ‘unknown person(s) transmitting infection’. Such claim also shows lack of deep understanding of the dynamics of introduced epidemics.” Medical scientists also observed that one of the reasons for the government’s denial could be a line of thinking that the acceptance of community transmissions is tantamount to acceptance of the government’s failure to stem the outbreak. “The government should not feel embarrassed about it. It is fully expected. This is how an epidemic grows. It cannot be considered as a failure on the part of the government because of the nature of the disease. They (officials) are worried that this may be called as their failure, but nobody in the world can do anything about it,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former principal, CMC Vellore, and chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai — one of the ICMR institutes. Two ICMR studies published in the last two months gave a clear indication of the COVID-19 outbreak moving from the local transmission stage to community transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-experts-rubbish-centres-denial-of-community-spread-in-india-847696.html
09-06-2020||National||AirAsia India ferries home 180 Assam migrants from Mumbai in chartered flight supported by Sonu Sood||As many as 180 migrant workers were ferried back home to Silchar in Assam from Mumbai on Tuesday in a chartered flight operated by AirAsia India with support from actor Sonu Sood, the low-cost carrier said. Anup Manjeshwar, Sales and Distribution head, AirAsia India said it was a pleasure working with Sood on this initiative, which had inspired many others to support these efforts. "This is our 12th flight under the 'Umeed Ki Udaan' banner, flying 180 migrant guests from Mumbai to Silchar, Assam," he added. 'Umeed ki Udaan' was started by AirAsia India to assist migrant workers reach their homes during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. After a gap of two months, India resumed its scheduled domestic passenger flights on May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended. So far, over 2.66 lakh people have been infected and nearly 7,500 people have died due to the novel coronavirus in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airasia-india-ferries-home-180-assam-migrants-from-mumbai-in-chartered-flight-supported-by-sonu-sood-847702.html
09-06-2020||National||Supreme Court Justice R F Nariman's mother Bapsi F Nariman passes away||Bapsi F Nariman, wife of noted jurist Fali S Nariman and mother of Supreme Court judge, Justice R F Nariman passed away here on Tuesday. She was 89. According to a notification, she died at her residence here. The funeral will take place at 11 am on Wednesday to be attended by family members only, in view of government regulation fixing the limit of 20 members, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-justice-r-f-narimans-mother-bapsi-f-nariman-passes-away-847708.html
09-06-2020||National||India issues demarche to Pakistan High Commission over alleged targeting of minorities||India on Tuesday issued a "strong" demarche to the Pakistani High Commission here over the "systematic" and "targeted" demolition of houses belonging to the minority Hindu community in Punjab province of the neighbouring country, official sources said. In the demarche, India also mentioned about concerns expressed by the civil society over the "targeted" persecution of religious and ethnic minorities in Pakistan, they said. "India issued a strong demarche to the Pakistani High Commission on the systematic and targeted demolition of houses belonging to minority Hindu community in Chak 52/DB, Yazman, Punjab in Pakistan," said a source. In the diplomatic protest note, India referred to the strong condemnation by India's civil society of the alleged targeting of the minority Hindu community in the province despite the occupants producing valid documents of ownership and legal relief granted against the demolition of their houses. The sources said India has requested the Pakistani High Commission to inform relevant authorities in Pakistan for "urgent remedial action". India hoped that the Pakistan government in the discharge of its responsibilities will look after the safety security, rights and freedom of its citizens belonging to minority communities, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-issues-demarche-to-pakistan-high-commission-over-alleged-targeting-of-minorities-847714.html
09-06-2020||National||Over five million RT-PCR tests for COVID-19 conducted in India till June 9||The number of RT-PCR tests for detection of COVID-19 in India crossed the five million mark on Tuesday, officials from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. The number of coronavirus cases shot up to 2,66,598 in the country. A total of 50,30,700 samples have been tested till June 9 in the country with 1,41,682 samples being tested in the last 24 hours till 9 AM, according to ICMR officials. The testing capacity has been increased to 1.4 lakh per day through 553 government and 231 private laboratories. The capacity is being further raised to 2 lakh samples per day, sources said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 7,466 and the number of cases climbed to 2,66,598 in the country after it registered 266 fatalities and a record single-day spike of 9,987 cases till Tuesday 8 AM, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-five-million-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19-conducted-in-india-till-june-9-847727.html
09-06-2020||National Politics||Opposing CAA will turn you into political refugee, Amit Shah tells Mamata Banerjee||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that her opposition against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) will turn West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee into a political refugee. “I want to tell Mamata ji that today you are opposing CAA. But when the ballot boxes will open, then the people of Bengal will make you a political refugee. Opposing CAA will cost you dearly,” said Shah. He was addressing a virtual rally for Bengal from Delhi. Shah also said that Banerjee should clarify the reasons behind her opposition against the CAA. “I want to ask Mamata ji that what harm did the Matua community cause her. What harm did the Bengali brothers who came from Bangladesh cause to you? Why are opposing citizenship being granted to them?” The home minister lashed out at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo for not implementing Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme in Bengal fearing that it will lead to increased popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the state. He said that the people of Bengal should be rest assured that once the Assembly elections are over, a BJP chief minister will take oath in Bengal and within a minute Ayushman Bharat will be implemented in the state. “I want to ask Mamata didi, do the poor in Bengal not have the right to get their parents ad children proper treatment? There are plenty of battlegrounds for your politics Mamata ji. Just draw the lines and let's have a face-off. But why are you snatching the rights of the poor?” Shah asked. He also accused Banerjee of insulting migrant workers by calling Shramik special trains 'Corona Express' and said that it will become the express to rate Trinamool Congress out of Bengal. Referring to an earlier remark of Mamata Banerjee when she said that Centre can handle the COVID-19 situation in Bengal if they think the state government was unable to do so, Shah said that the people of the state will soon fulfill her 'wish' by voting BJP to power in the state. The home minister accused TMC of unleashing violence on BJP workers and said the more they resort to violence more will BJP bloom in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposing-caa-will-turn-you-into-political-refugee-amit-shah-tells-mamata-banerjee-847440.html
09-06-2020||National Politics||Shah attacks Mamata over culture of political violence in Bengal||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday attacked West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the alleged culture of political violence in the state. He said though the BJP wants to expand its influence in the TMC-ruled state, its goal is to rid West Bengal of the "environment of terror". "Bengal is the only state in the entire country where the culture of political violence is flourishing," he told the BJP's virtual 'Jan Samvad' rally. He said despite the BJP winning a staggering 303 seats in the Lok Sabha elections, he held the 18 it won in the state dear. The senior BJP leader assailed the West Bengal government for not joining the Ayushman Bharat health scheme for the poor. Castigating Banerjee over her stand on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, Shah said the people of Bengal will reduce her to a "political refugee" because it. The Union Home Minister lauded the Narendra Modi government for its bold steps in the aftermath of the Uri and Pulwama attacks. "Nobody uttered a word when terrorists intruded and beheaded our soldiers with impunity when the UPA was in power. Our surgical and air strikes sent out a strong message that we have zero tolerance to terrorism," he said. He accused the Trinamool Congress government of patronising corruption. "There is corruption everywhere. It continued unabated even when the people of Bengal were reeling under the impact of cyclone Amphan," he alleged. Shah said Mamata Banerjee "insulted" migrants by calling 'Shramik Special' trains carrying them to Bengal during the lockdown "Corona Express". "These migrants will now ensure your exit from power," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shah-attacks-mamata-over-culture-of-political-violence-in-bengal-847442.html
09-06-2020||National Politics||Killing of sarpanch in J&K attempt to disrupt grassroots political structure: Karan Singh||Senior Congress leader Karan Singh on Tuesday termed the killing of a Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch by militants in Jammu and Kashmir as a "despicable act" and said targeting him was part of the continuing attempt to disrupt grassroots political structure. Singh, the former Sadr-e-Riyasat of Jammu and Kashmir, said regardless of party or religious factors, this act needs to be severely condemned. "That Pandita belonged to the minority community makes his killing even more painful. My deep condolences and sympathy to the bereaved family," the former governor of J&K said. Ajay Pandita, a Kashmiri pandit sarpanch of the Larkipora area in Anantnag district and a member of the Congress, was shot dead by militants in his native village on Monday. "The gunning down of Ajay Pandita in his orchard was a despicable act. He was part of the grassroots political structure as a Sarpanch, and his targeting was part of the continuing attempt to disrupt this," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/killing-of-sarpanch-in-jk-attempt-to-disrupt-grassroots-political-structure-karan-singh-847507.html
09-06-2020||National Politics||Smriti Irani to address virtual rally in Delhi highlighting one-year achievement of Modi govt||Union minister Smriti Irani will address BJP's first virtual rally in the national capital on June 13, highlighting the achievements of the Modi government in the last one year, party's Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta said on Tuesday. The 'Delhi Jan Samvad' rally will be addressed virtually by Irani from the Delhi BJP office. This rally will reach out to around 25 lakh people through social media and cable operators, he said. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, senior party leaders, including MPs, MLAs, Delhi BJP office bearers, councilors and others will attend the rally along with 20-50 people at 2,000 places across the city, maintaining social distance, he said. Delhi BJP will launch its campaign to take Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message and his government's achievements in last one year to around 15 lakh households in Delhi on Wednesday, the Delhi BJP president said at a press conference. "Two workers each from a booth wearing face masks will visit households carrying prime minister's letter to the citizens and highlight Modi government's achievement's in last one year. Eminent citizens, including doctors, advocates among others, will also be contacted through the campaign," he said. In another event, the Delhi BJP will hold two video conferences in each of the 70 assembly constituencies in the coming days to interact with local party leaders and workers, he said. Continuing Delhi BJP's initiatives to help people during the pandemic, frontal organisations will distribute 15 lakh face masks and 7.5 lakh sanitisers among people in the city, in next few days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/smriti-irani-to-address-virtual-rally-in-delhi-highlighting-one-year-achievement-of-modi-govt-847511.html
09-06-2020||National Politics||More jokers in circus called Central govt: Congress to Rajnath Singh||Ruling NCP and Congress in Maharashtra on Tuesday hit back at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh who had slammed the Shiv Sena-led dispensation over its handling of the COVID-19 situation by calling it a circus. Senior NCP leader and Minorities Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had praised the "Mumbai model" amidst the COVID-19 crisis. Mumbai Congress leader Charan Singh Sapra said people are seeing the circus called the Central government which has been insensitive towrds them. "In this circus, the number of jokers is more," he said. "It is laughable that the government which runs on a ringmaster's hunter is calling a democratically-run government (in Maharashtra) as a circus...It seems Rajnath Singh is sharing his experience (as a minister in the Modi government)," Malik said while referring to the remarks made by Singh on Monday during a virtual rally of BJP workers from Maharashtra. Sapra wondered if "virtual election rallies" of the BJP amidst the COVID-19 crisis can be called a circus. "At a time when the number of COVID-19 cases have crossed more than one lakh (actual count more than 2.6 lakh as on June 9) in the country, the ruling party is celebrating by organising election rallies. Isn't it a circus? The state government is giving a tough fight to the coronavirus," he said. The entire country is seeing the circus of the insensitive Central government, and in that circus, the number of jokers is more, Sapra alleged. At 88,528 COVID-19 cases and 3,169 deaths as on June 8, Maharashtra continues to report the maximum number of infections in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/more-jokers-in-circus-called-central-govt-congress-to-rajnath-singh-847531.html
09-06-2020||National Politics||Is BJP trying to recreate 'Chowkidar' moment?||The BJP is trying to recreate a ‘Chowkidar’ moment to puncture the Opposition campaign against the government on COVID-19 with Union Home Minister Amit Shah addressing virtual rallies in states with high migrant populations. Shah addressed 'Bangla Jansamvad' rally in Kolkata on Tuesday to revive the attack on the Mamata Banerjee government on the issue of migrants, taking forward a well-crafted strategy of the party to take the sting out of the Opposition campaign of 'messy migrant management' during the COVID-19 against the government. For the last few days, Shah has addressed three virtual public rallies in three states with high migrant population, Odisha, Bihar, and West Bengal, the last two going to polls within a year from now. The pattern of Shah’s attack in all three rallies is similar to the BJP's spinning of Rahul Gandhi’s attack on Narendra Modi as an attack on the ‘Chowkidars’, who are low-income and are huge in numbers. The BJP's retaliation involved 'Main Bhi Chowkiar' campaign in public rallies, posters, and twitter hashtags, turning the table on the Opposition. The BJP ultimately ended up winning 2019 Lok Sabha polls with a far bigger margin than it had in 2014. Shah, in another rally, accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Bannerjee of insulting the poor migrant Bengalis who wanted to return home, by calling Shramik Express as 'Corona Express'. Aware of the damage Opposition can cause with its campaign over migrants' issue, Shah sought to turn the table asking why the Congress did not bring development into Eastern India in the last 70 years, forcing lakhs of youths of the region to migrate in search of jobs. On Monday he said that in Odisha, BJP workers' priority is to develop the state. He said: "We have to make this state, a state from where no one has to migrate to other places for livelihood. Only the BJP can do this." As Opposition RJD in Bihar greeted Shah’s rally by clanking thalis, Shah on Sunday hailed Bihar migrants for having built the foundation of the nation and accused the Opposition of misleading them on the issue. The BJP top brass has decided to take on the Opposition once again, linking the fight against COVID-19 with the nation's spirit of unity. It first released a 30-page booklet titled "Who is trying to weaken India's fight against COVID?, slamming Opposition for indulging in politics when the nation was united in the fight against COVID-19. The party then came out with a plan to hold 72 digital rallies and reach 10 crore households with Modi’s letter listing the government’s efforts to fight the pandemic. The party has pressed its various wings into action holding 500 additional rallies to supplement BJP’s counter-campaign on COVID-19. Only time will tell whether Shah's aggressive attack on Opposition coupled with an announcement of a package by PM Modi and his Cabinet work for BJP, this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-bjp-trying-to-recreate-chowkidar-moment-847639.html
09-06-2020||National Politics||No relief for migrant workers, but govt can afford foreign planes for personal travel: CPI(M)||Expressing alarm over reports that India's COVID-19 growth rate is the fastest among the countries worst hit by the pandemic, the CPI(M) on Tuesday said the government did not offer any relief to migrant workers but can afford foreign planes for personal travel. In a series of tweets, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury hit out at the government over reports that two custom-made B777 aircraft, which will be used to fly Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top Indian dignitaries, are likely to be delivered by US firm Boeing to Air India by September. "This is alarming. India's COVID growth rate is the fastest of the worst 5 countries. Testing, testing and more testing followed by isolation, contact tracing & quarantine is the only way to combat this pandemic. We are amongst the lowest testing countries - 3.4 per thousand people. "Even as there is no relief to suffering migrant returnees, workers or farmers, this is what Modi govt sees as best use of the tax-payers' money, ₹8458 Crore, at this point! Videshi planes for personal travel, Atmanirbhar slogans for the rest of India," the Left leader wrote on Twitter, tagging news reports. While the government did not pass on the benefits of price cuts in crude oil to people, it increased taxes "manifold", he alleged. "When the crude prices fell, Modi increased taxes manifold instead of passing the price cuts to Indians hit by the pandemic. Now, he further burdens Indians as they struggle with their lives, profiting from their misery. What a shame!" the CPI(M) leader said. The petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 54 paise per litre and 58 paise per litre respectively on Tuesday, in a third straight daily increase after the oil PSUs ended the 82-day hiatus in rate revision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-relief-for-migrant-workers-but-govt-can-afford-foreign-planes-for-personal-travel-cpim-847711.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Jawaharlal Nehru University advises students to return to their home amid COVID-19 scare||The Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday advised students still remaining on campus to return to their hometowns, days after a pharmacist at its health centre tested positive for the disease. Although the university is taking all precautions as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Delhi government from time to time, there is no safer place other than one's own home, the varsity said. "In the present scenario, the timing of re-opening of the academic institutions is uncertain and may get delayed till August 15. Therefore, given the fact that the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Delhi is increasing rapidly, all students who are stranded in the hostels are, hereby, strongly advised to return to their home at the earliest," a circular by Dean of Students Professor Sudheer Pratap Singh said. The hostel residents who have already left the university campus should not come back until the university is re-opened, it said. Last month also, JNU had asked students stranded in its hostels to return to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawaharlal-nehru-university-advises-students-to-return-to-their-home-amid-covid-19-scare-847351.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Narendra Modi govt made MGNREGA effective: BJP counters Congress claim||The BJP on Monday said MGNREGA had become synonymous with "loot and plunder" under the UPA rule but the Modi government made it effective and suitable for workers, denouncing the Congress claim it was "the most efficacious" government scheme. The BJP reaction came after the Congress demanded the "Congress brainchild" be scaled up and made open-ended to meet the massive increase in demand due to the coronavirus crisis. It also came after Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote an article, highlighting the importance of the employment guarantee scheme and crediting her party for introducing it. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the scheme has proved to be the world's largest social welfare programme and "clearly the most efficacious government scheme". Responding to the claim, the BJP said the Modi government made MGNREGA more effective and ended corruption in it. BJP spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain said in a statement that Rs 3.95 lakh crore has been allocated under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act in six years of the Modi government while 1.75 lakh crore was allocated during the 10 years of Congress-led UPA dispensation. He said for providing relief to migrant workers, the BJP government allocated Rs 40,000 crore under the scheme in addition to the already allocated Rs 61,00 crore in the 2020-21 budget. “Before saying anything about MNRGEA, Sonia Gandhi and Congress leaders should look at the funds allocated under MNREGA it. The employment guarantee scheme had become synonymous with loot and plunder during UPA's tenure,” Hussain said. He said the Congress which has been "sidelined" by the people is making false charges to keep itself relevant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narendra-modi-govt-made-mgnrega-effective-bjp-counters-congress-claim-847355.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Violence will never win in Kashmir: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said violence will never win in Kashmir, as he condoled the death of a sarpanch who was shot dead in Anantnag district this evening. Ajay Pandita, a Kashmiri pandit sarpanch of the Larkipora area in Anantnag district and a member of the Congress party, was shot dead by militants in his native village around 6 pm, the police said. Gandhi said Pandita sacrificed his life for the democratic process in Kashmir. "My condolences to the family and friends of Ajay Pandita, who sacrificed his life for the democratic process in Kashmir. We stand with you in this time of grief. Violence will never win," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/violence-will-never-win-in-kashmir-rahul-gandhi-847358.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh secretariat used to be middlemen's den during Congress rule:CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh secretariat had become a "den" of middlemen where exchange of money used to be discussed when the Congress government was in power, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan alleged here on Monday. He also accused the erstwhile government of cheating farmers in the name of granting them a loan waiver. "The previous government had made the secretariat a den of middlemen where exchange of money used to be discussed," Chouhan told reporters. He said contractors used to stay put in the secretariat, and even ruling MLAs were unable to meet the then chief minister. "I am saying this with a lot of pain that during the previous Congress regime such middlemen used to claim that they can get anything done from government with money power," he alleged. Chouhan said former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and (22) MLAs joined the BJP because they knew that then Kamal Nath government will ruin the state if it remained in power for long. He said the spread of coronavirus in the state and in worst-hit Indore has been controlled. "Recovery rate in Indore has reached 64 per cent while it is about 68 per cent in rest of the state," Chouhan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-secretariat-used-to-be-middlemens-den-during-congress-rulecm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-847361.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Priest, six others booked for reopening temple in red zone||A temple official-cum-priest and six others were booked on Monday by police in Bhopal district for allegedly opening a temple located in a red zone in violation of the lockdown norms, an official said. The main accused Chandrashekhar Tiwari and others opened the Vaishnodham Adarsh temple located in Tinshed area and performed puja despite prohibitory orders issued by district collector, said TT Nagar police station in-charge Sanjiv Kumar Chowksey. A case was registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, he said, adding that no arrest is made so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-priest-six-others-booked-for-reopening-temple-in-red-zone-847362.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Kashmiri Pandits' killing attempt to 'trigger fear psychosis' among minorities: KP orgs||Several Kashmiri Pandit organisations on Monday condemned the killing of Sarpanch Ajay Pandita in Anantnag district, calling it an attempt to "trigger fear psychosis" among the minorities in the Valley. The groups urged the central government to provide security to Kashmiri Pandits (KPs) and other minority community members living in Kashmir. "It is a planned attack by Islamic terrorists to target minority Kashmiri Pandit community in Kashmir valley to trigger fear psychosis among them like they did in 1990s. We condemn the killing of a Kashmir Pandit," All Party Migrant Cooperation Committee (APMCC) Chairman Vinod Pandita said. He said several terrorists outfits have threatened to "blow up" KPs if they return to the proposed colony for Pandits. "This is a clear threat to KPs by terrorists and their overground workers... Nothing has changed for KPs since 1990 in Kashmir," Vinod Pandita said. The All State Kashmiri Pandit Conference demanded that terrorists involved in the killing be neutralised within 24 hours. "It is a deliberate plan to target KPs to create fear among them. We condemn this cowardice act," ASKPC General Secretary Dr T K Bhat said. He said abrogation of Article 370 generated a hope among the minority KPs that they could return to Kashmir, but this killing was a plan to stop their rehabilitation in the valley. Panun Kashmir said it was a continuance of genocide and ethnic cleansing of minority community members in the Valley. All India Kashmiri Pandit Conference also termed it an act of cowardice as 22 terrorists were killed in past 24 hours. All India Kashmiri Samaj (AIKS) demanded security to the minority community members. Sampoorn Kashmir Sanghathan condemned the killing of the sarpanch. SKS President Anoop Koul demanded immediate action against the killers. "Shocking beyond words. May God grant peace to the departed soul. Highly reprehensible act. Community continues to be a soft target. We demand beefing up of security to all our political leaders and elected representatives", Kashmiri Pandit Sabha, Jammu, President K K Khosa said. Youth All India Kashmiri Samaj demanded action against the killers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-pandits-killing-attempt-to-trigger-fear-psychosis-among-minorities-kp-orgs-847372.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests negative for COVID-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tested negative for COVID-19. His samples were collected on Tuesday morning. He was in self isolation since Sunday afternoon after he developed COVID-19 like symptoms and had been in self-isolation since then. Kejriwal, who is diabetic, had cancelled all his appointments since Sunday, after attending a Cabinet meeting and a digital address, during which he announced that Delhi hospitals will be reserved only for the residents of the national capital.  Kejriwal has been holding most of his meetings via video conferencing for the past two months. Meanwhile, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal called an all-party meeting at 3 pm on Tuesday to discuss the present situation of COVID-19 in Delhi and measures to contain its spread.  This would be preceded by a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to assess the situation in the capital and ascertain whether the capital has entered the third stage of community transmission of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-tests-negative-for-covid-19-847409.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Send migrants to native places in 15 days, drop cases against them, Supreme Court tells Centre, states||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre and states to finish the process of taking migrant workers back to their native places within a period of 15 days. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah also asked the states to frame a scheme for their employment near their homes after their registration and skill mapping.  The court also said the Railways must ensure availability of Shramik special trains within 24 hours of demand by the states for the purpose. It also directed that all cases registered against migrants for violating lockdown orders under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, should be considered for withdrawal. The court ordered the states to submit affidavits on schemes, job creation etc.  Faced with criticism of being indifferent to the plight of migrant workers, the court had on May 28 directed the Centre and states to provide free food, travel and shelter facilities for the stranded labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-send-migrants-to-native-places-in-15-days-drop-cases-against-them-supreme-court-tells-centre-states-847420.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Pak army resorts to shelling along LoC in J&K's Poonch||The Pakistan army resorted to heavy shelling along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Tuesday, prompting strong retaliation by the Indian Army, an official said. "At about 0630 am today, the Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector in Poonch district," a defence spokesman said. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he said. Till last reports came in, shelling exchanges were still going on in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-army-resorts-to-shelling-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-847426.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Revenue officer, 2 others rape UP girl in moving car||An 18-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by a revenue officer and two others in a moving car, police said on Tuesday. According to a complaint lodged by the girl, Revenue Officer Sushi Patel and two others reached her house on Saturday and forcibly took her away in their vehicle. The girl alleged that when her mother tried to stop them, they pushed her, SHO Girindra Singh said. Later, the three men allegedly raped the complainant in their car, Singh said. The girl said she managed to flee when the car stopped due to stray cattle on the road. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against the three men under relevant sections of the IPC, the SHO said. "The girl was sent for medical examination and efforts were underway to nab the accused," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/revenue-officer-2-others-rape-up-girl-in-moving-car-847433.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||AIADMK moves SC for 50% reservation for OBCs in medical courses in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu's ruling party AIADMK has moved the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for the OBC in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical seats of the all India quota as per mandate of the state law.  A writ petition, filed by party leader and state law minister C Ve Shanmugham, contended that denying reservation in State-surrendered seats to the all-India quota (other than central educational institutions) was unconstitutional, and violative of the basic feature of the Constitution. This was also ultra vires Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution.  The petitioner maintained that the party has a long history as a vanguard for the rights of oppressed and socially disadvantaged groups.  It pointed out that the AIADMK government, led by J Jayalalithaa, after many struggles, managed to obtain Presidential sanction for the inclusion on the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, which provided for 50% reservation for OBCs (besides 18% for SCs and 1% for STs), into the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution.  However, the petitioner contended that in the past several academic years, OBCs have been grossly underrepresented in the all India quota seats in undergraduate, diploma, PG diploma and postgraduate medical colleges across the country. In 2018-19, only 220 OBC candidates were admitted to postgraduate courses while they had a claim over 2,152 of the 7,982 seats.  Only 66 OBC students were admitted under the all India quota to the undergraduate course. There are 4,061 such MBBS seats, of which 50% (2030) should have been filled with OBC candidates. For the year 2020, out of 9550 seats under all India quota, 8800 seats are surrendered from the colleges run by the state governments. Of these 8800 seats, OBCs are not given any reservation (only zero) and the seats are transferred to the general category, which is unjustified and unconstitutional, it claimed. "The Union government is neither following its own policy of 27% reserved seats for OBCs under the 2006 Act nor the state government mandates regarding OBC reservation in the allocation of seats. This has resulted in OBCs being robbed off of 10,000 seats in the last three years at least and many more during the preceding years," it alleged. The petitioner further stated that there cannot be any justification for excluding reservation for OBCs in state-captured seats in the all India quota and that the consecutive lapses was a fraud on the Constitution. The party sought a direction to the Centre, MCI and DGHS and others to implement 50% OBC reservations in Tamil Nadu in the state-surrendered seats in the all India quota for all undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses for the year 2020-2021. According to the Medical Council of India’s Regulations, 199, 15% of seats in all undergraduate medical colleges and 50% in all postgraduate medical colleges are surrendered to the all India quota.  Earlier, CPI(M) state secretary also filed a petition against denial of reservation in all India quota seats in medical courses in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiadmk-moves-sc-for-50-reservation-for-obcs-in-medical-courses-in-tamil-nadu-847458.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Source of infection not known in nearly half of new COVID-19 cases reported in Delhi: Jain||As coronavirus cases continue to mount in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the source of infection is "not known" in nearly half of the fresh cases being reported. Interacting with reporters, he also said that the Kejriwal government is making all the preparations to handle the huge rush of patients estimated by June end. When asked if Delhi has reached community transmission level as far as coronavirus infection is concerned, he said declaration on this is made by the Centre. "Epidemiologically, community transmission is third stage of the infection... In Delhi, of the new cases being reported, nearly half of the cases, the source of infection is not known," he said.  Later, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told media persons that officials from the Centre have said that there is no community transmission of coronavirus in Delhi. The national capital recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 29,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/source-of-infection-not-known-in-nearly-half-of-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-delhi-jain-847476.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Where's Uttarakhand's permanent capital? Asks Harish Rawat||A day after Gairsain was made the summer capital of Uttarakhand, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat asked Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday to tell where the state's permanent capital is. He popped up the question while congratulating the chief minister on the social media for the notification on Gairsain. "I would congratulate Trivendra Singh ji for notifying Bhararisain:Gairsain: as Uttarakhand's summer capital. All I want to ask him is if Gairsain is its summer capital and Dehradun the temporary capital, where is the state's permanent capital," Rawat said. When Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh, Dehradun was made its temporary capital. Now that Gairsain has been made its summer capital, the question that remains unanswered is where is the state's permanent capital, the Congress leader, a former chief minister of Uttarakhand, said. The notification on Gairsain was issued on Monday after Governor Baby Rani Maurya gave her assent to it. The chief minister had announced that Gairsain will be made the summer capital of the state during the budget session of the Assembly held there in March. The issue of Gairsain being made the capital of Uttarakhand has been alive ever since the state was created on November 9, 2000. The then NDA government at the Centre only let the confusion on the issue persist by making Dehradun the interim capital of the state. Senior Congress leader Dhirendra Pratap termed the summer capital status to Gairsain an eyewash and said his party will continue to fight until it is made the permanent capital of Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) congratulated the people of the state for the notification on Gairsain, saying the chief minister's announcement has now turned into a reality. Chief spokesperson of state BJP Munna Singh Chauhan said by making Gairsain the summer capital of Uttarakhand, the Trivendra Singh Rawat government has proved that there is no difference between what it says and what it does. It will speed up development in the hill areas as people holding important offices will have an opportunity to understand first hand the problems of such areas, Chauhan said in a statement. The move is dedicated to the people who sacrificed their lives for statehood to Uttarakhand, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wheres-uttarakhands-permanent-capital-asks-harish-rawat-847499.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi court grants bail to builder vulnerable to COVID-19||District judge M P Singh granted the relief to 63-year-old Diwakar Sharma, the managing director of Shubhkamna Buildtech, after the jail officials submitted that the accused had multi systematic ailments and he was already on long term intake of steroids “which might have reduced his immunity”. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, in the bail application for the accused, told the court in a hearing held through video conferencing that his client needed specialised treatment, “which has also been accepted by the jail officials. It is not possible to give him specialised health care if he is lodged in Mandoli jail". The court had also sought a report from the jail authorities that submitted that “he is suffering from Sarcoidosis and Diabetes Mellitus with Complaint of difficulty in breathing”. “As per the medical report from the jail, he is vulnerable to Covid-19 because of multi systematic ailments; that he is already on long term intake of steroids which might have reduced his immunity. “It is further stated in the report that it would be better for his health, if he receives specialised health care and takes assistance of the specialist. It is further stated in the report that management of his health in the jail has been put on hold due to pandemic,” the court noted. While granting him bail on medical grounds, the court directed him to furnish a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and one surety of like amount each in both the cases. The court further directed him to appear before the police station in both the cases every Sunday and submit his medical report at the end of 45-day interim bail. The accused was arrested on September 6, 2018 by the Delhi Police's Economic Offences Wing.  The case was lodged on a complaint filed by a society 'Techomes Flat Buyers Welfare Association' on behalf of 49 members of the society, alleging that the buyers had purchased flats in the residential project namely "shubhkamna-advert techomes" being developed by the accused company at a plot in Sector-137 of Noida. The complainants alleged that the company gave assurance of giving physical possession of their flats within 36 months from the start of construction, which started on February 2, 2011. The buyers have paid nearly 90 per cent of the total sale consideration of their respective flats in terms of the payment schedule. But later the builder had stopped the construction all of a sudden, the police said, adding that the builder had started booking of flats before even execution of lease deed and had diverted the funds for his own use.  During the course of investigation it was been found that the accused collected crores of rupees from the buyers. An investigation of the case is in underway, the police added.  He was later arrested by the police in another case of fraud on February 14, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-builder-vulnerable-to-covid-19-847509.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||One policeman killed, two injured after man opens fire at police team in Punjab's Moga||A head constable was killed and two other policemen sustained bullet injuries when a man opened fire at a police team in Punjab's Moga district, officials said on Tuesday. The incident took place at Khosa Pando village in Moga late Monday night. A team of policemen went to Gurwinder's house to question him after a complaint was lodged by his uncle for allegedly burning wheat straw, the officials said. When the police team reached his house, he misbehaved with the policemen and hurled abuses at them, Moga Deputy Superintendent of Police Barjinder Singh. When more police officials were called in to nab him, the accused opened fire with a 12-bore rifle from the roof of his house, the DSP said. Head constable Jagmohan Singh was killed while inspector Tarlochan Singh and constable Ridham Singh sustained bullet injuries in the attack, he said. The team cordoned off the area near his house, following which an exchange of fire took place between Gurwinder and the police personnel. The DSP said Gurwinder fired more than 20 bullets at the police team. He was arrested on Tuesday morning while he was trying to escape, Singh said. In the exchange of fire, Gurwinder had also sustained bullet injuries and he was later admitted to Faridkot hospital. A case of murder was registered against the accused, the DSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-policeman-killed-two-injured-after-man-opens-fire-at-police-team-in-punjabs-moga-847528.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Former Uttar Pradesh MLA 'axes' birthday cake, violates social distancing norms||Although being a history-sheeter facing more than two dozen cases, for the former Uttar Pradesh, MLA Guddu Pandit, who always felt more comfortable with guns and pistol, weilding a knife and that too before scores of his supporters, would have been humiliating even if it was for cutting a birthday cake. Pandit, therefore, used a huge battle axe to cut the cake in front of his cheering supporters on an expressway in Gautam Buddh Nagar district (Noida). The matter came to light after a video showing Pandit purportedly cutting the cake, which was kept on the bonnet of a car, with the axe, went viral on the social networking sites on Tuesday. According to the sources, Pandit was on way to Bulandshahar, about 500 kilometres from here, from Noida, when his car was surrounded by his supporters near Kasna area on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, violating social distancing norms. Pandit said that after getting down from the vehicle, he was told that it was the birthday of one of his supporters, whose friends had also brought a cake with them. The cake was kept on the bonnet of the car and a battle axe was used by Pandit to cut the same. In the video, Pandit could be seen surrounded by his supporters one of whom holding the axe. A case was registered against Pandit by the police for violation of the lockdown guidelines, sources said. Pandit, a two time MLA from Dibai assembly seat in Bulandshahar district, faces around two dozen cases including those of rape, attempt to murder, loot, extortion and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-uttar-pradesh-mla-axes-birthday-cake-violates-social-distancing-norms-847550.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Bus operators on Chardham Yatra route want fares to be doubled||Bus operators on the Chardham Yatra route in Uttarakhand on Tuesday demanded that they should either be permitted to ply buses at full seating capacity or double fares. The Himalayan temples of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri in the state are known as the "chardham". Though a decision is yet to be taken on starting the pilgrimage, the demand comes in the wake of the state government's COVID-19 guidelines which says buses are permitted to ply at half their seating capacity to maintain physical distance between passengers.  Physical distancing is a prevention and a control intervention to decrease contact between people to break the chain of transmission of a disease, in this case the novel coronavirus. The demand was made by the Chardham Yatra Joint Rotation Travel Arrangement Committee at a meeting here, Regional Transport Officer Dinesh Pathoi said.  The committee consists of 13 private transport companies that ply buses on the Yatra route.  Committee president Sudhir Roy said plying buses at half their capacity at the same old fare is not possible. "Either allow us to ply on the route at our full seating capacity or double the fares," he said. The committee also suggested that a full-scale Yatra should not be started before the end of monsoon, Pathoi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bus-operators-on-chardham-yatra-route-want-fares-to-be-doubled-847559.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Judge grants bail after accused sings national anthem in Bihar||A lower court in Bihar granted bail to a juvenile after he tendered an unconditional apology and sang the national anthem, as asked by the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM). The incident took place in Biharsharif where the minor had surrendered before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). The boy was booked after a video, in which he used objectionable language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, went viral. After his surrender, the boy was produced in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Manvendra Mishra. The CJM ordered his counselling, during which it was found that the boy had been misled by some anti-social elements in his locality during the anti-CAA and anti-NRC protest in Biharsharif. “The CJM then asked the boy to sing the national anthem. The judge was quite impressed by his flawless singing. He was eventually granted bail,” said the source, adding that the boy and his family tendered an unconditional apology and argued the juvenile won’t be misled again. The CJM then asked the Investigation Officer (IO) of the case to probe deeper and find out the gang involved in preparing such videos. Last month, the Patna High Court was also in the news when a judge granted bail to three accused in prohibition case after they agreed to deposit money in the PM Cares Fund. A similar condition was laid down by Jharkhand High Court too in the month of April when a former BJP MP was granted bail after he agreed to donate money in the PM Cares Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/judge-grants-bail-after-accused-sings-national-anthem-in-bihar-847566.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Record single-day spike of 18 COVID-19 deaths in UP; 388 new cases detected||Uttar Pradesh reported its highest single-day spike of 18 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll over the 300-mark as 388 new cases of the infection surfaced in the state. With this, the total number confirmed cases in the state reaches 11,335. "The count of active COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 4,365; while as many as 6,669 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from various hospitals. As many as 301 COVID-19 patients have died," Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. This is the highest single-day rise in COVID-19 fatalities in the state, said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, Joint Director/State Surveillance Officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme. Prasad said ASHA workers were engaged in tracking migrant labourers who have returned to Uttar Pradesh from other states. Timely testing of suspected patients can lead to early recovery, he added. He said a toll-free number 1800-180-5146 had been launched for medicines shops to inform the authorities about people having fever, cough and cold so that they could be brought under surveillance. "If any person comes to shop to buy a medicine pertaining to fever, cold and cough, then the pharmacist should provide the details of the said buyer to us, so that we can bring him under surveillance, and testing be conducted. If the person is found to be COVID-19 positive, then treatment can commence," the official said. Voluntary organisations like civil defence and ASHA workers can also use this number, he added. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said despite being the largest state in the country, the spread of COVID-19 was under effective control in Uttar Pradesh. He emphasised that its prevention was the only cure till a vaccine is discovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/record-single-day-spike-of-18-covid-19-deaths-in-up-388-new-cases-detected-847572.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Has China occupied Indian territory in Ladakh? Rahul Gandhi asks Rajnath Singh||A day after his "everyone knows the reality" of border situation jibe, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked Defence Minister Rajnath Singh whether China has occupied Indian territory in Ladakh. "Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh," he asked on Twitter. Singh had on Monday hit out at Gandhi using a couplet, which he claimed was of Mirza Ghalib and that he was presenting it in a different style. Addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers in Maharashtra, Singh said, "Mirza Ghalib ka hi sher thoda alag andaaz mein hai - 'haath' mein dard ho to dawa kijiye, 'haath' hi jab dard ho to kya kijiye.." (Mirza Galib's couplet in a different style - when there is pain in the 'hand', one takes medicine, but what does one do when the 'hand' itself is a pain)." 'Hand' is the Congress party's election symbol. Gandhi and Singh have been engaged in war of words on Twitter since Monday evening on the issue and have been taking swipes at each other by using couplets of Ghalib. The Congress leader on Monday had taken a dig at Union Home Minister Amit Shah for his remarks that India is strong in protecting its borders, and said the truth seems dormant as "everyone knows" the reality of the situation at the country's borders. "Everyone knows the reality of the 'borders', but the thought is good to keep one's heart happy," he said in a tweet in Hindi, tweaking a couplet of Ghalib. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also asked the defence minister to answer the question, saying denigrating party symbols of opposition is not defending India. "Denigrating Party Symbols of Opposition isn't same as 'Defending India'. Will Rajnath Singh ji answer the simple question posed by Sh Rahul Gandhi," Surjewala asked on Twitter. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said he hopes this hand does not break the 'lotus' as the entire focus is here and asked him instead to remove focus from the 'hand' and protect the boundaries. ('Lotus' is BJP's election symbol). There has been a standoff between India and China at the border in eastern Ladakh amid troops build-up on both sides. India has said that the border dispute would be resolved through talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/has-china-occupied-indian-territory-in-ladakh-rahul-gandhi-asks-rajnath-singh-847584.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Indian, Chinese troops begin disengagement in certain areas in eastern Ladakh: Sources||Three days after a meeting between top military leaders, China and India have begun the process of troop reductions from at least three stand-off points near the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. China’s People’s Liberation Army has moved back some of its troops and armoured vehicles by 2.5 km at locations like Patrol Point-14, PP-15 and PP-17 A (in Hot Springs area). The rollback is part of a road-map agreed by both sides when they met on Saturday to end the stand-off.   According to the plan -– shared by the government with a section of the media –- troop rollback may be completed in 10 days following talks between local level commanders of Maj Gen or Brigadier ranks. The resolution of the stand-off in the north bank of Pangong Tso, however, would take more time and involve Lt Gen level officers. The second part of the resolution formula is the  withdrawal of the troops from the depth area –- around 20 km from the disputed boundary -– and shift them to peacetime location. India had moved a battalion from its brigade located at Dualat Beg Oldie after the PLA increased its troop strength. The Chinese needling at the Galwan valley apparently was to slow down the construction of a feeder link to the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road that was made operational last year, providing the much needed connectivity to the world’s highest airstrip at DBO, close to the Karakorampass. But neither side crossed the LAC at Galwan valley, which was never really a contested area. The resolution of the stand-off at Finger-4 area, however, would take more time as the area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 remains a hotly contested one. For years, the finger areas and the 135-km-long pristine Ladakh lake remained a flash point between Indian and Chinese troops. According to the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control, the disputed border runs through Finger 8 (the spurs or mountain ridges are named as fingers) because of which Indian troops could go up to that point for patrolling. Going by the Chinese perception, the LAC runs through Finger 4. The May 5-6 face-off happened when the PLA troops stopped the Indian soldiers at Finger 4. The demand from the Indian side is to restore the status quo ante.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-chinese-troops-begin-disengagement-in-certain-areas-in-eastern-ladakh-sources-847601.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Oppn trying to 'derail' teachers' appointment, says UP govt; Mayawati, Priyanka hit back||The UP government on Tuesday hit out at the opposition accusing it of trying to ‘derail’ the appointment of 69,000 basic teachers, even as BSP chief Mayawati sought a CBI inquiry and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra backed the aspirants. On June 3, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had stayed the appointment process, after which the UP government challenged the interim order. The court on Monday reserved its order on the state government pleas. "A number of allegations were levelled by the opposition against the UP government over the recruitment of 69,000 teachers in Basic Education Department. This is an attempt to derail the entire appointment process. We will abide by the court decisions in the matter," UP Basic Education Minister Satish Dwivedi said on Tuesday. Hours after his remarks at a press conference, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at an online media briefing announced her party's support for the aspirants, alleging that paper leaks and irregularities in marking had become a norm in the state. She asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to take responsibility for it. The Congress leader had on Monday called the issue 'UP's Vyapam scam' in reference to the case regarding irregularities in exams held by the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board. In a tweet, BSP supremo Mayawati said, "New revelations related to irregularities and corruption in the recruitment of 69,000 teachers in UP are coming forward every day. This has become a big issue. The people have their apprehensions. In this situation, a CBI probe should be conducted. This is the demand of the BSP." Emphasising that the Uttar Pradesh government has "zero tolerance" for corruption, the UP minister said in May, a person named Rahul had alleged that money was demanded from him in return for job and acting on his complaint the Allahabad police had arrested K L Patel, S K Bind and 11 others. During the probe, it was found that Chandra Yadav, the manager of Panchamlal Ashram Ucchatar Madhyamik Vidyalaya in Allahabad, a centre for the teachers' recruitment examination, was involved in "unlawfully" helping aspirants in selection, the minister said. Dwivedi said though Rahul's allegation did not affect the results, the government has decided to hand over the probe to the Special Task Force. As students of many districts had appeared for the exam at this centre, the STF will look at all details, the minister said. Clarifying the issue of anomalies in extending reservation, the minister said, "A matter was raised that one candidate with Tiwari surname was selected in the OBC category. We want to tell that the process of application is online and there was no document verification, which was to be done in counselling.” Dwivedi said the counselling was postponed on court orders. The minister said a political campaign is being run against the recruitment by those whose "khandani pesha" (traditional occupation) is corruption. The Allahabad High Court has reserved its order on three special pleas of the UP government challenging the stay on the appointment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in the state. The matter was heard by a division bench of Justices P K Jaiswal and D K Singh of the court's Lucknow bench on Monday, a day after the UP Examination Regulatory Authority (ERA) on behalf of the state government challenged a single-bench interim order, terming it "unwarranted and illegal". Justice Alok Mathur of the Lucknow bench on June 3 had stayed the selection process, prima facie finding that certain questions and answers were 'ambiguous and wrong' and, hence, required fresh scrutiny by the UGC. The HC bench had held that there has been an 'error' in the evaluation of question paper. In its appeals, the ERA pleaded that the single-bench order was not sustainable as it did not consider the preliminary objection of maintainability in the right perspective and the writ petitions were not maintainable because the petitioners had not arrayed all candidates who had stood successful in the result declared on May 8. The recruitment examination was held on January 6, 2019 and its result was declared on May 12 this year. Earlier, the Supreme Court on May 21 had asked the state government to explain the process adopted for the appointment through a chart, posting the matter for further hearing on July 6. It asked the Uttar Pradesh government to explain why it changed the earlier criteria of 45 per cent cut-off marks for the general category and 40 per cent for the reserved category||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oppn-trying-to-derail-teachers-appointment-says-up-govt-mayawati-priyanka-hit-back-847616.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Congress demands use of ballot papers for bypolls in MP||Fearing the spread of COVID-19 through electronic voting machines (EVMs), the Madhya Pradesh Congress on Tuesday demanded that the upcoming bypolls for 24 state Assembly seats be conducted using ballot papers. The bypolls for 24 Assembly seats was necessitated following the resignations of 22 Congress MLAs and death of two other legislators. However, the dates for the same are yet to be announced. State Congress on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the Madhya Pradesh's Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), said state Congress leader J P Dhanopia, who is in-charge of partys poll-related affairs. "On an average, 1,000 to 1,200 citizens cast their votes in every booth. So, voters will have to repeatedly press buttons on EVMs. With the rise in COVID-19 cases in the state, the possible spread of the infection through EVMs cannot be ruled out," he said. The Congress leader further said the state party unit has demanded the use of ballot papers for the by-elections instead. Moreover, Dhanopia said the state Congress has also submitted another memorandum to the EC seeking information about the elections to two of the 24 seats Jaura and Agar Malwa where the sitting legislators have died. Jaura Assembly seat has been lying vacant since December 21, 2019, while Agar Malwa seat fell vacant on January 31, he said. As per provisions of the People's Representation Act 1951, elections to vacant seats should be conducted within six months, which is ending in July for these two seats, he said. "As the six-month deadline will end in July, we sought official information from the EC about the status of polls scheduled for these two seats," he said. Apart from the deaths of two sitting legislators, 22 Congress MLAs had resigned resulting in the fall of the Kamal Nath government in March this year. These MLAs later joined the BJP along with former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. With the effective strength of the Assembly at 206, the BJP currently has a majority with 107 MLAs. The BJP will have to win at least nine of these 24 seats to achieve a simple majority in the house. The Congress' current strength is 92, while there are four Independent MLAs and one from the SP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-congress-demands-use-of-ballot-papers-for-bypolls-in-mp-847631.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Babri demolition trial: Ram Vilas Vedanti records statement, 11 others to appear in court over 3 days||A special court hearing the Babri mosque demolition case recorded the statement of former BJP MP Ram Vilas Vedanti on Tuesday and asked 11 other accused to appear before it over the next three days. Vedanti, a religious leader who was part of the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas which campaigned for a Ram temple in Ayodhya, was the only accused who made a personal appearance in the CBI court here on Tuesday. Special judge S K Yadav exempted 11 others from personal appearance on Tuesday but fixed dates for their presence on the three following days. Thirty-two people, including former deputy prime minister L K Advani, are accused in the case. The court is recording their statements under section 313 of the CrPC, a stage in the trial which follows the completion of examination of witnesses by the prosecution. The special judge has now directed Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, Satish Pradhan and Pawan Kumar Pandey to appear before it on June 10 for recording their statements. It asked Lallu Singh, Kamlesh Tripathi, Santosh Dubey and Ram Chandra Khatri to remain personally present in the court on June 11. Similarly, accused Jai Bhagwan Goel, Om Prakash Pandey, Amar Nath Goel and Jai Bhan Singh Pawaiya have been directed to appear on June 12. Vedanti is the fifth accused so far to record his statement. Earlier, the court had recorded the statements of Vijai Bahadur Singh, Gandhi Yadav, Prakash Sharma and Ramji Gupta. On Monday, it had put BJP veterans L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti on notice to appear in person when asked to record their statements. No date was immediately fixed for them. The three leaders were earlier exempted from personal appearance in court till further orders. Other accused include former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Rithambara, Sakshi Maharaj and Champat Rai. The court has been conducting day to day proceedings in order to conclude the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-demolition-trial-ram-vilas-vedanti-records-statement-11-others-to-appear-in-court-over-3-days-847641.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||All-party meet: BJP, Congress demand increased testing; AAP raises issue of outside patients with LG||In the first all-party meeting called by Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic situation in Delhi, the BJP and Congress demanded that the testing be increased, while the ruling AAP raised the issue of patients from outside the national capital seeking treatment in hospitals here. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said he emphasised on the need to increase the COVID-19 testing and the number of hospital beds for the affected. He also suggested that schools and metro services should not be resumed and the government should reconsider its decision to permit opening of malls in view of the rising cases of coronavirus. "The situation is deteriorating in Delhi due to the failure of the Delhi government and the situation warrants raising the number of tests and beds. The government should rise above politics to work with other parties and organisations," Gupta said.  Delhi Congress president  Anil Kumar claimed in the meeting that since the coronavirus cases started to spike after June 3, Delhi has been testing fewer people every day, and said it was a "dangerous" situation. "Delhi has completely failed on the testing front," he said after the meeting. Kumar also demanded that a cash transfer of Rs 10,000 be immediately made to the account of each coronavirus affected family in containment zones to help them survive the financial and health crises. The Delhi government should share the data of contact tracing and isolation, Kumar demanded and suggested tele-consultation facilities to avoid crowding at hospitals, and simplifying information sharing about bed availability through Delhi government mobile app. The meeting came a day after the LG overruled the AAP government's decision to reserve private and Delhi government hospitals for local residents while leaving central government hospitals for outsider patients.  AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said he raised the issue of patients coming from outside Delhi for treatment and how the city will deal with the pressure. "When I asked the LG if any arrangement for the people who will be coming from all over the country has been made, he did not have an answer," Singh said. He also attacked the BJP over the issue. "It is clear that Yogi and Khattar governments have collapsed in tackling the coronavirus crisis and health services in Noida, Ghaziabad and Guragaon are in shambles. That is why the BJP pressured the LG into revoking the decision of Delhi government," he told reporters after the all-party meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-party-meet-bjp-congress-demand-increased-testing-aap-raises-issue-of-outside-patients-with-lg-847642.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's Ambedkar Nagar chief medical superintendent dies of coronavirus||The chief medical superintendent of UP's Ambedkar Nagar district succumbed to COVID-19 at a government hospital in Lucknow on Tuesday, a senior official said. He was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here five days ago and suffered from other health issues too. Hospital Director Dr RK Dhiman said the CMS was confirmed COVID-19 positive on June 5. "The doctor was admitted to the SGPGI following infection in the lungs. He was also suffering from diabetes and had an acute kidney injury requiring dialysis support. He was admitted five days ago and was put on artificial oxygen. He was kept on a ventilator, but despite efforts, he could not be saved. He died on Tuesday around 2 pm." he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-ambedkar-nagar-chief-medical-superintendent-dies-of-coronavirus-847675.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||NCERT collaborates with Rotary India for e-learning content on TV||With an aim to make e-learning more constructive, the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and Rotary India joined hands on Tuesday for e-learning content for class 1-12 telecast over all NCERT TV channels. Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' expressed hope, the collaboration will ensure that e-learning reaches children across the country with NCERT-approved content. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of a slew of measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. "Since March 2020, when the novel coronavirus was declared a pandemic, learners, teachers, parents and the entire education community have been gravely affected. In this scenario, we have been working tirelessly to develop best education system rooted in Indian ethos with technology and innovation as strong pillars," Nishank said. "Under our Vidya Daan initiative, Rotary International will provide e-content in Hindi language to NCERT for classes 1 to 12 for all subjects. This material is of high class and very high quality. It will benefit all our children very much. The material will also be provided for special needs children as well as contribute its entirety to the Adult Literacy Mission as well as teacher training," he added. As per the MoU, the curriculum modules telecast for classes 1-12, through 12 national Television channels of NCERT, will be available from July. "The content is currently available in Hindi and Punjabi and hence shall be implemented immediately across 12 states or UTs benefiting approximately 10 crores students. The intellectual rights to the content would be with Rotary and provided to the NCERT so that the said content can be translated to all regional languages by NCERT and the respective state SCERTs in the next few months," the Ministry said in an official statement. A 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. While the government has announced easing of certain restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncert-collaborates-with-rotary-india-for-e-learning-content-on-tv-847678.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh cabinet passes ordinance to prevent cow slaughter||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet approved the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 on Tuesday, Additional Chief Secretary, Home and Information, Awanish Awasthi said. The ordinance seeks to stop the incidents of crime related to cow slaughter and was enacted as the state legislature is not in session, he added. It aims to make the existing law more organised and effective, and completely stop cow slaughter in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement issued here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-passes-ordinance-to-prevent-cow-slaughter-847681.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Chardham yatra not to start till June 30 but locals can visit in limited numbers: Devasthanam Board||The Chardham Devasthanam Board issued an order on Tuesday, putting off the chardham yatra until June 30 but allowed locals to visit the four Himalayan temples in limited numbers and with permits from the district administration. The daily limit on the number of local devotees allowed to visit Badrinath is 1,200, the order issued by Chardham Devasthanam Board CEO Ravinath Raman said. Similarly, the daily limit was 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri, it said. People who own hotels and guest houses near the temples can go to these facilities in minimum numbers but they will have to strictly follow the standard operation procedure issued along with the order, it added. However, in concurrence with the views of the priests, stakeholders and hak-hakookdharis of the temples, it has been decided not to start the chardham yatra till June 30, Raman said. The Uttarakhand government had initially planned to open the famous temples for devotees on a limited scale, along with the rest of the temples in the state, but the priests, hak-hakookdharis and other stakeholders put their foot down, opposing the move for safety reasons. A decision on the chardham yatra will be taken after June 30, the Devasthanam Board CEO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chardham-yatra-not-to-start-till-june-30-but-locals-can-visit-in-limited-numbers-devasthanam-board-847682.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Security forces avert militant attack by timely detection of IED in J&K's Baramulla||Security forces averted a militant attack by timely detection of an improvised explosive device (IED) in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said. A patrol party of the Army noticed the IED planted by the ultras by the roadside at the Saidpora crossing in the Dangiwacha area of Baramulla early in the morning, a police official said. He said a bomb disposal squad was rushed to the spot, which destroyed the IED in situ. There was no damage due to the controlled explosion of the IED, the police official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-avert-militant-attack-by-timely-detection-of-ied-in-jks-baramulla-847710.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Issue of restoration of 4G internet services in J&K: Plea in SC seeks contempt action||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against Union Home Secretary and Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir for their alleged "wilful disobedience" in complying with the apex court's order for setting up a "special committee" to consider restoration of 4G internet services in the Union Territory. On May 11, a bench headed by Justice N V Ramana had ordered setting up of a "special committee" headed by the Union Home Secretary to consider pleas for restoration of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, saying national security and human rights needed to be balanced in view of the fact the union territory has been "plagued with militancy". The contempt plea, filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, has alleged that the concerned authorities have not yet constituted the special committee in line with the top court's order. "It is respectfully submitted that such a lax attitude, especially during a health pandemic (COVID-19) and humanitarian crisis, violates both the letter and the spirit of this court's judgment ..... and amounts to wilful disobedience of this court's judgment and order, which had taken judicial notice of the concerns relating to the ongoing pandemic and the hardships that may be faced by the people of Jammu & Kashmir," the plea, filed through advocate Shadan Farasat, said. The plea said that the authorities were duty bound to implement the court's direction but they have failed to notify and facilitate the functioning of the special committee. "The directions of this court have been summarily ignored and the Respondents have wilfully disobeyed their duty to implement this court's directions, which they were bound to and had undertaken to implement, and therefore must be held in contempt of this court," the plea said. It has also urged the apex court to summon the Union Home Secretary and Chief Secretary of UT of Jammu and Kashmir to explain their position with respect to the alleged non-compliance of the court's directions. It said that Jammu and Kashmir administration had on May 27 passed an order continuing the restriction on mobile internet speeds to 2G in all districts throughout the UT without any restriction by time or region. It said the petitioner had sent a representation to the special committee regarding the May 27 order but they have not yet received any acknowledgment of its receipt. Besides the contempt plea, the petitioner has also filed an application seeking directions to the authorities to notify the constitution of the special committee within three working days. The application has sought an interim direction to the authority to restore 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, pending disposal of the plea and also the decision by the special committee. In its May 11 order, the apex court had said it was desirable to have better internet services in the UT in view of the pandemic. The court had taken note of the submissions of the Centre that continuous infiltration, foreign influence, violent extremism and issues of national integrity are prevalent in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which are serious issues. The apex court order had came on pleas filed by Foundation for Media Professionals and others seeking restoration of 4G services in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/issue-of-restoration-of-4g-internet-services-in-jk-plea-in-sc-seeks-contempt-action-847713.html
09-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Police files 3 charge sheets before court in cases related to murder, rioting||Delhi Police Tuesday filed three charge sheets before a court here in cases related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in February. The Crime Branch filed the charge sheets before Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri who has put up the matter for further hearing on June 23. It has filed 20 charge sheets till now in cases related to the riots. It was investigating 59 cases related to it. The three charge sheets were filed in connection with the alleged murder of two people -- Mohd Furkan and Deepak -- and violence by a mob at Maujpur Chowk in which anti-CAA protestors and those supporting supporting it resorted to stone pelting, arson, firing and sabotage. According to all the three charge sheets, there was a deep-rooted conspiracy which triggered the communal riot. A web of conspirators, instigators and rioters has been identified and several have been arrested, police said. It has been established during investigation that the riots were not impromptu but were conspired with intent to create communal strife, to malign the image of the country under the garb of democratically opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act, the charge sheets said. The police chargesheeted four persons in the murder case of Furkan who was allegedly shot during the riots on February 24. Furkan was present at Kardam Puri area where the rioters were pelting stones and committing arson, police said. According to the charge sheet, Furkan and four others sustained gunshot injuries; 17 police officials also received injuries in heavy stone pelting. Furkan, who ran a corrugated box manufacturing unit in the area, later succumbed to his injuries, it said. The second charge sheet in the murder case of Deepak was filed against four persons for allegedly rioting and lynching him to death near a government dispensary at Kardam Puri. It said that on February 25, communal riots continued at Kardam Puri, behind Ambedkar College, near a government dispensary. The rioters torched vehicles in two parking lots and Deepak, who worked as a battery rickshaw driver, was caught near the dispensary and lynched by them and declared brought dead at GTB Hospital, it said. The third charge sheet was filed against five persons for allegedly resorting to violence when pro-CAA and anti-CAA protestors clashed at Maujpur area on February 24. Shahrukh Pathan, who allegedly brandished his gun and shot at a constable during the riots, was one of the main accused in the case. The allegedly illicit firearm, a 7.65 mm pistol along with two live rounds, was recovered from him, police said. Police further claimed several shots had been fired by him and three empty shells were recovered at the spot. The charge sheet said that initially the protest was peaceful but soon it became violent and led to incidents of stone pelting, brick batting, arson, firing and sabotage from both sides. Several police personnel as well as public persons  were injured and it created an atmosphere of fear among the public, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-police-files-3-charge-sheets-before-court-in-cases-related-to-murder-rioting-847715.html
09-06-2020||Opinion||Economic nationalism a wrong turn for COVID-19-hit India||By Andy Mukherjee Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants all 1.3 billion Indians to be “vocal for local” — meaning, to not just use domestically made products but also to promote them. As an overseas citizen living in Hong Kong, I’m doing my bit by very vocally demanding Indian mangoes on every trip to the grocery. But half the summer is gone, and not a single slice so far. My loss is due to India’s COVID-19 lockdown, which has severely pinched logistics, a perennial challenge in the huge, infrastructure-starved country. But more worrying than the disruption is the fruity political response to it. Rather than being a wake-up call for fixing supply chains, the pandemic seems to be putting India on an isolationist course. Why?  Granted that the liberal view that trade is good and autarky bad isn’t exactly fashionable anywhere right now. What makes India’s lurch troublesome is that the pace and direction of economic nationalism may be set by domestic business interests. The Indian liberals, many of whom are Western-trained academics, authors and — at least until a few years ago — policy makers, want a more competitive economy. They will be powerless to prevent the slide. Modi’s call for a self-reliant India has been echoed by Home Minister Amit Shah, the cabinet’s unofficial No. 2, in a television interview. If Indians don’t buy foreign-made goods, the economy will see a jump, he said. The strategy — although it’s too nebulous yet to call it that — has a geopolitical element. A military standoff with China is under way, apparently triggered by India’s completion of a road and bridge near the common border in the tense Himalayan region of Ladakh. It’s very expensive to fight even a limited war there. With India’s economy flattened by COVID, New Delhi may be looking for ways to restore the status quo and send Beijing a signal. Economic boycotts, such as Chinese consumers’ rejection of Japanese goods over territorial disputes in the East China Sea, are well understood as statecraft. In these times, it’s not even necessary to name an enemy. An undercurrent of popular anger against China, the source of both the virus and India’s biggest bilateral trade deficit, is supposed to do the job. But is it ever that easy?  A hastily introduced policy to stock only local goods in police and paramilitary canteens became a farcical exercise after the list of banned items ended up including products by the local units of Colgate-Palmolive Co., Nestle SA, and Unilever NV, which have had significant Indian operations for between 60 and 90 years, as well as Dabur India Ltd., a New Delhi-based maker of Ayurveda brands. The since-withdrawn list demonstrates the practical difficulty of bureaucrats trying to find things in a globalized world that are 100% indigenous.  Free-trade champions fret that the prime minister, whom they saw as being on their side six years ago, is acting against their advice to dismantle statist controls on land, labor and capital to help make the country more competitive. Engage with the world more, not less, they caution. But Modi also has to satisfy the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the umbrella Hindu organisation that gets him votes. Its backbone of small traders, builders and businessmen — the RSS admits only men — was losing patience with the anemic economy even before the pandemic. Now, they’re in deep trouble, because India’s broken financial system won’t deliver even state-guaranteed loans to them.  The U.S.-China tensions — over trade, intellectual property, COVID responsibility and Hong Kong’s autonomy — offer a perfect backdrop. A dire domestic economy and trouble at the border provide the foreground. Big business will dial economic nationalism up and down to hit a trifecta of goals: Block competition from the People's Republic; make Western rivals fall in line and do joint ventures; and tap deep overseas capital markets. The first goal is being achieved with newly placed restrictions on investment from any country that shares a land border with India. The second aim is to be realized by corporate lobbying to influence India's whimsical economic policies. As for the third objective, with the regulatory environment becoming tougher for U.S.-listed Chinese companies like Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., an opportunity may open up for Indian firms. All this may bring India Shenzhen-style enclaves of manufacturing and trade, but it will concentrate economic power in fewer hands, something that worries liberals. They’re moved by the suffering of India’s low-wage workers, who have borne the brunt of the COVID shutdown. But when their vision of a more just society and fairer income distribution prompts them to make common cause with the ideological Left, they’re quickly repelled by the Marxist voodoo that all cash, property, bonds and real estate held by citizens or within the nation “must be treated as national resources available during this crisis.” Who will invest in a country that does that instead of just printing money?  At the same time, when liberals look to the business class, they see a sudden swelling of support for ideas like a universal basic income. They wonder if this isn’t a ploy by industry to outsource part of the cost of labor to the taxpayer. Slogans like Modi’s vocal-for-local stir the pot and thicken the confusion. The value-conscious Indian consumer couldn’t give two hoots for calls to buy Indian, but large firms will know how to exploit economic nationalism. One day soon, I’ll get my mangoes — from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/economic-nationalism-a-wrong-turn-for-covid-19-hit-india-847389.html
09-06-2020||Opinion||Creating walkable & bikeable cities in COVID-19 times||Urbanisation is often both an indicator of and the inevitable fallout of economic growth. However, unplanned urbanisation creates challenges in terms of service delivery and quality of life. A study conducted by the Royal Institute of British Architects found a clear and positive correlation between the greater availability of green spaces, lower housing density and higher overall health of the local population. When a city is organised in a manner that it encourages people to walk and run outdoors and makes safe spaces available for children to play, its population is healthier.  As Indian cities become congested and sprawl outwards, the stress on urban infrastructure deepens. India is slated to double its urban population by 2050 as indicated by the UN’s World Urbanisation Prospects report, 2018 .   This would be the opportune time to promote the most economical, clean, and healthy mode of transportation: Walking and bicycling. Apart from the costs, it is also a safe and hygienic option as compared to any form of shared transport. The need to promote walking and bicycling amidst the prevailing situation has perhaps been best recognised and addressed by the UK government. The British Transport Secretary recently announced an ambitious £2 billion post-pandemic plan to swiftly implement measures to promote walking and bicycling to cope with the expected increase in vehicles.  Institutional and infrastructure issues  The issue with walkability in the Indian context is that in most cities, pavements are either non-existent or are dirty, broken and encroached upon. Interestingly, it is not just vendors and squatters who have encroached on pavements, but even civic agencies are part of the problem.  In many cities, pavements are blocked by public toilets, overbridges, electricity poles, garbage collection units and even pillars supporting the overhead metro rail. Pavements are routinely dug up for laying of pipes and cables. All this calls for much better urban planning and coordination. Another issue hampering mobility is pedestrian safety: It is extremely risky for a pedestrian to safely cross a road. Zebra crossings are poorly understood. Pedestrian traffic signals are mostly non-existent or often non-functional. As per the Rules of the Road Regulation, it is the duty of the driver to slow down when approaching a pedestrian crossing. In a 1987 judgment of the Supreme Court, it was ruled that all persons have the right to walk on the road and are entitled to the exercise of reasonable care on the part of the vehicle driver, but despite these acts and rulings, pedestrian and cyclist deaths are on the rise.  Technically, addressing these issues is not tough. Pavements should be cleared of encroachments and well maintained, pelican signals can be installed for facilitating safe road crossing and dedicated bicycle lanes can be built on either roads or on widened pavements. Technologies such as automatic-number-plate-recognition cameras generating automatic challans for violators can ensure discipline. However, the combination of poor planning and implementation, lack of accountability and incentives for authorities as well as the multiplicity of agencies involved, create a deep-rooted institutional challenge.  The way out  First, the institution of a unified transport agency with requisite revenue streams, accountability and incentives must be considered at the city and state levels. At present, the traffic police are responsible for signals, bus services are operated by state transport corporations, separate corporations run metro rails, and pavements and roads are either maintained by public works departments or municipal corporations.  Such agencies should be tasked with the planning, operation and maintenance of public transport, pavements, traffic signals, roads and bicycle tracks and have revenue sources such as parking and congestion fees. They should also be responsible for issuing driving licences. Transport for London (TfL) is an example of this model. Institutionalising this model would lead to the holistic improvement of public transportation in cities due to increased accountability combined with a profit centre, closer planning and coordination and seamless connectivity across various transport modes.  Second, drivers should be trained to be considerate towards pedestrians and cyclists. In many countries, pedestrians have a duly enforced first right of way. It is recommended that curriculum in educational institutions be revised such that there is a greater focus on traffic rules and etiquette. After all, any form of learning has to begin at a young age for it to have impactful results.  Third, the imminent constitution of the National Road Safety Advisory Board is a welcome step. The board would consist of technical experts who would advise and conduct research on areas such as road safety and traffic management. The board should make the promotion of non-motorised transit one of its key priorities, given the extremely high number of pedestrian fatalities.  Fourth, recent amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act now allow for states to make schemes for the promotion of last-mile connectivity, improvement of urban transportation, reduction in congestion and the promotion of road safety. These provisions could be leveraged to evolve a comprehensive plan of action aimed at making roads more accessible and safer for pedestrians and cyclists and must include steps towards the creation of a unified transport authority. This will strengthen the base for the evolution of an integrated, unified, and efficient transportation system.  A favourable infrastructure and policy environment is one of the best ways of addressing not only congestion and pollution but also making India’s city dwellers healthier and fitter by allowing them to walk and cycle more. (Archana Gulati is Joint Secretary and Siddharth Sinha is Young Professional with NITI Aayog. Views are strictly personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/creating-walkable-bikeable-cities-in-covid-19-times-847456.html
09-06-2020||Panorama||Reinventing cities during COVID-19||As India touches the 2,00,000 lakh mark of total COVID-19 cases, the pandemic has clearly exposed urban fragility. By 2050, two-thirds of us will live in cities. However, our urban centres are contending with the effects of our existing take-make-waste economy. Under this linear system, cities consume over 75% of natural resources, produce over 50% of global waste and emit between 60-80% of greenhouse gases. Firstly, strengthen urban governance. It is clear that states which had decentralised and participatory local governance faired much better amidst pandemic than others. Look at Kerala for instance, the state has since decades worked on a decentralised local governance model wherein the local government institutions have been not only empowered with funds, functions, and functionaries but have also coordinated in support with other departments on supporting health-related interventions. The experience in Kerala demonstrates the importance of local planning and mobilisation within the larger macro framework, which has ensured equity and access in mitigation efforts. There is also an urgent need to revamp our municipal infrastructure strengthening capacities of local government actors such as mayors, ward councillors etc. Secondly, there is an urgent need to strengthen waste management services in cities. If we look at the Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) stream, household waste, particularly from quarantined households, is mixed with domestic hazardous waste such as used needles, masks, gloves, sanitary napkins, bandages, and recyclables like plastic and cardboard, all of which may be contaminated with Covid-19. Also, there are no clear estimations on the generation of domestic hazardous waste in cities with no inventorisation studies conducted in the past. Many municipalities are hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic with high caseload and therefore, poses a serious risk to frontline sanitation workforce. This is a cause of further alarm for the sanitation workforce handling MSW, whose capacities and training for managing this new volume of bio-medical hazardous waste from households is limited. This is the time for urban departments of states and municipal actors to reinvent their existing systems of waste management with focus on segregation at source into three components: wet, dry and household hazardous waste including PPEs. Cities such as Panchgani, Ambikapur, Tiruchirapalli, Panaji, Mysuru, Thiruvananthapuram and Vijaywada have effectively addressed this. In a post-COVID-19 world, as we unlock down, urban mobility needs to be addressed. How do we maintain safer physical distancing when our cities grapple with the burden of vehicles blocking roads and flyovers. Mass transit systems need to ensure effective physical distancing, at the same time, shift to cleaner mobility options such as electric vehicles must be highly subsidised to encourage people to switch to sustainable mobility options. Fourth, cities need to address informalities. COVID-19 saw the mass exodus of vulnerable groups, migrants, informal workers and daily wagers which clearly shows the urgency to create cities that are inclusive and support wide informalities. We need to not only work with the informal sector on skill enhancement but also encourage social enterprises, sustainable SHG models and ensure they have access to government schemes that ensure ration delivery and health support. We must strengthen citizen-local government relations by working on models that engage NGOs, civic groups, SHGs, private sector, multilaterals and other allied stakeholders. Collaborative approaches shall not only strengthen accountability but also ensure benchmarking and monitoring of projects. This will also help in creating sustainable models in cities with emphasis on replication of best practices. It is clear that we need to redefine urban living and design cities that are inclusive, sustainable, energy and resource-efficient, address vulnerabilities and that have policies that not only strengthen urban governance but also ensure effective compliance and implementation. This is the need of the hour. (Swati Singh Sambyal is a Waste Management Specialist at UN-Habitat India and Parul Agarwala is the Country Programme Manager at UN-Habitat India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/reinventing-cities-during-covid-19-847337.html
09-06-2020||Panorama||Some out-of-the-box ideas for a fiscal stimulus||The pandemic and lockdown have deeply hurt the economy. This year, the world economy will shrink by 3%, something that we have not witnessed in our lifetimes. India too may shrink as much if not more, since our lockdown has been more stringent than that in other nations. During April, more than 120 million people lost jobs, and some of them permanently. More than 10 million urban workers and their families reverse migrated to their villages or hometowns, partly because they had lost their livelihoods. These workers will return to cities and factories after the re-opening of the economy, but also when there is an assurance of jobs. Else, the rural areas are a better bet during the recession. There has been a bumper rabi crop (spring harvest). The procurement of wheat in Punjab, Haryana and UP has been very successful, meaning farmers have received the minimum support price. Even Madhya Pradesh procurement is at record levels. Besides this income, the PM-KISAN scheme launched last year has been putting some money into farm households. Additionally, the small payment to rural women has helped, and so has the PDS foodgrain allocation through the ration shops, again benefiting the rural areas. Finally, there is the rural employment guarantee scheme (NREGS) whose allocation has gone up to Rs 1 lakh crore, and which will certainly act as an additional income buffer for many families in rural areas. By comparison, the urban poor have been left in a bad shape. Retail shops, malls, cinemas, restaurants in cities are only just now opening, and even after opening may not see substantial footfalls. Real estate and housing construction in urban areas have been very badly hit. Other services like courier delivery, hair saloons too have been affected. Revival of the urban economy, as well as much of the industrial and services sector, will need a big fiscal stimulus, to make up for the fall in aggregate demand. For instance, for the MSMEs alone, the government and PSUs owe Rs 5 lakh crore in pending payments. The package announced so far has been mostly in the form of liquidity, credit and loan support to small and large businesses. But if no demand is forthcoming, merely the promise of more loans, even with a moratorium on interest payment, will not find enough takers. Furthermore, the bankers themselves may be reluctant to pass on these loans, due to concerns of their own rising bad loans or NPAs. So, we do need a bigger stimulus which provides direct support to the pockets of the small business owner and the urban poor. Here, we run into a difficulty. The government’s finances are very tight. The economic slowdown, which predates the pandemic, was causing tax revenues to fall. The fiscal deficit was widening. The reduction in corporate income tax rate from 30% to 25% might have contributed to revenue shortfall, too, although it is a desirable longer-term reform. Private sector investment and profitability is lacklustre, hurting tax revenues. No wonder, during 2019-20, the fiscal deficit in rupee terms went up by 45%. The Centre’s fiscal situation has been aggravated by having to pass on a higher share of gross revenues, thanks to the Finance Commission formula, and the need to compensate all states for their shortfall in GST revenues. Despite all this, the Centre can go all out to just “print money” since this is an unprecedented year. But this runs the risk of a sovereign ratingdowngrade, which will hurt everyone. Against this backdrop, it may be worthwhile to examine the following four suggestions to raise fiscal resources and help pump up aggregate demand. The first one, as suggested by former Finance Commission chairman Vijay Kelkar, is to borrow against shares. The Centre owns shares in public sector companies, listed on the stock exchange, whose current value is in excess of Rs 11 lakh crore. These shares can be pledged with the Reserve Bank of India, and a loan can be taken, say for Rs 5 lakh crore. This should be structured as a repo loan, i.e., the money is returned after five years, and the shares are returned to the owner. Of course, in the interim, some shares can be sold off, too, to reduce the loan burden and take advantage of stock market buoyancy. Such a financing scheme will not be seen as a distress sale of PSU stock. A second suggestion is to instantly give all the income tax refunds, not as cash, but as refund certificates. These certificates can then be used by taxpayers to pay all dues to the government, including advance taxes which are due this month. The refund certificates can also be used to give GST refunds, which too can be used to meet GST obligations. A third suggestion is to introduce city-wise vouchers, which can be used to buy goods and services from neighbourhood stores, shops and outlets. These vouchers can then be used to pay city dues, municipal taxes and even state government dues. This completes a cash-less loop. These consumption vouchers can be given against ration cards, or Aadhaar cards, and are to be kept in restricted circulation within city limits. A fourth suggestion is to start an urban employment guarantee scheme for the next six to nine months. It is meant mainly for the informal sector and contract employees who work in retail, construction, security agencies, courier services, etc. The list of eligible workers can be taken from the principal employer, and the wage payment will serve as a subsidy for the employer, too. This will directly increase the purchasing power of the worker, and act as a demand stimulus. The payment can be in kind, by using foodgrain from the already overflowing granaries of the central government. These are just four ideas among many that need to be examined. Unconventional times call for unconventional solutions and experiments. Of course, the problem of acute fiscal stress cannot be wished away or hidden under some kind of cosmetic accounting. Even then, there are ways of bypassing cash shortages, or placing less stress on borrowing by using the innovative suggestions that have been made. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: TheBillionPress)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/some-out-of-the-box-ideas-for-a-fiscal-stimulus-847689.html
09-06-2020||Panorama||A rural ray of hope during COVID-19  ||Crisis speeds up technology adoption. Urban India got a taste of it during demonetisation when e-wallets surged. During this COVID-19 crisis, across rural India, a new breed of entrepreneurs are experiencing a game-changing moment. A modest government programme of setting up Common Service Centres (CSC) across 2.5 lakh gram panchayats, to primarily deliver citizen-centric services, banking and some private services, is today proving to be a saviour for rural citizens faced with the loss of livelihood. Functioning under the aegis of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, the CSC programme is reaping plenty of benefits for the rural society. In Indian villages, farmers are the primary revenue earners. The lockdown has prevented operation of local mandis, causing loss of income for millions of growers as they sit on stockpiles of perishable produce. In the western part of India, however, it is a bit different story. In Devgad taluka of coastal Maharashtra and the Gir region (Junagadh district) of Gujarat, mango farmers are tapping into the potential of CSCs to reach out to their customers using the online route and tracking a wide service network of CSC centres. Here, innovative grassroots entrepreneurs (Village Level Entrepreneurs or VLEs) are taking online orders for export-grade Alphonso and Gir’s Kesar and delivering at doorsteps using the CSC Grameen e-Store app and an extensive network of CSC centres.  Arguably the most beneficial aspect of these small-scale innovations is that farmers are witnessing an all-time high revenue by directly selling to customers instead to traders in the mandi. Information and Communication Technology has aided to eliminate the traditional inefficiencies and supply chain constraints of agricultural marketing. Women entrepreneurs from rural Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are training farmers to download and use the CSC Grameen e-Store app. They are connecting local LPG distributors to the app so that housewives do not need to miss their free cylinders under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY).  Migrant workers stranded in far-off cities and towns in this lockdown period, also banked on CSCs to return home. They used CSC e-Governance service centres to get in touch with authorities. These technology entrepreneurs in rural India are leveraging many benefits of ICT to reduce the urban-rural divide. Some of these use cases are well on their way to change the economic horizon of rural India permanently and create a more socially, financially, and digitally inclusive society. At the Indian School of Business’s (ISB) research centre, Srini Raju Centre for IT and the Networked Economy (SRITNE-ISB), we closely studied the role played by grassroots entrepreneurs, in an impact assessment study of the CSC programme. Our research led to the assertion of the growing importance of grassroots entrepreneurs.  We interviewed about 2,500 VLEs from 10 states and evaluated their business success. We found that entrepreneurial traits like social-orientation, achievement motivation and self-belief, impacts the performance of grassroots entrepreneurs significantly and positively. One of our key findings was that grassroot entrepreneur’s perception of their environment has a direct bearing on their achievement motivation and social orientation. We witness it now, as rural entrepreneurs start making a difference in this crisis from distant corners. Based on our study findings, SRITNE-ISB was engaged by the government to develop two programmes. One aimed to improve digital literacy of rural citizens and another on entrepreneurial literacy for VLEs. We believe that grassroots entrepreneurs can pave the path for digital empowerment of rural citizens and enhance demand for newer products and services from the ‘rural pie’. In the coming days, this crisis will trigger a self-sustaining cycle of business value and tech-enabled enterprise creation across the country. And, we at ISB are only too happy to enable these grassroots entrepreneurs to flourish, motivate others like them and contribute to a much-anticipated V-shaped recovery of the Indian economy. (Mokkapati is the AssociateDirector at the Srini Raju Centre for IT and the NetworkedEconomy (SRITNE), Dey is a Senior Manager at SRITNE)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-rural-ray-of-hope-during-covid-19-847690.html
09-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Palace on wheels||During the lockdown, as a travel aficionado, I was distracting myself browsing articles on luxury trains and it took me back in time. Many years ago, senior railway officers used to travel by saloon when they went on tours. I am unsure whether this facility still exists. Perhaps the facility was a hangover of British Raj. Those were the days of no television and no internet. We were not as wise as the children of today. When I reflect now I think that it was a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money. But the trips were formative childhood memories. My sister and I used to binge read Enid Blyton books. One of my favourites was ‘Five go on a Caravan’.  In our imagination, the saloons replaced caravans and we used to look forward to accompanying our father when we had school holidays. Travelling via saloon was almost akin to a palace on wheels. The saloons had fully furnished living rooms with two or three bedrooms, attached bathrooms, a kitchen and an inspection room. It was a holiday for my mother too as the cook serve freshly prepared meals. Since my father served in North East frontier railway, our trips involved traversing the picturesque state of Assam. I have vivid memories of the mighty Brahmaputra, the virgin forests and the lush green tea estates. The trains did not travel at high speeds then so one could soak in the natural beauty of the state. I can still visualise the women in the tea garden plucking tea leaves with baskets tied to their back. At the destination, the saloons were detached and parked. When my dad went to work, we used to accompany our mother to the local market. The main purpose was to purchase vegetables but we also we whiled away our time looking at the local treats. I have vivid childhood memories of our trip to Lumping. In those days, it was the station from where one had to travel by road to Nagaland. Shawls and other traditional memorabilia from Nagaland were available at Lumding and I recall my mother haggling with a vendor. Another memorable trip was crossing the mighty Ganges from Khejuria Ghat to Farakka by ferry. The bridge over the river was yet to be built. My sister and I were thrilled to bits to move to a bigger saloon from Farakha to then Calcutta. I will never able to afford palace on wheels but I am one of the lucky one who has experienced the same albeit in a tad less luxurious form.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/palace-on-wheels-847352.html
09-06-2020||Right in the Middle||The magic of my terrace||The terrace was my favourite place during the eighties, as a romantic, I found solace for my ‘lost love’ on the terrace. The chaaya geet provided me with the perfect backdrop for my thoughts and dreams. Combined with the stars, the breeze, and the silence, it made me sigh or smile.  And then I got married. Over the years, marriage and the extended family took up my time. With growing familial commitments, a career that came with its own challenges and with aged parents, the concept of spending time on the terrace was the farthest from my mind. Listening to the radio was now drastically reduced. With the advent of innumerable channels and social media, twenty-four hours was suddenly not enough.  And then lockdown happened. A week into the lockdown, I decided to go to the terrace to do some exercises. As a people-person, this lockdown was not helping me anyway. Watching birds fly past as I stretch or jump; the chirps they made while I inhaled deeply; the rising sun that made patterns on the window of the house opposite to mine. The magic of the time I spent on the terrace, made itself felt. The lure of the terrace was such that, I came immediately after bathing to pray while soaking in the early morning sun. I look around at houses coming alive with fluttering clothes or people on their own balconies or terraces. It is a pleasant sight indeed. The birds are settling down on trees preparing themselves for the warm day that follows. The blessed quiet continues without the constant sound of moving traffic.   Evening finds me watching the setting sun, which creates its own magic in the western sky. To make all my time on terrace possible, I wake up a whole lot earlier than I ever did before the lockdown. The lockdown despite its anxieties made me look at possibilities. Earlier, I used to only see the not-so-attractive buildings from the terrace; today I see families that are safe and sound under roofs.  Earlier, my heart used to fluttering with the thought of pending work; today I miraculously find time for the same.   Yes, this situation has to end. People have to be elsewhere and they are worried about each delay. The economy is floundering.  But for the birds that fly and for the peace of the planet, we really have to slow down and earn to live and not live to earn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-magic-of-my-terrace-847694.html
09-06-2020||Second Edit||It’s on us now to keep COVID-19 away||With restaurants, malls and religious places reopening from Monday following the easing of lockdown restrictions, a great responsibility has fallen on the shoulders of the general public in checking the spread of COVID-19. Karnataka, while satisfactorily managing to combat the pandemic, has ensured a high recovery rate and low fatality rate, and the gains of the past few months cannot be frittered away by reckless behaviour and imprudence. Now, with cases surging due to a large number of returnees from other states testing positive, neither the government nor the citizens can let the guard slip and risk community spread of the infection. The relaxation of institutional quarantine norms for returnees and the fact that over 80% of those tested positive are asymptomatic cases only compound the problem, calling for increased vigil. While there is no need to panic, it should be realised that from now on, if there is any single factor that can spell doom, it is lack of precautions. All that is required of citizens is maintaining certain basic safeguards like personal hygiene, better civic sense, physical distancing and avoiding large congregations. But given the general disdain towards community cleanliness, it is imperative that punitive action for spitting, urinating and littering in public is implemented strictly and does not remain merely on paper. This should go hand-in-hand with providing clean and easily accessible public toilets. Another threat is of people on mandatory home quarantine violating guidelines and roaming freely in public areas and even travelling in buses, putting themselves and others at risk. Such people deserve no sympathy and should be prosecuted under the relevant provisions of law, so as to serve as an example for others. Since the government cannot be omnipresent, it falls to the individual to ensure that they do not endanger either themselves or others.   While at present the fear of contracting the virus seems to have restrained most people, it could be a matter of time before they throw caution to the winds, as already witnessed at some recent religious and political gatherings. There is also a chance of the managements of public places turning lax on implementing safety guidelines with the afflux of time. Both are equally dangerous. While the government has the larger role to play in preventing the spread of the disease, the baton has now passed into the hands of the public and unless we behave with utmost maturity and a sense of duty to fellow citizens and society, the war against Covid-19 will cause much unnecessary suffering. We shall then have none but ourselves to blame.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/it-s-on-us-now-to-keep-covid-19-away-847684.html
09-06-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Condolences pour in for NRI wife stranded in Kerala as her husband dies in Dubai||Nithin Chandran, a native of Perambra in Kozhikode in north Kerala, received much attention as his wife Athira, who is pregnant, had earlier approached the Supreme Court seeking repatriation flight to return to her native place. While Athira could return to Kerala in the first repatriation flight on May 7, Nithin preferred to stay back and was extending support to the COVID-19-affected NRIs. He even met the travel charges of two other financially weak persons as a gratitude for the support his wife received for her fight to return to Kerala.  Nithin was found dead in his flat in Dubai on Monday. He was suffering from heart ailments and hence it was suspected that he suffered cardiac arrest during sleep. Athira is now in Kerala and is expected to deliver soon. Hence the family is trying to keep her unaware of Nithin's unexpected death for the time being. The couple got married two years back and were settled in UAE. Nithin was working with a construction firm and Athira with a software firm. Nithin was an active member of Indian Cultural and Arts Society in UAE and was actively involved with blood donation groups. The social media is being flooded with condolence messages over Nithin's death. Congress MLA Shafi Parambil said in his condolence message that when Nithin's friends asked him if he was not returning to Kerala with Athira, Nithin said that there were hundreds of other needy persons who wanted to return. Nithin always gave preference to the needs of others rather than his, said Shafi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-condolences-pour-in-for-nri-wife-stranded-in-kerala-as-her-husband-dies-in-dubai-847423.html
09-06-2020||South||Malls, restaurants and places of worship open in Kerala||Malls, restaurants and places of worship opened in Kerala on Tuesday morning after over two-and half months of Coronavirus induced lockdown. There were very few visitors in the malls and restaurants in the early hours and people preferred takeaways in eateries. Various temples, including the famous Lord Krishna temple at Guruvayoor, a few churches and mosques opened in the state for the devotees. The Guruvayur shrine opened at 9.30 am and around 150 people, who had booked through virtual queue system, offered prayers. Devotees wearing masks were seen standing adhering to the social distance norm. A faithful at the guruvayur temple said he had booked for darshan on Sunday and was happy to be offering worship after a long gap. "This is a realisation of a dream", he said. In the state capital while the famed Lord Padmanabha swamy, Pazhavanangadi Ganapathy and Attukal Bhagavathy temples remained shut, the SreekanteshwaraShiva shrine and Lord Hanuman temple near the state assembly were among those which opened for darshan. The names, age and other details of the worshippers are also being collected by the temple authorities before letting people in. Another devotee said it was very painful not to go to the temple and expressed happiness over reopening of the shrines. The virtual queue booking for devotees to offer worship at the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala would commence from Wednesday. Devotees from other states have to produce a Covid-19 negative certificate while booking,sources in the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), administers the temple, said. The Ayyappa shrine would open from June 14 to 28 for the five day monthly pooja and temple festival and only 10 people would be allowed inside the shrine at a time, sources said. Most of the over 1,200 temples under the TDB, have opened while those under the Nair Service Society (NSS), an organisation of the Nair community and few other shrines were shut. The state government, which had come under attack from the BJP and Hindu Aikya vedi for opening the temples in a "hasty manner" has maintained that the decision was taken in line with the Centre's Unlock-1 guidelines and said those opposing the move had earlier wanted devotees to be allowed into the shrines.  As per the centre's Standard Operating Procedures, social distancing should be followed in all the places of worship and devotees should wear face mask are among other precautions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Those above 65 and children below 10 years would not be allowed in places of worship, distribution of food, refreshments and offertory blessings (prasadams), sandalwood paste or ashes should be avoided. Thermal scanners to check body temperatures, sanitiisers, arrangements for washing hands, were all provided in the temples and other places of worship which opened this morning, In churches in the state capital, Kochi and Kozhikode, allowedthe faithful inside after disinfecting the place. The orthodox church synod is being held on Tuesday which will take a decision on whether or not to open their places of worship. Few mosques were also open in some places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malls-restaurants-and-places-of-worship-open-in-kerala-847431.html
09-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu cancels class 10 exams; promotes all 9 lakh students||After dithering for over two months and postponing the exam dates twice, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday finally scrapped 10th standard board exam for the 2019-2020 academic year by announcing all students will be promoted automatically to the next class. The government also cancelled board exams for 11th standard, while making it clear that it will conduct exams for 12th standard students who could not attend the exams on March 24 and 26 at a later date. The 10th standard exams were originally scheduled to be held from March 27 but were cancelled due to the lockdown and the government announced in May that the exams will be conducted from June 1. However, after outrage from parents and political parties, it further postponed the date to June 15, which stand cancelled now. Over nine lakh students had registered to appear for 10th standard exams.  Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami made the announcement in a televised address after discussions with School Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan and senior government officials. “Experts say the spread of the virus may not be brought under control in a short span of time and hence heeding to requests from parents and to protect the students from coronavirus, the government has decided to scrap 10th standard board exams that were to begin on June 15,” Palaniswami said. Eighty percent of the marks for 10th standard students will be awarded based on their performance in quarterly and half-yearly exams, while the remaining 20 percent marks will be based on their school attendance. He also announced that the exams for a few subjects for 11th standard that were postponed due to the lockdown also stand cancelled. The announcement is a clear volte-face by the Chief Minister, who had maintained in April and May that conducting 10th standard board exams was “imperative” and that these exams cannot be cancelled. The government’s decision came a day after the Madras High Court asked the state to consider whether it can postpone the exams due to the situation arising out of the COVID-19 spread. During the hearing on Monday, the government had defended its move and even went a step ahead to say this was the right time to conduct the exams citing experts’ report that the COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu could increase in the coming months.    The move to conduct 10th standard exams became a major political issue in Tamil Nadu since March with principal opposition, DMK, taking the lead in calling for its scraping. The ruling AIADMK’s ally, PMK, also took on the government on this issue by asking it not to conduct the exams from June 15. Predictably, the DMK took credit for the announcement saying the government caved in after the Opposition party declared a protest on Wednesday against the conduct of the exams. “It is a victory for the DMK, which has been at the forefront asking for the cancellation of the exams. Though the decision has come late, it is a good one,” DMK MLA and former School Education Minister ‘Thangam’ Thennarasu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-cancels-class-10-exams-promotes-all-9-lakh-students-847450.html
09-06-2020||South||Central, state ministers spar over opening of temples||As temples reopened for devotees in Kerala on Tuesday after over 75 days, a Union Minister and a state minister sparred over the decision with the former dubbing it as 'hasty'. While Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan questioned "the haste shown" in reopening the temples, state Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the decision was only in line with the Centre's guidelines in allowing places of worship to permit entry of devotees.  Unveiling graded exit plan from the COVID-19 lockdown 'Unlock 1.0', the central government has earlier allowed reopening of places of worship for devotees, malls and restaurants from Monday onwards across the country after they remained out of bounds since March 25. Muraleedharan, a senior BJP leader from Kerala, in a Facebook post on Monday hit out at the Left front government saying, "your government is unable to even maintain social distancing in the state. As the COVID-19 cases are increasing in the state, are you trying to put the blame on temples by opening them? We urge the government to withdraw the decision to open the temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board," he said. The Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra had also tweeted on Monday evening that neither devotees nor the temple committees favoured throwing open the shrines for public darshan. "The Kerala government's decision to reopen temples despite opposition from devotees smell foul. Neither the devotees nor the temple committees demanded the opening of temples. What is the haste? Is this a deliberate attempt by the atheist @vijayanpinarayi (sic) Govt to denigrate devotees? Govt must heed to the voice of devotees and withdraw its decision," he said in tweets. Slamming Muraleedharan, Surendran on Tuesday said the state government had not shown any undue haste with regard to the re-opening of temples and that he sympathises with the central minister. The central minister should ask his ministerial colleagues about the decision taken in the cabinet meeting on opening of places of worship. "I feel sad for him (Muraleedharan). The decision on opening of places of worship was taken by the central cabinet in a meeting chaired by our honourable Prime Minister. The state government never showed any kind of haste in opening the religious places." The decision was not taken by the state in a jiffy, he said but after holding discussions with various religious heads and community leaders.  "The decision of the state was taken after discussing with various religious and community leaders. We understand that a minister of state can't take part in the cabinet meeting. But, at least he should ask other ministers on the Centre's decision before attacking the state," Surendran said. Joining issue, BJP state president K Surendran alleged that while the government consulted the who-is-who of other religions, it had a taken "a unilateral" decision in the case of temples. No spiritual leader or scholars who matter were consulted on the issue, Surendran told media in Kozhikode. The decision to reopen the temples was only aimed at the wealth of the shrines under the control of the Devaswams. The state government did not bother to spend a penny for hundreds of temples which had nothing in their kitty to survive during the past two months, he alleged. Tens of thousands of staff of these temples were "neglected" by the government without giving any financial aid for survival. The BJP and Hindu Akiya Vedi had come out on Monday against the state's decision to open places of worship. Various temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) opened on Tuesday along with some churches and mosques in parts of the state. While the famed Lord Krishna temple at Guruvayoor opened its doors by following the various norms laid down by the government, the Sree Padmanabha Swamy and Attukkal temples in the state capital were among those which remained shut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-state-ministers-spar-over-opening-of-temples-847454.html
09-06-2020||South||Upcoming book shop in Kerala grabs Paulo Coelho's attention||Even before its launch, a book shop in Kerala is receiving much attention for its design and even renowned Brazilian writer Paulo Coelho shared it on social media. The book shop coming up near Aluva, about 20 kilometres from Kochi in Ernakulam district, has been designed with huge models of four popular books on its top, including Paulo Coelho's 'The Alchemist', resembling a bookshelf. After someone who found the design interesting shared a photo of the shop on social media, it went viral and grabbed the attention of the renowned writer also. Paulo Coelho also shared it and it has now become a hit. Aluva native Aji Kumar and his wife Manju, who are now running an engineering institution, are setting up the book shop out of their passion for reading. They also gave a different name for the shop, 'Once upon a time'. Aji told DH that the design for the shop evolved during his discussions with his wife about giving an attractive design for the shop. They chose ten of their favourite books. But their architect friend suggested that only four would give a much attractive display. Apart from 'The Alchemist', the other books modelled are 'Moby-Dick or The Whale' by Herman Melville, 'Aadujeevitham' (Malayalam) by Benyamin and J K Rowling's 'Harry Potter'. "We never thought that our book stall's design would catch the attention of the internationally renowned writer. We are really thrilled as it has now become viral," said Aji who plans to formally open the book shop by July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/upcoming-book-shop-in-kerala-grabs-paulo-coelhos-attention-847475.html
09-06-2020||South||Won't conduct COVID-19 tests on the dead, says Telangana health minister||Telangana health minister Etela Rajender has asserted that the state government would not conduct COVID-19 tests on the dead. The Telangana high court had, last month, asked the Chandrasekhar Rao government to conduct the tests on all the dead bodies in hospitals before handing them over to their relatives so that precaution could be taken if there is a COVID-19 infection. However, the state health machinery has been reluctant to follow the directive. “COVID-19 tests on the dead are very unscientific and the idea arises from lack of knowledge. ICMR has never asked for such tests,” Etela said on Tuesday. “About 1000 people die in the state everyday due to various reasons; the figure is 30,000 nationwide. So, conducting so many tests is impractical, impossible. We would not do it,” the minister emphasised. The state which recorded 3920 cases till Tuesday, is accused of not conducting enough tests. Unlike other states, Telangana COVID-19 bulletins do not even reveal the testing numbers.   In a review meeting with Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday, key health officials stated that it was not possible to conduct COVID-19 tests on all the dead in the state and that the Telangana High Court’s direction cannot be implemented. According to CMO officials, they even urged the CM to appeal the High Court order in the Supreme Court.  Medical staff deputed for such testing duty will not get any time to treat the patients, they contest. Telangana health officials are also miffed with the Court cases reviewing their COVID-19 approach. “Since some people have filed PILs, senior officials are visiting courts daily and are occupied with Court work the whole day. Thus, senior officials are unable to monitor Corona or other cases. These PILs are filed with vested interests leading to senior medical officers wasting their valuable time,” they said according to a CMO statement. The meeting at Pragathi Bhavan was attended by minister Etela, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Special Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Santhi Kumari, Commissioner Yogita Rana, DME Ramesh Reddy, DMH G Srinivas and COVID-19 experts. Officials claimed that all deaths accounted under COVID-19 were not entirely because of the virus. “About 95 per cent died due to other ailments like kidney, liver, heart, respiratory diseases, cancer patients, patients with high blood pressures, diabetics. But since they tested positive for coronavirus, they were put as COVID-19 deaths,” officials stated adding that the “false” method was causing fear among the public. The state has till Tuesday night recorded 148 COVID-19 related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wont-conduct-covid-19-tests-on-the-dead-says-telangana-health-minister-847487.html
09-06-2020||South||Repatriation Flights: As husband dies in Dubai, wife delivers baby girl in Kerala||A day after husband's death in Dubai, a Kerala woman who was in the news for approaching SC seeking repatriation flight for those stranded abroad during the lockdown, delivered a child in Kerala. Athira G S, hailing from Kozhikode, had returned to Kerala from Dubai on May 7 in the first flight under Vande Bharat Mission. Her husband Nithin Chandran, 28, a native of Perambra in Kozhikode in north Kerala, who preferred to stay back in UAE, was found dead in his room on Monday morning, suspected to be from a cardiac arrest in sleep. He had a medical history of heart ailments. On Tuesday Athira, who was unaware of Nithin's death till then, delivered a girl at Kozhikode. Nithin was working with a construction firm and Athira with a software firm in UAE. Athira had earlier approached the SC seeking repatriation flight. Later she got the chance to return in the first flight to Kerala. But Nithin stayed back and helped. Nithin stayed back saying that there were hundreds of needy people who wanted to return. He paid for the travel charges of two financially weak persons as a gratitude for the support his wife received for her fight to return to Kerala, recollect his friends and well-wishers, including Congress MLA Shafi Parambil. He was an active member of Indian Cultural and Arts Society in UAE and was actively involved with voluntary services like blood donation. The social media is being flooded with condolence messages over Nithin's death. The social media is being flooded with condolence messages over Nithin's death. Efforts to bring home Nithin's body was progressing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/repatriation-flights-as-husband-dies-in-dubai-wife-delivers-baby-girl-in-kerala-847620.html
09-06-2020||South||Telugu film industry delegation discusses issues with CM||A delegation of the Telugu film industry, led by veteran actor K Chiranjeevi, held a meeting with the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy here on Tuesday and discussed issues concerning the film world. The state government said it would allow re-opening of cinemas only after the Centre issues relevant guidelines, post-COVID-19 lockdown. The main request made by Chiranjeevi and was the waiver of minimum fixed power charges for cinemas as they remained shut due to the lockdown. The delegation also wanted the release of pending subsidy for small films. "The Chief Minister has promised to take steps for the revival of the Telugu film industry. He assured us that necessary guidelines will be issued for resuming film- shooting in the state, the veteran actor told reporters after the meeting. "We thank the Chief Minister for agreeing to waive the fixed power charges for cinemas, Chiranjeevi said. Besides, they sought flexible pricing of cinema tickets, which, Jagan said, would be considered. "This will help the industry tide over the crisis," Chiranjeevi said. State Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Perni Nani) said the Chief Minister considered the film industrys requests positively. "They wanted subsidy for small films released and the Chief Minister agreed to do it soon. Regarding re-opening of theatres, a decision will be taken based on the Centres orders," Nani said. Actor Akkineni Nagarjuna, film producer Daggubati Suresh Babu, directors S S Rajamouli, Trivikram Srinivas and others were part of the delegation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telugu-film-industry-delegation-discusses-issues-with-cm-847625.html
09-06-2020||South||Unlock 1.0: Worship centres, malls, hotels reopen in Kerala amid political spat||Even as malls, restaurants and many worship centres reopened for public after the lockdown on Tuesday amid a political spat, the number of persons who turned up was very low. The famed Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple in Thrissur, which used to have thousands of devotees daily, had only around 90 devotees on Tuesday even as 288 persons availed online token for darshan. Around 160 persons booked for online token for darshan on Wednesday and around 400 on Thursday, said temple officials. While Sabarimala Ayyappa temple is scheduled to allow devotees as the temple opens on June 14, the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple in Thiruvananthapuram had revoked its decision to allow devotees from today and to maintain status quo till June 30. A major section of churches, mosques and hotels preferred not to allow public till June 30. All worship centres, malls and hotels that allowed public were strictly following social distancing norms. Meanwhile, the political spat between the BJP and the ruling CPM in Kerala over opening temples was hotting up with the former reiterating demand to revoke the decision to reopen worship centres for public. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was having dubious intentions in allowing devotees at temples. The government was concerned over revenues from temples and not devotees. It is suspected that the government was trying to put the blame on devotees for COVID spike in Kerala as the governments efforts to contain COVID were now failing. Even as the centre issued general guidelines on allowing temples to reopen for public, state governments could take its own stands, he said. Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran flayed that the Muraleedraran was even unaware of centre's relaxation on lockdown norms. Meanwhile, Congress state leadership also accused that the state government had shown haste in reopening worship centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unlock-10-worship-centres-malls-hotels-reopen-in-kerala-amid-political-spat-847645.html
09-06-2020||South||Kerala reports 91 more COVID-19 cases; Quarantine crosses two lakh||While 91 more persons were tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala on Tuesday, the number of persons under quarantine crossed two lakh. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said in a statement that of the 91 fresh cases, 53 were persons from abroad and 27 from other states. Ten persons got infected through local contacts apart from one health worker, who was also tested positive. The number of persons on home and institutional quarantine reached 2.02 lakh, while 1,913 persons with some symptoms were at hospital observation. Meanwhile, a person under treatment for COVID-19 at Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital managed to leave the hospital and board a transport bus towards his house in the district. Health Minister's office said quoting hospital authorities that he was tested COVID-19 negative two times and was about to be discharged today. A probe was on into the incident. So far 2,095 persons in Kerala were infected, of which 848 already recovered and 1,231 are under treatment. Seventeen persons, including a native of Mahe which is part of Puducherry, died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-91-more-covid-19-cases-quarantine-crosses-two-lakh-847661.html
09-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 1,685 new cases & 21 deaths, numbers continue to mount||In the biggest single-day spike, Tamil Nadu on Tuesday recorded 1,685 fresh COVID-19 patients with over 1,500 of them belonging to this metropolis and its three neighbouring districts alone underlining “high-prevalence” of the virus in and around the city. The increase in the number of people testing positive for the coronavirus came even as the number of samples tested on Tuesday was 1,763 lesser than 14,982 samples that were sent to the testing labs on Monday. But the number of positive cases is 123 higher than Monday’s 1,562. The state’s COVID-19 tally now stands at 34,914, including 18,325 discharges and 307 deaths. Tuesday also saw Tamil Nadu reporting its biggest single-day spike in the number of deaths with 21 people being reported as having lost their lives by the Health Department. While five people had no comorbidities, the remaining 15 had one or multiple comorbidities at the time of admission to various government and private hospitals. Of the 21 deaths reported on Tuesday, all but one hailed from Chennai, whose individual death toll mounted to 244. Of these, nine were below the age of 60. The increase in the number of people succumbing to COVID-19 is the cause of concern for the state which is now grappling to contain the spread of the virus, which is out in the open. The situation in Chennai continues to be grim with 24,545 cases as on Tuesday even as beds in government hospitals and COVID-19 care centers run by the state administration are fasting filling up. Though people in large numbers have taken to the social media to complain about non-availability of beds in both government and private facilities, the government maintains it has enough beds to accommodate patients who test positive. As allegations flew thick and fast, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said the government was setting up another 1,100 beds spread over three hospitals in the city to accommodate COVID-19 patients. He said a COVID-19 special facility is being set up at the King Institute in Guindy with 500 beds and an ICU. On Tuesday alone, 1,243 persons from Chennai tested positive for coronavirus and if one adds the numbers from the three neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kanchipuram, the number goes up to 1,523 which is over 90 percent of the cases reported. And, surprisingly, the government, which should test more people now, has been decreasing the number of tests gradually for the past two days. While it tested 16,275 samples on June 7, it came down to 14,982 on June 8 and further down to 13,219 on June 9. Despite the samples being reduced, the number of cases has been on the rise, which experts say is due to “high-prevalence” of the virus in the community. And nearly 18,000 of the total cases in Chennai are from seven zones, three of which houses the most crowded and over-populated areas in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-1685-new-cases-21-deaths-numbers-continue-to-mount-847662.html
09-06-2020||South||'Malicious propaganda' – Telangana’s response to alleged negligence causing deaths at COVID-19 hospital||Even as the alleged gaps in the treatment of COVID-19 patients at the nodal Gandhi Hospital are being revealed, the Telangana government is maintaining its claim of “adequate capacity, facilities, and equipment to treat coronavirus patients of any number.” The death of 33-year-old Manoj Kumar, a Telugu news channel journalist, on Sunday morning has put focus on patient care at the Gandhi hospital, the state-run hospital treating COVID-19 patients in Telangana. In phone messages with his brother Sainath, who also tested positive and was in the same hospital, Kumar had, a day before his death, pleaded that they move to a private hospital, as “the ICU is not good. No one is taking care here too.” In a video message revealed on Tuesday, Sainath alleged that his brother was shifted to the Hospital’s ICU only after pressure from some journalists on Telangana health minister Etela Rajender. “The situation is that without any influence, it is difficult to get proper treatment. For commoners, it is really difficult here,” Sainath said. However, through a statement from the CMO on Monday night, the state’s medical and health officials refuted all such charges and expressed anguish that "some media organisations and individuals are spreading false information and creating panic and confusion among the people.” The officials even expressed “a doubt that there may be some conspiracy behind this malicious propaganda.” According to them, Gandhi Hospital has facilities to treat 2150 patients and 1000 beds with Oxygen supply. But only 247 COVID-19 patients are under treatment there. However, the numbers are recorded apparently following the hospital’s decision to stop treating COVID-19 positive patients under 50 years of age and showing no symptoms. GH Superintendent Dr M Raja Rao has stated that on Monday 393 such patients having no fever, cold or cough were sent home. “83 of them who lacked separate rooms at their homes were sent to the Ameerpet nature cure hospital for quarantine,” Dr Rao said. The Superintendent had stated that Kumar, suffering from Myasthenia Gravis, a condition of muscular weakness including respiratory muscles, had become COVID-19 positive with bilateral pneumonia and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. He had a cardiac arrest and could not be revived despite best efforts, Dr Rao said.   Senior health department officials say that all patients who received treatment and discharged, “went home happy”. “While such people have publicly appreciated our best treatment, it is painful that some are levelling false charges,” they rued. Telangana has till Monday night recorded 3742 total cases and 142 deaths. The Chandrasekhar Rao government is accused of not conducting enough COVID-19 tests which opposition parties allege is an attempt at concealing the magnitude of the coronavirus spread in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malicious-propaganda-telangana-s-response-to-alleged-negligence-causing-deaths-at-covid-19-hospital-847674.html
09-06-2020||South||Kerala CM's daughter Veena to marry DYFI leader Muhammad Riyas||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's daughter Veena T and Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) national president Muhammad Riyas are all set to get married. According to sources, the marriage was already registered and a function would be held on June 15 in Thiruvananthapuram with a small gathering of family members and friends. Veena, who earlier worked with Oracle, is now running IT firm Exalogic Solutions in Bengaluru. She was recently in the news over the Kerala government's deal with US-based firm Sprinklr. Riyas, a native of Kozhikode, is the son of a retired police officer. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2009 Lok Sabha polls from Kozhikode. It is the second marriage for both Veena and Riyaz.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's daughter Veena T and Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) national president Muhammad Riyas||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-daughter-veena-to-marry-dyfi-leader-muhammad-riyas-847701.html
09-06-2020||State||STPI units from Karnataka record export of Rs 36,459 crore during lockdown||Karnataka's IT industry stayed afloat during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, with Software Technology Parks of India units posting exports of Rs 36,459 crore over the three month period (March-April-May 2020), STPI said on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion of 29th STPI foundation day celebrations on June 5, STPI Director General Dr. Omkar Rai said STPI had enabled work from home facility to its member units well before the lockdown was declared. To help start-ups during the lockdown, the government has waived rentals for start-ups operating out of the STPI for a period of four months from March one, 2020 to June 30, 2020, he was quoted as saying in an STPI statement. Eighteen start-ups in Karnataka have benefited from this. STPI-Bengaluru is also in the process of setting up an Atal Incubation Centre focusing on healthcare domain, supported by NITI Aayog. The Centre will be mentored by renowned cardiologist Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, who will guide start-ups there, the statement said, adding, it would help start-ups to bring new technological solutions in the healthcare domain. STPI-Bengaluru centre was set up in 1991 and today it has four sub-centres (Mysuru, Hubballi, Mangaluru and Manipal) under its jurisdiction. Exports from Karnataka have seen a remarkable growth from Rs 5.6 crore in 1991-92 to Rs 1,74,894 crore in 2018-19, which is 41 per cent of the total current national exports, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/stpi-units-from-karnataka-record-export-of-rs-36459-crore-during-lockdown-847533.html
09-06-2020||State||No institutional quarantine for Maharashtra returnees: Karnataka health minister||The Karnataka government has decided to do away with institutional quarantine for returnees from Maharashtra and will enforce strict home quarantine for 14 days for them, state Health Minister B Sriramulu said on Tuesday. Addressing reporters at Udupi after a meeting at the deputy commissioners office, he said the houses of returnees concerned will be sealed down and they will be quarantined. With the help of ASHA workers, home guards and police, their movements will be monitored, he said. Udupi has till Monday recorded 946 COVID-19 cases, majority of them returnees from Maharashtra. The deputy commissioner will be the complete authority over the management of people coming from other states, the minister said. The houses sealed will be provided with food kits through local organisations and symptomatic cases among returnees will be tested immediately. In apartment complexes, only the flat in which a returnee stays will be sealed, he said. Sriramulu said action will be taken against private hospitals found to be collecting exorbitant amounts from COVID-19 patients for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-institutional-quarantine-for-maharashtra-returnees-karnataka-health-minister-847638.html
09-06-2020||State||Karnataka govt set to approve model sale agreement to help buyers||In a big relief to home buyers, the state government after much delay is all set to approve the model sales agreement as per the provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act. This will be a binding document for both the builders and the buyers on all aspects related to the sale of a property, including project completion, conditions of sale, down payment and other stipulations. Housing Minister V Somanna told DH that he had signed off on the file, which is likely to come up for Cabinet approval later this week. Recently, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) had published the draft notification for the Karnataka Real Estate (Regulation and Development) (Agreement for Sale) Rules, 2020, inviting objections. The draft, approved by Somanna, is awaiting Cabinet clearance. "The notification is as per the Centre's format. We will implement it as it is. This will help all home buyers, especially the middle class, as the builders will have to conform with the conditions specified under the agreement," Somanna explained. According to K S Latha Kumari, secretary, Karnataka RERA, this agreement would allow for a uniform procedure for all builders and promoters. "For instance, with this notification, the promoter has to register agreement of sale document if he wants to receive more than 10% of the total property value as down payment. Earlier, there was no security for this amount paid by the consumer. This document will empower the buyers. It will also help them understand well ahead the clauses to which they are agreeing," she said.  This notification, albeit delayed in Karnataka, was much needed, according to M S Shankar, convener of Fight for RERA forum. "Currently, the agreement is done as per the whims of the builders, with no standard format. They stipulate many conditions that are not valid as per the regulations. As per the draft notification, it will be mandatory for a builder to enter into the agreement only upon receiving all the requisite approvals for the project," he said. In 2018, the state government had issued the first draft notification, which was not finalised. "The draft had diluted the Centre's guidelines, allowing the builder to start construction before the final layout plan was approved. It also allowed them to seek partial occupancy certificates before the completing the construction. We had opposed this," Shankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-set-to-approve-model-sale-agreement-to-help-buyers-847731.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Prices of arecanut reaches Rs 300 per kg||The closure Nepal and Bangla border during the lockdown and the increase in demand for areca nuts in North India helped the procurement prices of Chali variety of arecanut (white arecanut) to shoot up by Rs 50 a kg and reached Rs 300 per kg, surpassing all the prices that existed all these years.  The prices had jumped from Rs 250 per kg to Rs 300 per kg, in a gap of a few weeks during the lockdown, Campco (Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Co-operative Ltd) President S R Sathischandra said to the media during a press meet organised by DK Working Journalists Association, at Patrika Bhavana in Mangaluru on Tuesday (June 9). Arecanut was properly procured In line with the guidelines of the government during the lockdown and with this, Campco was able to bring stability to the arecanut market. The arecanut consignments were also transported to Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat— the main consumer markets in North India.  To ensure that cocoa beans do not get wasted during the complete lockdown period, the farmers were taught to dry the beans using social media. Hence, the wastage of cocoa beans could be prevented, said the Campco president. Campco MD Suresh Bhandary said that they started procuring the fresh arrivals of arecanut at Rs 250 per kg from April 13. When the demand increased in North India, the prices shot up. The price of old arecanut stocks has been increased to Rs 320 per kg from Rs 275 a kg. During the lockdown period, the Campco had procured 8,000 quintals of cocoa beans from the farmers. When Campco started procuring wet beans on April 9, the price was Rs 59 per kg for wet beans and Rs 175 per kg for dry beans. Now, the price has been stabilised at Rs 50 per kg for wet beans.  Bhandary said once the import of arecanut resumes, then it may be difficult to maintain the price of arecanut at this rate. Retail packFurther, Bhandary said that premium assorted gift box chocolates of Campco —Milk Marvel, Dietier, dark chocolate, and white chocolate are now available in the retail packaging. There was a demand to be sold in the retail pack instead of gift boxes. Campco president said that Campco has made arrangements to supply Copper Sulphate to the farmers at a subsidised rate without compromising the quality. To protect arecanuts from fruit rot disease, spraying Copper Sulphate fluid on arecanut bunches should be taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prices-of-arecanut-reaches-rs-300-per-kg-847460.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Deve Gowda files nomination for Rajya Sabha polls from Karnataka||JD(S) patriarch H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday filed his nomination as party's candidate for June 19 Rajya Sabha elections from Karnataka. The former Prime Minister was accompanied by his sons former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy and former Minister H D Revanna, state JD(S) chief H K Kumaraswamy and others, as he filed his papers at the office of Legislative Assembly Secretary M K Vishalakshi, who is the returning officer for the polls. JD(S) on Monday had announced that Gowda will be contesting the Rajya Sabha polls. Announcing the decision, Kumaraswamy had said Gowda decided to contest following the request of Congress President Sonia Gandhi, several national leaders and party legislators, and it was not an easy task to "persuade" him to enter the Rajya Sabha. The JD(S), which has 34 seats in the assembly, is not in a position to win a seat in Rajya Sabha on its own and will need support from the Congress with its surplus votes. A minimum of 45 votes are required for a candidate to win. If he wins, this will be the second Rajya Sabha entry for 87-year-old Gowda, the first time being in 1996 as the Prime Minister. Gowda was defeated in Tumkur constituency by BJP's G S Basavaraj by over 13,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. As joint candidate of the then ruling Congress-JDS coalition, Gowda had chosen to contest from Tumkur at the last minute after vacating Hassan-his home turf, to grandson Prajwal Revanna (a current MP). Election is scheduled on June 19 to fill four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka, represented by Rajeev Gowda and BK Hariprasad of Congress, Prabhakar Kore of the BJP and D Kupendra Reddy of JD(S) that will fall vacant on June 25, with their retirement. Today is the last date for filing nominations. With BJP not fielding any candidate against Gowda, his election is likely to be unanimous.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/deve-gowda-files-nomination-for-rajya-sabha-polls-from-karnataka-847462.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kalaburagi reports youngest coronavirus death in Karnataka||Kalaburagi reported the youngest COVID-19 fatality in Karnataka on Tuesday. A 17-year-old girl (P5900) from Kalaburagi district who had fever, headache and breathlessness was admitted on June 4 to a designated COVID-19 hospital but died on the same day.  She was suffering from demyelinating disease. It is a condition that results in damage to the protective covering (myelin sheath) that surrounds nerve fibers in the brain, optic nerves and spinal cord. When the myelin sheath is damaged, nerve impulses get slow or even stop, causing neurological problems. Kalaburagi has reported 769 cases so far which is the second highest in Karnataka, only behind Udupi. 548 of these cases are still active. It has also reported eight deaths including the first COVID-19 death in India. According to the last available state war room report, 38 patients above the age of 60 have died of COVID-19 in the state, 16 patients between the age of 50 and 60, nine between 40 and 50, and one patient between 30 and 40 years of age passed away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kalaburagi-reports-youngest-coronavirus-death-in-karnataka-847600.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC exam to be held; schools in Karnataka to re-open after August: Minister||A decision on reopening schools in Karnataka would be taken after August but class X board exams would be held on June 25 as per the recent schedule announced by the state government, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said on Tuesday. Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have cancelled the class X exams and decided to promote the candidates to the next level in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. On the re-opening of schools in Karnataka, Suresh Kumar said, "At the most, we may take a decision after August in this regard (about opening the schools). In our cabinet meeting too, we shall discuss it and then take a call." The Minister made these announcements while speaking to reporters in Udupi. Clarifying that there is neither an intention nor a decision to re-open the schools at this juncture, Kumar said even if the state government wishes so, it would be done in a phased manner - High school first, then middle school or higher primary school. "We will keep everyone's interest in mind before taking a decision," he said. Regarding the SSLC examination, the minister said, "After deliberating with many experts, we kept the interest of children in mind and are holding the examination taking all precautions." He added that the issue of holding the SSLC examination was discussed in the High Court as well. Kumar said the Human Resource Development Ministsry and Ministry of Home Affairs have given green signal to hold the exam. He appealed to the people not to create any confusion among children about the examination when they are seriously preparing for it. The examination was supposed to take place on March 27 and was put on hold due to coronavirus lockdown, and it was decided it would be conducted on June 25. In the meanwhile, many schools insisted to reopen and start the classes. There were reports of a good number of schools conducting online classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-exam-to-be-held-schools-in-karnataka-to-re-open-after-august-minister-847614.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DK Shivakumar's coronation put off again as govt rejects his plea||The Karnataka state government on Tuesday shot down Congress leader DK Shivakumar’s request to organise an event for his formal coronation as the party’s president on June 14.  This is the third time Shivakumar’s formal coronation has been put off. Initially, he was to take charge on May 31, which was postponed to June 7.  The fresh postponement is a setback for Shivakumar, who wants his formal swearing-in as the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president to be a show of strength that will boost the morale of the party’s cadre. He even came up with a name for the event - Pratigna.  The Congress leader had sought permission to take charge at the party’s headquarters in Bengaluru in the presence of around 150 senior leaders. The event would be telecast live and party workers at over 7,000 locations across the state were to take an oath and read the preamble of the Constitution.  In response to his request, the disaster management wing of the revenue department cited Centre’s guidelines that allow only marriage-related gatherings (not more than 50 guests) and funerals/last rites (not more than 20 people). It also pointed out a decision on allowing social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions which will be taken in the third phase of Unlock 1.0.  “As per the Centre’s guidelines, your request cannot be considered,” the department said, in a letter that also mentions that the decision was approved by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa.  The Congress has hit out at the BJP government for denying permission to the event. “On June 14, 'PRATHIJNA DINA' was to be held at 7,800 locations across Karnataka with 10 lakh+ Congress Karyakartas attending it, with care taken wrt safety precautions for Covid & social distancing. By denying permission to it again, BJP govt is indulging in vendetta politics,” the party said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dk-shivakumars-coronation-put-off-again-as-govt-rejects-his-plea-847643.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Taking samples from dead banned in Karnataka but COVID-19 suspects to be cremated as per protocol||"Drawing of swabs from dead people has been banned. Yesterday, the union health secretary was clear on that. But the cremation of a person who is a COVID-19 suspect remains the same, no change," said Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, a day after Karnataka revised its lab testing protocol. Now, there is no need to do a COVID-19 test after death. This decision comes close on the heels of the Delhi Health Secretary's order three weeks back when she decided that the Union Territory will no longer take samples after death even if the person is suspected to have died of coronavirus. However, those suspected to have died of coronavirus have to be buried or cremated as per ICMR protocols. Malini Aisola, co-convener, All India Drug Action Network, said, "Taking swabs from dead bodies in cases suspected to have been affected by COVID-19 is recommended by the ICMR. It is necessary for contact tracing and also important for monitoring spread of the infection as deaths are an important indicator (being a fraction of all cases). A policy against testing dead bodies undermines appropriate reporting of COVID-19 deaths as per guidelines.  Delhi government's decision to stop testing dead bodies received criticism for similar reasons and was taken when systematic under reporting of deaths was exposed by the media.” This decision only helps in bringing down the mortality rates of the state as out of the 64 deaths reported so far, many were declared COVID-19 positive days after their death. On Monday alone, two of the three deaths in Bengaluru Urban were of those who had died on June 4 and June 5 respectively but their COVID-19 test reports came three to four days later. Dr MK Sudarshan, Chairman of the state COVID-19 task force said, "A patient is more infectious than a dead COVID-19 patient. So a COVID-19 test is not required after death. After maintaining necessary precautions, COVID-19 suspects can be buried. Initially, there were instructions to take the swabs within two to six hours. We are not hiding any COVID-19 deaths." Bengaluru Urban has so far seen 18 COVID-19 deaths and one suicide by a COVID-19 patient. Dr Srinivas GA, District Health Officer, Bengaluru Urban said, "In our district at least in four or five deaths, the swabs were taken after the patient died. We have not received any direction not to take swabs from dead bodies, yet."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/taking-samples-from-dead-banned-in-karnataka-but-covid-19-suspects-to-be-cremated-as-per-protocol-847697.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Spike in internet use in rural areas during COVID-19 lockdown: Karnataka minister||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Tuesday said there has been a spike in use of the internet in rural areas during the COVID-19 induced lockdown period. Rural areas registered an increase of 35 to 40 per cent in use of the internet during the lockdown in the last two to three months, he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. "There are 93,834 subscribers to BharatNet and had used 30,239 GB between January and May. This is the highest in recent years," he said. The DCM also said internet connectivity, provided under the government of India's BharatNet project, in rural areas will be improved in the next two to three months. "I reviewed the progress of the BharatNet implementation and the steps to be taken to improve the quality of internet connectivity in the next two to three months. We also discussed the possibility of giving the implementation of BharatNet to a different agency. We will seek permission from the Central government and continue the project," Narayan said. The DCM, who is also in charge of IT, BT and Science and Technology, today held a video conference with heads of different agencies and officials on improving the quality of internet in rural areas. BSNL officials and other agency representatives,who attended, explained problems faced by them, and Narayan assured them that their issues would be solved through proper coordination, the release said. Noting that through BharatNet, several government schemes are being implemented in rural areas, Civic Service Centres are issuing birth and death certificates, Aadhar, social security pensions,among others, the DCM said, of the total 6,000 Gram Panchayats in the state 4,000 have good high speed internet connectivity. Remaining will be provided with better internet connectivity through a new agency, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/spike-in-internet-use-in-rural-areas-during-covid-19-lockdown-karnataka-minister-847698.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mallikarjun Kharge and his son receive threat calls||Congress' Rajya Sabha candidate from Karnataka and senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge and his son received threat calls on Sunday, with the latter filing a complaint with the state police chief. Kharge, a former Union Minister, received the call in the wee hours of Sunday on his landline while his son Priyank later got a call from a private number on his mobile phone. Priyank lodged a complaint with the Director-General of Police Praveen Sood and former MLC Ramesh Babu shared the copy of the complaint on Twitter on Tuesday. In his complaint, Priyank Kharge stated that at about 1.30 am on Sunday, his father received a call on the landline where the caller spoke in Hindi and English and used invective against the Congress veteran. The caller, according to the complaint, spoke about the Rajya Sabha election and threatened Kharge. Police are looking into the matter. Kharge is the Congress' pick for the June 19 Rajya Sabha election from Karnataka. JD(S) supremo and former Prime Minister Deve Gowda and two BJP candidates have also filed nominations for the election to the upper House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mallikarjun-kharge-and-his-son-receive-threat-calls-847717.html
09-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Finally, govt teachers to get ID cards this academic year||The government has finally decided to issue identity cards to all government teachers from the ensuing academic year. Officials from the education department told DH that the issue came up for discussion during one of the recent meetings and several officials felt that ID cards were the need of the hour for the teachers. “Be it a survey or a drive for creating awareness, teachers are deployed for all the work. But they have never been issued an ID card. They carry a government order for conducting assigned survey or interaction. In case of road accidents or medical emergencies, they do not have ID card and this had been leading to several problems,” an official explained. In fact, during a phone-in programme with the Education minister recently, a teacher from North Karnataka explained her plight in making people understand she was actually a teacher and conducting a survey as per the government orders. Basavaraj Gurikar, president of Karnataka State Government Primary School Teachers’ Association welcomed the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/finally-govt-teachers-to-get-id-cards-this-academic-year-847724.html
09-06-2020||West||Goa govt changes quarantine SOP for those entering state||The Goa government on Monday changed its standard operating procedure (SOP) for people entering the state amid the coronavirus outbreak by giving them the option of 14-day home quarantine without testing. Those who prefer to get tested at the state's borders will have to spend 14 days in paid quarantine facilities till their results are out, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. "The new SOP will come into force from June 10," he added. Speaking about hotspot Mangor Hill in Vasco, Sawant said of the 300-plus cases in Goa, all, except 25, are from the area. "However, only 19 patients need treatment. The rest are asymptomatic," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-changes-quarantine-sop-for-those-entering-state-847350.html
09-06-2020||West||Man quizzed in Palghar lynching case commits suicide||A 32-year-old man, who was among local villagers interrogated by the police in connection with the mob lynching of three persons in April near here, has allegedly committed suicide, police said on Monday. The man, Vinus Dharma Dhangada, was found hanging from a tree in a forested area near villager Chinchpada in Palghar district on Saturday, the rural police said. His body has been sent for post-mortem and the Kasa police have registered a case of accidental death, they said, adding no suicide note has been found. The cause of the extreme step taken by Dhangada was not yet known, the police said. Dhangada was a resident of Chinchpada, located adjoining village Gadchinchale, where three persons, including two sadhus, were killed by a violent mob on April 16. Dhangada was not an accused in the lynching case, but he was among villagers interrogated by the police team probing the lynching incident, a senior officer of the Palghar police said. In fact, almost all residents of Gadchinchale and some others of the nearby villages had been interrogated by the probe team, he said. Only those suspected of being involved in the brutal attack were arrested, the officer said. More than 100 people have been arrested so far in connection with the lynching case. The three victims, the sadhus and their car driver, were attacked by the mob amid rumours that thieves were roaming in the area during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-quizzed-in-palghar-lynching-case-commits-suicide-847356.html
09-06-2020||West||Some labs took 18 days to submit swab reports: BMC head||Some laboratories in Mumbai took as many as 18 days to deliver swab reports related to coronavirus cases, BMC Commissioner I S Chahal has said. The senior IAS officer, who took over as commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last month, said after he joined the post, he found that swab reports of April 4 were delivered on April 22. "Some labs were committing serious crime by submitting reports 18 days later. They deserved to be punished for late reporting," Chahal told a TV channel on Monday. The civic chief said he told such labs that inordinate delay in submitting reports of samples taken for coronavirus was not acceptable. "I told them clearly that if you could not give me swab reports in 24 hours, you cannot function here in Mumbai. I cannot accept your reports after 15 to 16 days...you don't chew more than you digest," Chahal said to a question. "I could test around 3,600 (per day) in Mumbai after testing guidelines were issued by the ICMR. Due to the guidelines of carrying out tests of only symptomatic patients, the total figure of testing came down," he said.  Chahal said the civic body is going beyond the testing norms issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "We have 2,500 hospitals in Mumbai. Every hospital has now been authorised to go ahead with testing. We even allowed people to let swabs be collected from their homes, which is outside the guidelines of the ICMR," the commissioner added. Till Monday, Mumbai reported 49,863 COVID-19 cases, including 1,700 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/some-labs-took-18-days-to-submit-swab-reports-bmc-head-847391.html
09-06-2020||West||Sonu Sood stopped from meeting migrants at Bandra Terminus||Actor Sonu Sood, who has been arranging transport for migrant workers stranded in Mumbai and has faced criticism from the Shiv Sena for "enacting a political script written by BJP", was stopped outside the Bandra Terminus here by police from meeting labourers. A Mumbai Police official said the actor was stopped by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) when he reached the station on Monday night to meet some labourers, and added that they have not received any complaint so far in this connection. The migrant labourers were supposed to take the Shramik Special train from Bandra Terminus to Uttar Pradesh. Nirmal Nagar police station's senior inspector Shashikant Bhandare said, "The actor were stopped by the RPF, not by us. He wanted to meet labourers who were going to their native place. We have not received any complaint regarding this till now." Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday wondered whether the BJP propped up Sood to "offer help" to migrant workers from north India stranded in Maharashtra amidst the lockdown, with the political motive to show the Uddhav Thackeray government in poor light. In his weekly column 'Rokhthok' in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut questioned the sudden rise of "Mahatma" Sood on the social scene of Maharashtra during the lockdown. Raut also referred to a "sting operation" against Sood ahead of the 2019 general elections, saying he had agreed to promote the BJP-led government at various platforms through his official social media accounts. However, later that day Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray lauded Sood's initiative to arrange buses for stranded migrant workers. The actor met Thackeray at the latter's residence 'Matoshree' in suburban Bandra on Sunday night. On Monday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh backed Sood for his work for stranded migrant workers, and questioned the Maharashtra government's criticism of the actor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sonu-sood-stopped-from-meeting-migrants-at-bandra-terminus-847421.html
09-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra's Golden Triangle has over 78,000 COVID-19 positive cases, 2,600 plus deaths||The region comprises seven districts - Mumbai City,  Mumbai Suburban, Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Pune and Nashik. The Golden Triangle is the biggest industrial belt of India. If one looks at Monday's data of the Public Health Department, Mumbai has reported a progressive total of 1,702 deaths and 50,058 cases. If one takes into account Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) - two districts of Mumbai and Thane and parts of Palghar and Raigad districts -- the tally is 2,134 deaths and 66,640 cases. On the other hand, Pune district that includes the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) has reported a progressive of 413 deaths and 9,877 cases. As far as the Thane district is concerned, it has reported a progressive of 91 deaths and 1,592 positive cases.   If one looks at Maharashtra's total,  the state has reported 3,169 deaths and 88,628 cases. The number of active cases is 44,374, nearly 50 per cent of the total cases reported. If one looks at the deaths reported just on Monday, the MMR has reported 70 deaths while Pune and Nashik districts, 13 each. "The Mumbai-Pune-Nashik belt is a highly congested belt, in fact, it is one large mega metropolis in a sense. The number was bound to shoot," said a medical professional, who is associated with both, Maharashtra Medical Council, and, Indian Medical Council-Maharashtra State. According to officials in the Maharashtra government, one of the key concerns now is to tackle the monsoon issues effectively and prevent water-borne and vector-borne diseases like malaria, dengue, chikungunya,  leptospirosis, jaundice, gastro ailments and swine flu.   In fact, Maharashtra in 2018 and 2019, has reported the maximum swine flu cases from Pune and Nashik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtras-golden-triangle-has-over-78000-covid-19-positive-cases-2600-plus-deaths-847424.html
09-06-2020||West||Sena MP seeks refund or extension of Mumbai local train passes||Shiv Sena MP Anil Desai has demanded that the Railways give a refund to local train pass holders in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) or extend their travel period on resumption of services. In a letter to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday, Desai said majority commuters in Mumbai and suburbs take a monthly or quarterly railway pass since it is financially viable. The commuters are middle class people with calculated budget and rationed expenses. The number of such passengers runs into lakhs. Many of them have not travelled by trains since the last week of March as the local trains did not ply, the Rajya Sabha member said. He demanded that the railway ministry either refund the money or extend the travel period further on resumption of local train services. The suburban train services were suspended after the lockdown came into force in March. Every day, over 80 lakh people travel in local trains, which are considered as the lifeline of Mumbai. The Central Railway and the Western Railway operate over 3,000 services on suburban routes daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sena-mp-seeks-refund-or-extension-of-mumbai-local-train-passes-847436.html
09-06-2020||West||Ensure lockdown easing does not boomerang: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said care should be taken to ensure that the easing of lockdown does not boomerang and emphasised the need to maintain self-discipline. An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said lockdown restrictions have been eased when COVID-19 cases are not showing any sign of going down. "After unlock, the challenges will increase. The government can be very strict, but people should not allow this situation to arise," it said. Even in the lockdown period, there was no respite from the increasing number of coronavirus cases. "The need of the hour is to have self-disciplineto ensure the lockdown easing does not boomerang," it said. Referring to a picture of people out on morning walk at the Marine Drive in Mumbai, the Marathi daily said if such a situation exists, it would make things difficult.  It said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was not in favour of lifting the lockdown instantly, but other political leaders wanted restrictions to be eased. The state government has started a phase-wise easing of lockdown restrictions through 'Mission Begin Again', but people have started behaving in an indisciplined manner, the Thackeray-led party said. It also noted that Union Home Minister Amit Shah recently held a virtual rally to launch the BJP's campaign for the Bihar Assembly polls, which are slated for October- November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ensure-lockdown-easing-does-not-boomerang-sena-847448.html
09-06-2020||West||Mira-Bhayandar Shiv Sena corporator dies of COVID-19||A 55-year-old Shiv Sena corporator from Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra's Thane district died of COVID-19 on Tuesday, party sources confirmed. The deceased had tested positive for coronavirus a week ago and was on ventilator support at a hospital in Thane city, a party spokesperson said. The family of the deceased, including his elderly mother, wife and son, who were undergoing treatment at the hospital, had recovered from the infection, he said. According to Sena sources, the four-time corporator was extremely active during the viral outbreak in the township and had helped the needy in the area. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader and MLA from Owala- Majiwada Pratap Sarnaik condoled the death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mira-bhayandar-shiv-sena-corporator-dies-of-covid-19-847452.html
09-06-2020||West||NCP Supremo Sharad Pawar visits cyclone-hit Raigad||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday visited Raigad district in Maharashtra to take stock of the damage caused by cyclone 'Nisarga' last week. Pawar interacted with locals at a market in Mangaon where district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare and Raigad Lok Sabha MP Sunil Tatkare were also present. The cyclone had caused huge devastation in parts of the coastal district, about 115 kms away from Mumbai, on June 3 after making landfall near Shrivardhan. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced an immediate relief of Rs 100 crore for Raigad. Pawar tweeted that he had begun his tour of coastal Konkan region to review the cyclone damage. A close aide of Pawar said that the NCP chief would visit areas affected by the cyclone in Ratnagiri district on Wednesday. Six persons were killed and 16 others injured in different districts of the state in cyclone-related incidents like falling of electricity poles. The state government had announced Rs 4 lakh aid to the kin of the dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-supremo-sharad-pawar-visits-cyclone-hit-raigad-847471.html
09-06-2020||West||Aurangabad records 72 COVID-19 cases; tally at 2,141||As many as 72 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on Tuesday, taking the tally in the region to 2,141, an official said. Swab reports of 72 suspected patients came out positive on Tuesday morning, the district official said. Of the 2,141 cases reported in the district so far, 780 patients were presently undergoing treatment at various hospitals and COVID-19 facilities, he said. At least 1,253 persons have recovered from the infection, while 108 patients had succumbed to it so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-records-72-covid-19-cases-tally-at-2141-847485.html
09-06-2020||West||IIT students develop app for seamless air travel experience||Amid the heralding of new normal, students of Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati have developed a mobile application,  ‘Flyzy’, to provide a seamless air travelling experience to passengers during the pandemic. The application has been developed by Deepak Meena, 3rd-year B.Tech student, Department of Chemistry, IIT Guwahati, Hansraj Patel, 3rd year B.Tech student, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Guwahati, and Arjit Singh, 4th year B.Tech. student, Department of Electrical Engineering, JMIT. The mission is to build Flyzy into India’s finest aviation IT company for providing a stress-free and safe journey to flyers.  The aim of the application is to provide contactless boarding keeping in mind the easier baggage drop, manageable parking, better shopping experience and providing necessary updates during the whole journey.  The focus of the start-up is the software that they have developed and will be installed at the airports. The application is their way of taking the software to the public. The idea behind a mobile-based software is the majority of the people have a smartphone. Moreover, it's a hybrid software which will support face-biometric recognition in the future, without even changing the complete software system of the airport. Passengers can shop from the airport using the application and can also pay from the application. They can either opt for the takeaway or gate delivery option. The application also supports multi-currency payments.  For food ordering purpose, the app dynamically suggests the passenger the best option he could choose, based on the flight status. For instance, if the flight departs in 1 hour, the app will suggest the passenger the food items that could be prepared within the available time.  The application also has a Smart UI Assistant which helps the elderly to use the app easily. Other features of the application include real-time flight notifications, universal Web Check-in portal, check-in baggage status and map of the airport. Talking about their work, Flyzy team said, "Flyzy app will make the air-travel completely personalised by bringing everything on the phone, secure  as the app is hosted on the cloud and proper IATA and DGCA guidelines were followed,  and contactless.” The founders believe that the application will help the aviation industry save money as the process will become automated, faster and easier. The company provides an end-to-end service at a low infrastructure cost. The team is already in the process of speaking to the authorities for implementing the application at some airports. Flyzy has been developed as per International Air Transport Association (IATA) guidelines. Sankalp Borthakur, an alumnus of IIT Guwahati, is the Advisor of the start-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-students-develop-app-for-seamless-air-travel-experience-847527.html
09-06-2020||West||Coronavirus reaches Daman, two positive cases detected||Two persons on Tuesday tested positive for coronavirus in the Union Territory of Daman, which was till now in green zone, officials said. The two patients, a 41-year-old man and a four-year-old girl, both of whom arrived here from Mumbai recently, were shifted to a hospital in Marwad area of Daman, District Collector Rakesh Minhas said. "Till now, the man was kept at a government-run quarantine facility, while the girl was home quarantined with her parents in Khariwad area. We have shifted both the patients to a hospital in Marwad," he said. The girl's parents, whose reports came out negative, have also been shifted to the isolation ward of the hospital, the official said. Since the 41-year-old patient was kept at the quarantine centre soon after he arrived here from Mumbai, he did not come into contact with any local, the collector said. "We have declared Khariwad area as a containment zone after the girl's report came out positive. We have also initiated disinfection and contact-tracing in the area," he added. The Union Territory's administration recently said Daman and Diu were coronavirus-free till now due to strict implementation of the lockdown orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-reaches-daman-two-positive-cases-detected-847529.html
09-06-2020||West||Ganesh festival in Mumbai, Pune to be low-key affair||The Ganesh festival in India's financial capital of Mumbai and Maharashtra's cultural capital of Pune is expected to be a low-key affair. While the organisers in Mumbai have asked its members to keep it a low-key affair,  the Maharashtra government now has to take a final call or issue guidelines. While the Ganeshutsav is just a couple of months away,  the Mumbai-Pune belt is the worst-affected COVID-19 belt in the country. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the final call,  organisers in Mumbai and Pune said. The 11-day festival starts on August 22 on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on September 1 on Anant Chaturdashi. In Pune, the prominent Ganpati mandals like Kasba Ganpati, Tambdi Jogeshwari, Tulsi Baug, Guruji Talim,  Bhau Rangari,  Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati Mandal and Akhil Mandai Mandal held a video-conference meeting, in which it was decided not to hold public events and cultural programmes. In Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshutsav Samanway Samiti (BSGSS),  the apex body of Ganesh mandals, has urged the organisers to celebrate the festival in a simple manner. Meanwhile,  the Gaud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) Ganesh festival at Wadala and 21 Ganesh mandals of Khetwadi decided not to have celebrations and instead do it during Maghi Ganesh Chaturthi, that falls on February 15, 2021. In Mumbai and Pune alone,  there are 16,000-odd sarvajanik Ganesh mandals,  of which around 350 are the big ones. The organisers have decided to follow the guidelines of the WHO, Centre and Maharashtra government like physical distancing, have sanitation facilities. The popular Ganesh mandals are Lalbaug-cha-Raja at Lalbaug, Ganesh Gully, Lalbaug, Tejukaya Mandal, Lalbaug, Sahyadri Mandal, Tilak Nagar-Chembur, Shri Bal Gopal GaneshUtsav Mandal, Marine Lines, Fort VibhagSarvajanik Ganeshutsav Mandal, Fort, Andheri-cha-Raja or the Azad Nagar Sarvajanik Utsav Samitee at Andheri, will take final call soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ganesh-festival-in-mumbai-pune-to-be-low-key-affair-847580.html
09-06-2020||West||Top BMC official dies of COVID-19||A top official of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) passed away of COVID-19 infection on Tuesday.  The officer, Shirish Dixit,  was a deputy municipal commissioner and chief engineer of Water Supply department. 54-year-old Dixit had tested positive last week.  Three of his family members are in quarantine. He was asymptotic and was at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/top-bmc-official-dies-of-covid-19-847594.html
09-06-2020||West||Locust swarms spotted in Pench reserve in Maharashtra||Locust swarms descended in the in Maharashtra on Tuesday, a forest official said. The swarms flew in from the Koltimara area in the Pench Tiger Reserve west and descended over Borban, Chor Bahuli, Silari and Pipriya forest areas in the east, said Field director of Pench Tiger Reserve Ravikiran Govekar. The reserve is spread across the border of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The Maharashtra forest and agriculture departments were keeping a vigil on the movement of locusts, but no spraying of pesticide was conducted as the reserve is a protected area, he added. After it rained on Tuesday afternoon, swarms moved towards Mansar, and no major damage to crops or trees was seen, Govekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/locust-swarms-spotted-in-pench-reserve-in-maharashtra-847619.html
09-06-2020||West||Bodies of 6 COVID-19 patients untraceable? BMC denies reports||The Mumbai civic body on Tuesday dismissed reports of six bodies of COVID-19 patients having gone missing from various hospitals run by it so far, saying relatives of five of the deceased have been informed or action taken as per protocol with the help of police. Probe into a "missing" body from Rajawadi hospital is still on, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Separately, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar has ordered a probe into incidents of two coronavirus positive patients going missing from civic-run Shatabdi and Rajawadi hospitals.  An 80-year-old patient had recently gone mission from Shatabdi hospital in suburban Kandivali. His body was found lying near Borivali railway station, less than one km away from the hospital, on Monday night. A COVID-19 patient has also gone missing from Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar and remains untraced. Pednekar, who visited Shatabdi hospital, said several incidents of COVID-19 patients running away from hospitals have come to fore recently. She directed BMC administration to probe the missing incidents reported from Shatabdi and Rajawadi hospitals, an official release said. Pednekar also asked doctors concerned to check CCTV footage at Shatabdi hospital and take necessary precautions to avoid recurrence of such incidents.  Prima facie, security guards of a private company have been held responsible for the Shatabdi hospital incident, it said. In another release, the BMC dismissed reports that six bodies of COVID-19 patients have gone missing so far from civic-run hospitals like KEM, Sion, Trauma Care, Nair, Shatabdi and Rajawadi in Mumbai. "In five such incidents, deceased have been identified and their relatives have been informed or necessary action taken as per protocol with the help of police," the release said. These incidents happened mainly due to delay on part of relatives in claiming the bodies or they remaining unreachable, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bodies-of-6-covid-19-patients-untraceable-bmc-denies-reports-847622.html
09-06-2020||West||Mumbai: Celebrity talent manager jumps off high-rise, dies||A 28-year-old woman who worked as celebrity talent manager to several film actors committed suicide by jumping off the 12th floor of a building in Malad suburb of Mumbai, police said on Tuesday. Disha Satish Salian jumped off Galaxy Apartments in Jankalyan Nagar late Monday night, a Malwani police station official said. "She lived in Dadar but visited the building often as her fiance stayed here. Her parents were informed, their statements recorded. But they have not filed a complaint or named anyone in connection with the incident. Her swab sample has been collected for COVID-19 testing," he added. Senior Inspector Jagdev Kalapad said an accidental death report had been registered and probe was on to find out why she took this step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-celebrity-talent-manager-jumps-off-high-rise-dies-847624.html
09-06-2020||West||Serum Institute investing $100 mn on potential COVID-19 vaccine||Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, is investing USD 100 million on a potential COVID-19 vaccine being developed at Oxford University, according to a company official. The Pune-based company has partnered with AstraZeneca, a British biopharma giant, to ensure equitable supply of the AZD1222 vaccine doses to India as well as low-and-middle-income countries. "Our manufacturing facility is ready and we plan to start production in two months. We are spending more than USD 100 million for this facility. Till the trials are completed successfully for safety and efficacy, vaccines will not be distributed either in India or anywhere else in the world," Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India (SII), said. "Having said that we will start making a few millions of doses and stockpiling it at personal risk," added Poonawalla, while plying to a question on the firm's plans to move ahead in terms of production of the doses. To a question on how much doses India is likely to get in the first phase and by when they would be available, he said that it is a bit early to comment on a specific number. "However, if the vaccine trials succeed, India will gain access to the doses as it will also be the requirement of the Government of India. And we are certain that everybody will respect if the substantial volumes go to India," he added. Earlier, Poonawalla, on tie-up with the British drug major had said, "SII is delighted to partner with AstraZeneca in bringing this vaccine to India as well as low-and-middle-income countries." Over the past 50 years, SII has built significant capability in vaccine manufacturing and supply globally. "We will work closely with AstraZeneca to ensure fair and equitable distribution of the vaccine in these countries." Talking about SII's endeavour to develop a vaccine with USA based firm Codagenix, Poonawalla recently said that at present, the firm is undergoing pre-clinical trials (animal trial phase) and hope to progress to the human trial phase by September/October. "The aim is to make the vaccine over the next 1.5-2 years to help combat the novel coronavirus. With the combined efforts of our partner Codagenix, we are optimistic that we will be able to provide a viable and effective vaccine for mass use," he had said. Besides, Oxford and Codagenix, the firm is also working with Austria's Themis and other two vaccine candidates. At least half a dozen attempts at creating a vaccine against coronavirus are on globally and the efforts at Oxford are considered one of the most promising. A vaccine will be a radical intervention which can arrest the loss of lives due to the infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/serum-institute-investing-100-mn-on-potential-covid-19-vaccine-847656.html
09-06-2020||West||COVID-19: BMC launches probe into disappearance of dead bodies in Mumbai||Rattled by the reports of a couple of incidents of dead bodies going missing, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has ordered separate probes. "We have taken the incidents seriously," Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Tuesday. A COVID-19 patient's body went missing on Tuesday from Dr B R Ambedkar Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali but the body was discovered hours later near a suburban station. Pednekar visited the hospital for an assessment and ordered the inquiry. She was accompanied by BMC Health Committee chairman Ameya Ghole. The mayor termed the incident as “unfortunate” which happened despite a professional private security agency deployed at the hospital along with CCTVs. “It was an unfortunate incident... First, a COVID-19 patient goes missing from the hospital and then his body is found. We will probe the incident to know the exact facts in the matter," she said,  adding that the police is also looking into the issue. The man was reported to be ‘missing’ from the COVID-19 ward on Monday but subsequently, his dead body was found near Borivali station and brought back to the same hospital as an ‘unidentified’ person. The relatives of the family identified him as their missing kin. In a similar incident, the Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar ordered a separate probe into the missing body of a 23-year man— an accident victim— from its morgue while the COVID-19 test report was awaited. Maharashtra BJP vice president Dr Kirit Somaiya has alleged that in the last five days, six bodies were reported missing from hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bmc-launches-probe-into-disappearance-of-dead-bodies-in-mumbai-847677.html
09-06-2020||West||Gujarat: COVID-19 death toll breaches 1,300-mark; IMA moves court for testing||The death toll due to coronavirus in Gujarat crossed 1,300 on Tuesday after 33 more positive patients were reported dead in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,313. The state also added 470 new cases which took the total to 21,044, with a steady mortality rate of over 6% which is said to be the highest in India. The state has the same mortality rate for over two months now. The figure reveals that out of 1,313 deaths, Ahmedabad alone has contributed to over 80% or 1066 deaths, while in terms of positive cases, the city has 70% share or 14,962 cases, out of 21,044 total cases detected till Tuesday across the state. The death rate in Ahmedabad remains highest in the country with over 7%. On the other hand, with over 68% of the discharged rate, the state continues to be on top of the chart nationally. Till Tuesday evening, a total of 14,373 patients were cured and sent home. But, when it comes to testing, the state lags behind with only 2,56,289 tests till today, which is far less than many states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, among others. Meanwhile, the Gujarat government issued notice to the state government on a petition moved by Indian Medical Association seeking permission for asymptomatic health workers to get themselves tested at their own will without any hindrance. As of today, the state government doesn't permit asymptomatic persons to get themselves tested for suspicion of infection. The association, which claims to have has 28,500 practicing doctors as its members in the state, has said in the petition, "Testing by itself ensures the protection to health workers by enabling them to be aware regarding as to whether they are infected or not. The right to be aware is fundamental for ensuring that the frontline workers discharge their duties fearlessly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-death-toll-breaches-1300-mark-ima-moves-court-for-testing-847706.html
09-06-2020||West||Palghar Case: No exemption for Goswami, HC asks him to appear before police||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami exemption from appearance before the city police in a case about alleged provocative comments. A division bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla, which was hearing his petition seeking quashing of the FIRs, asked him to appear before the police on Wednesday. Two First Information Reports (FIRs) have been registered against Goswami in Nagpur and Mumbai accusing him of making provocative comments about a community during a news show. The show was about migrant workers gathering in large numbers outside the Bandra railway terminus during lockdown. His lawyer Harish Salve on Tuesday sought exemption for him from appearing before the Mumbai police on Wednesday and also later pending the hearing of the petition. Last month Goswami moved the Supreme Court seeking quashing of all the FIRs lodged against him. The SC on May 19 refused to quash the FIRs lodged in Maharashtra and said he could approach the Bombay High Court for relief. During the hearing on Tuesday, Maharashtra government's counsel Kapil Sibal opposed the plea for exemption and said his interrogation was necessary for probe. The bench then directed Goswami to appear before the concerned police station on Wednesday and posted the petition for hearing to June 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-case-no-exemption-for-goswami-hc-asks-him-to-appear-before-police-847721.html
