10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Various community members hold letter campaign in Hubballi over Scheduled Caste tag removal||Urging the government not to exclude Korama, Koracha, Bhovi (Vaddar)  and Banjara (Lambani) communities from the list of Scheduled Castes, members of these communities conducted a letter campaign in Hubballi on Wednesday. Under the banner of Karnataka Rajya Korama, Koracha, Bhovi (Vaddar) and Banjara (Lambani) Meesalati Samrakshana Samithi, protesters posted letters to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, at the head post office. Protesters lamented that some vested interests are trying to snatch the SC tag away from these communities, which are very backward. "The population of our communities is above one crore in Karnataka, and an intensive agitation will be launched if our demand is not fulfilled," said Pandurang Pammar. Basavaraj Amminbhavi, Venkatesh Mestri, and others led the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/various-community-members-hold-letter-campaign-in-hubballi-over-scheduled-caste-tag-removal-847899.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dharwad reports its first COVID-19 death||Dharwad reported its first COVID-19 related death on Tuesday. A 58-year-old (P-1943) resident of Girani Chawl Hubballi, who had returned from Mumbai on May 22 along with 11 others, died at 10:30 pm on Tuesday. According to sources at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, P-1943 who was on ventilator for more than five days, died due to multiple organ failure. He was diabetic and renal patient. According to KIMS doctors, P-1943 who was asymptomatic in the initial days, after returning from Mumbai started showing symptoms on June 5. He was shifted from institutional quarantine to hospital quarantine after his health condition started worsening. A senior doctor treating P-1943 said: “We left no stone unturned to treat him. However, day-by-day his heath condition worsened. We had even kept him on dialysis for his kidney related ailment. But we could not save him as the viral load in his body was very high.” His final rites were performed on Wednesday near Heggari, Hubbali as per the standard operating procedure set by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Five members of P-1943 family had turned positive after returning from Mumbai. However, on June 6 two members of the family, including a 2-year-old boy, were discharged from KIMS after complete recovery. Meanwhile, deceased person’s wife (P-4530), son (P-4531) and other member of the family are still receiving treatment at KIMS. It can be mentioned here that a 44-year-old priest from Lakkundi in Gadag district, had died at KIMS due to COVID-19 on June 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dharwad-reports-its-first-covid-19-death-847981.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mumbai-Karnataka region reports more recoveries than coronavirus cases||With comparatively less number of COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka on Wednesday, the number of discharged patients from hospitals in seven districts of Mumbai-Karnataka region is more than the new cases recorded on Wednesday. Among 120 cases reported in the State on Wednesday, 19 cases were from the Mumbai-Karnataka region, with a maximum number of 13 in Vijayapur district, all returnees from Maharashtra. Haveri, Gadag and Uttara Kannada recorded zero cases, while this number was four in Dharwad, two in Bagalkot and one in Belagavi. On the other hand, the number of recovered patients discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in seven districts was 25. A maximum of 10 patients were discharged in Uttara Kannada on Wednesday, while this number was six in Dharwad, four in Belagavi, three in Haveri, and one each in Bagalkot and Gadag, as per the data of the Health & Family Welfare Department. A COVID-19 patient has breathed his last in Dharwad district, and another patient is in ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mumbai-karnataka-region-reports-more-recoveries-than-coronavirus-cases-847990.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||1st study on tribal human devpt by city researchers||City-based researchers have taken up the first study on Tribal Human Development in Karnataka. The study on Tribal Human Development is meant to assess the status of socio-economic status of tribal people of Karnataka. The Tribal Human Development Report (HDR) is being prepared by a team of researchers from the Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy (CSSEIP), University of Mysore. The project is funded by Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs, with a grant of around Rs 30 lakh for two years. This is a second such effort in the country, after Kerala. D C Nanjunda, associate professor and project leader, said, “The study will help in understanding the status of various development indicators as well as their accomplishments. The Tribal HDR would assess various features of human development — covering quality of life; educational status, including enrolment and literacy level; health status, including morbidity, mortality rate, sanitation; and physical infrastructure.” “The objective of the study is to examine inter-district variation in multiple dimensions of tribal human development index in Karnataka and to rank different tribal groups. The project team will meet select tribal residents of all 55 tribal groups, across the state, to get data,” Nanjunda said. G S Prema Kumar, co-investigator, said, “Human development report is an index of the socio-economic achievement of any state, society, or community. The Tribal HDR is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the applicability of the mainstream development paradigm on tribes that form the foundation of welfare. The Tribal HDR will analyse the reasons for low levels of achievement and will provide specific policy options.” P T Dinesha, assistant professor, CSSEIP, another co-investigator, said, “The study would focus on changing social, economic, and health aspects. The report would help in better planning and achieving socio-economic development goals. The first consultative meeting of the project team, with government officials, representatives of voluntary organisations, and other stakeholders will be held soon. An advisory committee, representing various disciplines, has been formed to monitor the project.” V G Siddaraju, assistant professor, CSSEIP, said, "The tribal report will discuss the importance of good governance for sustainable tribal human development and will dwell on democratic decentralisation and participation of the tribal people in the state. Ramachandra, Girisha and Jyothi are assisting the project." “The report aims to explore ways in which tribal services can be improved and delivered efficiently, with accountability. The report acknowledges that state spending is imperative for tribal human development, but spending alone is not enough. The report will include the development potential in farming, eco-tourism and small scale industries. The challenges include tribe's isolation from the mainstream and the relatively delayed initiation into the modernisation process. The analysis and recommendations will serve as a record of existing development and also a tool for future initiatives,” said Nanjunda. The centre is looking for inputs from interested people or NGOs. They can contact 98809 64840.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1st-study-on-tribal-human-devpt-by-city-researchers-848032.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||MySugar: Minister cancels meet as farmer groups argue||Heated arguments between two groups of farmers at Mysugar factory, during the visit of Sugar Minister Shivaram Hebbar, forced him to cancel the meeting scheduled to be held on Wednesday. Shivaram Hebbar visited the guesthouse of Mysugar factory in Mandya, along with District In-charge Minister Narayana Gowda and MP A Sumalatha. Raitha Hitarakshana Samiti members urged that the factory be retained by the government. However, the members of another group Kabbu Oppigedarara Sangha opposed it and demanded that it be resumed under Operation and Management (O&M) system. There was heated exchange of words between the two groups. One group demanded that the government maintain the factory, start crushing by July-end, and pay the transport expenditure for the cane shifted to other factories. The other group insisted that the factory be started first as the sugarcane growers are in crisis. As the Sugar Minister could not convince both the groups, he cancelled the meeting that was scheduled to be held on Wednesday and left the place. Speaking to reporters later, Hebbar said, "We have three options before us and have to select one (Government management, privatisation and O&M). Otherwise, the factory would turn into a dilapidated structure. All should join hands to revive the factory and bail out the sugarcane growers." "The farmer leaders are against privatisation of the factory. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is also of the same district. Responding to the people's request, he has postponed the tender process. In all, Rs 22 crore has been released to settle the dues of those opting for VRS (Voluntary Retirement Service), he added. Later, he inspected the MySugar factory. MLA M Srinivas, Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh, SP K Parashuram were also present. District In-charge Minister Narayana Gowda said, "The government is ready to release Rs 25 crore for resuming MySugar factory. The CM too has directed to begin the factory by availing loans up to Rs 50 crore."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysugar-minister-cancels-meet-as-farmer-groups-argue-848037.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||KMA’s FB post claims Hassan doctor died of Covid stress||A doctor, a pediatrician, is claimed to have succumbed to Covid-19- related stress in Hassan on Tuesday. A post on the Facebook page of Karnataka Medical Association (KMA) reads: “Sorry to say this. Today, we lost young doctor Dr Shivakiran, pediatrician in Hassan, due to Covid stress. He had just finished flu clinic duty last week. Since three months, there is no holiday for doctors in Karnataka. He was having headache for one week, while on duty. Five days back, he collapsed while on duty. Later, he was found to have CVA and hematoma. He underwent surgery and was on ventilator. But, today morning, he passed away.” The post is shared by a few hundreds of people on their social media platforms. The post has also evoked a few hundred reactions. Dr H N Ravindra, former president of Karnataka chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) explained that CVA is cerebrovascular accident and hematoma is localised bleeding outside blood vessels, due to either disease or trauma, including injury or surgery. However, Dr Ravindra said, the claim of the KMA page is false and the death is not related to Covid stress. “It is true that 48 years is not the age to die. Dr Shivakiran was posted at the Taluk Hospital of Alur. According to family sources, Dr Shivakiran was suffering from headache for over a fortnight. Following a heart attack, he was hospitalised a few days back and he was under treatment,” he said. Hassan District Health Officer Dr K M Satish Kumar said, Dr Shivakiran was also on Covid duty for some time, but the claim on the KMA page that doctors are not given leave since three months, is false. “Government doctors were asked not to take leave unnecessarily. Some doctors have worked even on Sundays, in the interest of patients, as some private clinics and hospitals were not open. Doctors have taken leave, citing health or other reasons. The death of Dr Shivakiran is not related to Covid stress,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kma-s-fb-post-claims-hassan-doctor-died-of-covid-stress-848038.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Conduct SSLC exam with precautionary measures’||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday suggested the state government to conduct the SSLC examination with all precautionary measures and ensure safety of the students. Speaking to reporters here, Siddarmaiah said, "It is not right to oppose the examination, but the government must ensure all precautionary measures at the examination centres." When asked about the private educational institutions demanding more fee from the parents, Siddaramaiah said, "The government must review the fee structure of the private institutions. Even the students of economically poor sections are pursuing education in private schools. The government must take measures in this regard." Commenting on the oath taking ceremony of D K Shivakumar as the new Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee,  Siddaramaiah said, "The programme was planned to telecast live across the state and 10 lakh party workers were expected to be a part of it." "The state government denied permission for the event citing Union government’s lockdown guidelines. But, how did the BJP leader, also Home Minister Amit Shah took out a virtual rally in Bihar, Siddaramaiah questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/conduct-sslc-exam-with-precautionary-measures-848040.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Swearing-in: CM had given permission orally, says D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said Wednesday that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa gave him ‘oral permission’ to go ahead with his swearing-in event, which the government later rejected in writing.  Shivakumar had plans to take formal charge as KPCC president on June 14, but the Revenue department on Tuesday shot down his permission citing guidelines issued by the Centre.  “I personally called up the CM and requested him. I also spoke with the chief secretary and the police commissioner. I had oral permission from them,” Shivakumar said, accusing the BJP government of acting in a “politically-motivated” manner. Shivakumar pointed out that the government cited guidelines to obstruct his event whereas Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders were permitted to ‘virtually’ address large gatherings. “We have made all preparations across 7,800 locations. The event will be streamed live,” Shivakumar said, adding that the event will be held after the government gave its go-ahead.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Shivakumar was ‘unnecessarily’ blaming the government. “The government has no problem. If Shivakumar wants to take charge, we will consider making a special provision under the rules. But I thought the rules are the same for everybody across the country. But if Shivakumar thinks this is too important, then we’ll discuss it with the CM,” hemockingly said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swearing-in-cm-had-given-permission-orally-says-d-k-shivakumar-848076.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Nalin Kumar Kateel defends COVID-19 lockdown enforced by Centre||Speaking to reporters at Sedam of the district, he stated the world leaders have lauded the steps taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stem the spread of the virus. Former AICC President Rahul Gandhi is criticising the lockdown measures only for politics, he alleged.   The BJP leaders and workers came to the rescue of about three crore people and migrant labourers who stranded due to lockdown. Food kits and facilities were provided to them, Kateel added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nalin-kumar-kateel-defends-covid-19-lockdown-enforced-by-centre-847893.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress accuses BJP govts of 'double standard' for denying permission to KPCC president's coronation||A day after the Karnataka government denied permission to organise an event for D K Shivakumar's official take over as state Congress Chief citing COVID-19 guidelines, top party leaders attacked ruling BJP both at the state and Centre, accusing it of 'double standard'. They pointed out that BJP leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah recently held virtual rallies in poll-bound Bihar and West Bengal. The event for formal takeover as KPCC President was planned for June 14, after it was postponed twice in the past on May 31 and June 7, due to COVID-19 related restrictions in place. The government has denied permission for the June 14 event, citing COVID-19 related guidelines that are in place, aimed at controlling the spread of coronavirus. The permission was sought to organise an event to mark official take over at party's headquarters here in the presence of around 150 senior leaders, and it would be telecast live. Also, party workers at over 7,000 locations across the state were to take an oath and read the preamble of the Constitution. Hitting out at the state BJP government for denying permission despite written assurance about following all precautionary measures and social distancing norms, Shivakumar alleged politics behind the decision and said he would once again write to the CM seeking permission for the event. "I had believed that Yediyurappa (CM) will not indulge in petty politics and will walk the talk..... this is the event of Congress workers, no one can stop it. You (BJP govt) can make attempts to stop it, but I will hold it whenever you give permission. I will organise it abiding by the law," he said. Questioning the rationale behind BJP holding virtual rallies in Bihar and West Bengal, Shivakumar asked, "is the law different for them? I shared my plans about the programme two months ago.... it was our idea to hold such a virtual event reaching the panchayats." Shivakumar had on June 5 written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, seeking permission for the event. Replying to Shivakumar on Tuesday, a Revenue Department official in a letter pointing out that large public gatherings or congregations continue to remain prohibited, under the new set of guidelines issued by the centre, said, "hence the request cannot be considered." Flaying the BJP dispensation, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said, Shivakumar had earlier spoken to Yediyurappa about the event, and he had given oral permission, but all of a sudden yesterday a letter was sent denying permission, citing central order. "This is being done out of political malice," he said. Seeking to know how permission was granted to Amit Shah to hold the virtual rally, he said, "this is a repressive conspiracy of BJP against Congress, I condemn it. We will see what can be done legally." Veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge accused the BJP government of behaving with "political vengeance" and said that the ruling party does not believe in democracy and follows democratic principles. "On one side BJP leaders are holding campaign meetings in West Bengal, but here for taking charge (of KPCC president) in the presence of 100-150 people in accordance with rules by maintaining social distancing, they have denied permission," he said.  Denying permission to a small programme shows their 'prejudice' towards opposition parties, he added. After remaining in virtual vacuum for nearly three months, the party high command on March 11 appointed the six-time MLA, known to be the Congress' chief troubleshooter in crisis situations, replacing Dinesh Gundu Rao as the KPCC chief. Rao had quit the post in December after the party's dismal show, winning only two of the 15 seats in the bypolls, yielding 12. Shivakumar, who has vowed to build Congress as a cadre based party, has also planned to take a 'non political tour' across the state soon aimed at highlighting issues faced by people because of COVID-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-accuses-bjp-govts-of-double-standard-for-denying-permission-to-kpcc-presidents-coronation-847953.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus-hit districts witness fewer cases in last 24 hours||The number of COVID-19 positive cases has come down drastically in the virus-hit districts in the last 24 hours. Apart from Bengaluru Urban (42), Yadgir (27), Vijayapura (13) and Kalaburagi districts (11), others reported fresh infections in single digits. COVID-19 cases in Udupi district, the table topper in the state with 947 cases, drew blank for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The day also saw 257 patients recover and walk out of the designated COVID-29 hospitals across the state. As many as 93 patients were discharged, post-recovery, in Udupi district. Kalaburagi district reported 66 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Ramanagara, which reported its first case on May 25, recorded five fresh infections in the last 24 hours (ending at 5 pm on Wednesday), according to the district administration. However, the Health department’s bulletin claims only two new cases from Ramanagara district. All five infected are from Channapatna. Three people, aged 24, 26 and 27, are contacts of a Ramanagara prison staffer, who tested positive for the virus a few days back. Two middle-aged women, both contacts of a police constable from Bengaluru (Patient 3360), also tested positive for COVID-19. The district, so far, has reported 12 COVID-19 cases. Of which, 11 are active. In Ballari, five contacts of an infected Jindal factory worker have contracted the virus on Wednesday. The fresh cases include a health worker and two women, Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters. With this, the district’s tally has gone up to 75. Hubballi man succumbs Dharwad district reported its first COVID-19 death on Tuesday. A 58-year-old (P-1943), a resident of Girani Chawl in Hubballi, had returned from Mumbai on May 22 along with 11 others. He tested positive for COVID-19 the following day. According to sources at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, P-1943 was on ventilator for more than five days and died due to multiple organ failure on Tuesday night. He was a diabetic and renal disease patient. According to KIMS doctors, P-1943 was asymptomatic in the initial days after returning from Mumbai, but started showing symptomsby June 5.  A senior doctor treating the patient said: “We did our best. However, his heath condition started worsening with each passing day. We had even kept him on dialysis for his kidney-related ailment. But, we could not save him as the viral load in his body was very high.” Two more Covid-19 deaths were reported in Bengaluru Urban district, taking the toll to 69 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-hit-districts-witness-fewer-cases-in-last-24-hours-848060.html
10-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Mallikarjun Kharge, 3 others only ‘validly-nominated’ candidates in Rajya Sabha poll fray||With four candidates officials in the fray, the Rajya Sabha elections scheduled on June 19, is likely to be a unanimous one.  The Karnataka Legislative Assembly secretariat on Wednesday announced that Congress’ Mallikarjun Kharge, H D Deve Gowda of the JD(S), Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti of the BJP were the only ‘validly-nominated’ candidates.  This was announced after all nominations were scrutinized. The nomination of independent Sangamesh Chikkanaragunda was rejected. June 12 is the last day for candidates to withdraw their nomination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mallikarjun-kharge-3-others-only-validly-nominated-candidates-in-rajya-sabha-poll-fray-848089.html
10-06-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru police recovers 20 missing bullets from river Kapila||The police recovered 20 missing bullets from river Kapila in Nanjangud. It has to be noted that as many as 50 bullets were missing from T Narasipura Police station and the station writer Krishnegowda is the prime accused in the case. The bullets of .303 rifle had gone missing from T Narsipur police station, recently.  In a bid to escape from the case, the writer had made a fake suicide attempt by jumping into Kapila river.  Following the incident, the police interrogated the writer, who confessed to the crime. During the investigation, the writer said he disposed of the bullets in the river. The police with the help of divers recovered 20 bullets. It has to be noted that as many as two police personnel, including Krishnegowda, were suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-police-recovers-20-missing-bullets-from-river-kapila-847900.html
10-06-2020||National||India, China begin moves to end stand-off||Three days after a meeting between top military leaders, China and India have begun the process of troop reductions from at least three stand-off points near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. China’s People’s Liberation Army has moved back some of its troops and armoured vehicles by 2.5 km at locations like Patrol Point-14, PP-15 and PP-17 A (in Hot Springs area). The rollback is part of a road map agreed by both sides when they met on Saturday to end the stand-off. According to the plan -– shared by the government with a section of the media –- the troop rollback may be completed in the next 10 days following talks between local level commanders of Maj Gen or Brigadier ranks from either side. The resolution of the stand-off in the north bank of Pangong Tso, however, would take more time and involve Lt Gen level officers. The second part of the resolution formula is withdrawal of the troops from the depth area –- around 20 km from the disputed boundary -– and shift them to peacetime location. India had moved a battalion from its brigade located at Dualat Beg Oldie after the PLA increased its troop strength. The Chinese needling at the Galwan valley apparently was to slow down the construction of a feeder link to the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road that was made operational last year, providing the much needed connectivity to the world’s highest airstrip at DBO, close to the Karakoram pass. But neither side crossed the LAC at Galwan valley, which was never really a contested area. The resolution of the stand-off at Finger-4 area, however, would take more time as the area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 remains a hotly contested one. For years, the finger areas and the 135-km-long pristine Ladakh lake remained a flash point between Indian and Chinese troops. According to the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control, the disputed border runs through Finger 8 (the spurs or mountain ridges are named as fingers) because of which Indian troops could go up to that point for patrolling. Going by the Chinese perception, the LAC runs through Finger 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-begin-moves-to-end-stand-off-847738.html
10-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 10, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-10-2020-edition-847766.html
10-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 10||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,86,249 as of June 10. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 8,105 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,35,205 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-10-847767.html
10-06-2020||National||Let's have a face-off: Amit Shah slams Mamata over CAA||“I want to tell Mamata ji that today you are opposing CAA. But when the ballot boxes will open, then the people of Bengal will make you a political refugee. Opposing CAA will cost you dearly,” said Shah. He was addressing a virtual rally for Bengal from Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lets-have-a-face-off-amit-shah-slams-mamata-over-caa-847768.html
10-06-2020||National||BJP claims 2 crore people watched Amit Shah's virtual rally, TMC says 'far from reality'||The BJP said on Tuesday that Home Minister Amit Shah's virtual rally was a "huge success" as more than two crore people across West Bengal watched it, a claim which the Trinamool Congress described as "far from reality". Shah addressed the rally from New Delhi as part of the BJP's nationwide 'Jan Samvad' campaign. "The virtual rally was sort of a new experiment for all of us in West Bengal. But at the end of the day, it has been a huge success. People have viewed it either on TV or on social media. According to our reports and estimates, around two crore people have watched it," BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said. At least 15,000 big LED screens and more than 70,000 smart TVs were installed across the state for connecting with party workers down to the booth level, party sources said. The state has an estimated 78,000 polling booths. "Apart from watching the rally on TV, a large section of people had seen it on Facebook, YouTube, and our party website," Basu said. Several leaders and journalists watched the rally at the state BJP headquarters on Murlidhar Sen Lane in central Kolkata. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, along with senior leaders such as Mukul Roy took the dais alongside Basu. At the same time, Union ministers from Bengal Babul Supriyo and Debashree Chaudhuri, and other senior leaders attended it in Delhi where Shah spoke. The Trinamool Congress leadership, which criticised Shah for addressing a meeting at a time when the state is battling the double whammy of COVID-19 and the devastation caused by cyclone 'Amphan', said the virtual rally has "been a flop show". The TMC ran a social media campaign on twitter with hashtag #BengalRejectsAmitShah. "Amit Shah's political gimmick has found no place in the state of Bengal. Throughout his speech from today's live rally, the people of Bengal have repeatedly been voicing their opinions against BJP and Amit Shah across all the social media platforms, including Twitter. #BengalRejectsAmitShah was trending at the top in Kolkata and at 17th in the country-wide statistics," a senior TMC leader said. The TMC leader said BJP's claim of two crore viewers was far from reality. "The BJP finds it tough to get people for normal rallies, so where from will they get two crore viewers. The BJP should stop telling lies on every issue," he said. Addressing the rally, Shah criticised the TMC-led Bengal government for its alleged apathy towards migrant workers. He said these labourers would ensure Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's exit in the 2021 assembly polls as she "insulted" them by terming Shramik Special trains, which were run to ferry them home amid lockdown, 'Corona Express'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-claims-2-crore-people-watched-amit-shahs-virtual-rally-tmc-says-far-from-reality-847769.html
10-06-2020||National||BJP, Cong allege 'mega scam' in purchase of medical equipment for COVID-19 in Odisha||Stepping up the attack on the BJD government in Odisha over its response to the coronavirus outbreak, opposition Congress and BJP on Tuesday alleged a mega scam in the purchase of medical equipment and sought a clarification on the matter from Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. Alleging large-scale corruption in the procurement of masks, personal protection equipment (PPE) and other paraphernalia, state Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said he would move the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Lokayukta for a thorough probe into the matter. He claimed that the Odisha State Medical Corporation Ltd (OSMCL) had procured 30 lakh face masks from a Tamil Nadu-based private company at a cost of Rs 16 per piece, while other states purchased the same at a maximum price of Rs 8. While other states are procuring masks at Rs 8 per piece, the BJD government bought 30 lakh masks at double the price. Instead of paying Rs 2.40 crore, they paid Rs 4.80 crore. The government has scammed even life-saving medical supplies. An independent probe must find out as to who pocketed the huge amount, Niranjan demanded. Similarly, RT-PCR machines were also purchased at three times its price, he alleged, adding while such machines that cost around Rs 4-5 lakh have been bought at Rs 12.84 lakh, PPE kits have been purchased at exorbitant prices. The health minister is required to respond to the allegations, but he is seeking to pass the buck, the Congress leader said. “Though the Congress is not demanding the resignation of the chief minister over the matter, the party wants him to come out with a clarification as to whether there have been irregularities in the procurement of medical kits and equipment. We also demand the resignation of ministers and anyone involved in corruption,” he said. Besides moving the CVC and the Lokayukta over the issue, the party will submit a collective memorandum from all districts to the governor, Niranjan said, adding the Congress will launch a massive protest and hit the streets if immediate action is not taken. Attacking the BJD government in the same vein, BJP state General Secretary Lekhashree Samantasinghar alleged that a huge scam has taken place in the purchase of COVID-19 test kits and medical equipment, and demanded immediate action against those involved. Large-scale irregularities involving crores of rupees have been committed at a time when the government is required to work sincerely with commitment in order to save the people from the deadly coronavirus, she said. Refuting the allegations levelled by the opposition parties, BJD spokesperson Sasmit Patra said at no point in time has Odisha purchased masks at more than the rates fixed by the central government. Therefore, any question regarding irregularity does not arise, he said. Stating that COVID-19 is a worldwide pandemic that has created a medical emergency, Patra said the war is not yet over. This situation requires a mature response. We expect the same from Congress and BJP, he said. The entire country is praising the efforts of Odisha. The Congress and the BJP should not to do cheap politics and belittle the efforts of 4.5 crore people of the state, the Rajya Sabha member added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-cong-allege-mega-scam-in-purchase-of-medical-equipment-for-covid-19-in-odisha-847771.html
10-06-2020||National||22 Delhi hospitals told to reserve more beds for COVID-19 patients||The Delhi government on Tuesday directed 22 private hospitals to reserve more beds for coronavirus patients, revising its earlier allocation limit. In an official order, it directed 22 private hospitals to allocate 2,015 extra beds for coronavirus patients. On May 24, the Delhi government had directed private hospitals and nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more to reserve 20 per cent of their total beds for coronavirus patients. With the new order, the total number of coronavirus beds in private hospitals will increase to 3,456 from the current 1,441. The hospitals have also been told to admit COVID-19 patients as per the revised allocation of beds and update the data at ''Delhi Corona'' app with immediate effect, the order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-delhi-hospitals-told-to-reserve-more-beds-for-covid-19-patients-847773.html
10-06-2020||National||The Lead: India-China boundary dispute in backdrop of tension in eastern Ladakh||The Lead from Deccan Herald Podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In this episode, DH's external affairs correspondent Anirban Bhaumik talks about the India-China boundary dispute, in the backdrop of the tension in eastern Ladakh.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-india-china-boundary-dispute-in-backdrop-of-tension-in-eastern-ladakh-847775.html
10-06-2020||National||Parents allegedly murder pregnant daughter in suspected honour killing in Telangana||In a suspected case of honor killing in Telangana, a 20-year old woman was allegedly smothered to death by her parents for being in love with a man from another caste, becoming pregnant and refusing to undergo an abortion, police said on Tuesday. The parents killed their daughter using a pillow while she was asleep in the early hours of June 7 in their house in Kalukuntla in Jogulamba-Gadwal district and sought to project it as natural death, claiming she died of a heart attack. However, following specific information and suspicion raised by the village secretary over the death of the woman, a college student, a probe was launched and the couple arrested on charges of murder under Indian Penal Code section 302 after post-mortem, police said. The parents decided to kill the woman, the youngest of their three daughters, a day after she was found pregnant and refused to undergo an abortion, police said. The woman had fallen in love with the man while pursuing her degree course in Kurnool district in neighboring Andhra Pradesh and informed her parents about it after she was found pregnant during an examination by a doctor. Her parents feared that their daughter may elope with her lover and brought pressure on her to go for abortion. Though initially, she agreed, later she declined, following which they killed her and told everyone that their daughter died of heart attack, the police official said. When a police team went to their house and insisted on a post-mortem after noticing some marks on her body indicating a struggle, the parents tried to stop it, saying there was no need. Later, police shifted the body to a hospital where a post-mortem revealed the woman was "throttled to death". Her parents during interrogation confessed to killing their daughter, the official said, adding they were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-allegedly-murder-pregnant-daughter-in-suspected-honour-killing-in-telangana-847789.html
10-06-2020||National||Fuel prices hiked for fourth straight day; Petrol to cost 40 paise more per litre, diesel 45 paise||Petrol price on Wednesday was hiked by 40 paise per litre and diesel by 45 paise, the fourth straight daily increase in rates after oil PSUs ended an 82-day hiatus in rate revision. Petrol price hiked by 40 paise/litre, diesel by 45 paise; 4th straight daily increase after oil PSUs ended 82-day hiatus in rate revision Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 73.40 per litre from Rs 73, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 71.62 a litre from Rs 71.17, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. On Tuesday petrol price was hiked by 54 paise per litre and diesel by 58 paise a litre, which was the third straight daily increase in rates after oil PSUs ended an 82-day hiatus in rate revision. Oil companies had on Sunday restarted revising prices in line with costs, after ending an 82-day hiatus. In four hikes, the petrol price has gone up by Rs 2.14 per litre and diesel by Rs 2.23.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-for-fourth-straight-day-petrol-to-cost-40-paise-more-per-litre-diesel-45-paise-847799.html
10-06-2020||National||India records 9,985 new COVID-19 cases, 279 fatalities; death toll rises to 7,745||The COVID-19 death toll rose to 7,745 and the number of cases climbed to 2,76,583 in the country after it registered 279 fatalities and 9,985 new infections within a period of 24 hours till Wednesday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. India is the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK, according to data issued by the Johns Hopkins University. The number of active cases in the country stands at 1,33,632, while 1,35,205 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. "Thus, 48.99 per cent of the patients have recovered so far," it said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 279 new deaths reported, 120 were in Maharashtra, 33 in Gujarat, 31 in Delhi, 21 in Tamil Nadu, 18 in Uttar Pradesh, 11 in Telangana, 10 in West Bengal, nine in Rajasthan, six each in Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, three in Jammu and Kashmir, two in Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh, and one each in Bihar, Jharkhand and Tripura. Out of the total 7,745 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,289 deaths, followed by Gujarat with 1,313, Delhi with 905, Madhya Pradesh with 420, West Bengal with 415, Tamil Nadu with 307, Uttar Pradesh with 301, Rajasthan with 255 and Telangana with 148 deaths. The death toll reached 77 in Andhra Pradesh, 66 in Karnataka and 55 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 48 fatalities due to the disease, while 45 deaths have been reported from Haryana, 32 from Bihar, 16 from Kerala, 13 from Uttarakhand, nine from Odisha, eight from Jharkhand and six from Chhattisgarh. Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh have registered five COVID-19 fatalities each and Assam has recorded four deaths so far. Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to the ministry data. More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the ministry's website stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-9985-new-covid-19-cases-279-fatalities-death-toll-rises-to-7745-847809.html
10-06-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi questions PM's silence on border issue with China||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that China has taken away India's territory in Ladakh and questioned the prime minister's silence on the issue, saying he has vanished. "The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile. The PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene," he said on Twitter. He tagged a news article claiming that China has taken a hard line during military-level talks and has claimed all of Galwan Valley and parts of Pangong Tso. Gandhi has been asking the government to come clean on the border issue and whether China has taken over Indian territory in Ladakh region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-questions-pms-silence-on-border-issue-with-china-847810.html
10-06-2020||National||Maharashtra CM stresses on decentralisation of new industries||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has stressed the need for decentralisation of new industries in the state in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. At a review meeting of the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Corridor on Tuesday evening, Thackeray said separate zones of industries should be created along the corridor and all facilities required by units should be provided there. The Samruddhi Corridor is a 701-km-long expressway being constructed to cut short the travel time between Mumbai and Nagpur. Thackeray said during the coronavirus crisis, it has come to notice that population density is more in industrial belts and lockdown had to be enforced in those areas. Hence, during the construction of the Samruddhi Corridor, separate zones of industries should be created along the expressway and facilities needed by the industries should be provided there. Thackeray also directed officials to set up trauma care centres at different places along the expressway. The corridor project, which links 24 districts of the state, should be completed at the earliest, he said. Planning of industrial, agriculture and tourism units in districts through which the expressway passes should be done after analysing the geographical situation, he said. State Public Undertakings Minister Eknath Shinde said 8,311.15 hectare land has been acquired for the expressway project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-stresses-on-decentralisation-of-new-industries-847836.html
10-06-2020||National||Two firefighters die in gas well blowout blaze in Assam||The charred bodies of two firefighters of Oil India Limited (OIL) were found on Wednesday morning in a pond close to the gas well in Assam's Tinsukia district, which caught fire on Tuesday. The two bodies have been identified as that of Durlav Gogoi and Bikeswar Gohain. The bodies were found by NDRF-SDRF personnel, who are trying to control the massive fire. The two firefighters, who were immediately pressed into service were missing since the fire broke out. The gas well at Baghjan under Baghan oilfields, about 500-km east of Guwahati that was emanating gas and condensate since a blowout on May 27 caught fire on Tuesday afternoon. The fire broke out when a team of three experts from Singapore were having a meeting with officials of OIL and ONGCL on how to cap the well that blew out May 27. OIL on Tuesday evening said the entire operation to cap the well could take at least four weeks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and took stock of the situation on Wednesday morning. Sonowal briefed PM Narendra Modi about the steps taken so far by the OIL, Petroleum Ministry and the state machinery to control the fire. The prime minister assured all assistance to bring the situation to normalcy and help the victims. OIL had earlier said the entire operation to cap the well could take at least four weeks. Hundreds of local residents, who have been shifted to 12 relief camps alleged that OIL did not take proper steps even as the well blowout happened on May 27. They also feared an adverse impact on the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and Maguri Mottapung wetland situated near the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-firefighters-die-in-gas-well-blowout-blaze-in-assam-847837.html
10-06-2020||National||Lockdown has created atmosphere of weariness, says HC||The coronavirus lockdown has created an atmosphere of weariness and exasperation, the Bombay High Court said while granting bail to a man who was arrested for allegedly attacking three policemen when they questioned him for roaming on a road at night during curfew. Justice Bharati Dangre issued the order on Tuesday while hearing the bail application filed by Karan Nair (27), an architect, who claimed he was mentally disturbed on the day of the incident last month due to personal reasons. Nairs advocate Niranjan Mundargi refuted the polices case that the accused was carrying a chopper. Mundargi said Nair was an architect and was carrying a tool used by architects. According to police, Nair was found walking in the wee hours of May 8 at the Marine Drive in South Mumbai. When a patrol team spotted him and tried to question him as to why he was outside during the lockdown, Nair charged at the policeman and tried to run away. He was chased by police and arrested. Three policemen - inspector Jitendra Kadam, sub-inspector Sachin Shelke and constable Sagar Shelke sustained minor injuries in the scuffle, according to police. The court in its order noted police were under tremendous pressure to maintain law and order in view of the prohibitory orders imposed in the city, and the applicant (Nair) was apprehensive that he would be arrested and hence, tried to flee. The pandemic situation has brought on an atmosphere of weariness and exasperation and a young person like the applicant has fallen trap, the court said in its order. In the absence of any criminal antecedents and the fact that the accused is a young person belonging to a reputed family, escaping the court of justice is obscure, the judge noted while granting him bail. The court granted bail to Nair on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and directed him to appear before the police station concerned as and when required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-has-created-atmosphere-of-weariness-says-hc-847853.html
10-06-2020||National||14 jail staff contract COVID-19; Aurangabad cases rise to 2264||As many as 14 staff members of the Harsul jail in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, a prison official said. Earlier, 29 undertrial prisoners of the jail had tested positive for the disease following which samples of the prison's administrative staff were sent for testing. Reports of 14 jail staff members, including two officers, came out positive on Wednesday, a senior prison official said. All the new patients are asymptomatic and they have been quarantined at facilities set up in the jail premises, the official said. They are being monitored by health teams of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, he said. "Since the lockdown came into force, nearly 60 staff members of the jail administration have been on duty in the premises for almost two months. The main gate of the jail will be opened on Wednesday evening (as part of lockdown easing)," jail superintendent Hiralal Jadhav told PTI. Meanwhile, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Aurangabad rose to 2,264 on Wednesday after 114 more people tested positive for the disease, a district official said. So far, 116 patients have died in the district while 1,283 have been discharged after recovery. As of now, 865 patients are undergoing treatment, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-jail-staff-contract-covid-19-aurangabad-cases-rise-to-2264-847855.html
10-06-2020||National||Will implement Delhi Lt Guv's order on reservation of hospitals for Delhiites, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday toned down the confrontation over reversing his government's decision to reserve city hospitals for residents, saying they will implement the "Centre's decision and the Lieutenant Governor's order" to the "best of their abilities" in handling COVID-19 situation. The state government also differed with the Centre's assessment that there is no community transmission of COVID-19 in the capital with Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain once again saying the city has entered this phase but there was no point in discussing it as it was the Union government's prerogative to declare it. Kejriwal said it would be a 'big challenge' with Delhi hospitals being opened to people from other states but will implement it and he himself would hit the ground in the next couple of days to visit stadiums, banquet halls and other facilities to find out the feasibility of making it makeshift hospitals. “The Delhi Cabinet has taken a decision on reserving hospitals for residents but the Centre has reversed it and the Lieutenant Governor issued an order. I have seen on TV that some were arguing that the Centre has reversed the order of an elected government which won more than 60 seats. Some said the Centre cannot do this. This is not the time for bickering. What has been done is done. the decision of the Centre, the LG's order has to be followed and implemented in letter and spirit,” he said. He also appealed to his party and Opposition to work together failing which 'COVID-19 would win'. He said Delhi is expected to have 5.25 lakh cases by July 31 by when there is a need for 80,000 beds and this challenge would be big. "We need a people’s movement. Not only do we have to follow norms like social distancing, wearing masks and regular hand washing but we also have to encourage others around us to do so too,” he said. “I want to tell people in my government, the party not to contest this decision. This is not the time for disagreements. we will try our best to do this," he said adding that there could be shortcomings in his government's approach but "not in intentions". He appealed to neighbouring states to ensure that their residents avoided coming to Delhi by providing better health facilities there. Jain claimed neighbouring states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh do not test. "Haryana says that we have 1,000 active cases here, Uttar Pradesh is such a big state that there are 2,000-3,000 active cases. Now, people from those places will come to Delhi. There would be positive cases," he said. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal's decision to reverse the Delhi government order on reserving hospital beds had led to a war of words with Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia saying that the former had no idea about the possible increase in number of patients or availability of hospital beds if people from outside are allowed to be treated here. The LG office responded saying Baijal told Sisodia during a high-level meeting that the order was against the Constitutional scheme of things and the Supreme Court itself had said in several judgements that 'Right to Health' is an important aspect of Right to Life. The LG also cited a Delhi High Court judgement that nullified a 2018 order of the Delhi government that reserved certain hospital facilities only to residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-implement-delhi-lt-guvs-order-on-reservation-of-hospitals-for-delhiites-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-847857.html
10-06-2020||National||COVID-19 recovery figure exceeds total active cases for the first time||According to the Health Ministry, 1,35,206 patients have been recovered so far from the infection and discharged from healthcare facilities, while 1,33,632 were still under treatment in hospitals. The recovery rate for the country stood at 49%, the highest ever so far. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat continue to be the hotspots accounting for 60% of the total COVID-19 cases in the country.  However, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have reported their highest ever cases on Wednesday morning. Tamil Nadu has added 1,685 new cases, Rajasthan (482), Andhra Pradesh (219) and Telangana (270). With 2.76 lakh cases, India is now just 15,000 away from dislodging the UK, which is the fourth worst-hit country by COVID-19 worldwide. India also crossed the five-million-test mark as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) authorised laboratories – both state-run and private – had tested 50,61,332 samples for COVID-19. On Tuesday alone, the laboratories tested 1,45,216 samples. Of the 279 new deaths, Maharashtra reported 120 followed by Gujarat (33), Delhi (31), Tamil Nadu (21), Uttar Pradesh (18), Telangana (11), West Bengal (10), Rajasthan (9), Madhya Pradesh (6) and Haryana (6), Jammu and Kashmir (3), two each in Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh, and one each in Bihar, Jharkhand and Tripura. Out of the total 7,745 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,289 deaths, followed by Gujarat with 1,313, Delhi with 905, Madhya Pradesh with 420, West Bengal with 415, Tamil Nadu with 307, Uttar Pradesh with 301, Rajasthan with 255 and Telangana with 148 deaths. The death toll reached 77 in Andhra Pradesh, 66 in Karnataka and 55 in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recovery-figure-exceeds-total-active-cases-for-the-first-time-847859.html
10-06-2020||National||Two doctors among 19 hospital staff test positive for COVID-19 in J&K's Udhampur||Nineteen staffers, including two doctors, at Udhampur district hospital in Jammu and Kashmir, tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, officials said. The staff had come in contact with a pregnant woman who recently underwent a cesarean section at the hospital and was placed under quarantine after her report for COVID-19 came positive, they said. Udhampur District Development Commissioner Piyush Singla, in a tweet, said, "With more than 1000 negative reports in the last 4 days we wake up with a report of 19 positives today, mostly the staff of district hospital (sic)." "These were high-risk contacts who attended to the delivery of a pregnant positive lady and were already quarantined," he tweeted. The officials said both the doctors and the paramedical staff were shifted to COVID wards after their reports came positive, while contact tracing was on to break the chain. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases in Udhampur district of Jammu region rose to 150, which included 89 people who returned from different parts of the country and abroad. While a woman died of COVID-19 in the district, 34 others have been discharged from the hospital after recovering from the disease, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-doctors-among-19-hospital-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jks-udhampur-847860.html
10-06-2020||National||COVID-19 pandemic radically changing consumer behaviour in India: Survey||Consumer behaviour in India is radically changing due to COVID-19 with 60 per cent of buyers in the country believing that the pandemic would alter the way they shop, an EY survey said on Wednesday. According to the EY Future Consumer Index, five new segments may emerge as consumers move beyond the pandemic -- back with a bang (constituting 38 per cent of respondents), stay frugal (29 per cent), keep cutting (19 per cent), cautiously extravagant (11 per cent) and get to normal (2 per cent). The 'back with a bang' group is expected to spend much more in all categories, while 'stay frugal' will spend slightly less. The 'keep cutting' segment will make deep spending cuts, whereas the 'cautiously extravagant' section is willing to pay a premium for certain products and spending in 'get to normal' group will be largely unchanged, the survey noted. According to Pinakiranjan Mishra, Partner and National Leader, Consumer Products and Retail, at EY India, companies must formulate strategies immediately to address the challenges. Firms should incorporate permanent safety measures in offices and on shop floors, re-evaluate brand portfolio, expand relationships with third-party e-commerce platforms, and "most importantly, anticipate and be ready to respond to newer habits that consumers will develop after living through the pandemic," Mishra said. Given the anticipated changes in consumer behaviour and category dynamics, the report highlights that consumer product companies would need to take quick actions to respond to the 'now' phase, alter operating model to address the 'next' phase and then consider strategic transformations to build a resilient organisation for the 'beyond' phase. "As consumer product companies move into the 'next' and 'beyond' phase, their ability to digitally transform faster, invest in relevant technologies such as artificial intelligence, optimise the use of big data and analytics and improving overall customer experience will be the key differentiators in the industry, which will, in turn, enhance their resilience to withstand any future disruption," Mishra added. As a part of EY Future Consumer Index, 1,046 Indian consumers were surveyed, mostly in urban areas. The survey questionnaire covered current behaviors, sentiment, and intent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-radically-changing-consumer-behaviour-in-india-survey-847865.html
10-06-2020||National||Centre-state coordination gap led to migrant crisis: Medha Patkar||Social activist Medha Patkar has said the migrant crisis erupted during the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the country due to a lack of coordination between the central and state governments. Talking to reporters in Maharashtra's Pune district on Tuesday, she said the central government did not make the required arrangements for food and transportation of migrant laborers. But, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government arranged state transport buses which helped several migrants reach their native places, Patkar said. "I think the migrant crisis erupted due to a lack of coordination between the Union and state governments. Now, the government should make transportation free for migrant laborers to ease their problems," she said. She demanded that migrant laborers be provided employment and food free of cost at their native places, and the poor and needy across the country be given Rs 10,000. Patkar said they have already been protesting against the changes proposed in labor laws in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-state-coordination-gap-led-to-migrant-crisis-medha-patkar-847868.html
10-06-2020||National||SC seeks SEC reply on Andhra govt appeal against HC quashing ordinance on chief's tenure||The Supreme Court Wednesday issued notice to State Election Commission (SEC) and others on an appeal of the Andhra Pradesh government against the recent high court order striking down an ordinance curtailing the tenure of the state poll panel chief from five years to three. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy refused to stay the order and sought response from the SEC and Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, who was restored as state poll panel chief. On May 29, the high court had struck down the Ordinance promulgated on April 10 by the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government, curtailing the tenure of the SEC from five to three years. It also quashed a Government Order appointing retired judge V Kanagaraj as the new chief and restored retired bureaucrat Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as chief of the state poll panel. Justice V Kanagaraj, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, had assumed charge as the SEC on April 11, replacing Ramesh Kumar. The High Court had delivered the judgment on a batch of writ petitions, including the one by Ramesh Kumar, challenging the Ordinance and the appointment of a new SEC. The YSR Congress government had on April 10 abruptly removed Ramesh Kumar from the post by promulgating the ordinance, amending the AP Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, curtailing the tenure of the SEC to three years from five.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-sec-reply-on-andhra-govt-appeal-against-hc-quashing-ordinance-on-chiefs-tenure-847874.html
10-06-2020||National||Doctors Without Borders sets up temporary COVID-19 hospital in Patna||nternational medical humanitarian organisation Doctors Without Borders on Wednesday said it has set up a 100-bed temporary hospital for treatment of COVID-19 patients in Patna in collaboration with the Bihar government. This facility at Patliputra Sports complex in Patna will be fully managed by Doctors Without Borders in India. It will provide medical care to patients with moderate symptoms, hence, decongesting dedicated government COVID -19 treatment hospitals to focus on severe cases, Doctors Without Borders said in a statement. Managed by 180 Doctors Without Borders staff from across the country, this hospital will offer inpatient care, mental health support, access to all essential drugs and medical supplies to manage moderate cases and oxygen supply through face masks to support patients with breathing difficulties, it added. The indoor stadium was remodeled by Doctors Without Borders to become a temporary hospital with facilities like triage, isolation, personal protection equipment, and infection prevention and control measures. "Responding to emergencies is at the core of what Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) does – we are putting our knowledge and experience in epidemic management to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 in Bihar state," Doctors Without Borders India Country Director Dr Prince Mathew said. This pandemic affects us all. For this reason, the response needs teamwork, he added.  "Our partnership with the local health authorities enables us to increase treatment capacity, reduce mortality and prevent infections in the state," Mathew said. Earlier last month, the organisaton had also donated personal protective equipment valued at over Rs 1 crore to Bihar state health department for frontline healthcare workers. This included N-95 masks, eye/face protection, gloves and high quality body protection, Doctors Without Borders said. MSF is an international, independent, medical humanitarian organisation that delivers emergency aid to people affected by armed conflict, epidemics, natural disasters and exclusion from healthcare in over 70 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-without-borders-sets-up-temporary-covid-19-hospital-in-patna-847880.html
10-06-2020||National||China, India taking steps to "ease" situation along borders: Chinese official||China said on Wednesday that Indian and Chinese troops have started implementing the "positive consensus" reached by the senior military officials of the two countries on June 6 aimed at "easing" the situation along the borders. The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson's remarks came a day after officials in New Delhi suggested that armies of India and China have undertaken a "limited disengagement" in few areas in eastern Ladakh in a demonstration of their intent to end the border standoff peacefully ahead of another round of military talks on Wednesday. Asked about the reports of the troops on both sides disengaging and moving back to their previous positions, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing here that both sides are taking steps to ease the situation along the borders. "Recently the diplomatic and military channels of China and India held effective communication on the situation along the border and reached positive consensus," she said. "The two sides are following this consensus to take actions to ease the situation along the borders,” the spokesperson said. Military sources in New Delhi said the two armies have begun "disengagement" around patrolling points 14 and 15 in Galwan Valley and another in the Hot Spring area, adding the Chinese side has even moved back up to 1.5 km in two areas. Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged since May 5 following a violent clash in Pangong Tso. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. During their military-level talks on June 6, India and China agreed to follow the broad decisions taken by their leaders in the Wuhan summit in 2018 to ensure peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control. On June 6, Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj Gen Liu Lin held an extensive meeting. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-india-taking-steps-to-ease-situation-along-borders-chinese-official-847885.html
10-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi assures help to victims of Baghjan oil well fire tragedy in Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday assured Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal of all possible assistance to the victims of a massive fire at Oil India's Baghjan well, which has been spewing gas uncontrollably for 15 days in Tinsukia district. In a telephone call made to the prime minister, Sonowal apprised him of the latest situation arising out of the major blowout and subsequent fire, a CMO official said. "Gave details of Baghjan fire tragedy to PM Shri @narendramodi ji over the phone. Also briefed him about emergency measures taken by @PetroleumMin, @OilIndiaLimited & state machinery. He assured of all possible help to resolve the situation & provide relief to victims," Sonowal tweeted. PSU major Oil India Ltd (OIL) on Wednesday said two of its firefighters who were engaged in controlling the blaze died. Official sources said as the well was spouting gas and condensate droplets for 15 days and got spread to a vast area, the fire burnt almost everything in a radius of one km from the site. Baghjan well is adjacent to the rich biodiversity-filled Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. "Number of houses, vehicles, small gardens and some forest areas burnt to ashes. Getting an exact estimation of the damage has become difficult due to the impact of the fire and the high temperature. The district administration is working on this," an OIL official said. Apart from fire tenders of the company, the Army, Air Force, IOC and Assam Gas Company are trying to control the blaze from expanding to nearby areas. The official also informed that as soon as the fire broke out, OIL employees in and around Baghjan came under violent attack by locals. "Many of our staff suffered injuries in the attack. Our vehicles were badly damaged. We could evacuate our and ONGC staff working at the site with much effort of the security personnel," a company official said. The blaze at the OIL well is so massive that it could be seen from a distance of more than 30 km with thick black smoke going up several metres high, endangering the local biodiversities which were already ravaged following the major blowout that happened on May 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-assures-help-to-victims-of-baghjan-oil-well-fire-tragedy-in-assam-847889.html
10-06-2020||National||Centre asks states to send more officers on central deputation||The Centre has asked state governments to spare more officers of deputy secretary, director and joint secretary levels for central deputation, saying it will add to their experience and career progression. The move comes after it received minimal nomination from states and central government departments on a request made in November last year seeking officers under the central staffing scheme and for posts of chief vigilance officers, who act as a distant arm of the Central Vigilance Commission to check corruption. "The number of nominations received so far has been very minimal and as such the representation of officers from various cadres/services under central staffing scheme, especially at DS/Director level, is extremely low," the Personnel Ministry said in a recent order. It said every cadre is allowed a deputation reserve to ensure officers have the opportunity to work on deputation including that under the central staffing scheme, which adds to their experience. "The utilization of this reserve is low and this under-utilization, particularly at Deputy Secretary/Director level, causes serious gaps in cadre management," said the order, which was sent to chief secretaries of state governments and secretaries of central government departments. This aspect will also be kept in view while considering cadre review proposals, to be received in the future, it said. The cadres that have not been forwarding adequate nominations for the central staffing scheme at various levels may have to settle for a smaller number of additional senior duty posts in the future by way of the corresponding reduction, the ministry said. "It is, therefore, requested that a larger number of officers may kindly be recommended for an appointment at DS/Director/JS level under the central staffing scheme so that the central deputation reserve/deputation reserves are duly utilized for this purpose," it said. States have also been asked to ensure that the officers who are at the verge of promotion to senior grades are "not nominated" as it often necessitates their early repatriation to avail of promotion in the cadre. "It may be ensured that the names of only those officers are forwarded who are likely to remain available under the central staffing scheme for full tenure," the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-send-more-officers-on-central-deputation-847897.html
10-06-2020||National||NCP celebrates 21st foundation day||The NCP celebrated its 21st foundation day on Wednesday with party president Sharad Pawar lauding efforts of NCP ministers, who are part of the Maharashtra government, in battling the COVID-19 crisis. The Pawar-led party, formed in 1999, is a key constituent of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by the Shiv Sena. The NCP president urged party workers to organise blood donation camps on the foundation day. Pawar, who is on a two-day tour of the Konkan region to assess the damage caused by cyclone Nisarga, praised state Health Minister Rajesh Tope and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, both NCP leaders, who have been at the forefront of the state government's fight against COVID-19. "Both of them have been working hard to ensure adequate health infrastructure and peaceful law and order," the NCP chief said. He also said that Maharashtra's Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds charge of the finance department, is working to bring the state's economy on track. While the state is already facing the COVID-19 crisis, cyclone Nisarga caused damage in Raigad district, he noted. The booth committee programme undertaken by Maharashtra NCP president Jayant Patil will ensure the state party unit will have 10 lakh active workers, who will be at the forefront of providing relief to people in trying times, he said in a statement. There are 300 booths in each Assembly constituency and each booth comprises a head and 10 members, Sharad Pawar said. He said the NCP is dedicating the year 2020 to social work with focus on agriculture sector, urban issues, employment generation,education,minority and backward classes welfare. Sharad Pawar and Ajit Pawar extended greetings to party workers and appealed to them to celebrate the foundation day by organising blood donation camps. Jayant Patil, who is also Maharashtra's water resources minister, hoisted NCP's flag at the state party office in the presence of Ajit Pawar and other leaders. State Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik, who is NCP's Mumbai unit president, hoisted the flag at the city party office here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncp-celebrates-21st-foundation-day-847898.html
10-06-2020||National||Despite assurances of security, attacks on doctors repeat at Hyderabad's Gandhi hospital||Despite assurances from the state’s health minister, top police chief, attacks on doctors are repeating at the state-run Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad – the nodal hospital for COVID-19 treatment in Telangana. Junior doctors are on agitation at the hospital since Tuesday(June 9) night demanding that “such attacks be prevented immediately.” They are agitated after a patient’s attendants attacked one of them, after learning about their kin's death. According to the doctor who was assaulted, the patient was in critical condition for two days and on a ventilator. “Two attendants, to our surprise, came up and confirming the death, started attacking us with chairs. An iron stool has hit me. The female staff saved themselves by locking themselves in a room. I was alone and no one responded to my calls. There was not even one policeman.” On Wednesday (June 10) morning, the city police deployed to control the protests barricaded the hospital gates in an attempt to prevent the doctors from coming out in a rally. After a scuffle, the doctors came out and sat on the main road in protest. Holding placards, they raised slogans “wanting justice” and that the “CM should visit the hospital and meet them.” Since the onset of Covid-19 in the state on March 1 till Wednesday (June 10) when the state has recorded a total of 3,920 cases, chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao has never visited the hospital in the heart of the city. “The conditions under which we are operating are really distressing. There is no safety or security for us,” a junior doctor told DH on the condition of anonymity.    Gandhi doctors were attacked by Covid-19 patients/relatives earlier too. On April 1, a COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment in the hospital attacked the doctors, after learning about his elder brother’s death in the same COVID-19 treatment block. Health minister Etela Rajender condemned the attack then, while DGP Mahender Reddy had promised strong action on the offenders and “beefed up security for the protection of all doctors and paramedics treating the Covid-19 patients 24x7.” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar had also visited the hospital to instill confidence among the staff. But doctors rued that they remain under threat even now after all such high-level reassurances.   On Wednesday, as the junior doctors demanded the CM’s visit to resolve their issues, minister Etela appealed to the doctors to stop demonstrations and asked their representatives to meet him at the State Secretariat for talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-assurances-of-security-attacks-on-doctors-repeat-at-hyderabads-gandhi-hospital-847901.html
10-06-2020||National||14-year-old ends life after mother scolds him in Pune||In a shocking incident, a 14-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide after his mother scolded him for watching TV in Pune. The incident was reported on Tuesday evening from the Adarsh chawl area or Bibwewadi area of Pune. The minor boy,  his sister and mother used to stay in  a slum locality. According to the police,  the victim's sister found his body hanging.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-year-old-ends-life-after-mother-scolds-him-in-pune-847906.html
10-06-2020||National||Plea to declare PM Cares Fund as a 'public authority' under RTI not maintainable: PMO to HC||The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) Wednesday raised objection in the Delhi High Court over maintainability of a plea seeking to declare PM CARES Fund as a 'public authority' under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Justice Navin Chawla, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented PMO, that he will file a response explaining why this petition should not be entertained. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on August 28.  The high court was hearing a plea by Samyak Gangwal challenging a June 2 order of the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), PMO, refusing to provide documents sought by him on the ground that PM Cares Fund is not a public authority under the RTI Act. The plea sought direction to set aside the CPIO's order and to provide the documents as sought by him in the RTI application. The petition, filed through advocates Debopriyo Moulik and Ayush Shrivastava, said as a measure to combat COVID 19 pandemic, the PMO on March 28, through a press note announced the creation of a public charitable trust by the name of Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund). In the press release, the PMO appealed to the citizens of the country to generously donate to the PM CARES Fund in light of severe health and economic ramifications of the COVID 19 pandemic, it said, adding that the donations in the fund would qualify as CSR and exemption from tax. On May 1, the petitioner filed an RTI application seeking a copy of trust deed of PM CARES Fund, document or letter vide which the fund was constituted and copy of the entire file including note sheets, letters, communications office memos or orders wherein the decision to constitute the fund was taken. However, on June 2, the CPIO of PMO refused the information on the ground that PM CARES is not a public authority under the ambit of RTI Act, the plea said while challenging this decision. It said the PM CARES is a body owned or controlled by the appropriate government as its trustees include the Prime Minister, ministers of Defence, Home Affairs and Finance. Meanwhile, another petition on PM CARES FUND, which came up for hearing before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan was declared dismissed as withdrawn as the petitioner approached the high court without preferring an RTI application in this regard.  Advocate Surender Singh Hooda, who filed the petition, had also sought direction to the PM CARES Fund to divulge information under the RTI Act as it is a public authority and asked for details of money received and utilised. The petition had said that after two months of its creation, the total corpus of the fund stands at approximately Rs 10,000 crores and the amount has been so collected upon strength of prestige lent by the office of the Prime Minister. The plea, filed through advocate Aditya Hooda, referred to reports published in newspapers on May 31 that the PM CARES fund has refused to divulge information sought by one Harsha Kundakarni under the RTI Act, 2005 by claiming that the fund is not a 'public authority' within the ambit of Act. “Therefore, the petitioner's or anybody else's application would also meet the same fate and hence the exercise of exhausting the remedy by filing another application and then filing appeal before the statutory authority may be dispensed with in the interest of justice,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-to-declare-pm-cares-fund-as-a-public-authority-under-rti-not-maintainable-pmo-to-hc-847928.html
10-06-2020||National||BSF constable succumbs to COVID-19 in Delhi||A BSF Constable has succumbed to COVID-19 in the national capital, taking the total toll in the paramilitary force to three, officials said on Wednesday. Constable Vinod Kumar Prasad, who was deployed in Delhi along with Delhi Police for law and order duty, breathed his last on Tuesday. He was admitted to AIIMS on June 5 after he complained of weakness and cough and was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit. "His samples taken for COVID-19 on June 6 were negative but his condition deteriorated on June 8. His COVID-19 sample of June 8 was found positive," a BSF spokesperson said. The constable is survived by his parents, wife and son. The BSF has so far 538 COVID-19 cases out of which 435 have recovered. Hundred personnel are still under treatment while three people have passed away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-delhi-847935.html
10-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Finance Ministry releases Rs 6,195 crore to 14 states||The government on Wednesday released Rs 6,195 crore to 14 states as monthly instalment of the post devolution revenue deficit grant. "The government on June 10, 2020, released Rs 6,195.08 crore to 14 states as the third equated-monthly instalment of the post devolution revenue deficit grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. This would provide them additional resources during the corona crisis," the Office of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. Earlier, on April 3 and May 11, the ministry released a similar amount as the first and second instalment of the post devolution revenue deficit grant to 14 states -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-finance-ministry-releases-rs-6195-crore-to-14-states-847937.html
10-06-2020||National||Seers perform 'rudrabhishek' in Ram Janmabhoomi Complex; invite Modi for foundation laying||'Rudrabhishek' (a special puja to please Lord Shiva) was performed in the Ram Janmabhoomi complex in Ayodhya on Wednesday by a group of prominent seers paving the way for starting construction of the Ram Temple. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, performed the special 'puja' with other seers. The Mahant said that 'rudrabhishek' has been performed with the objective of ensuring uninterrupted construction of a grand Ram Temple. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been invited to lay the foundation stone of the sanctum-sanctorum but he (Modi) could not make it owing to coronavirus outbreak in the country. ''The Prime Minister wanted to visit Ayodhya but his program had to be cancelled following the COVID-19 pandemic,'' he added. The Mahant said that he would meet the Prime Minister and extend the invite to him to visit Ayodhya to take part in the foundation laying ceremony. He said that the process of Ram Temple construction had already started. ''There is some delay owing to the pandemic,'' the Mahant said. According to the sources close to the seers, the foundation laying ceremony could be held on on the occasion of 'Devshayan Ekadashi' July 2.  According to the Hindu mythology, the gods and goddesses retire to bed for four months after the 'devshayan ekadashi' and no auspicious work can be undertaken in this period. The levelling work of the land on which the Ram Temple would be constructed had been completed. The company, which has been assigned the task of construction, has also signaled that it is ready to start the construction work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seers-perform-rudrabhishek-in-ram-janmabhoomi-complex-invite-modi-for-foundation-laying-847939.html
10-06-2020||National||SC refuses to stay AP HC's order quashing Ordinance on reducing tenure of state poll panel chief||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to stay the Andhra Pradesh High Court's order that quashed an Ordinance curtailing tenure of State Election Commissioner from five to three years.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, however, issued notice to the SEC and N Ramesh Kumar who was restored as the SEC. During the hearing on a plea by the Andhra Pradesh government, the bench asked the state cousel, "We are not satisfied that your motives were entirely innocent. How can you pass an ordinance like this?"  The counsel contended that the High Court has struck down the provision under which incumbent was appointed. "The HC has found that decision is ultra vires. The provision for appointment is struck down. How can the incumbent continue in his post," the bench further asked. The court, however, admitted the matter for consideration. The HC had on May 29 struck down the Ordinance, promulgated on April 10 by the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government, reducing the tenure of SEC from five to three years. It had also quashed the appointment of retired judge, Justice V Kanagaraj as the new chief and restored Ramesh Kumar as the chief of the state poll panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-stay-ap-hcs-order-quashing-ordinance-on-reducing-tenure-of-state-poll-panel-chief-847940.html
10-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Plea in SC seeks quashing of CBSE notification for conducting remaining exams of class XII||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking quashing of a notification of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for conducting the remaining examinations of Class XII from July 1 to July 15 amid the increase in number of COVID-19 cases across the country. The plea, filed by some parents of students who are appearing in class XII examination, has sought a direction to the CBSE to declare the results on the basis of exam already conducted and to calculate it on an average basis with internal assessment marks of the remaining subjects. Raising concern over the safety of lakhs of students, the plea has said that they might be exposed to COVID-19 infection if they have to appear in the examinations amid the increase in number of cases of virus infection.  It urged the apex court to quash the May 18 notification of the CBSE by which the date sheet for remaining exams of Class XII was declared and also to stay it till the plea is decided by the court. "The said petition would also demonstrate the extent of discriminatory and arbitrariness conduct of the respondent/CBSE in issuing the notification for holding of the remaining examination and that too in the month of July, 2020 wherein as per the AIIMS data, the said COVID-19 pandemic would be at its peak," the plea said. It alleged that considering the gravity of COVID-19 pandemic, the CBSE has cancelled the examinations of Class X and XII for its around 250 schools which are situated abroad and has adopted the criteria of awarding marks on the basis of either practical exams conducted or the internal assessment marks. "It is highly regretful that the respondents (CBSE and Ministry of Human Resource Development) herein have no genuine concern about putting the lives at peril of all the students pan India and have no explanation whatsoever in insisting upon holding the said examination in India," the plea claimed. It said that in April this year, the CBSE had directed the schools to promote students of classes IX and XI to the respective next grades on the basis of school based assessments.  It said that on May 25, the Ministry of Human Resource and Development had announced about conducting of exams for classes X and XII class students in almost 15,000 exam centres as against 3,000 centres which were used earlier. "Ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards as prescribed by the concerned government in COVID-19 situation in those 15,000 exam centres spreading over length and breadth of the country including rural sectors would not only be risking health and life of children but also would be an exercise in futility and an eyewash," the plea said. It said even if it is to be assumed that 50 per cent of coronavirus cases are asymptomatic then the students, who will appear in the exams, could be potential careers posing a great risk to themselves and also their family members. The plea said that several premier educational institutes, like Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), has also cancelled its exams including those of final year students because of the pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-plea-in-sc-seeks-quashing-of-cbse-notification-for-conducting-remaining-exams-of-class-xii-847952.html
10-06-2020||National||USCIRF has no locus standi to pronounce on Indians' constitutionally protected rights: External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar||The government had denied visa to USCIRF teams that sought to visit India in connection with issues related to religious freedom, as a foreign entity like it has no locus standi to make a pronouncement on Indian citizens' constitutionally protected rights, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said. Jaishankar informed this in a letter written to BJP MP Nishikant Dubey who had raised the issue of the US Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) seeking sanctions against Home Minister Amit Shah in case Citizen Amendment Bill gets passed, during the Winter session of Lok Sabha last year. The USCIRF has been known to make prejudiced, inaccurate, and misleading observations regarding the state of religious freedom in India, the minister said. “We do not take cognizance of these pronouncements and have repudiated such attempts to misrepresent information related to India,” the minister said. He said the MEA had rejected the body's remarks in this regard as inaccurate and unwarranted. “We have also denied visa to USCIRF teams that have sought to visit India in connection with issues related to religious freedom, as we do not see the locus standi of a foreign entity like USCIRF to pronounce on the state of Indian citizens constitutionally protected rights,” Jaishankar wrote. He also assured the BJP MP that India will not accept any external interference or pronouncement on its sovereignty and fundamental rights of its citizens. Last year, the USCIRF had said that the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2019 would be a "dangerous turn in wrong direction" and sought American sanctions against Shah if the bill would pass by both houses of the Indian Parliament. The USCIRF had made these remarks when the bill had been introduced in Lok Sabha and later parliament passed the legislation on December 11 last year. The MEA had stated in its response that the USCIRF had "chosen to be guided only by its prejudices and biases on a matter on which it had little knowledge and no locus standi".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uscirf-has-no-locus-standi-to-pronounce-on-indians-constitutionally-protected-rights-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-847956.html
10-06-2020||National||Gujarat: Asiatic lions' population increases to 674||The Asiatic lions' population in Gir forest and other landscapes is said to have increased to 674 with a growth of nearly 29% compared to 523 which was recorded in the last census held in 2015, the state forest department has found. These lions are spread over 30,000 square kilometres of protected forest and agro-pastoral landscape of nine districts of Saurashtra. The finding of the rise in the population is based on an exercise locally called "Poonam Avlokan" or full moon observation of lions which was undertaken after the forest department had to abandon its census in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Officials said that although "poonam avlokan" is a routine monthly exercise this time it was undertaken more intensely by roping in 1400 personnel posted with thirteen administrative divisions. However, it is still an in-house affair than the usual census which is conducted every five years that involves other agencies including NGOs and independent environmentalists, among others. Forest officials have said in a release that the full moon observation method has found lions' population increased to "674 individuals with an increased rate of 28.87% (one of the highest growth rates so far) from the previous growth of 27% during 2015 (523 lions)." It also says that the distribution of lion habitat has also increased from 22,000 sq km in 2015 to 30,000 sq km in 2020. The release states that out of 674 individual lions, there are 161 adult males, 260 adult females, 45 male, and 49 female sub-adults, 137 cubs and 22 are unidentified. "The Asiatic lion, once faced with imminent extinction has shown a population recovery which has been acclaimed as a global conservation success story, thanks to the timely intervention by the erstwhile Nawab of Junagadh and protection regimes of the Gujarat Forest Department in the post-independence era," the release states. With the estimated increase in population, a significant number of wild cats are also said to be dying every year. The data presented in the state assembly last year revealed that between June 2017 and May 2019, a total of 222 lions died. The forest department stated that most of the deaths occurred due to a high cub mortality rate. They said that on average 90 cubs die every year. The forest officers said that there are other reasons as well that include disease, accidents like falling in well, being run over by the train, electrocution etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-asiatic-lions-population-increases-to-674-847964.html
10-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Bihar's Grand Alliance; Rajasthan seals borders||From The Newsroom, your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. In today's episode, Bihar Grand Alliance contemplates dumping three of its partners, Rajasthan seals its borders for seven days and DMK's Anbazhagan breathes his last due to COVID-19.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bihars-grand-alliance-rajasthan-seals-borders-847965.html
10-06-2020||National||Arnab Goswami faces police over alleged provocative comments||Mumbai police on Wednesday interrogated Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami in a case about alleged provocative comments. Goswami reached the N M Joshi Marg police station around 2 pm and was grilled for nearly two hours by police officials, who first interrogated S Sundaram, Republic TVs Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Speaking outside the police station, Goswami alleged "political vendetta and deliberate obstruction to his media duty" by Mumbai police and urged media fraternity to unite. "The truth is on my side. We will win. I have placed facts before the Mumbai police. They said they may call me for questioning again," he told reporters. Two FIRs have been filed against Goswami accusing him of making provocative comments about a community during a news show about migrant workers gathering in large numbers outside the Bandra railway terminus during lockdown. "When I started proving to them that the entire case against me is fabricated, adding that the video clip (of the show) was edited and put out of context, the investigating officer said they will call me (for questioning) later," Goswami said.  "I told them it is not good to expose me (to health risk) during the current coronavirus situation," he said. Asked what would be his course of action, he said, "We will fight in the court." Goswami said he was grilled for two hours and his CFO was interrogated for six hours. "This is clear and blatant political vendetta. The Vadra Congress is blatantly misusing the Mumbai police. But like always, they will fail. "I stand by every minute of our Palghar and Bandra migrants' protest coverage. The New media in a new India is becoming stronger. It is time for the Lutyens brigade to introspect," Goswami said. The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant Goswami exemption from appearance before the police in the case and asked him to appear before the cops on Wednesday. Police had summoned Goswami for interrogation in connection with a complaint filed against him for allegedly creating communal disturbance through his TV show aired on April 29. The court allowed him to appear at the N M Joshi Marg police station, and not at Pydhonie, which is a containment zone. Asked why was the channel CFO called for questioning, a senior police official indicated that it may be a part of the process to see how the channel functions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-faces-police-over-alleged-provocative-comments-847967.html
10-06-2020||National||Award winning film director finds himself 'dead' on Facebook||Award winning writer and film director Dr Vipin Agnihotri was in for a rude shock, when on trying to log into his Facebook account, he was greeted by a notice by the Facebook that his account could not be accsessed as he was 'dead'. A shocked Agnihotri said that someone might have hacked his Facebook account and sent the service provider his fake death certificate. "I am greeted with the following message after entering my valid and correct username and password:"Account Inaccessible...This account is in a special memorial state...If you have any questions or concerns, please visit the Help Center for further information," Agnihotri said. Agnihotri suspected that it could be due to some mischievous pals. "Apparently, you need my date of birth (which friends or friends with hacked accounts have access to) and a fake obituary (because no one at Facebook really reads them apparently), " he told DH on Wednesday. A frustrated Agnihotri said that all this was not only having a negative impact on his professional career but also scared him as someone have such an audacity to make a fake death certificate as well. He said that an FIR in this regard has been lodged in the Cyber Cell of the Uttar Pradesh police. ''The matter is being investigated,'' a police official said. Police sources said that it was the first case of this kind in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/award-winning-film-director-finds-himself-dead-on-facebook-847974.html
10-06-2020||National||Delhi court grants anticipatory bail to journalist Vinod Dua in defamation case||A Delhi court has granted anticipatory bail to senior journalist Vinod Dua in a defamation case lodged on the complaint of a Delhi BJP leader who alleged that the scribe made defamatory statements conducive to public mischief on his youtube show. The court, which passed the order on Tuesday, also directed the police to not take any coercive steps against Dua till June 29, the next date of hearing and asked the journalist to join the investigation and cooperate with the police. Additional Sessions Judge Vineeta Goyal granted the relief to Dua after the investigating officer said his custodial interrogation was not required and no recovery was to be affected from him. "I have considered the above submissions and considering the undertaking given by the accused to cooperate with the investigation, submission made by the IO (investigating officer) that non custodial interrogation was required and further considering the medical condition of the accused in the light of the prevailing pandemic situation, the accused namely Vinod Dua is hereby directed to join the investigation and also co-operate with the IO during the investigation and on his such joining the investigation, no coercive steps be taken by the IO against him till the adjourned date," the judge said in the order. The FIR was lodged on June 4 at Laxmi Nagar Police Station in east Delhi on the complaint of BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar who claimed that “Dua, a known India media personality, committed offence of public nuisance, mischief, printing and engraving matters known to be defamatory, intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace”. Police has lodged FIR for the offences in which the maximum punishment is three years imprisonment. During the hearing held through video conferencing, advocates Sandeep Deshmukh and Vatsalya Vigya, appearing for Dua, said that the journalist has fundamental rights to freedom of speech and expression as guaranteed by the Constitution. The counsel further said that Dua was 66 years old and suffering from diabetes, thalassemia minor, chronic liver disease, low platelet counts, low hemoglobin and hypothyroidism due to which therefore he was vulnerable to the present pandemic condition created by Covid-19. They further said that he was willing to fully cooperate with the police. Additional Public Prosecutor Anil Kumar, appearing for the state, opposed the anticipatory bail application, saying the matter was at the stage of investigation and relevant records were yet to be collected from YouTube. The IO, however, said that no custodial interrogation was required and no recovery was to be affected from Dua. Dua has also filed a petition in the Delhi High Court for quashing of the FIR. The petition in high court stated that on March 11, Dua on his YouTube show had spoken about riots that started from February 23 in North East Delhi and the contents of the show were like other national and international news, which highlighted the mishandling of the riots by the police authorities and the Central Government. “Ironically, all persons who, according to this court in its order dated February 26, should have been punished, have remained unpunished and are completely free from any charges regarding communal hatred. However, the Petitioner who is a Padma Shri and one of the most reputed journalists, is being imputed with the offences of communal hatred, fake news and inciting violence for stating factually verified news regarding the North East Delhi riots,” it said. The journalist Vinod Dua has blatantly lied or has misinformed his viewers about the series of events. There are also a series of old instances where bizarre and unfounded allegations have been made against the government, police and political leaders. The reporting's full of false content misleading context...(sic)" Kumar has said in his complaint. A case has been registered under IPC sections 290 (punishment for public nuisance in cases not otherwise provided for) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-journalist-vinod-dua-in-defamation-case-847983.html
10-06-2020||National||ED brings back Rs 1,350 cr worth polished diamonds, pearls of Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi firms from Hong Kong||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday brought back over 2,300 kg of polished diamonds and pearls worth Rs 1,350 crore of firms belonging to Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi from Hong Kong, the agency said. Out of the 108 consignments that landed at Mumbai, 32 belong to overseas entities in the UAE and Hong Kong "controlled" by Nirav Modi while the rest are of Mehul Choksi firms, it said in a statement. Both the businessmen are being probed by the ED under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with an over USD 2 billion alleged bank fraud at a PNB branch in Mumbai. The 2,340 kg valuables include polished diamonds, pearls and silver jewellery, and are worth Rs 1,350 crore. The ED completed "all legal formalities" with authorities in Hong Kong to bring back these valuables, the agency said. These valuables, officials said, were moved to Hong Kong from Dubai in early 2018 so that they could be saved from being seized or attached by the ED or any other investigating agency.  The ED got intelligence inputs on this movement in July that year and since then the sleuths were on its trail. These valuables were kept in the godown of a logistics company in Hong Kong, the central probe agency said. "The officers were continuously engaged in discussions with various authorities in Hong Kong to bring these valuables back to India. Various modalities were finalised and after completing all the legal formalities these consignments have now been brought back to India," it said, adding they will be formally seized under the PMLA. This is the second such action on this case as ED had earlier brought back 33 consignments of valuables from Dubai and Hong Kong. They were valued at Rs 137 crore then, the ED said. On June 8, a special PMLA court in Mumbai had allowed the confiscation of the attached assets of Nirav Modi, the key accused in this case, under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act (FEOA). This was the first such order in the country after the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act was passed two years ago. Nirav Modi (49), currently lodged in a UK jail, was declared a fugitive economic offender in December by the Mumbai court. He was arrested in London in March 2019 and is presently fighting extradition to India. His uncle Mehul Choksi has been evading the law since the probe into this case began and was last stated to be living in Antigua and Barbuda from where the Indian government is seeking his extradition, the probe agencies have said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-brings-back-rs-1350-cr-worth-polished-diamonds-pearls-of-nirav-modi-mehul-choksi-firms-from-hong-kong-847984.html
10-06-2020||National||2 IITs, IISc Bengaluru among top 200 in QS World University Rankings||Two Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) -- Delhi and Bombay -- and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bengaluru have maintained their positions in the top 200 in the QS World University Rankings despite losing some points. In the 2021 QS rankings announced in London on Wednesday, IIT Bombay continues to be the best-ranked Indian institute at 172, notwithstanding a 20-slot dip from the 2020 ranking when it was at 152. IIT Delhi, at 182 last year, is now ranked 193. IISc fell in the rankings by one spot from 184 to 185. In total, 21 Indian higher education institutions have found place among the world's top 1,000. Of the 21 universities, 14 have fallen in the rank over the past 12 months, while four have improved their position. Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, has been ranked 470 globally, an improvement of 21 places from last year when it was at 491. "Though India's universities have dropped as a group this year, this is because of other universities across the world making increasingly-intense efforts to enhance their educational offerings," said Ben Sowter, the Director of Research at QS. "To regain the lost ground, Indian higher education must find ways of increasing teaching capacity, and of attracting more talented students and faculty from across the world to study in India. There is plenty of potential, and there are pockets of excellence, within the Indian system," Sowter added. The QS Rankings is the second consecutive international list where Indian universities have fared poorly compared to 2020. Last week, the Times Higher Education (THE) Asia University rankings also showed that Indian institutes have slipped in their standings. IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao, however, said the rankings should be viewed in a different context. "The character of our institutions is different. Also, it is a marathon we are running, not a 100-mt race. This is a very dicey and a non-transparent metric. Also, we are known in India. But international reputation needs an altogether different strategy. We need a global campaign for education like what the country has done with 'Incredible India' for tourism," Rao said. "Need to hire a brand building agency and aggressively campaign our Study in India initiatives, highlighting the achievements of IITs and our top institutions. Also, perception-based scores by these agencies are open to a lot of fallacies and other considerations. We have all had issues with this," he added. The HRD Ministry's National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) will be announced on Thursday. The rankings are usually announced in April but had to be postponed due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-iits-iisc-bengaluru-among-top-200-in-qs-world-university-rankings-847996.html
10-06-2020||National||Frame policy for employment of migrants in home states, suggests SBI report||The government should come out with a policy for gainful employment of migrant labourers in their home states, especially in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, an SBI report suggested on Wednesday. The report further said that the government can create a comprehensive data base on migrant workers on the basis of travel history on Shramik special trains, call detail records and record of social sector schemes.  "With approximately 58 lakh migrants having gone back to home states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal and more expected, we need a properly crafted policy of gainfully employing such migrant labourers in home states," said SBI Ecowrap. After the government imposed nation-wide lockdown on March 25, 2020 to curb the spread of coronavirus, lakhs of migrant workers returned to their home states. "...we need to build up a comprehensive database of migrant workers and formulate a policy for unorganised sector workers. Tracking the call detail records (CDRs) juxtaposed with travel history of the migrant labourers from Shramik Trains could be the first starting point of constructing such database,” suggested the SBI report. The CDRs could give a clear idea of out-migration intensity into districts in states that exhibit a high level of migrant labour movements, the report said, adding these districts could then be the starting point for providing gainful employment to migrant labourers.  The report further said that Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal has accounted for close to 90 per cent of the total migrants and hence it is imperative that tailored policies are crafted to absorb such labourers. The report further said that with increasing number of migrant labourers back in home town, it will now be extremely difficult for state governments to provide employment. Against such a background, extending livelihood jobs to job card holders by banks could lead to more money in the hands of the poor and marginalised, it said. "The banks can advance say 40 per cent of the eligible amount to the MGNREGA cardholders based on a simplified application form with the caveat that the interest on such livelihood loans can be guaranteed by the government, the cost of which is minimal at around Rs 4,000 crore," said Ecowrap. Effectively, this loan will be self-liquidated when the MGNREGA cardholder contributes labour and pays off debt. It further said that MGNREGA is no longer linked to the Minimum Wages Act and as a result, for a number of instances MGNREGA wage is lower than the state's minimum agricultural wage. It has suggested a relook at such norms even for a temporary period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/frame-policy-for-employment-of-migrants-in-home-states-suggests-sbi-report-847998.html
10-06-2020||National||Workers reportedly held in INS Vikrant hard disk theft||Two migrant workers were reportedly held by the NIA in connection with the robbery of hard disks and RAMs from computers of INS Vikrant, India's first indigenous aircraft carrier, which is in the final stages of making at the Cochin Shipyard. It was learnt that a native of Bihar and a native of Rajasthan were held. They were part of a team of painting workers of the ship. The accused were traced after examining fingerprints of hundreds of workers. The theft came to light on September 13. The four hard disks contained details about the ship's layout and other technical details. Hence the theft assumed much significance and the NIA took over the probe. However, the Shipyard authorities maintained most of the details were in encrypted form and no vital information regarding Navy's operations were loaded in the hard disks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/workers-reportedly-held-in-ins-vikrant-hard-disk-theft-848002.html
10-06-2020||National||PIL filed in SC to quash notification for holding CBSE exams||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court to quash the notification for conducting examinations by the CBSE for the remaining subjects of Class 12, between July 1 and 15 in view of the health risk posed to millions of students due to COVID-19 pandemic. A group of parents led by Colonel Amit Bathla contended that ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards in COVID-19 situation in 15,000 exam centres spread over length and breadth of the country, including in rural sectors, would not only be risking health and life of children but also would be an exercise in futility and an eyewash. "At a time when cases were rising diametrically and even if 50% cases were asymptomatic then, the students appearing for these exams could also be potential carriers themselves and would be posing a great risk to the other family members and themselves," they said. In the month of July where the temperature touches almost 45 degree Celsius with a high level of humidity, students wearing gloves and masks and sitting in examination centres for four hours at stretch would be a task, completely hazardous to everyone, they added. The petitioners also pointed out several prestigious institutions like Delhi University and IITs across the country and various state governments have cancelled final year examinations in view of the prevailing situation. They said the CBSE itself has cancelled examinations for class 10 and 12 in 250 odd schools situated abroad and has decided to award marks based on the internal assessment or practical examinations. "It is highly regretful the authorities were showing no genuine concern about putting the lives at the peril of all the students pan India and have no explanation whatsoever in insisting upon holding the said examination in India," they said. The petitioners asked the court to quash the May 18 notification and direct the CBSE to declare the results on the basis of examination already conducted and to calculate it on an average basis with the internal assessment marks of the remaining subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-to-quash-notification-for-holding-cbse-exams-848004.html
10-06-2020||National||Situation unprecedented but State cannot leave citizens to die: NHRC||Underscoring that the State cannot just let citizens to die, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday sought reports from Union Health Ministry and the Delhi government over claims about "non-availability" of hospital beds for COVID-19 patients and "inadequate" testing of samples in the national capital. The NHRC acknowledged that it is an "unprecedented" situation but it emphasised that the State "cannot leave its citizens to die without making the best possible efforts".   It is true that there is a rise in COVID-19 cases and the recovery rate is above 48 per cent but at the same time it is "also true that a large number of people have died" and Delhi is one of the worst affected cities so far", it said. The NHRC's action came on a complaint filed on Tuesday by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, which it described as not mere allegations but backed by data and one that raises "serious issue of inappropriate approach" of the government agencies towards the plight of the public. The non-availability of beds in the hospitals for COVID-19 patients and inadequate number of tests leading to a "grim state of affairs and mismanagement, resulting in death of a large number of people", it said adding there have been reports of massive delay in in conducting the last rites of those died during the pandemic period. Also, the NHRC said, there are reports that  the bodies of the symptomatic deceased are also not being conducted violating the norms set by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).  This can be "extremely dangerous," it said adding Maken has not come up with mere allegations but made an "apparent sincere effort" to provide data in support of his complaint.  The data provided by Maken indicates that there is urgent need for taking effective steps immediately by the government agencies, the NHRC said directING the Delhi government and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to consider the matter in consultation with each other and submit "a comprehensive report within ten days". The NHRC noted that there have been many complaints from across the country relating to the difficulties being faced by the public in getting timely medical treatment for COVID-19 and the national capital has been no exception. Suo-motu cognizance was also taken of such matters including one relating to death of a 32-year-old Delhi Police constable, who lost to the deadly virus because he was not admitted in the hospital in time, it said. In his complaint, Maken has said that Delhi has a robust hospital infrastructure of 57,194 beds. He said only 12 per cent of the Delhi government, 8 per cent of the central government and 7 per cent of the private hospital beds are being used to treat COVID-19 patients. Maken also said that the Delhi government has 38 healthcare facilities and hospitals but 33 of them are not accepting COVID-19 patients as only five have been designated as COVID-19 hospitals. In his complaint, he also alleged that adequate number of tests are not being conducted by the Delhi government to detect the COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-unprecedented-but-state-cannot-leave-citizens-to-die-nhrc-848015.html
10-06-2020||National||Central teams to handhold state health departments in six major cities with high number of coronavirus cases||Central teams have been deputed to assist state health officials in reviewing the public health measures being undertaken to combat COVID-19 in six cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru which are among the major contributors to India's rising tally of coronavirus infections. These teams will provide technical support and handhold the state health departments and municipal health officials for reviewing public health measures implemented for containment and management of COVID-19 outbreak in the six cities, the Union health ministry said. The teams will visit these cities within the next one week to review public health measures being undertaken for COVID-19 and submit a daily report of activities undertaken in collaboration with the local administration there. "They will inform them regarding any issue of urgent importance and also submit a report of its observations and suggestions before concluding the visit," the ministry said. The COVID-19 cases in Mumbai have crossed 51,000, while the national capital has reported more than 31,000 cases. Ahmedabad has reported nearly 15,000 cases while Chennai has over 22,000 cases. On Tuesday, the ministry said that high-level multi-disciplinary central teams have been deployed in over 50 districts and municipal bodies spread across 15 states and UTs, witnessing a spurt in coronavirus cases, to assist local administrations in containment and management of COVID-19 outbreak there. Meanwhile, the ministry said that the number of recoveries has exceeded the total COVID-19 active cases for the first time on Wednesday even as India reported close to 10,000 new instances of the infection pushing the country's cumulative caseload to over 2.7 lakh. The country's death toll has also risen to 7,745, according to the health ministry data updated till 8 am. The number of active cases in the country stands at 1,33,632 while 1,35,205 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. As many as 5,991 patients were cured of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. "Thus, 48.9 per cent of the patients have recovered so far," an official said. As per the global evidence, 80 per cent of COVID cases are mild cases remaining 20 per cent may develop complications which would require hospitalisation.  Out of the hospitalized cases of COVID-19 only 5 per cent may require ICU care, the official said. According to ICMR, a total of 50,61,332 samples have been tested till 9 AM with 1,45,216 samples tested in the last 24 hours. India currently is the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK, according to data issued by the Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-teams-to-handhold-state-health-departments-in-six-major-cities-with-high-number-of-coronavirus-cases-848029.html
10-06-2020||National||US expresses concern about violence and discrimination against religious minorities in India||The United States is “very concerned” over violence and discrimination against religious and ethnic minorities in India, a senior official of the President Donald Trump’s administration in Washington D.C. said.    “We do remain very concerned about what is taking place in India. It has historically just been a very tolerant, respectful country of religions, of all religions,” Samuel Brownback, US Ambassador-At-Large for International Religious Freedom, said. His comment came after the US State Department published a report, which took note of the moves by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi to strip Jammu and Kashmir off its special status and reorganize the state into two Union Territories, as well as enforcement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act last year.  New Delhi, however, has dismissed the report by the US State Department as an “internal document”, saying no foreign entity has any locus standi to pronounce on the state of the constitutionally protected rights of the citizens of India.  Mike Pompeo, the US Secretary of State, published the annual report on international religious freedom in Washington D.C. late Wednesday. The report noted that the Government of India sometimes had sometimes failed to act to prevent or stop mob attacks on religious minorities, marginalized communities. It also took note of the attacks on the critics of the Government.  “Some officials of Hindu-majority parties, including from the Bharatiya Janata Party, made inflammatory public remarks or social media posts against minority communities,” the report compiled by the US State Department noted, adding: “Mob attacks by violent Hindu groups against minority communities, including Muslims, continued throughout the year (2019) amid rumors that victims had traded or killed cows for beef. Authorities often failed to prosecute perpetrators of such ‘cow vigilantism’, which included killings, mob violence, and intimidation.”  It noted that the Modi Government had sent thousands of additional security forces to Jammu and Kashmir after its August 5, 2019 move, shut down many internet and phone lines and had not restored full service by the end of the year. The government also closed most mosques in the area until the middle of December 2019, it added.  The report noted that the CAA accelerated “citizenship for Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi, and Christian migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan who entered the country on or before December 31, 2014, but not for similarly-situated migrants who are Muslims, Jews, atheists, or members of other faiths.” It also noted incidents cow-vigilante  “We’re seeing a lot more difficulty. I think really they need to have a - I would hope they would have an - interfaith dialogue starting to get developed at a very high level in India, and then also deal with the specific issues that we identified as well,” said Brownback, expressing concern over growing communal violence in India.  New Delhi rejected the US State Department’s report, stating that its vibrant democratic traditions and practices were evident to the world. “The people and Government of India are proud of our country’s democratic traditions. We have a robust public discourse in India and constitutionally mandated institutions that guarantee protection of religious freedom and rule of law,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said.  The report came a few weeks after a US federal commission had recommended the Trump Administration to designate India as a “Country of Particular Concern” in view of its “sharp downward turn” in religious freedom. The US Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) had also recommended “targeted sanctions” on “agencies and officials” of the Government of India responsible for severe violations of religious freedom, by freezing their assets and barring their entry into America.  New Delhi had dismissed the USCIRF’s report calling it biased and prejudiced. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar recently wrote in a letter to BJP MP Nishikant Dubey that the government had denied visas to a USCIRF team, which had expressed desire to visit India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-expresses-concern-about-violence-and-discrimination-against-religious-minorities-in-india-848033.html
10-06-2020||National||Tamil Nadu reports another massive spike in COVID-19 numbers||As many as 1,927 people, including 30 who returned from abroad and other states, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday (June 10), in the biggest single-day spike reported ever since the outbreak began in March. Chennai, the state capital, continued to be on the edge as it threw up 1,392 fresh positive cases on Wednesday taking its individual tally to 25,937, even as Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 numbers stood at 36,841. This figure includes 19,333 discharges and 326 deaths – 19 of which were reported by the government on Wednesday.    Twenty-nine of the total 37 districts reported positive cases on Wednesday as the state appeared to have increased the number of samples tested to 17,675, the highest so far. However, the prevalence of the virus seems to be high in Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Chengalpattu that account for 30,446 of the total 36,841 cases in the state, which is over 80 percent. And on Wednesday too, over 80 percent of the cases recorded in Tamil Nadu came from these four districts with 1,712 people testing positive. The death toll has also been increasing in the past few days with 19 people being reported as having lost their lives by the Health Department.  While four people had no co-morbidities, the remaining 15 had one or multiple co-morbidities at the time of admission to various government and private hospitals. As the city struggled with nearly 26,000 Coronavirus patients, the government said enough beds were available both in the private and public sectors. It also recruited 574 non-service postgraduates at a pay of Rs 75,000 per month, 665 doctors at a pay scale of Rs 60,000 per month and 365 lab technicians on Wednesday to be placed in government hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-reports-another-massive-spike-in-covid-19-numbers-848052.html
10-06-2020||National||Two arrested for stealing computer hardware from under-construction Indigenous Aircraft Carrier||Two youths have been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the theft of computer hardware components from the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) under-construction at the Cochin Shipyard last year. Sumit Kumar Singh (23), who hails from Munger in Bihar and Daya Ram (22) from resident of Hanumangarh in Rajasthan were apprehended by the investigators from their houses on Tuesday, the NIA said on Wednesday. They were accused of stealing electronic components, including five micro-processors, ten RAMs and five Solid State Drives (SSDs) from the Multi-Functional Consoles (MFCs) aboard the Ship. MFCs form part of Integrated Platform Management System (IPMS) of the project. The Ernakulam Town (South) Police Station had initially registered the FIR on 16 September, 2019 on the complaint of the Cochin Shipyard authorities regarding the criminal trespass and theft of certain critical electronic components installed on-board Indigenous Aircraft Carrier under-construction at the Cochin Shipyard. NIA later took over the case and re-registered the case ten days later. As there were no initial clues, the NIA said, it analysed fingerprints and palm-prints of more than 5,000 people who had worked in the IAC project during this period. A large number of witnesses were examined and in March this year, the agency announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh to anybody who gives any credible leads in the case. According to the NIA case summary posted on its website, it was a case of trespass and theft of critical electronic components, installed on-board the IAC under-construction at the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) in Kochi between August 29, 2019 and September 13, 2019. It caused "damage and destruction of highly sensitive defence infrastructure with the intention of threatening the security of Indian and waging war against the Government of India by unknown persons", it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-arrested-for-stealing-computer-hardware-from-under-construction-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-848062.html
10-06-2020||National||CM Arvind Kejriwal meets Amit Shah, discusses COVID-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the national capital, which has seen a surge in cases over the past few days. The chief minister said Shah assured him of all cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus. "Met Sh Amit Shah, Hon''ble HM. Discussed the situation on corona in Delhi in detail. He assured of all cooperation," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said in a tweet. Met Sh Amit Shah, Hon’ble HM. Discussed the situation on corona in Delhi in detail. He assured of all cooperation. An official said there was a detailed discussion between the two leaders on the COVID-19 situation in the national capital. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal said that Delhi will need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31 once people from other states start coming to Delhi for COVID-19 treatment. He said the AAP dispensation will implement Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal's order overruling his government's decisions on reservation of state-run and private hospitals for Delhiites as "this is not the time for disagreements and politics". The Shah-Kejriwal meeting comes days after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia demanded immediate release of funds to give salaries to employees of the Delhi government and for other matters. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 1,501 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally near 33,000, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 984. This is the second time when over 1,500 case have been reported in a day in Delhi. The highest spike in fresh cases -- 1,513-- was recorded on June 3. In a bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 984, and the total number of cases mounted to 32,810.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-arvind-kejriwal-meets-amit-shah-discusses-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-848065.html
10-06-2020||National||2 dead after tipper carrying returnees from India to quarantine facility in Nepal plunges in river||Two people died and three others were missing after a tipper, carrying people who returned from India to a quarantine facility in Nepal, plunged into a river in Kalikot district when its driver exited the moving vehicle after an altercation with the passengers on Wednesday, according to media reports. The district authorities have been able to establish contact with 27 missing people on board the vehicle. Four among them are critically injured and have been shifted to a hospital, The Kathmandu Post reported. The tipper was taking returnees from India to a quarantine facility in Raskot municipality in the district, the report said. Karnali Province Police Spokesperson Rajib Bahadur Basnet said the driver Ranganath Dhamala, exited the moving vehicle after a heated argument with the passengers who were complaining of overloading the vehicle. “Following the altercation, the tipper swerved off the road and plunged into the Karnali River in Lalighat at 10:40am today,” said Basnet, adding that the driver has been arrested. According to The Himalayan Times, a team of police has been deployed to the site for search and rescue operations. Some of the passengers were rescued from the river by the local people, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-dead-after-tipper-carrying-returnees-from-india-to-quarantine-facility-in-nepal-plunges-in-river-848103.html
10-06-2020||National||COVID-19: PM Narendra Modi, Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu discuss areas of cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday discussed with his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu the potential areas in which the two countries can expand cooperation in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, including research and development efforts in the field of vaccines. During their telephonic conversation, Modi also congratulated Netanyahu on assuming the prime ministerial office for a record fifth time. "Had an excellent conversation with my friend PM @netanyahu about how India-Israel can collaborate in the post-COVID world," Modi tweeted. "India-Israel partnership will grow ever stronger in the days to come," he said. An official statement later said the leaders discussed the potential areas in which India and Israel could expand their cooperation in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, including research and development efforts in the fields of vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics. They agreed to maintain the ongoing exchanges between expert teams of both countries and also concurred that the fruits of such collaboration should be made available for the wider benefit of humanity. They reviewed other important topics on the bilateral agenda and agreed that the post-COVID world would create further avenues for mutually beneficial partnerships in many areas. "In particular, they assessed tremendous scope for expanding the already robust India-Israel collaboration in areas like health technology, agricultural innovation, defence-cooperation and information technology," the statement said. Both leaders agreed to remain in regular touch to share assessments and consult each other on the emerging opportunities and challenges in the changing global scenario.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-narendra-modi-israels-benjamin-netanyahu-discuss-areas-of-cooperation-848108.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||Ahead of Bihar polls, Mahagathbandhan may dump three of its allies||But more than the NDA, it’s the Grand Alliance, also called Mahagathbandhan, which is desperate to shore up its strength in the wake of stupendous performance by NDA during the 2019 parliamentary elections. Completely decimated by the NDA (comprising the BJP, JD-U and the LJP), which won 39 out of 40 Lok Sabha seats in the state after securing 53.25 percent votes, the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar is now seriously contemplating to dump three of its alliance partners who have become “more a liability than an asset.” At least three authoritative sources, two in Bihar and one in New Delhi, confirmed it to DH that three allies of Mahagathbandhan may get the boot in the next few weeks. And in the line of fire is Jitan Ram Manjhi-headed Hindustan Awam Morcha (HAM), former Union Minister Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and the little-known Vikas-sheel Insaan Party (VIP) headed by Mukesh Sahni, the self-proclaimed ‘son of Mallah’ (Nishads/boatmen). “The Lok Sabha results show that three Grand Alliance partners (the self-proclaimed leaders of Mahadalits, Kushwahas and Nishads, respectively) neither could secure votes from their core constituency nor could transfer it to the RJD and the Congress. Having failed to learn from their past performance, they are still hell-bent on extracting their pound of flesh. Against this backdrop, they have become more a liability than an asset,” a former Bihar Congress president explained it to DH, dwelling at length why Mahagathbandhan needs overhauling. The RJD too is not averse to dump the three alliance partners. “Talks are underway at the highest level in the party whether Manjhi, Kushwaha and Sahni should be shown the door. After all, they have been also holding secret parleys with those on the other side of the fence. Manjhi’s statements against our leader Tejashwi Yadav may also seal his fate,” said a senior RJD functionary, refusing to be identified as the new possible formation (comprising RJD and Congress) is still in an embryonic stage. Congress sources in New Delhi confirmed that the party’s top leadership was also not keen on having Manjhi, Kushwaha and Sahni in the Grand Alliance given their “miserable track record.” The three Mahagathbandhan allies, aware of the developments, have now started holding parleys for a Third Front which may have CPI’s Kanhaiya Kumar and former RJD MP Pappu Yadav on board. “Manjhi had an unsuccessful meeting with a top BJP functionary. After the talks failed due to Manjhi’s over-ambitious and unreasonable demand (for seats), these leaders are now negotiating with Pappu Yadav and other Left parties for a Third Front,” a Grand Alliance leader, close to Lalu as well as Sonia Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-bihar-polls-mahagathbandhan-may-dump-three-of-its-allies-847850.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||This is not the India of 1962, says BJP amid Sino-India border standoff||It is no longer the India of 1962 and the country is led by a "courageous" leader like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, not by the Congress, the BJP asserted on Wednesday, seeking to fend off the attack by the opposition party on the government's handling of the Sino-India border standoff. BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for raising questions about the border situation, saying he should have at least this much understanding as to not raise queries on Twitter about strategic issues involving China. Speaking at a 'virtual rally' for Himachal Pradesh, Prasad said when India works to become self-reliant, it will also do so in matters of security and referred to surgical and airstrikes targeting terrorists inside Pakistan during the first term of the Modi government. "We (India) want disputes to be resolved peacefully. We will say one thing very humbly that today India is the India of 2020 and not 1962. Today's India is of a courageous leader like Narendra Modi and not of Congress leaders. "This must be understood," he said, without making any direct comment on the standoff. China had defeated India in the 1962 war. The Congress was in power then. Taking potshots at Rahul Gandhi, the BJP leader said that how much the Congress leader understands the country's economic policy or strategic affairs is a matter of debate. Prasad asked if it is proper for him to raise such questions openly about crucial matters related to external affairs and said the Congress leader had also sought "evidence" following Indian surgical and airstrikes inside Pakistan. Targeting the Congress, he said when the matter involving China is discussed, then the party's handling of the country, a reference to 1962, will also be debated. Indian and Chinese armies are involved in a standoff at the Ladakh border with both countries trying to resolve the matter through military and diplomatic channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/this-is-not-the-india-of-1962-says-bjp-amid-sino-india-border-standoff-847966.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||BJP did in five years which Congress couldn't in 55 years, says Nitin Gadkari||The BJP government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership achieved in five years what the Congress could not in its 55 years' reign, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. The senior BJP leader was addressing his party's `Jan Samvadvirtual rally' here from Nagpur. "What the Congress could not do in 55 years, the BJP government under the leadership of Modi has done in just five years," he said. Nationalism was his party's priority and ideology, and the Modi government has manifested it in the way it is dealing with Maoists and terrorists, Gadkari said. Their "appeasement" has now ended and Maoists and terrorists are being dealt with an iron hand, he added. Under Modi's leadership, nationalism which puts the country's interest above other things is being pursued and vote bank politics is receding, the BJP leader further said. By annulling Article 370 which gave a special status to Jammu and Kashmir and clearing the hurdles in the way of the construction of Ram Temple, the BJP has stuck to its ideology, Gadkari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-did-in-five-years-which-congress-couldnt-in-55-years-says-nitin-gadkari-847972.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee rejects Amit Shah's charge, says never called 'Shramik' trains 'Corona Express'||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday denied having called 'Shramik Special' trains, ferrying migrant labourers back home, "Corona Express" as alleged by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, insisting it was the people who gave that name to crammed-to- capacity trains. Her comments came a day after Shah, addressing a virtual rally for West Bengal, accused Banerjee of "insulting" migrant workers returning to the state on Shramik Special trains by calling the trains 'Corona Express', and asserted that migrant workers will ensure the "exit" of her government in the 2021 assembly polls. "More than 11 lakh migrants have returned to Bengal. I never called the migrant special trains 'Corona Express'. It was the common people who gave them that name," she told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-rejects-amit-shahs-charge-says-never-called-shramik-trains-corona-express-847997.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||War of words between Congress, BJP over India-China issue||A war of words broke on between the Congress and the BJP government over the delicate situation on the India-China Line of Actual Control with Rahul Gandhi questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 'silence' on the issue. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad slammed Rahul for raising questions on strategic issues over social media, particularly at a time when the country is facing challenges due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “Rahul Gandhi should have the basic understanding of questions on international matters such as China should not be raised on Twitter. But, he is the same person who had sought evidence for the Balakot air strike and the Uri surgical strikes,” Prasad told reporters. Prasad’s attack came after Rahul claimed that Modi has “vanished” from the scene after Chinese troops encroached upon Indian territory in Ladakh. “The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile The PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene,” the former Congress President said. Congress hit back at the Modi government asking it to reserve the “abrasive language and sanctimonious anger” for the country’s adversaries who have encroached upon Indian territory in Ladakh. “We want to ask the PM about the Chinese intrusion. How did the Chinese soldiers enter India? Who is responsible for this? Will the government decide its accountability,” senior Congress leader Manish Tewari told reporters through a video link. Tewari described the Law Minister’s statement as “irresponsible” and demanded a statement from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the actual situation in Ladakh. “Nationalism is not the sole preserve of the BJP. If Indian territory has been encroached upon, it is our duty to ask questions to the government. It is not the Congress, but the nation that is demanding answers,” Tewari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/war-of-words-between-congress-bjp-over-india-china-issue-848019.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot calls Congress MLAs for meeting ahead of Rajya Sabha polls||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has called Congress MLAs and the Independents backing the party for a meeting, in which the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls in the state are likely to be discussed. The elections to three Rajya Sabha seats in the state are scheduled for June 19. “The MLAs have been asked to reach the chief minister's residence for the meeting this evening,” party source said. The Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the elections while the BJP fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six those who defected to the party from the BSP last year. The party enjoys the support of 12 of the 13 Independent MLAs in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-calls-congress-mlas-for-meeting-ahead-of-rajya-sabha-polls-848055.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||For BJP, Yediyurappa is unquestionable leader||Amid a debate over possible change of guard in Karnataka after the BJP top brass junked names recommended by state core committee attended by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa for Rajya Sabha polls, a senior party functionary on Wednesday said the saffron party is in “no mood to change the Lingayat leader now”. "Yediyurappa is unquestionable leader for the party in Karanataka. He brought the party to power and he will complete his term as the CM. There is no question of disturbing him," a senior leader said. "Moreover. the CM effectively handled the COVID-19 pandemic crisis and received appreciation from everybody. Even at 77, he is working tirelessly," said the leader. The leader said that the selection of Rajya Sabha seats was a different issue. The state core committee headed by state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, attended by Yeddyurappa and other senior leaders, had recommended five names-- outgoing Rajya Sabha member Prabhakar Kore, former MP Ramesh Katti, who is also brother of former Minister Umesh Katti, hotelier Prakash Shetty, retired Prof M Nagaraj and former MLA Nirmal Kumar Surana. However, the sources said, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National president J P Nadda summarily rejected all the names and asked the state unit to send a new list comprising only party workers. Then the state unit  recommended three names- Eranna Kadadi former Zilla Panchayat member from Belagavi, Lingaraj Patil, former chairman Hubballi-Dharwad Development Authority and Nirmal Kumar Surana. However, after knowing that Kadadi and Patil both belong to Panchamasali Lingayat, again the high command sought one more name. Then the state unit recommended Ashok Gasti from Raichur. While approving only two names Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti, the top brass rejected the leaders plea to field Nirmal Kumar Surana as party's third candidate. Well aware that former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda is contesting as JD (S) and Congress coalition’s fourth candidate, the BJP top brass told the state leaders not to field any candidate to oppose Deve Gowda. The BJP leadership felt that since Deve Gowda commands a lot of respect from the Vokkaliga community, if BJP tries to defeat him by putting a third candidate, it would send a wrong message among the community. As the BJP is trying hard to make inroads in Vokkaliga dominated old Mysuru area, the BJP should not take any decision to hurt Deve Gowda, the top brass, cautioned the state leaders. "By selecting the ordinary workers, the party  gave recognition to those who worked for the organisation. Even Yediyurappa is happy about our selection. This is also a message to those lobbying for such posts as well," said the leader. Though the state core committee first recommended five names, it was just because of  pressure as some MLAs tried to blackmail the CM and party as well. With the Central leaders selecting loyal workers for Upper House, now nobody will comment on this,  said the leader. However, the leader also said the party will give the state unit full freedom to select candidates for seven Legislative Council seats elections scheduled on June 29. “The selection of new names for Rajya Sabha is not a setback for Yediyurappa. He is a strong leader of the state as the entire Lingayat community is behind him. By disturbing him, the party will not risk losing the dominant Lingayat community. Moreover, there is no substitute for Yediyurappa among other Lingayat's leaders of the party. He alone can take all sub-castes among Lingayat with them and pull the crowd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/for-bjp-yediyurappa-is-unquestionable-leader-848056.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||Pratap Singh Bajwa takes charge as chairman of parliamentary panel on subordinate legislation||Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Wednesday took charge as Chairman of the Committee on Subordinate Legislation. Bajwa was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on May 22, by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. The Committee on Subordinate Legislation examines bills which seek to delegate powers to make rules, regulations, by-laws or amend earlier laws that delegate the powers of Parliament to another authority. The panel also scrutinises and reports to the Rajya Sabha whether the rules, regulations, by-laws etc conferred by Constitution or delegated by Parliament are being properly exercised. The Committee on Subordinate Legislation presently consists of nine members from the Rajya Sabha, including Bajwa. The other members of the panel are K K Ragesh, Manas Ranjan Bhunia, M V Rajiv Gowda, Vikas Mahatme, Surendra Singh Nagar, Amar Patnaik, V Vijayasai Reddy and Pradeep Tamta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pratap-singh-bajwa-takes-charge-as-chairman-of-parliamentary-panel-on-subordinate-legislation-848091.html
10-06-2020||National Politics||BJP brings CAA back in political discourse||After a lull of more than three months, BJP has brought CAA into political discourse in a big way as parties gear for upcoming polls in Bihar and West Bengal The party has, however, still refrained from raising the bogey of NRC at the national level, a pitch that coupled with aggressive campaigning for and against CAA had triggered massive protests between December and February, also culminating into Delhi riots. But the attempt to send a message to the core constituency is very much clear in the tone and tenor, whose decibels differ according to different needs of the constituency. So while it was somewhat muted in Bihar, where NDA is led by JDU’s Nitish Kumar, who has not been very kind to such aggressive pitch, which play on the nerve of any community, the BJP has sharp edges to campaign on CAA  in West Bengal, where riding on hard-line Hindutva plank, it seeks to oust Mamata Banerjee in 2021 assembly polls. Home Minister Amit Shah, who has often accused Banerjee of doing "politics of appeasement”, on Tuesday asked her to come clean on why she is opposing the CAA. “You are opposing the CAA which is pro refugees but once the votes will be counted in Bengal you will see people of West Bengal will make you Rajnaitik Sharnatri (political refugees)," Shah said, going ballistic against Banerjee, whom the BJP has sought as a politician only caring for Muslim votes. Shah projected CAA as fulfilment of a promise made in 1947 to Indians, who went to Pakistan at the time of partition. Before the West Bengal Jansamvad Virtual Rally, Shah in his June 8 virtual rally for Patna, mainly pitched on pro-poor schemes besides Swadeshi and Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign of Modi government. He also spoke at length over the financial help extended by Centre cyclone relief work in Odisha and the work done for migrants during COVID-19 crisis.  In Odisha, Muslim population is just 2.2 per cent and a polarised campaign on emotive issues like CAA and Triple Talaq does not resonate there.   Muslims form 27 per cent of electorates in West Bengal, where citizenship is a sensitive issue as the state shares a porous border with Bangladesh from where a large number of migrants including Hindus have come.   In Bihar with 17 per cent Muslim population, where Shah addressed the first virtual rally on June 7, the fulfilment of core promises of Ram Temple, CAA, triple talaq and the abrogation of Article 370, were substantial part of his speech. Besides University campuses, Muslim localities have been nerve centres of anti-CAA protests in the country.   When Shah last spoke in detail on the CAA nearly three months back on March 13 while replying to a debate on Delhi violence in Rajya Sabha, he was conciliatory in approach saying he would like to tell "my Muslim brothers and sisters” that false propaganda is being spread on the issue of CAA.  This was after the country had seen unrest over the issue for nearly two months, which the BJP, alleged, was instigated by the Opposition. More than two and half months after that Shah on May 30 on Modi 2.0 government completing one year, in a write up said that the  BJP-led central government  implemented every promise in its manifesto and took several historic decisions like abolition of Articles 370 and 35A in Jammu & Kashmir, paving the way for construction of Ram Temple, liberating Muslim women from the curse of triple talaq and giving citizenship rights to deprived sections of society through CAA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-brings-caa-back-in-political-discourse-848096.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Jyotiraditya Scindia's condition is not serious: Madhya Pradesh Home minister||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday that the condition of senior BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia who has tested positive for coronavirus was not serious. Scindia has been admitted to a hospital in Delhi. The BJP leader's mother Madhavi Raje Scindia has also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. "Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to Scindia to inquire about his well-being," Mishra told reporters. Asked if Scindia's condition was serious, Mishra, who also holds health portfolio, said, "At present, the condition is not serious." Earlier in the day, Chouhan, as well as Congress leaders Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh and Jaivardhan Singh among others, wished Scindia and his mother Madhavi Raje speedy recovery. "Got the news that revered Mataji and you are not well. I pray to God that both you and Mataji recover soon," Chouhan said in a tweet. "Came to know about the illness of Jyotiraditya Scindia and his mother. I pray to the almighty for their speedy recovery," tweeted state Congress chief Kamal Nath. Digvijaya Singh said in a tweet, "I pray to the god for the speedy recovery of Jyotiraditya Scindiaji and Adarniya Rajmata Sahab." Jai Vardhan, former minister and Digvijaya Singh's son also said he prayed to god for their speedy recovery and long life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jyotiraditya-scindias-condition-is-not-serious-madhya-pradesh-home-minister-847753.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||AIIMS nurses body calls off strike||The AIIMS Nurses' Union called off their nine-day protest over poor working conditions amid the COVID-19 crisis on Tuesday, stating that the administration has agreed to most of their demands. Several healthcare workers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have been infected by the disease with around 50 of them being nursing staff, sources said. The nurses' body had put forth a number of demands, including implementation of a uniform four-hour shift with personal protective equipment (PPE) in COVID-19 areas of the hospital, a uniform rotation policy between COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 areas, and establishment of proper donning and doffing area. They had also warned off an indefinite strike from June 15 if their demands were not met. According to the minutes of the meeting chaired by the Director, AIIMS on Tuesday, it has been decided that six-hour shifts shall be maintained in the COVID-19 area, which would include the time for donning/doffing of PPE and handover/takeover in the wards by the nursing personnel. It was also decided to provide appropriate breaks and that 25 per cent of the nursing staff deployed in the COVID-19 area shall be rotated to the non-COVID-19 areas every two weeks. "It was also accepted that given the daily increase in patient load, there may come a time when a large part of the entire institute will have to be converted into a COVID-19 hospital and deployment of nursing as well as other staff will have to be increased as would the working hours to meet the challenge. "It was also agreed that given the working conditions in the COVID-19 areas, efforts should be made to further improve upon them through appropriate framing of duty roster, providing basic amenities etc," the minutes of the meeting read. It has also been decided that additional 100 nursing personnel will be provided to the AIIMS Trauma Centre which is a dedicated COVID-19 hospital to cope with the patient care. “The process of allotment of temporary accommodation for staff on COVID-19 duty in the Powergrid Vishram Sadan shall be simplified and the transport section shall make arrangements of a vehicle-on-call from 11 pm to 6 am for nursing staff for movement between the main hospital and The Powergrid Vishram Sadan,” the minutes said. The AIIMS Trauma Centre and other COVID-19 areas shall make necessary arrangements of drinking water, electrolyte etc in the donning and doffing areas. Besides the Hospital Infection Control Committee will also examine all the donning and doffing areas of the institute and recommend appropriate action for strengthening them, keeping in view increasing work load and appropriate infection control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-nurses-body-calls-off-strike-847756.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi shares video of journalist's appeal for help; Delhi officials reach out||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday shared a video of a journalist's desperate appeal for help and medical attention for his coronavirus-affected family, following which Delhi government officials swung into action and reached out to him. Ajay Jha, who has also tested positive, said his in-laws had died within 10 days. "All members of my family are coronavirus positive -- my wife and my two little daughters, aged nine and five," he said. After he took to Twitter to narrate the ordeal of his family, Rahul Gandhi shared his video and offered to help. "For the millions of my sisters and brothers like Ajay, we share your pain. We will do everything to protect you. We will overcome this together," the Congress leader tweeted. In the video, Jha said first his father-in law died and then his mother-in-law, about two days back. He said that the body of his mother-in-law was lying at home for several hours but no one came to help them.  "Then an ambulance came and took her away," he said. Jha said the Delhi government is saying that everything is in control but people have been left "bhagwan bharose" (at God's will). "My wife is completely shattered. We need help. I hope people will come to us and help," he said. According to an official of the Delhi government, they contacted Jha and he is being given proper care. His daughters are asymptomatic, they said. When contacted, Jha said, "We are doing fine now and are at home. I am not in a condition to talk much.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-shares-video-of-journalists-appeal-for-help-delhi-officials-reach-out-847758.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Liquor cheaper in Delhi from June 10||Liquor in Delhi will be cheaper from Wednesday when the AAP government's decision to withdrew ''70 per cent Special Corona Fee'' on their sale comes into effect. The "special corona fee" on the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of liquor bottles was imposed last month as the government, hit badly due to the coronavirus lockdown, looked to earn additional revenue. The government has, however, increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) on all categories of liquor from 20 per cent to 25 per cent. The decision to withdraw '"Special Corona Fee'' had been taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-cheaper-in-delhi-from-june-10-847759.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Punjab allows distribution of prasad, langar at religious places amid coronavirus pandemic||The Punjab government on Tuesday allowed langar and the distribution of prasad at religious places, revising its earlier lockdown guidelines. On Monday, the Golden Temple had restarted its 'langar' and distributed 'prasad' among devotees, defying the Punjab government's guidelines. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh too appeared to defend the practice, saying his government had 'never believed in interfering with the customs and practices of any religion'. The CM said the decision was taken by the Union government, of which the SAD was an integral part. The state government was constrained by the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, he had said. On Tuesday, an order issued by the Punjab’s Home Department said, “It has now been decided to allow community kitchens (langar) and serving of prasad at religious places, subject to the condition that physical distancing norms and all COVID hygiene precautions while preparing and distributing food shall be strictly followed.” It also said the standard operating procedure of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for religious places should be meticulously complied with by managements of religious institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-allows-distribution-of-prasad-langar-at-religious-places-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-847762.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt, private hospitals ordered to prominently display beds availability at main gate||Delhi government hospitals and private facilities here will now have to prominently display information about the availability of beds on a flex board at their main gates, according to an official order Tuesday. It comes in the wake of several families, whose members may have been a positive or suspected case of COVID-19, alleging that they were turned away by various hospitals despite beds being available. The order says, the decision has been taken to provide first-hand information to people about the position of vacant beds in the city government hospitals and private facilities. The flex board should be of dimension 12 ft by 10 ft and placed at the entry gate of all such hospitals, it said. The matter on the boards to be displayed by hospitals, having a capacity of 50 beds or more, shall be in both English and Hindi. The text on the boards shall include information about the Delhi Corona App and the address of Delhi Fights Corona website so that people can check the availability of beds, the order said. The board should also display that if a hospital refuses bed despite the app showing availability, a complaint can be filed on helpline 1031, according to the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-private-hospitals-ordered-to-prominently-display-beds-availability-at-main-gate-847774.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Two terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian district||Two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said here. A cordon-and-search operation was launched in the Sugoo area of Shopian in south Kashmir in the morning on receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said the operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated. Two militants were killed in the exchange of fire, the official added. This is the third encounter in Shopian in four days. Nine Hizbul Mujahideen militants, including a self-styled commander, were killed in two gunbattles with the security forces on Sunday and Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-district-847803.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 1,366 fresh cases of COVID-19||Delhi recorded 1,366 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 31,309, while the death toll mounted to 905, authorities said on Wednesday. According to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government's health department, there are 18,543 active cases, while 11,861 patients have either recovered, been discharged or migrated. No health bulletin was issued on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-1366-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-847815.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||5.5 lakh COVID-19 cases possible in Delhi by July 31, community transmission is on: Scientists||Mathematical models of the progression of COVID-19 show it would be “possible” for Delhi to have 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July, several scientists have said while stating that community transmission of the disease may have started a while ago. Warning of more trouble ahead, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the number of COVID-19 cases could surge to 5.5 lakh by July 31. This is dramatically higher from the city's tally of 31,309 cases on Wednesday. India’s COVID-19 count is 2,76,583. “The model that I used for India found that there could be around 8-10 lakh cases in India by mid or end of July. So it won’t be surprising to get to those figures (5.5 lakh) in Delhi,” said Samit Bhattacharya, mathematics professor and researcher at the School of Natural Sciences at Shiv Nadar University. “Delhi getting around 5.5 lakh cases by end July might be possible as the number of cases is growing,” Bhattacharya told PTI.   According to virologist Upasana Ray, only epidemiologists and statisticians can comment on exact numbers and predictions. "I believe that if the government is telling something, there must be some basis to it,” Ray, senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, added.    Reaching the alarmingly high figure of 5.5 lakh is possible using mathematical modelling, agreed Lovi Raj Gupta, executive dean of Science and Technology, Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Punjab. "The validity and accuracy would depend on the selection of the model based on the variation of data. As this is time-series data, trends and seasonality play vital role,"  Gupta told PTI. Time series analysis is a statistical technique dealing with data in a series of particular time periods or intervals. "You look at what is happening previously and average it out and on the basis of that you can create the differencing pattern of the future. It can be very well done using time series variation,” Gupta said. Mathematical modelling can be used to understand how a virus spreads within a population, according to a research article published in the journal BMC Public Health. The essence of mathematical modelling lies in writing down a set of mathematical equations that mimic reality. These are then solved for certain values of the parameters within the equations. The solutions of the mathematical model can be refined when information already known about the virus spread is used -- for example, available data on reported number of infections, the reported number of hospitalisations or the confirmed number of deaths due to the infection. Talking to reporters after a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Sisodia also quoted officials from the Centre as saying there is no community transmission of COVID-19 in Delhi. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain added in a separate conversation with the media that the source of infection is "not known" in nearly half the fresh cases being reported. Bhattacharya said community transmission “definitely” started a long time back in Delhi. “It doesn’t mean the whole of Delhi will have infections uniformly for community transmission to happen. Nearly 30,000 infections in Delhi have already happened and according to the Delhi population it is definitely community transmission,” he said. “As far as my understanding of disease transmission, in local transmission, there is a small spike in the number of infections. After that, it gradually increases, and definitely at that point starts the community transmission.” Bhattacharya added. Ray explained that community transmission is said to happen or is a stage of disease transmission which by definition lacks an exact source of transmission for many reported cases, that is the source of infection might not be traced back. “We have seen a very long and stringent lockdown in our country. Yet, the number of cases have been seen to be rising. In many cases, we can't trace back the source. "If the rise in COVID 19 cases can't be linked to community transmission, then the next question should be.....what is the reason for such an increase? Is the virus more virulent? We don't know that either. Are we bringing in infection from elsewhere? How can that be? It was lockdown.” While all these assumptions are true, it will not be wrong to say that just an increase in infection numbers won't point to community transmission, Ray added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/55-lakh-covid-19-cases-possible-in-delhi-by-july-31-community-transmission-is-on-scientists-847828.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Man dies of COVID-19 in Bareilly, days after escaping from Ghaziabad hospital||A man has died while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection in Bareilly, days after escaping from a Ghaziabad hospital where he was initially admitted, officials said on Wednesday. The victim used to live in Delhi and work as a tailor, they said, adding that he had fled a Ghaziabad hospital and reached his sister's place here two days ago. "The man, about 45 years of age, died at a Bareilly hospital on Tuesday. He was admitted there two days ago," Chief Medical Officer Yashpal Singh said. An FIR had been lodged against him under the Epidemic Diseases Act and he was sent to Bareilly for treatment, the CMO said. He said two patients have died of COVID-19 in Badaun so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-dies-of-covid-19-in-bareilly-days-after-escaping-from-ghaziabad-hospital-847838.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan seals borders as COVID-19 cases continue to rise||The Rajasthan government sealed all state borders on Wednesday in view of a surge in COVID-19 cases. All movement to and from the state will be regulated. No person can enter Rajasthan without a 'No Objection Certificate' (NOC) from the state or leave without a pass, Director General Of Police, Law and Order, M L Lather said in an order. Directions were issued to all range IGs, SPs, commissioners and deputy commissioners in this regard, officials said. They were asked to put up check posts along state borders with immediate effect and the arrangements would be in place for the next seven days. Apart from inter-state routes, check posts will be put up at railway stations and airports as well, the order said. District collectors and superintendents of police will be the authorities for issuing passes and only emergency cases like hospitalisation or death may be exempted, it said.  The number of COVID-19 cases in the state increased to 11,368, with 123 fresh cases reported on Wednesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-seals-borders-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-847845.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan COVID-19 toll rises to 256; 123 fresh cases||Rajasthan reported one more COVID-19 fatality on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 256 as 123 fresh cases of the infection pushed the state's tally to 11,368. The death was reported in Jodhpur, officials said. Of the fresh cases, 40 were reported in Jaipur, 34 in Bharatpur, 11 in Sikar, nine in Jhunjhunu, five in Nagaur, three in Kota and two in Alwar, besides cases in other districts, they said. Jaipur topped the COVID tally in the state with 2,500 cases and 118 deaths, followed by 1,944 cases and 26 deaths in Jodhpur. There are 2,610 active COVID-19 cases in the state. A total of 8,152 patients have been discharged after treatment, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-covid-19-toll-rises-to-256-123-fresh-cases-847848.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC declines to interfere with open book exams for final year DU students||The Delhi High Court has said it would not interfere with Delhi University's decision to hold open book online exams for final year students, but asked the varsity, UGC and the Centre to work out a solution to also enable disabled students to take the examinations. The court said it was not going to interfere with DU's decision as it has also decided to hold offline physical exams, once the present COVID-19 situation improves, for those students who could not participate in the examinations commencing from July 1. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon gave the varsity, University Grants Commission (UGC) and the Centre time till June 11 to work out a solution after meeting representatives of students with various disabilities, including visual impairment, and listed the matter for hearing on June 12. It also said that meanwhile all the students should prepare for the open book examinations, scheduled to commence from July 1, and not assume that it would be delayed due to these proceedings. The court, in its order passed on June 9, said it was only looking to iron out problems faced by persons with disabilities in participating in the exams and added that their difficulties would be addressed by the time the examinations commence. The bench also asked the Centre, UGC and DU to consider having another set of question papers ready to hold exams immediately after the open book examinations for those who could not sit for it. The order came on a plea moved by the National Federation of the Blind challenging the DU's decision to hold open book examinations on the ground that it violated rights of students with visual impairments and other disabilities. The Federation wanted DU to assess performance of the disabled students of final year on the basis of their performance in previous semester and internal assessment. In the alternative, it suggested holding offline exams for such students after colleges reopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-declines-to-interfere-with-open-book-exams-for-final-year-du-students-847856.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Woman, her 3-yr-old daughter die after husband sets them on fire in Haryana||A woman and her three-year-old daughter died after her husband allegedly set them on fire in their house in Haryana’s Rohtak district, a police official said on Wednesday. The man’s youngest daughter, who is two years old, suffered burn injuries in the incident, which took place on Tuesday and was hospitalized. The 32-year-old man, identified as Rajesh, has been arrested and booked for murder and other charges on the complaint of the 28-year-old woman's father Mahendra, Station House Officer (SHO), Old Subzi Mandi, Kuldeep Singh said. The incident took place early Tuesday morning, he said over the phone. The SHO said when police received information about the incident, they rushed to the house and found the charred bodies of the woman, Manju, and her daughter on a cot, while another girl was outside the room. The girl had suffered burn injuries, he said, adding that the house had also caught fire. Rajesh, a labourer, fled after the incident. He was arrested from Rohtak on Tuesday, the SHO, said. The accused attacked a police party with stones, resisting arrest, Singh said, adding that Rajesh was overpowered and apprehended. He has also been booked for attempt to murder for attacking the police party, he said. Singh said that the two-year-old girl is out of danger. In his complaint, Mahendra alleged that Rajesh had been harassing Manju since their marriage nearly seven years ago. The complainant has alleged that it was Rajesh who had set his family on fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-her-3-yr-old-daughter-die-after-husband-sets-them-on-fire-in-haryana-847871.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||BJP busy in elections, ignoring problem of unemployment: Akhilesh Yadav||Linking rising unemployment to cases of suicide, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday charged that the BJP was busy focusing on elections and not interested in tackling the problem of joblessness. There have been some cases of migrant labourers, who have returned to Uttar Pradesh from other states recently, committing suicide. "In UP, unemployment has emerged as a big problem in form of suicides. Forgetting truth of corona, BJP has become busy in elections. When BJP is not considering unemployment and starvation as a problem, how will it solve them.With Bihar election nearing, after some days 'star campaigner' will also start flying," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. सुना है बिहार की तरह आज प. बंगाल में भी अरबों खर्च करके विश्व रिकार्ड बनाने वाली एक ‘खर्चुअल रैली’... या ‘वर्चुअल रैली' हो रही है। दावा ये है कि ये चुनावी रैलियां नहीं हैं तो फिर बूथ स्तर तक इन्हें पहुँचाने के प्रयास क्यों? दरअसल भाजपा झूठ का विश्व रिकॉर्ड बना रही है। BSP supremo Mayawati also asked the government to make concrete efforts to provide jobs to unemployed migrants. "The Supremo Court order to withdraw cases against migrants in justified, timely and appreciable as due to corona pandemic and lockdown, unemployed migrants could not follow rules and FIRs were lodged against them," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "The SC order to provide job to migrants in their home state is also welcome. In this regard governments should be serious and sensitive in providing them jobs and start the process without any delay. This is demand of the BSP," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-busy-in-elections-ignoring-problem-of-unemployment-akhilesh-yadav-847872.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||HC asks authorities to treat as representation plea on WHO guidelines for disinfectants||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to treat as representation a plea seeking proper implementation of the guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation on spraying disinfectants in public places, offices and on individuals. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, conducting the hearing via video conferencing, directed the concerned authorities to look into the representation while keeping in mind the WHO guidelines as also various circulars issued by the Centre and Delhi government. The court disposed of Susheel Mahajan' plea filed, through advocates N Pradeep Sharma and Harsh K Sharma, saying disinfectants are chemicals that destroy disease causing pathogens or harmful microorganisms and it is advised that their spraying on individuals or groups is not recommended under any circumstances as it is physically and psychologically harmful. “Even if a person is potentially exposed with the COVID-19 virus, spraying the external part of the body does not kill the virus that has entered your body. There is no scientific evidence to suggest that they are effective even in disinfecting the outer clothing/body in an effective manner. “Spraying of chlorine on individuals can lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as nausea and vomiting,” the plea claimed. It said as that per the guidelines issued by WHO and Central government, 70 per cent alcohol can be used to wipe down surfaces where the use of bleach is not suitable. “It has been recommended to always use freshly prepared 1 per cent sodium hypochloride solution and wear appropriate PPE kit, while carrying out cleaning and disinfection work. It is also recommended, to wear disposable rubber boots, gloves (heavy duty), and a triple layer mask, which should be removed and discarded as damaged, after every use, to minimize the possibility of infection. The disinfectants are used to minimize the effect of infection,” it said.  The petition sought direction to the authorities not to allow installation of any ultraviolet radiation tunnel at public places or offices or any other place in the interest of health of the citizens as direct exposure to such unmanned radiations is cancer generating. It further sought to direct the authorities not to allow any installation of any chemical chamber or tunnel at public places or offices or homes because the use of chemical tunnels is dangerous to human life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-authorities-to-treat-as-representation-plea-on-who-guidelines-for-disinfectants-847887.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Govt to take action against CGHS empanelled hospitals refusing treatment||Action would be initiated against all CGHS empanelled hospitals designated as COVID and non-COVID facilities for denying treatment to coronavirus infected patients and to those suffering from other diseases, the Union Health Ministry said. The warning was issued after the ministry reviewed representations from Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) beneficiaries regarding difficulties they were facing in availing treatment at private hospitals and diagnostic centres empanelled under the scheme.   "The matter has been reviewed and it is now decided to reiterate that all CGHS empanelled hospitals, which are notified as COVID-hospitals by state governments shall provide treatment facilities to CGHS beneficiaries as per norms of the scheme, for all COVID-19 related treatments. "Similarly, it is directed that all the CGHS empanelled hospitals, which are not notified as COVID Hospitals shall not deny treatment facilities or admission to CGHS beneficiaries and shall charge as per norms, for all other treatments. Suitable action shall be taken in case of violation of the guidelines," an order issued on June 9 read. The scheme presently has around 36 lakh  beneficiaries and 12 lakh card holders, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-to-take-action-against-cghs-empanelled-hospitals-refusing-treatment-847891.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Three men arrested for vandalising hotel near UP's Muzaffarnagar over non-veg food||Three people have been arrested for vandalising a hotel near here after being refused non-vegetarian food, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place near the Purkazi bypass along the Delhi-Haridwar national highway on Tuesday, they added. A case was registered against them under sections 323, 393, 504, 506 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code, SHO Subhash Gorem said. According to the FIR, the accused arrived at the hotel in a car and demanded to be served non-vegetarian food, which the hotel-owner refused. Angered at this, the trio beat up the staff and tried to loot cash when the police arrived and arrested them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-men-arrested-for-vandalising-hotel-near-ups-muzaffarnagar-over-non-veg-food-847894.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||BSF jawan succumbs to COVID-19 in Delhi; 14th death in CAPFs||A 35-year-old Border Security Force (BSF) jawan has succumbed to coronavirus, taking the total number of fatalities in the force due to the pandemic to three, a senior official said on Wednesday. This is the 14th COVID-19 death among the paramilitary or Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs). "Constable Vinod Kumar Prasad breathed his last on June 9 at AIIMS in Delhi. "He was deployed for law and order duty with the Delhi Police and admitted to AIIMS on June 5 with weakness and cough," a BSF spokesperson said. Prasad's COVID-19 test result came negative on June 6 but his condition deteriorated two days later and he breathed his last on Tuesday at the AIIMS ICU, he said. The jawan's COVID-19 test result of June 8 was found positive, he added. Officials said Prasad did not have any comorbidity and was in Shape-I category. Shape-I in security forces signifies the top and best category of health. The officials said the jawan was the youngest to die among the CAPFs. All other fatalities were over 45 years, they said.  "The director general and all ranks of the BSF are grief-stricken over his untimely demise and offer condolences to his family members. "The entire BSF family stands united with the bereaved family in these trying times," the spokesperson said. The about 2.5-lakh-personnel-strong force, tasked primarily with guarding Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh, has reported a total of 535 coronavirus cases till now. Out of these, 435 have recovered. With Prasad's death, there have been 14 casualties among CAPFs like Central Industrial Security Force (five), Central Reserve Police Force (four), Sashastra Seema Bal (one) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (one). As per data accessed by PTI, till June 9, the five CAPFs and two other central forces -- National Security Guard and National Disaster Response Force -- had reported a total of 1,871 coronavirus cases. While 1,217 troops have been cured or have recovered, 641 are under treatment, the data showed. The first case in these forces, functioning under the Union home ministry, was detected on March 28. These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations, and disaster rescue and relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-jawan-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-delhi-14th-death-in-capfs-847907.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana: COVID-19 positive undertrial accused escapes from hospital in Jind, nabbed later||An COVID-19 positive undertrial accused, who was out on bail, escaped from a hospital in Haryana's Jind wearing a PPE kit, but was nabbed hours later, a senior police official said on Wednesday. The undertrial Shiv Kumar was found COVID-19 positive on June 6, Deputy Superintendent of Police Kaptan Singh told PTI. "He was released on bail two days ago on court orders. Since he was COVID-19 positive, he was admitted in the Jind Civil hospital. On Tuesday evening, heescaped through a window. However, we arrested him late in the night," the DSP said. CCTV footage showed Kumar escaping wearing a PPE kit. A case under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) has been registered against Kumar, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-covid-19-positive-undertrial-accused-escapes-from-hospital-in-jind-nabbed-later-847914.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Operationalise online RTI facility: MP Information Commission to state govt||Madhya Pradesh Information Commission chief Arvind Kumar Shukla has asked the state government to operationalise an online facility for filing RTI applications and appeals. The state government has to take action for having an online RTI application and appeal facility. While the commission had already given its recommendation earlier, it has asked it again, Shukla said in a letter to Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha, who had raised this issue. Senior Congress leader Tankha had last week written to Shukla seeking the online facility for filing of applications under the Right to Information (RTI) Act and also for submission of fees and appeals. "You are requested to act without delay on this serious issue of public importance," he had said. Responding to Tankha's letter, Shukla said the state government has to decide on this online RTI facility for all its departments. Shukla cited a letter written by the Information Commission to the state government in December 2018, recommending operationalisation of the online facility. Therefore, the state government has to act on an online facility for RTI application and appeal for which the commission has already recommended it earlier and it is again doing it, Shukla said. Transparency activist Ajay Dubey said the Madhya Pradesh government must start a dedicated website to ensure filing of RTI applications and appeals online. "The state Information Commission should also have a provision for displaying all its orders and date of appeals on its website, close on the lines of Central Information Commission," Dubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/operationalise-online-rti-facility-mp-information-commission-to-state-govt-847918.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: GPS trackers may be used for home quarantined people in Punjab||The Punjab government is mulling procurement of Global Positioning System (GPS) trackers for keeping a check on those flouting COVID-19 home quarantine guidelines. The trackers fitted with a SIM card can be integrated with the state government's COVA app for tracking those home quarantined people who defy guidelines, putting the lives of others in danger, an official said on Wednesday. The COVA Punjab (Corona Virus Alert) App has been developed by the state government to provide people with preventive care information and other government advisories. “This is a lockable GPS based tracker put on wrists. It will send an alert if a home quarantined person violates the guidelines by going outside,” Punjab Special Secretary cum Chief Executive Officer, E-Governance, Ravi Bhagat said on Wednesday. “It is reusable after the completion of 14 days of quarantined period,” he further said. Bhagat said the issue of procuring GPS-based trackers was at the discussion stage and the health department is yet to take a decision on this. Punjab has around 20,000 active home quarantine cases as of now. Among them are people who have returned from other states and many who are symptomatic. As per guidelines, home quarantined people are required to download the COVA app on their mobile phones so as to track their movements. But there have been reports that many home quarantined people do not install COVA app, while some who download the app do not keep GPS and Bluetooth on and a few keep their mobile phones at homes and then go outside in order to hide their movements. The state government had last month raised the fine for violating home quarantine guidelines from Rs 500 to 2,000 as part of its measures to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-gps-trackers-may-be-used-for-home-quarantined-people-in-punjab-847920.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt takes step to recover Rs 1.36 crore from 6 sacked teachers||The Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Department has initiated steps to recover a total of Rs 1.37 crore from six teachers, who were sacked after being found that they had secured their jobs on the basis of fake documents, an official said on Wednesday. The department has issued notices to all six sacked teachers for recovery of varying amounts spent on their salaries and other allowances, said Basic Siksha Adhikari Omkar Rana. "Last year six teachers were caught working with fake documents in the department, after which they were sacked and FIRs too were registered against them," he said. "Among the six, Ajit Shukla had produced fake certificate of TET (Teachers Eligibility Test) and secured the job. He was sacked and after registration of the FIR, also arrested," he said. Others were Shobhnath of Sant Kabir Nagar, Rajiv Upadhyay of Gorakhpur, Kanahaiya Singh of Balrampur, Manoj Kumar of Etah and Rajkumar of Firozabad, he said, adding these five are still absconding. "These six teachers had taken over Rs 1.37 crore as salary and other allowances for which recovery notices have been served. If they fail to deposit the amount by Jun 20, the recovery of revenue will be done by initiating legal action," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-takes-step-to-recover-rs-136-crore-from-6-sacked-teachers-847930.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||PM Modi reviews Kedarnath Dham reconstruction project, says it should stand test of time||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reviewed the Kedarnath Dham development and reconstruction project, and said such works should stand the test of time as well as be in harmony with nature. Portions of the Himalayan shrine in Uttarakhand were damaged in flash floods in 2013. Interacting with the state government’s top brass, including Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, via a video link, Modi asked it to speed up work on the project and assured there will be no dearth of funds. The foundation stone of the reconstruction project at Kedarnath were laid in 2017 by the prime minister. The prime minister also issued directions for "further development" of other heritage and religious spots in the stretch between Ramban and Kedarnath, according to an official statement. The meditation caves being built near the temple should also be made attractive for devotees, Modi said. This work will be in addition to the redevelopment of the main shrine in Kedarnath, the statement said. The prime minister said the state government should "envision and design development projects for holy sites like Kedarnath and Badrinath (another prominent Himalayan shrine) in a way that (they) stand the test of time and is yet eco-friendly and in harmony with nature and its surroundings", it said. Modi has visited the shrine on at least three occasions after becoming prime minister for the first time in 2014. Keeping in mind the present situation and comparatively lean pressure in terms of tourists and pilgrims to the holy sites, Modi suggested that the present construction season can be utilised for completing pending works by proper distribution of labour pools. This will help create facilities and infrastructure to better sustain tourist flow in the years to come, he felt. The prime minister stressed that social distancing norms issued to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus should be followed while completing the works. After the review, Modi tweeted, saying that the redevelopment emphasises that it should be eco-friendly and convenient for pilgrims as well as tourists. "These efforts will deepen our cultural connect and boost tourism," he said. Topics related to the status of the development of the Brahma Kamal Vatika (a garden) and a museum to greet pilgrims en-route to Vasuki Taal, redevelopment of old town quarters and properties of historical significance, were also discussed in detail during the meeting. It was stressed that these projects should be done while keeping intact their original architectural façade. The meeting also discussed eco-friendly parking spaces at "proper distance" from shrines and at regular intervals. The prime minister also assessed the progress of work on the Adi Guru Shankaracharya's Samadhi, Sarswati Ghat, Astha Path, the bridge leading to Bhairav Mandir and the one being constructed over the Mandakini river, besides the meditation caves. He also reviewed works ghats being built on the convergence of the Mandakini and the Saraswati rivers. Modi also asked the state government to also prepare a development plan for Badrinath in terms of a 100 year vision. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the state would need nearly Rs 200 crore for different works at Kedarnath. Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Utpal Kumar Singh briefed the prime minister in detail about the reconstruction work underway at the Kedarnath temple. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-reviews-kedarnath-dham-reconstruction-project-says-it-should-stand-test-of-time-847934.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||23 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Uttarakhand, total rises to 1,560||Uttarakhand reported 23 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 1,560. A state health department bulletin said the fresh cases were reported from Dehradun (6), Nainital (6), Udham Singh Nagar (4), Haridwar (3), Tehri (2), Pauri (1) and Uttarkashi (1). A total of 808 patients have been discharged after recovery so far. So far, 15 COVID-19 positive people have died in the state, including a 48-year-old man at AIIMS in Rishikesh on Wednesday and an 89-year-old woman at Mahant Indresh Hospital in Dehradun on Tuesday, it said. However, authorities have said some of the deaths are due to other reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttarakhand-total-rises-to-1560-847936.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||India, China hold talks to defuse border standoff, thin out some forces||Indian and Chinese military commanders made progress in talks on Wednesday to defuse a standoff along their disputed border in the western Himalayas after pulling back some troops in confidence-building gestures, Indian government officials said. Hundreds of soldiers have been ranged against each other in the remote snow desert of Ladakh since April in the most serious border flare-ups for years after Chinese patrols advanced into what India deems its side of the de facto border, Indian officials say. China claims the territory to be its own and has objected to the Indian construction of roads in the area. The two sides made headway in their talks on Wednesday, officials in Delhi said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. After weeks of tension including an incident in which patrolling soldiers from the two sides came to blows on the banks of Pangong Lake, resulting in injuries, friction has eased somewhat, one of the Indian officials said. The two armies have since thinned out some forces in a positive signal but soldiers, tanks and other armoured carriers remained heavily deployed in the high-altitude region, the official said. "There has been some kind of disengagement, there will be more talks to resolve this over the next days, it could be weeks even," the official said. Another Indian official said the Chinese military had moved back some tents and vehicles from the forward areas but there was still a large presence. China's state-run Global Times quoted Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying as saying the two countries were communicating through diplomatic and military channels over issues concerning the border and that a "positive consensus" has been reached. It did not elaborate. India and China fought a brief border war in 1962 and have not been able to settle their border despite two decades of talks. Both claim thousands of kilometres of territory and patrols along the undemarcated Line of Actual Control - the de-facto border - often run into each other, leading to tensions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-hold-talks-to-defuse-border-standoff-thin-out-some-forces-847968.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Install LED boards at major health facilities to display bed availability: Delhi LG to chief secy||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday directed Chief Secretary Vijay Dev to ensure installation of LED boards at all major health facilities to display bed availability, charges and details of persons to be contacted for admission. In his letter, the lieutenant governor said the health department may be advised to ensure that data displayed on these LED boards reconciles with that available on the Delhi government's app. The move is aimed at increasing transparency in allocation of hospital beds during the COVID-19 pandemic.  "In order to increase transparency and to facilitate public, all major hospitals/clinics/nursing homes of Delhi should be directed to display on LED boards in large letters outside their establishments, at the entry point itself, the availability of beds, (both COVID and non-COVID, wherever applicable), along with charges including for rooms/beds and details of contact persons for admission," Baijal said in the letter. The LG, who is also the chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, said periodic surprise checks may also be conducted by officers deputed by the DDMA to ensure that correct data is displayed by health facilities and no genuine patient is denied admission or is overcharged. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government will implement the "Centre's decision" and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal's order overturning the decision on reservation of state-run and private hospitals in the national capital  The Delhi government has "unprecedented challenges" ahead as data shows that COVID-19 cases will rapidly increase in Delhi in the coming days, Kejriwal said. Delhi will need 1.5 lakh beds in healthcare facilities by July 31 once people start coming to the city for treatment from other states, he said, asserting that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation will make an "honest effort" to provide medical treatment to all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/install-led-boards-at-major-health-facilities-to-display-bed-availability-delhi-lg-to-chief-secy-847975.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Metropolitan Magistrate at Saket District Court tests positive for Covid-19||A Judge of Saket District Court Complex here has tested COVID-19 positive, said a circular on Wednesday. According to the circular issued by District Judge Poonam A Bamba, Metropolitan Magistrate Mayuri Singh tested positive for Covid-19 contagion on June 9. The judicial officer had last attended the court on June 3, the circular said. District Judge Bamba directed the Caretaking Branch of the Saket Courts complex to immediately seal as also carry out sanitisation in the Magistrate's courtroom, Ahlmad (court staff) room and her chamber attached therewith. "The court officials and advocates, who attended the court of MM Mayuri Singh on June 3, are advised to isolate/quarantine themselves for 14 days or as per medical advice, and take all necessary precautions as per advisory/guidelines of Government of India," said the circular. Earlier, the District Judge of Rohini District Courts complex had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metropolitan-magistrate-at-saket-district-court-tests-positive-for-covid-19-847977.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan 'admits' that BJP leadership toppled Kamal Nath govt||An audio clip in which Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is purportedly heard holding the BJP central leadership accountable for the fall of the Kamal Nath government has created a massive political flutter in Madhya Pradesh. Chouhan’s reported comment is in sharp contrast with the BJP’s stated position that the party had no role in the fall of the Kamal Nath government which sunk due to the Congress’s own internal contradictions. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has emphatically articulated this stand several times. The State BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said he could comment only after listening to the audio clip. When Jyotiraditya Scindia led a revolt with 22 Congress MLAs effecting the fall of the Kamal Nath government in March, the chief minister had asserted this was a result of infighting in the Congress and distanced the BJP from it. Citing the audio clip, which has gone viral, the Congress has sought to know from Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether “it was him who murdered the democracy or it is just his chief minister’s usual empty-boasting?” The audio clip is reportedly about the Chouhan’s discussion with BJP workers from Sanwer Assembly constituency at the Indore Residency Kothi on Tuesday. The workers from minister Tulsi Silawat’s constituency were called to interact with the chief minister ahead of the by-elections in 24 Assembly segments including Sanwer. Silawat was one of the six ministers in the Kamal Nath government whoresigned with Jyotiraditya Scindia in March. In the viral audio, the chief minister is heard saying, “the central leadership decided that the government should fall. This (government) will ruin and destroy everything. Now tell me, could the government have fallen without the support of Jyotiraditya Scindia and Tulsi bhai? There was no other way. He was a minister there too, but he didn’t think of becoming the chief minister.” Pointing to the impending by-election, the chief minister purportedly said, “And if Tulsi doesn’t become an MLA, will I continue to be the chief minister? Will the BJP government be saved? That’s why it’s the duty of every BJP worker, they shouldn’t think he came from somewhere else...that Tulsi Silawat is not fighting the election, you all are fighting it...This is the question of BJP’s dignity and honour.” Reacting to the audio, state Congress media chief and former minister Jitu Patwari said the chief minister has revealed the truth that the BJP central leadership colluded with Scindia to plot toppling of the Kamal Nath government. It has vindicated the Congress allegations, he added. The Congress leader said the party will move the President of India and the Supreme Court on this issue after consulting legal experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-admits-that-bjp-leadership-toppled-kamal-nath-govt-847986.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi will need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi will need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31 once people start coming from other states for COVID-19 treatment, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday, and declared that the Lieutenant Governor's orders overruling his government's decisions on coronavirus will be implemented as "this is not the time for disagreements and politics".      Addressing an online media briefing, he said his government has "unprecedented challenges" ahead as data shows that COVID-19 cases will rapidly increase in Delhi, but asserted that around 1,900 patients got beds in hospitals in the last eight days and 4,200 beds were still available, a claim that comes amidst reports of acute shortage of beds in healthcare facilities in the national capital.       "Delhi will need 1.5 lakh beds in healthcare facilities by July 31 once people start coming to the city for treatment from other states", Kejriwal said in his first virtual briefing since Sunday afternoon when he went into self-isolation after he developed sore throat and fever. His COVID-19 test is negative.       The chief minister said out of the 1.5 lakh beds, it is estimated that 80,000 will be required for Delhiites, adding that the calculation is based on numbers that showed 50 per cent of the beds in hospitals in the national capital were occupied by those from other states before the coronavirus pandemic.       Kejriwal's remarks came a day after his deputy Manish Sisodia had warned of exponential growth in coronavirus cases in the national capital, and estimated the numbers to go up to 5.5 lakh by July 31.      The chief minister said in the next few days he will personally step out to supervise the preparations to convert hotels and banquet halls into healthcare facilities, a day after a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority chaired by Lt Governor Anil Baijal, decided to utilise banquet and marriage halls to ramp up medical facilities.      On reversal of his government's decisions by Baijal to reserve state-run and private hospitals in the national capital for Delhiites, he said some people are saying that the Centre and the LG do not have any power to turn down the decision of an elected government, which was formed following a huge mandate.      "However, we will implement the Centre's decision and LG's order in letter and spirit because this is not the time for disagreement and arguments. I want to send a message to those sitting in the government and political parties that it will be implemented. This is not the time to do politics. All of us have to fight together and defeat COVID-19," he said.  Delhi will need 65,000 beds by July 15 once the people from other states start coming to Delhi for treatment and out of 65,000 beds, 33,000 beds will be required for Delhiites, he added. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation will make an "honest effort" to provide medical treatment to all, Kejriwal said but requested the state governments to ramp up their medical infrastructure so that most people do not need to come to Delhi for better treatment. The chief minister urged Delhiites to make three things "a mass movement" -- wearing masks, following social distancing and washing hands. "COVID-19 cases are increasing very fast. We have to protect ourselves. If somebody is not following these three norms, we have to request him or her with folded hands to do these things as all of us had done during the implementation of odd-even rules," he said. Kejriwal said 31,000 coronavirus cases have so far been reported in Delhi and of these, 18,000 are active. Around 15,000 COVID-19 patients are being treated in home isolation, he added. He thanked the media for highlighting the discrepancy in the system and requested it to continue to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-will-need-15-lakh-beds-by-july-31-says-arvind-kejriwal-848023.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Terror case: Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh withdraws bail plea||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh, arrested in a case relating to a plan to execute terror attacks in the national capital and other parts of the country, Wednesday withdrew his bail application from a Delhi Court. He was arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana allowed the withdrawal of bail application after Singh's advocate, M S Khan, said he has to make certain changes in the application and file some additional documents. Singh and two other accused - Irfan Shafi Mir and Sayed Naveed Mushtaq - had moved their applications on Tuesday, claiming they were not required for further custodial interrogation. All the three accused withdrew their applications. “I will be filing fresh application on their behalf soon,” Khan said. The three accused -- Singh, Mir and Mushtaq were arrested on March 14, 19 and 27 respectively and are currently lodged in Tihar jail. Singh was suspended from the Jammu and Kashmir Police in January this year. The Special Cell had brought him to Delhi from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir. He was arrested in a case related to planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country. According to Police, the accused used to chat with other co-accused and militants of Hizbul Mujahideen through various internet platforms. Earlier, the police had told the court that Syed Naveed Mushtaq and others were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country as well as targeted killings of protected persons. The police said Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahideen, used to chat with the other co-accused and militants through various internet platforms, including dark net chat. The Delhi Police has filed an FIR under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR said the youths of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab are being trained for carrying out terrorist activities||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terror-case-jammu-and-kashmir-dsp-davinder-singh-withdraws-bail-plea-848034.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||There is 'transmission in community', says Jain on coronavirus infection in Delhi||Adding to the confusion over whether there is community transmission of COVID-19 in the city, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said there is "transmission in the community" but only the Centre can declare if it is so. Community transmission is a technical term, he said, putting on the onus on the Centre. His remarks come a day after Deputy Chief Manish Sisodia told reporters that the Centre has said there is "no community transmission" of the novel coronavirus infection in the national capital. "There is transmission in the community. But if it is community transmission or not that can be declared by the Centre only. It is a technical term," a statement quoting Jain said. A day earlier, Jain had told reporters that the source of infection is not known in nearly half of the fresh cases being reported here. Delhi recorded 1,366 fresh cases of COVID-19 on June 9, taking the tally to 31,309, while the death toll mounted to 905, authorities said on Wednesday. There are 18,543 active cases, and 11,861 people have recovered, Jain said. Even the active contacts of the cases are around 30,000-40,000. And, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria, himself suggested that "there is a community transmission in the containment zones," he said. Earlier, in one case, contact tracing would be done for up to 600 people, and today, if we multiply 1500 cases into 600, it gives us 9,00,000 people for contact tracing. So, contact tracing is being done only for immediate contacts and not for indirect contacts, Jain said. Around 4,000 COVID-19 beds are vacant and over 2,000 COVID-19 beds in total have been added in various private hospitals, he added. This is the biggest disease that mankind has ever witnessed. Around 100 years ago, a virus known as Spanish Flu of the same intensity spread across the world, and now coronavirus is spreading with the same intensity, the minister said. "This virus is spreading rapidly, and a person takes two weeks to recover if he gets infected. If he infects even two persons, the spread of the diseases is two-fold in 10-12 days, and over 8-10 people get infected," Jain said. Since the base of the disease is such that over 30,000 people have tested positive for coronavirus right now, we are expecting that the rate of the virus will be double in the next 10-15 days, Jain said. "This count is not absolute but depends on the rate of infection because one person may infect two or three more people before recovering fully from this disease, and this is true for every state and not just Delhi. "We are arranging twice the number of beds than the patients in the hospitals, and the current scenario is also that half of the available beds are occupied," he said. By June 15, around 7000 beds will be occupied and by June 30, 15000 beds will be occupied, the minister said. "If we had arranged for beds equalling the number of COVID cases in Delhi, people requiring health services other than COVID, could not have been treated. But, we will arrange for as many beds as possible as soon as we can," he added. The WHO had declared that the pandemic may be over by May 16, which has not happened, It still exists, and we have to take all steps and precautions to deal with it, the minister said. "When the lockdown was imposed, there were 100 cases across the country, and now that number has gone up to thousands. If we impose lockdown again, there will be no logic as the cases will increase from around 2.5 lakh to 25 lakh despite the lockdown," he claimed. There have been learnings from the lockdown, as there was different perceptions regarding it. Some believed that the virus will be over in a month or two, and some believed that the virus will be over as when temperature increases, but that did not happen, he said. "We have to learn to live with the virus, and it is here to stay till the next 2-3 years. I can advise the people on three things that they must do, first is to wear a mask when stepping outside to avoid the risk of infection to you and your family, second, maintain social distancing, and third, regularly washing hands," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/there-is-transmission-in-community-says-jain-on-coronavirus-infection-in-delhi-848044.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Attempts to topple Rajasthan government being made: Congress||Congress on Wednesday claimed that attempts are being made to topple the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan by offering allurements to independent legislators supporting it. Congress chief whip in the Rajasthan Assembly, Mahesh Joshi shot off a letter to the Director General of the Anti Corruption Bureau claiming that his sources had told him about attempts to de-stabilise the state government on the lines of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The letter, however, does not name the BJP, but claimed that attempts are being made by offering allurements to legislators of the Congress as well as Independents supporting the government. Congress has 107 legislators in the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly. The party is supported by 12 Independents, two members each of the CPI(M) and Bhartiya Tribal Party and one MLA of the Rashtriya Lok Dal. BJP has 72 legislators and enjoys the support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs and one Independent. The allegations come ahead of the elections to the three Rajya Sabha seats where BJP has queered the pitch for the Congress by fielding an extra candidate with the hope of winning support of the Independents. With its current strength, Congress is assured of winning two seats, while one would go to the BJP. A similar battle of nerves is on in neighbouring Gujarat where three Congress MLAs have quit, dimming its chances of ensuring victory of two of its candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections for four seats. A group of Congress MLAs from Gujarat are currently camping in a resort in Rajasthan in an attempt to shield them from allurement allegedly offered by the BJP. In March, 22 Congress MLAs switched loyalties to the BJP bringing down the 15-month old government led by Chief Minister Kamal Nath. In July last year, similar defections in Karnataka had led to the fall of the Congress-JD(S) government led by Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attempts-to-topple-rajasthan-government-being-made-congress-848051.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Babri accused may record statements through video conference||A special court hearing the Babri mosque demolition case on Wednesday indicated that it may record the statements of the remaining accused through video conferencing. The CBI court is recording the statements of the 32 accused under section 313 of the CrPC, a stage in the trial which follows the completion of examination of witnesses by the prosecution. Some of them have already appeared in person before the court. But the statements of others including former deputy prime minister L K Advani and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh are yet to be recorded. Video conferencing would also save BJP veterans Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti from appearing in the Lucknow court in person. Special judge S K Yadav directed their counsel to furnish their addresses so that arrangements for video conferencing could be made. On Wednesday, the court recorded the statement of Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh. It has sought the presence of accused Lallu Singh, Kamlesh Tiwari, Santosh Dubey and Ram Chandra Khatri on Thursday. Earlier this week, the special court had said that Advani, M M Joshi and Uma Bharti should be prepared to appear in person whenever summoned to record their statements. However, as video conferencing facilities are being arranged in the court, the remaining accused may now not need to appear before it in person. The three leaders were earlier exempted from personal appearance in court “till further orders”. The court has been conducting day to day proceedings in order to conclude the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-accused-may-record-statements-through-video-conference-848057.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal meets Amit Shah, discusses COVID-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met Union Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the national capital with him on Wednesday. The chief minister said Shah has assured him of all cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus. "Met Sh Amit Shah, Hon'ble HM. Discussed the situation on corona in Delhi in detail. He assured of all cooperation," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said in a tweet. Delhi recorded 1,501 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of such cases to over 32,000 the national capital, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 984, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-meets-amit-shah-discusses-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-848059.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||28 CRPF personnel posted in Kashmir test COVID-19 positive||As many as 28 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel posted in Kashmir tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, officials said. They said the personnel were found infected during a contact-tracing exercise after the death of a 44-year-old constable on June 6 when he succumbed to the disease. Twenty-eight personnel in Kashmir have tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, the officials said, adding they belong to the 90th battalion of the force where the deceased constable, a nursing assistant, was posted. All the affected personnel have been isolated and some results are awaited, they said. The troops have been asked to immediately report if they feel any illness of COVID-19 like symptoms, a senior official said. There have been four deaths in the country's largest paramilitary force having 3.25 lakh personnel.  It has 516 coronavirus cases till now out of which 353 personnel have recovered, as per latest data.  Seven other positive coronavirus cases were also reported from various other units of the force on Wednesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/28-crpf-personnel-posted-in-kashmir-test-covid-19-positive-848064.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||Above-normal temperatures in north, west India; rain brings respite in Delhi-NCR||Parts of northern and western India recorded above-normal temperatures on Wednesday but rain and thunderstorm due to a cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan brought some respite from the heat in Delhi and NCR later in the day. Meanwhile, the southwest monsoon further advanced into west central and north Bay of Bengal. Light rains and thunderstorm were witnessed in parts of Delhi with winds gusting up to 50 kilometres per hour, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The mercury is expected to go down in the next few days as moisture-laden easterly winds due to the low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal will bring showers in Delhi-NCR on June 12 and June 13, he said. No heatwave is expected in the capital till June 15, the official said. The rain occurred under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over north Rajasthan, and a trough running from north Pakistan to a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, the IMD said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 41.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above the normal, before the rains. The weather stations at Palam and Ayanagar recorded their maximum temperatures at 43.6 degrees Celsius and 42.2 degrees Celsius respectively. The weatherman has predicted light rains and thundershowers with winds gusting up to 40 kilometres per hour for Thursday evening. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 40 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively. In Delhi's neighbouring Noida and Greater Noida, strong winds uprooted trees and brought down billboards, blocking key roads. Traffic snarls were reported on the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Highway as well as on the Kalindi Kunj Road and along routes to Greater Noida. "Traffic has been disrupted due to felling of trees on the Kalindi Kunj road going from Delhi to Noida, Please be patient. Use an alternate route," the Gautam Buddh Nagar traffic police tweeted. A hoarding fell on the road in Sector 20 police station area due to the heavy storm which disrupted traffic movement, a police official said. No loss of life was reported immediately, the police said. Officials said they were working to remove the fallen trees and hoardings from the roads. Isolated places in Haryana and Punjab recorded trace rainfall, according to the meteorological (MeT) department. Most parts of Haryana recorded near-normal temperatures, it said. Hisar was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 43.4 degrees Celsius. The mercury settled at 41.6 degrees Celsius in Bhiwani and 38.8 degrees in Ambala. In Punjab, Ludhiana and Amritsar recorded maximum temperatures of 37.4 degrees Celsius and 33.8 degrees Celsius respectively – both below normal, the MeT department said. Large parts of Rajasthan saw a slight rise in temperatures, while some places received light rainfall, the weather department said. Kota recorded a rainfall of 2 mm, Dabok 1.2 mm and Jaipur received a drizzle, it said. Bikaner was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 44.3 degrees Celsius, followed by 44 degrees Celsius in Churu. Jaisalmer recorded a high of 43.7 degrees Celsius, Sriganganagar 43.4 degrees Celsius, Kota 42.5 degrees Celsius, Barmer 42.3 degrees Celsius, Jaipur 41.7 degrees Celsius, Jodhpur 41.4 degrees Celsius, Ajmer 40.7 degrees Celsius and Dabok 37.8 degrees Celsius. Thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with gusty winds with speeds up to 30-40 kmph are likely to occur at isolated places in Rajasthan over the next 24 hours, the weather department said. The IMD in its Special Daily Weather Report said conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into more parts of the country. It said the southwest monsoon has further advanced into the remaining parts of Tamil Nadu, some parts of west central and north Bay of Bengal. "Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of Southwest Monsoon in some more parts of Central Arabian Sea, Goa; some parts of Maharashtra, some more parts of Karnataka and Rayalaseema; some parts of Telangana and Coastal Andhra Pradesh; some more parts of north Bay of Bengal and some more parts of Northeastern states during next 48 hours," it said. During the subsequent 48 hours, the IMD said, the conditions are likely to become favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Maharashtra, remaining parts of Karnataka, Telangana, Rayalaseema, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Bay of Bengal and northeastern states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/above-normal-temperatures-in-north-west-india-rain-brings-respite-in-delhi-ncr-848094.html
10-06-2020||North and Central||HC grants time to police to file additional status report on Sharjeel Imam's plea||The Delhi High Court Wednesday granted Delhi Police time to file an additional status report on a plea by former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude the investigation. Justice V Kameswar Rao, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, listed the matter for further hearing on June 25. At the outset, Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, representing Delhi Police, submitted that he needs 10 days time to file additional status report in the matter. The police had filed an affidavit in the high court on June 5 opposing Imam's plea challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude the investigation. The affidavit said he was continuously giving inflammatory and instigating speeches against the government on the issue of Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens. The police said no provision of law has been violated and there are good and substantial cause for enlargement of time for investigation and contended that Imam was not entitled for any relief. The affidavit was filed by the police in response to Imam's plea challenging the trial court's April 25 order by which the Delhi Police was granted three more months, beyond statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar's Jehanabad district in the case related to violent protests against the CAA near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year. The statutory period of 90 days from the arrest was concluded on April 27. He has also sought default bail in the matter on the ground that the investigation was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days and when the police had filed an application for more time to complete the investigation, he was not given a notice as required under the law. The trial court had dismissed the bail plea. Police has said Imam by way of his speeches was addressing a particular religious section of the society and creating disaffection towards the government by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the CAA and the NRC, which is yet to be implemented in any manner throughout the country barring Assam. Imam has claimed in the plea that no notice was given to his lawyer informing them about the application of the special cell seeking the extension of the time to file the charge sheet in view of invoking UAPA charges against him. However, the police said despite the lockdown, the counsel of the accused was timely informed of the application being filed under section 43 of the UAPA through WhatsApp and a call, keeping in view the rights of the accused. Section 43-D (2) of UAPA provides that if it is not possible to complete the investigation within the 90 days period, then upon the report of the public prosecutor indicating the progress of the probe and the specific reasons for the detention of the accused beyond the 90 days period, after satisfaction, the court can extend the period of the probe to 180 days. Imam is currently lodged in Guwahati jail in a case related to UAPA registered by the Assam police. The trial court had passed the order on April 25 after the police had submitted that due to global COVID-19 pandemic in the country and the ongoing lockdown, the pace of investigation was seriously disrupted. Initially, a case under section 124 A (sedition) and 153 A IPC (promoting enmity between classes) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code was registered by the Crime Branch here, pursuant to the alleged speeches addressed by Imam, allegedly instigating a particular religious section of the society to disrupt/block the access to North East region of India from rest of India, police had claimed. The police had earlier charged Imam with sedition, alleging his speech promoted enmity between people that led to riots. Imam was allegedly involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges. Another case was filed against Imam in Assam under the stringent anti-terror law for his remark that Assam could be "severed from India, even if for a few months" as a result of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Police in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh had also lodged FIRs against the JNU scholar over his speech in which he threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the northeast from the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-grants-time-to-police-to-file-additional-status-report-on-sharjeel-imams-plea-848109.html
10-06-2020||Opinion||Post-pandemic digital republic is here. What can Estonia, world's first digital republic, tell us about getting it right?||What will post-pandemic states across the planet look like? Arundhati Roy, one of the few voices of reason during these disquieting times, has argued that the coronavirus pandemic is a portal, a gateway into a different world where much of what we have come to take for granted about the nation/state may soon be radically altered. If such a prediction is to prove prophetic, then the transformation of countries is likely to be shaped by the emergence of the digital republic, a place where the internet is all-encompassing, where everything that needs to happen for a society to function effectively, happens online. Notwithstanding the enormous infiltration of the internet into so many of our daily lives over the last decade or so, the digital framework of apps and websites still needs supplementing by its counterparts in the physical realm in order for all of us to get on with life. The lack of integrated online services in key sectors like education, healthcare, and finance (to name a few) along with the presence of the digital divide means that the internet is far from being a self-sufficient instrument of modern existence, be it in the West or in the Global South. No matter how much time we spend scrolling through Instagram or hosting a Zoom party, we still cannot afford to live online. Towards a fully digital republic  Owing to COVID-19, all of that may be set to change. A digital existence may no longer be limited to virtual socialisation and a handful of transactions and registrations, for in the age of social distancing, the nation-state could become entirely digital, or at least kick-start a movement towards a more comprehensive digital setup.  Interestingly, in order for such a transition to take place, we do not have to create an abstract ideal of a digital utopia, for a near-perfect model already exists. Situated on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea in Northern Europe is Estonia, which has, since gaining independence from the erstwhile USSR in 1991, become the world’s first (and till date only) digital republic. Having recorded less than a hundred deaths from the coronavirus, Estonia started to ease down its lockdown measures in May, opening alongside neighbouring Lithuania and Latvia the first “travel bubble” within the European Union. While such changes have been welcomed by Estonians, they do not represent a full-fledged resumption of normality, because of the simple reason that normality was never disturbed significantly in Estonia in the first place, thanks to its remarkable digital synergy. On March 13, the Estonian government announced a state of emergency on account of COVID-19. In a matter of hours, a “hackathon” was unleashed across the country as expert units embarked on a mission to tackle all pandemic related issues within a matter of 48 hours, all online. Such an initiative was feasible since 99 per cent of all government services can already be availed digitally in Estonia, which was the first country to hold elections over the web in 2014.  In the last parliamentary polls conducted in March 2019, 44 per cent of Estonians cast their votes online. According to the government’s estimates, Estonia’s fully integrated digital system saves more than 800 hours of working time annually. From doctor’s appointments to passport renewal, from grocery shopping to tax payments, each component of civil society has been digitised. This means that, technically speaking, Estonians need to step out of the comfort of their homes only in three cases- to marry, divorce, or purchase and sell real estate. How Estonia got it right All the above systems work seamlessly courtesy the unique electronic IDs allocated to each citizen and the presence of digital signatures for authentication, which have become legally binding since 2002. The fundamental question at this stage is if all online activity is routed through a single ID, how does Estonia ensure cyber security and prevent the misuse of digital data? The solution lies in two plain yet powerful mechanisms.  The first is the “once only” principle that mandates that only one governmental department has access to one kind of data. For example, Estonian addresses are recorded only in the population register, which means that any other authority wanting to obtain these addresses must resort to the register. Decentralisation of information provides a massive safeguard against hacking and tech-terrorism as it does not allow the perpetrators of cyber crime to unlock multiple conduits of data in one fell swoop. The second aspect involves something known as “digital by default”, wherein all information entered on paper is converted into a digital format to offer better protection. This facilitates the maintenance of digital logs through which one can find out who has accessed one’s digital profiles. Such transparency goes a long way in addressing the imbalances of power that usually play out between the state and its people or between those at opposite ends of the social pyramid. Replicating the Estonian approach But can other countries replicate Estonia’s digital infrastructure without hiccups? The simplistic answer is no, for most nations have a panoply of problems, ranging from socio-economic fault lines to administrative reluctance to a lack of public consensus regarding the digital domain, issues that did not significantly perturb a largely homogeneous Estonia.  For example, the Estonian plan of digital immunity passports (likely to be underway soon) as a form of screening against the pandemic has already provoked widespread criticism in the United Kingdom, while contact tracing applications for the coronavirus like India’s Aarogya Setu have proved hackable and subject to grave privacy concerns. The key to tackling such hurdles is not to abandon the digital possibilities altogether, but to cultivate trust through responsible policy-making, to make public officials and the common man E-literate, and to incorporate discussions on digital issues in every sphere of society, something Estonia has been able to do with aplomb. However, it is vital to remember that even in Estonia, the digital makeover was not an overnight success. The ambitious digitisation blueprint was drawn up originally in 1994, and it was not until five years later that the first fruits of that endeavour were realised. The move to the internet in Estonia was primarily motivated by a dearth of resources and a desire to curb spending, both of which are strong incentives at present for various national governments to usher in a digital revolution. Challenges ahead While no uniform predictions can be made about the post-pandemic digital republic, it is certain that the internet will prove to be a game-changer in whatever new order emerges from the current chaos. Journalist and author Naomi Klein has already highlighted the insidious possibilities underpinning such a digital order through her dissection of the no-touch technology that New York bodies and tech giants like Google are intending to create in the form of a “Screen New Deal” that Klein believes could bring every single service to the fingertips (quite literally) of those New Yorkers who can afford it, even as the suffering of the blue-collar precariat – toiling away in ruthless environments like Amazon’s warehouses – is made invisible.  In another grim prognosis of a digital future, historian Yuval Noah Harari has forecasted how everything from our blood pressure to our intuitive responses to politicians can form a part of state surveillance through futuristic technology capable of getting under our skin in more ways than one. In light of such concerns, it becomes incumbent on governments across the globe to ensure that the digital facilities that are introduced or enhanced in the wake of the novel circumstances are not only efficient and user-friendly, but also inclusive, with the data distributed among independent authorities instead of a singular administration.  Replicating the Estonian model should not merely consist of adopting the right tools that have heralded the world’s first digital republic, but also involve the right temperament that is required to guarantee that the digital portal of tomorrow will not exploit or disconnect those that have already been compromised through decades of iniquitous life offline. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport. He is also a published poet who can be found sampling new cuisines, debating and cheering for FC Barcelona when he's not writing) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/post-pandemic-digital-republic-is-here-what-can-estonia-worlds-first-digital-republic-tell-us-about-getting-it-right-847921.html
10-06-2020||South||DMK leader moves Supreme Court against Speaker's inaction on disqualification 11 AIADMK MLAs||DMK leader R Sakkrapani has approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker to decide forthwith upon the disqualification petition pending before him since March 20, 2017 against 11 AIADMK MLAs, including deputy Chief Minister O Paneerselvam. On February 18, 2017, these MLAs have voted against the vote of confidence moved by their own party AIADMK leader and then Chief Minister E K Palaniswami.  A petition filed through advocate Amit Anand Tiwari contended that the "inaction" of Speaker P Dhanapal in not deciding the issue despite an order of the top court on February 14, 2020, was "arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 19, 164(1B), 191 and the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution". This was also in the teeth of the judgements of this court, it added. The petitioner pointed out the Speaker's inaction clearly violated the constitutional mandate as the Supreme Court in 'Keisham Meghachandra Singh's decision on January 21, 2020 has laid down the law requiring all the Speakers in the country to decide the disqualification petitions within a period of three months. By voting against the Chief Minister of the AIADMK in confidence vote by 11 MLAs had voluntarily given up the membership of the party in 2017. Their subsequent act of coming back to the party will be of no help as issue had to be decided with respect to their act, the plea submitted. The petitioner alleged the "mala fide" on the part of the Speaker was evident from his haste in disqualifying 18 MLAs on the apprehension of their voting against the motion, while taking no action with respect to the defection of 11 of these legislators, who actually voted against the motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-leader-moves-supreme-court-against-speakers-inaction-on-disqualification-11-aiadmk-mlas-847757.html
10-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu bans plastic bags for packaging by manufacturing, processing firms||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday banned plastic bags for packaging purposes by manufacturing and processing units, in an effort to augment its efforts to achieve plastic pollution free status. Tamil Nadu, which had banned single-use plastic items, including water pouches from January 1, 2019, in a Government Order, omitted the exemption for "plastic bags which constitute or form an integral part of the packaging in which goods are sealed prior to use at manufacturing/processing units." By lifting the exemption effective June 5, 2020, the government has in effect banned the use of plastics for packaging at manufacturing and processing units. Food processsing companies that use plastic for packaging eatables/snacks are seen to be falling under that exemption and now that the exclusionary provision has been removed, such firms cannot market products using plastics. In a batch of petitions, the Madras High Court had last year ordered the government to consider phasing out plastic of any kind in the market, including those exempted, the order said, adding the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board had requested the removal of the exemption for plastic bags for packaging at manufacturing and processing units. The exemption for plastic packing of goods, which are sealed prior to use, has not helped the state achieve the goal of "plastic pollution-free Tamil Nadu," the TNPCB had said. Among exemptions that continue to be in place include plastic used for packing milk and milk products, oil, medicine, medical equipment, plastic carry bags manufactured exclusively for export purpose against export orders in a plastic industry located in a Special Economic Zone and Export Oriented Units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-bans-plastic-bags-for-packaging-by-manufacturing-processing-firms-847765.html
10-06-2020||South||DMK MLA J Anbazhagan succumbs to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Incidentally, Anbazhagan died on his 62nd birthday and he is the first legislator in the country to die of COVID-19. A second generation DMK leader, Anbazhagan is survived by his wife and two children.   Anbazhagan, who was at the forefront of the DMK’s ‘Ondrinaivom Vaa’ (Let us come together) campaign aimed at providing relief to those affected by the COVID-19 lockdown in the city before he was wheeled into Dr Rela Institute and Medical Centre on June 2, took his last breath at 8.05 am on Wednesday. “(The condition of) Thiru Anbazhagan J, who has been fighting for his life with severe COVID-19 pneumonia, rapidly deteriorated early this morning. Despite full medical support including mechanical ventilation at our COVID-19 facility, he succumbed to his illness. He was declared dead at 8:05 hours on June 10, 2020,” the hospital said in a statement.  Anbazhagan, who was secretary of DMK's Chennai west district, was buried according to the Dravidian customs at Kannamapettai crematorium a little after 1 pm.  Since his admission into the hospital on June 2, Anbazhagan was on ventilator support though his condition was said to have improved on June 5 but worsened again on June 8. He was an avid cricket fan and was into production and distribution of movies. Son of ‘Pazhakadai’ Jayaraman, who ran a juice shop in the city’s business district of T Nagar and one of the DMK members who was jailed during the 1975 Emergency, Anbazhagan was the party’s fearless voice in the Tamil Nadu Assembly as the DMK sat in the Opposition benches during all his three tenures as a legislator. Elected as an MLA first from T Nagar in 2001, Anbazhagan lost from the same seat in 2006 but shifted to Chepauk-Triplicane in 2011 from where he won in 2016 too. Anbazhagan, known for his organisational skills and grandeur in organising party meetings and conferences, has had several run-ins with members of the treasury benches in the Assembly and was known for picking up arguments with the presiding officers of the House. His proximity to the DMK’s first family could be gauged from the fact that he was chosen to succeed late patriarch M Karunanidhi from Chepauk constituency which added Triplicane to its name following the delimitation exercise in 2008 after the latter decided to shift to his home town of Tiruvarur. In a moving eulogy, DMK President M K Stalin wondered how he would console party cadre and family members of Anbazhagan when he could not control his own grief due to the demise of the party legislator.  Recalling Anbazhagan’s contributions to the DMK, Stalin announced a three-day mourning period in honour of the departed leader during which the party flag will fly at half-mast. A staunch loyalist of Stalin, Anbazhagan had always stood by the DMK President even when the former’s elder brother M K Azhagiri raised a rebellion.  When Azhagiri attempted to make a comeback into the DMK after M Karunanidhi’s death in 2018, it was Anbazhagan who first came out in the public to say the former’s expulsion from the DMK was announced by none other Karunanidhi and it cannot be overturned. Leaders cutting political parties expressed their grief at Anbazhagan’s death and described his passing away as a “great loss” to the party.  While Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami posted his condolence message on Twitter, his deputy O Panneerselvam spoke to Stalin over the phone and expressed grief over Anbazhagan’s death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mla-j-anbazhagan-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-847792.html
10-06-2020||South||Son held on charges of murdering former Kerala cricketer||The son of a former cricketer in Kerala was held on charges of murdering his father.  K Jayamohan Thampi, 64, former Ranji Trophy player, was found dead in his house in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday morning. The body had started decomposing. His son Ashwin, 33, was held on charges of murder. Police sources said Ashwin was an alcoholic. He was suspected to have beaten his father following a dispute over cash on Saturday afternoon. On Monday, neighbours smelt a foul stench emanating from the house and informed the police. While Jayamohan's body was found lying on the floor with head injuries, Ashwin was found in an inebriated condition in another room. On further investigation, it was found that Ashwin murdered him. He was arrested by Tuesday night. Jayamohan Thampi was a former wicket-keeper batsman in Kerala Ranji Trophy team during the 1980s. He served in the State Bank of Travancore and retired as DGM in SBI. Jayamohan's wife died earlier. Ashwin was earlier working as a chef. His brother was residing in another part of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/son-held-on-charges-of-murdering-former-kerala-cricketer-847835.html
10-06-2020||South||From treetop to rooftop: Kerala students find innovative ways for e-learning, overcoming poor connectivity||Treesa, a tenth-standard student, and her younger sister Ansiya, who is in the fourth standard, are often seen pulling a rope tied to the top of a tree with a bag on the other end in the premises of their house in the hilly district of Idukki in Kerala these days. One may think that the children are trying to pluck fruits. But it isn't so. They are using an innovative technique to download online study materials sent by teachers as the internet connectivity in their region is very feeble. While Kerala commenced the fresh academic year amid the lockdown through online education from June 1, scores of students were finding it difficult to get access to online classes owing to poor internet connectivity. Namitha, a degree student at Malappuram district was recently seen sitting on the tiled slope rooftop of her house with notebooks and mobile phone for her online classes owing to poor connectivity in her house. P K Varghese, father of Treesa and Ansiya, from Mukkalam, around 100 kilometres from Idukki town, told DH that on seeing the children's plight, he came up with the idea of pulling the mobile phone to the top of a tree for downloading study materials. The children had to go to a spot away from the house to get good connectivity for downloading study materials. But it became very difficult because of the rains. Hence he tried the treetop method, which is working. After clicking download on the mobile phone, the phone will be placed in a basket tied to the end of a rope which is attached to the tree top using a pulley. The children will then pull the other end of the rope so that the basket reaches the treetop and the study materials get downloaded. Even then, the students are not able to attend live interactive classes through this technique. Poor internet connectivity was also affecting many people of the locality, especially farmers and traders. Though the issue was taken up with mobile service providers many times, there were no corrective steps, said Varghese. Meanwhile, degree student Namitha of Areekal in Malappuram district got some relief as some mobile companies took steps to provide connectivity after her picture on the rooftop went viral. A preliminary assessment by the government had found that over 2.6 lakh of the 45 lakh odd school students in the state have no access to online classes. A student from a Dalit family ended life allegedly owing to mental trauma because of the unavailability of e-learning facilities. Hence the government is now setting up community learning facilities at remote areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-treetop-to-rooftop-kerala-students-find-innovative-ways-for-e-learning-overcoming-poor-connectivity-847876.html
10-06-2020||South||Kerala govt gives nod to controversial Athirappilly project amid objection||Notwithstanding strong opposition from a section of political leaders, the Kerala government has decided to revive the controversial Athirappilly hydel power project proposed in the ecologically sensitive Chalakkudy river basin in Thrissur district. Considering a letter from the authorities of Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) seeking to proceed with the project and to obtain a fresh environmental clearance, the state government on June 4 issued a 'No Objection Certificate' for a period of 7 years, permitting it to proceed with implementation of Athirappilly Hydro Electric Project. The government gave the go ahead nod after the KSEB, the project developer, approached it citing that the dates of statutory clearances including environmental clearance and Techno-Economic Clearance obtained earlier for the project have expired. The state government's decision has been criticised by former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh, Leader of Opposition in Kerala Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala and Kerala's ruling CPI's Rajya Sabha MP and former state Forest Minister Binoy Viswam. Targetting the state government over the issue, Jairam Ramesh warned that a Silent Valley type protest in 1970s, an ecological movement aimed at the protection of Silent Valley, an evergreen tropical forest in the Palakkad district, will erupt in Kerala if the left government went ahead with the Athirappilly project. "It is another Silent Valley type situation and I hope people of Kerala will ensure that this madness will not proceed", he said. In a series of tweets, Ramesh noted that he had put stop to the Athirapilly in early 2010 during his stint as the Environment Minister in the UPA government after consulting various people in Kerala both in government and outside. "I had personally visited the area as well. It is atrocious that the LDF is reviving this project", Ramesh tweeted. "I thought that after the 2018 floods disaster at least LDF would get some environmental sense. But clearly my thinking was wrong. This project will cause immense ecological damage," he said. Chennithala declared that the Congress-led UDF would not allow the government to implement the project. "... we will not allow the government to implement the project," Chennithala said addressing a protest meet at Thiruvananthapuram. CPI leader Binoy Viswam asserted that the project would not be implemented in the state as a decision to abandon it was taken earlier by the ruling LDF. "The decision is taken at the bureaucratic level. They don't know the LDF culture. The project would be an environmental disaster. And also it is financially unviable", he said. Viswam, a former state forest minister, said 168 hectares of biodiversity rich forests in the Western Ghats would submerge if the project was implemented. "It is home to rarest of rare bird, animal and plant species. Moreover, two tribal settlements in the forests will be destroyed. The project violates the rights granted to the tribals under Forest Rights Act," he told PTI. The proposed Athirappilly Hydro Electric Power project with an installed capacity of 163MW is located in Chalakudy river basin in Thrissur District. Previous Congress-led UDF and CPI(M)-led LDF governments had also pressed for its clearance but faced strong resistance from ecologists and some politicians including leaders like Ramesh and Viswam. Ramesh observed that then Principal Chief Conservator of Forest T M Manoharan, who was the Chairman of the Kerala State Electricity Board under three Chief Ministers, had opposed the project citing the harm it could cause to the environment. The senior Congress leader also said in a report in 2007, the Kerala State Biodiversity Board headed by B S Vijayan had also pointed out that the power project would adversely affect the ecology of the fragile land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-gives-nod-to-controversial-athirappilly-project-amid-objection-847892.html
10-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports new single day high of nearly 2,000 COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported an all-time single day high of 1,927 new coronavirus cases while 19 people died, taking the infection count to 36,841 and the toll to 326, the government said. A total of 17,675 samples were tested, taking the total number of specimens examined so far to 6,38,846. Of the fresh infections, Chennai accounted for 1,392 cases as its tally alone touched 25,937. With the state recording 1,500 plus cases for the fourth successive day, the cumulative tally of positive cases stood at 36,841 with 17,179 active cases. Those dead included a 38-year old man and he was among 15 people with comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-new-single-day-high-of-nearly-2000-covid-19-cases-847995.html
10-06-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Madras High Court declines to stay online classes||The Madras High Court on Wednesday declined to grant an interim stay on online classes conducted by schools for students. Observing that continuation of online education without sufficient guidelines is a matter of larger public importance, the court issued notice to the Centre and the state government and posted the matter to June 25 for filing counters. A division bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and R Suresh Kumar issued the notice while hearing a petition seeking to restrain educational institutions from conducting online classes without framing proper schemes and guidelines. Government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan submitted that the state has not yet permitted the conduct of online classes by schools and colleges. The institutions were also restrained -- through a government order -- from demanding fee to be submitted. Senior counsel S Prabhakaran for the petitioner requested the court to pass an interim order restraining educational institutions from conducting such classes.  The court, however,directed the Centre and the state government to file a report on the availability of any guidelines governing such online classes and adjourned the hearing to June 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-madras-high-court-declines-to-stay-online-classes-848007.html
10-06-2020||South||Another elephant dies after consuming explosive-packed pineapple in Kerala||Close on the heels of the death of a pregnant wild elephant at Palakkad in Kerala using explosive-stuffed food, another elephant that died in Kollam district in April was found to have suffered fatal injuries after consuming explosive-packed pineapple. The female elephant aged around ten died in the Pathanapuram forest areas near Punalar in the rural parts of Kollam district on April 11. Forest officials said the investigation revealed that explosive-stuffed pineapple was kept by a poaching gang. Three members of the gang, who are already arrested, maintained that their target was wild boars and sambar deers for selling meat and the elephant accidentally took it. The gang was suspected to be involved in poaching of pythons too. Some country weapons, including a gun, and pineapples were also recovered from them. The elephant had suffered a wound in the mouth in the explosion. Though doctors treated it, it could not be saved. Initially, it was suspected that the pregnant elephant in Palakkad consumed explosive-packed pineapple. But one of the accused held in the case maintained that explosives were packed in dry coconut and were aimed at wild boar. Two key accused in the case, a father and son, are still absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-elephant-dies-after-consuming-explosive-packed-pineapple-in-kerala-848020.html
10-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Sabarimala tantri opposes allowing devotees from June 14||While the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala was scheduled to be reopened for devotees from June 14, Sabarimala tantri (head priest) on Wednesday raised objections on opening the temple amid spike in COVID-19 cases. Kandararu Mahesh Mohanaru, the present tantri, sent a letter the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple urging that the decision to allow devotees from June 14 should be reviewed considering the chances of COVID-19 spread. Kerala government has convened a meeting with the tantri and other temple representatives on Thursday to discuss the matter. The fresh developments have once again put the CPM-led left front government in Kerala in a tight spot over the Sabarimala temple, similar to the women entry issue. While the BJP, which has been opposing the Kerala government decision to allow public to worship centres from Tuesday, has strongly backed the tantri's demand, Congress leaders alleged that tantri's were playing politics. Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that the decision to allow devotees to the temples was taken in consultation with those associated with temples. The government has no stubborn stand that temples should be opened soon, but was only considering interests of devotees. But since the Sabarimala tantri has now taken a different stand, it would be discussed at the meeting on Thursday. Sabarimala temple is scheduled be opened by June 14 for monthly pooja and would remain open till June 28 for the annual festival that begins on June 19. Devotees will be allowed only through virtual queue for which booking was scheduled to be opened by Wednesday. Devotees from other states would have to produce a medical certificate issued by an ICMR approved lab proving that they were not COVID-19 infected. Kandararu Mahesh urged in the letter that the festival, that was already postponed once, should be also postponed again. The BJP had been alleging that the left-front government's decision to allow devotees at temples in a haste manner was aimed at the revenue from the temples. Meanwhile, though some major temples like Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple allowed pilgrims from Tuesday, the number of pilgrims who turned up was very low.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-sabarimala-tantri-opposes-allowing-devotees-from-june-14-848027.html
10-06-2020||South||Is Tamil Nadu under-reporting COVID-19 deaths?||At least 200 deaths of COVID-19 patients in Chennai in the last few weeks have not been added to Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 death toll, leading to doubts about whether the state government was under-reporting moralities due to the virus. While the health department put the number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the state capital till June 9 at 244, the death registry maintained by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), according to reports, says the figure is more than 400. After several media reports, a complaint by an anti-corruption activist and a tweet by Leader of Opposition M K Stalin, the government has finally come around to say that it will reconcile the numbers and add them to the state’s COVID-19 death tally, if any, after a “thorough review.” The Department of Public Health (DPH) on Tuesday constituted a committee that will scrutinise the death records maintained by the GCC and conclude. On Sunday, Stalin had taken to Twitter to allege that the Tamil Nadu government was “under-reporting” COVID-19 deaths quoting figures released by the “Intelligence Department.” Posting the number of deaths officially declared by the government as well as from an “intelligence report”, Stalin alleged 232 deaths have not been added to the COVID-19 tally till June 4 and asked the administration to find out whether “community transmission has begun” in the city and advised it to take remedial steps to prevent further spread of coronavirus. An “unofficial” report of the GCC accessed by DH showed the total COVID-19 deaths in Chennai till June 4 as 398, while the death toll mentioned in the daily health bulletin released on the day was just 167. If the deaths recorded by the GCC are added to the state’s Covid-19 death toll, the mortality rate in the state will shoot up to 1.5 % from the current 0.88 %. “The reconciliation process is on and whatever needs to be done at the end of the day will be done. After the reconciliation process and a thorough review is completed, we will add the numbers, if any, (to the official COVID-19 death figures),” Dr T S Selva Vinayagam, Director of Public Health, told DH. The government’s admission that there could have been a discrepancy came after Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam wrote to Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh alleging “under-reporting” of COVID-19 deaths by furnishing details of three patients whose deaths have not been added to the COVID-19 tally despite their “mortuary card” confirming that they succumbed to the virus. While officials and doctors said the discrepancy could be a result of “miscommunication” between various government agencies and hospitals, Venkatesan feels it could be a design to under-report deaths in the city. “We feel COVID-19 deaths are being under-reported in Chennai and the three cases we cited in our letter is just an example. It does not like a clerical error and seems to be a pattern to the hide deaths due to Covid-19 in the city. Deaths reported in government hospitals have also not been added to the official figures which raises more doubts,” Venkatesan told DH. A senior doctor, who retired from government service a year ago, told DH he was not able to understand how the discrepancy took place. “The Corporation would have recorded the deaths as due to COVID-19 only based on the declaration by the doctor who signs the document. And if these documents say the deaths are due to COVID-19, then there is no denying of the fact that deaths have been under-reported,” he said. Another public expert, who also did not wish to come on record, it was shocking to know over 200 deaths have not been accounted for. “I really cannot understand how this can happen. And 200 is a huge number. The government should find out why such a discrepancy took place,” the expert said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-tamil-nadu-under-reporting-covid-19-deaths-848043.html
10-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh 10th exams from July 10 as planned, says education minister||While Telangana and Tamil Nadu have cancelled the 10th class exams because of the COVID-19 situation, Andhra Pradesh education minister Adimulapu Suresh has said that the exams in the state would be held as per the revised schedule from July 10. The exams that were to be held from March 23 were deferred because of the COVID-19 pandemic.   Now, exams are planned from July 10 to 15, with six instead of the regular 11 papers. Suresh said that all precautions would be taken to ensure safety of the students, including compulsory face masks and safe distancing between the candidates. Telangana, which was keen to conduct the exams scheduled from June 8, had to cancel them following the state high court order disallowing exams in Hyderabad area, which is reporting an alarming number of cases daily. Chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao decided to promote all the 5.35 lakh SSC students in Telangana with grades based on internal assessment marks. Students and teachers are demanding the same system in AP too for this year, to save the children from possibility of contacting the virus at the examination centres.   Andhra Pradesh is also reporting a high number of fresh cases. The state has till now recorded a total of 5,247 cases, with 218 of them reported on Wednesday. A total of 78 deaths are registered as because of COVID-19 and comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-10th-exams-from-july-10-as-planned-says-education-minister-848047.html
10-06-2020||South||COVID-19: Two commit suicide in Kerala||A COVID-19 patient in Kerala and another person under observation hanged themselves in a hospital on Wednesday, while 65 more persons were tested COVID-19 positive. According to sources, both the persons hanged at the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital. A 33-year old man hailing from Aanad, about 25 kilometres from the city, who managed to escape from the hospital and was later brought back, hanged in the hospital room. He had recovered from COVID-19 and was expected to be discharged today.   Another person hailing from Nedumangad on the rural parts of the district, who was under observation, was found hanging in hospital room by afternoon. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja ordered a probe into the incidents. Meanwhile, an 87-year-old man who died in Thrissur on Sunday evening was also confirmed to be COVID-19 infected, taking the total COVID-19 deaths in Kerala to 18, including a native of Mahe, which is part of Puducherry. While 65 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, 57 got cured. As many as 1238 persons are now under treatment for COVID-19 in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-two-commit-suicide-in-kerala-848068.html
10-06-2020||South||Aged COVID-19 patient dies; second fatality in Puducherry||An 82-year-old patient, who had co-morbidities, died of COVID-19 in the Indira Gandhi government medical college hospital here on Tuesday. The patient hailed from Villupuram in neighbouring Tamil Nadu and was hospitalised with complaints of several other ailments. This was the second fatality due to COVID-19 in Puducherry after the first patient, who was from Chennai, died here, director of health and family welfare services S Mohan Kumar told PTI. The body of the patient from Villupuram was kept in the mortuary and all formalities were being followed to dispose of the body in keeping with usual norms, the official said. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters that there were 12 new positive cases of infection, all coming under contact tracing, during the last 24 hours. Of the 12, eight were admitted to the government medical college hospital and four were discharged thereby taking the number of active COVID-19 cases to 84 in the Union Territory. The total number of cases stood at 145 so far: There were 84 active cases, 60 treated and discharged and one death excluding the one reported on Tuesday. Health Minister stressed the need for use of Aarogya Setu which would help identify the sources of infection. He sought the cooperation of the people in containing the spread of infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aged-covid-19-patient-dies-second-fatality-in-puducherry-848095.html
10-06-2020||State||RS polls: All 4 candidates set to be elected unopposed from Karnataka||With four candidates, including former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda and veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge in the fray for as many berths, the Rajya Sabha elections in Karnataka scheduled for June 19 is all set to be a unanimous affair. Karnataka Legislative Assembly Secretary M K Vishalakshi, who is the returning officer for the polls, on Wednesday declared the candidature of Gowda and Kharge from JD(S) and Congress, and BJP's Iranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti as "validly nominated". The papers of independent candidate Sangamesh Chikkanaragunda were rejected during scrutiny of nominations. "With only four candidates, the election is all set to be unopposed and unanimous. Voting will not be required. It will be clear on the last date for withdrawal of candidature," official sources said. June 12 is the last date for withdrawal of candidature. Election is scheduled on June 19 to fill four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka, represented by Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad of Congress, Prabhakar Kore of BJP and D Kupendra Reddy of JD(S) that will fall vacant on June 25 with their retirement. The BJP, with 117 members in the assembly (including Speaker), is in a position to ensure easy victory in two out of the four seats and the Congress, with 68 MLAs, in one. The JD(S), which has 34 seats in the assembly and not in a position to win a seat in the Rajya Sabha on its own, has Congress' support with its surplus votes. A minimum of 45 votes are required for a candidate to win. However, voting will not be necessitated in this election as no party fielded any additional candidate against each other and limited their contest to the number of seats they can win, based on their strength in the assembly. On getting elected, this will be the first stint in the Rajya Sabha for Kharge, who has always got elected directly by the people in his over four decade long political career. Kharge, earlier popularly known as "solillada Saradara", (a leader without defeat), faced his first electoral loss in his political life against BJP's Umesh Jadhav in Gulbarga by a margin of 95,452 votes during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. For 87-year-old Gowda this will be the second Rajya Sabha entry, the first time being in 1996 as Prime Minister. He faced defeat in Tumkur constituency against BJP's G S Basavaraj by over 13,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as he decided to contest at the last minute after vacating Hassan-his home turf, to grandson Prajwal Revanna (a current MP). For BJP's Iranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti, who are "low profile" compared to stalwarts Gowda and Kharge, this will be the first major break in their political careers. Both have an Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad background and worked for the organisation at the grass-root level for decades. BJP's central leadership had sprung a surprise by fielding Kadadi and Gasti as candidates, ignoring the recommendations of the party state unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-polls-all-4-candidates-set-to-be-elected-unopposed-from-karnataka-847992.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bans online education for children from KG to 5th standard||Giving big relief to thousands of parents, teachers and children who were struggling to cope with the new normal of online classes during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Karnataka state Department of Primary and Secondary Education on Wednesday ordered a ban on online classes for children from KG to class 5. Based on the report submitted by director NIMHANS, recommending online classes only above the age of 6 years and also following the complaints from several parents about online classes conducted by private schools even for kindergarten kids, the department has announced this decision on Wednesday. Briefing the media soon after the meeting with department officials, S Suresh Kumar, primary and secondary education minister said, "We have taken two major decisions today. The online classes for LKG, UKG and primary classes should be stopped immediately." Even collecting fees in the name of online classes should be stopped, said the minister. "We have already issued a circular about it insisting that schools not collect fees in the name of online classes and also requesting schools not to increase fees for the 2020-21 academic year considering financial constraints of several people due to the COVID-19 pandemic," said the minister. The department, however, also discussed how to engage children during this period as there was no clarity over the reopening of schools for the 2020-21 academic year. "We have constituted a committee to prepare guidelines on how to engage students and increase their knowledge. The committee is headed by Prof. MK Sridhar," he said. Before taking this decision, the department had three rounds of discussions with various experts, including Prof. MK Sridhar, Prof. VP Niranjanaradhya, Dr John Vijay Sagar and other departments, including the home and health departments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bans-online-education-for-children-from-kg-to-5th-standard-847961.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Most COVID-19 deaths in Karnataka occur due to delay in reaching hospitals: Munish Moudgil, chief of COVID-19 War Room||Most COVID-19 deaths in Karnataka occur when infected elderly people, those with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) or any other symptoms delay reaching designated hospitals, a top official said. Munish Moudgil, chief of COVID-19 War Room in the state, said most of those infected with the virus is brought to COVID-19 designated hospitals at a very late stage and recovery then becomes extremely tough. He said that about 65 percent of deceased patients are those who suffer from SARI and are aged above 60. The death rate due to SARI is 43 percent for those in the 40-60 age group, he said, releasing data on coronavirus deaths, to reporters. In the same age group, the mortality due to Influenza-like Illness (ILI) was 17.4 percent, whereas it is 11.1 percent among people aged above 60. He also said that 25 percent of symptomatic patients aged above 60 succumb to the virus, while it was 10.7 percent in the 40 -60 age group. The fatalities among those aged 60 are high even if they are asymptomatic, said Moudgil, who is the secretary in the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms. He said the average number of days spent at these hospitals by those who recovered is about 15 days, compared to 3.5 days for those who died of the virus. "Hence persons who are elderly and who have comorbidities or who have SARI must reach designated COVID-19 hospitals at the earliest," Moudgil said. As of date, Karnataka has reported 69 COVID-19 deaths As many as 6,041 people have tested positive for COVID- 19, including 2,862 discharges and 3,108 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/most-covid-19-deaths-in-karnataka-occur-due-to-delay-in-reaching-hospitals-munish-moudgil-chief-of-covid-19-war-room-848021.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka likely to issue caste, income certificates to Brahmins||The Karnataka government is likely to take a call on issuing caste and income certificates to members of the Brahmin community.  At present, caste and income certificates are issued only to members of the SC, ST and OBC groups.  The Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board has asked the government to allow the certificates to be issued to Brahmins as well.  "Caste certificates are not issued for the Brahmin community. For the Board to implement the welfare schemes, we will require both caste and income certificates. Hence, we had asked the government for authorisation of the same," Board chairperson HS Sachidananda Murthy told DH.  The Board has also urged the government to implement the 10 per cent quota for the economically-weaker sections (EWS), which is currently applicable in central government jobs and in admissions to central educational institutions for EWS persons whose family has a gross annual income below Rs 8 lakh. Karnataka is yet to decide if the 10 per cent reservation should be extended to state government jobs or educational institutions. On Wednesday, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa launched the Board's new office and website ksbdb.karnataka.gov.in  The Board will operate from the third floor of the Mythic Society building in Bengaluru’s Nrupathunga Road. Speaking on the occasion, Yediyurappa said the Board would carry forward the welfare work concerning the community. "Every community has people who are forward and backward. While Brahmins are seen as forward, there are economically-weaker members in this community as well. There are many who need financial support. This Board would cater to the needs of such people," Yediyurappa said. In Karnataka, the population of the Brahmin community is 3 per cent, Yediyurappa added. Murthy said the Board has planned several new welfare measures catering to educational and financial support. Among the list is a proposal to provide interest-free loans to the financially-weaker section population in the community, he said.  The Board was constituted a year ago under the Congress-JD(S) coalition government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-likely-to-issue-caste-income-certificates-to-brahmins-848041.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Returning migrants give Kalaburagi admin the migraine||The district is witnessing a huge spike in COVID-19 positive cases only after infected migrant workers from Maharashtra returned home as the lockdown norms were eased. “The infection is not spreading, but only cases are increasing. The district is receiving a high number of positive cases as most of the workers are coming back from Dharavi, Mumbai and Pune, the hotspots of coronavirus,” said Deputy Commissioner B Sharat.  The country’s first COVID-19 death was reported from the city on March 10. A 76-year-old man (P-6) who returned from Saudi Arabia on February 29 succumbed to the virus. The daughter of the deceased (P-7), the doctor who initially treated the victim (P-9) and the doctor’s wife (P-99) contracted the virus from him. The first wave of infection ended as no positive cases from the primary and secondary contacts of the deceased were reported. It began with those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin being tested positive for COVID-19. Sharat said, “We received late the list of 26 people who took part in the religious congregation in Delhi. As most of the Tablighi returnees didn’t come forward voluntarily for getting themselves tested, the virus spread to their direct and indirect contacts. About 30 family members of a cloth merchant (P-205) who died of COVID-19 contracted the virus.” “The administration successfully contained the virus spread from the Tablighi returnees and pegged the infections below 90. Random testing for COVID-19 was taken up in Mominpur area of the city. With God’s grace, all tests turned out to be negative,” he said. Positive cases started zooming up with the return of migrant workers after the lockdown was relaxed.  As many as 39,073 migrant workers returned to the district till June 7. As per the new quarantine guidelines, a total of 35,974 people in quarantine were released after seven days’ institutional quarantine. They have been kept under strict home quarantine. Out of the total returnees, COVID test has been done only on about 16,000 people due to shortage of kits.   Absence of irrigation facilities and industries, consistent drought, poverty and illiteracy force the people of Kalyana Karnataka region to migrate to Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru in search of jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/returning-migrants-give-kalaburagi-admin-the-migraine-848071.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Udupi's bitter truth: It let guard down; makes amends now||From being a green zone on April 27, to reporting the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases, Udupi district has seen the extremes. As on Monday, the district recorded 946 positive cases. As many as 672 patients infected with COVID-19 are being treated in six hospitals, including T M A Pai hospital in Udupi - the district’s COVID-19 designated hospital. The district, despite launching its surveillance activities as early as February 29, slipped from the green zone. Among the 946 positive cases so far, a whopping 933 are cases from outside (98.7%). Among the 933 cases, 908 are returnees from Maharashtra (97%).  Udupi district incharge minister Basavaraj Bommai admitted that the government had erred and should have permitted residents from Maharashtra to travel to Udupi in batches. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesh said, due to the exodus, the district witnessed the highest single day increase of 204 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. With 8,600 patients in institutional quarantine, it is a huge challenge for the district administration, struggling due to an acute staff shortage of health staff and lab personnel.  A Mumbai resident charged that the district administration’s apathy had spread the infection during institutional quarantine. Many among the 350 government buildings used as quarantine facilities did not have individual rooms and toilets, he said. A few days ago, a patient from Uchila tested positive to COVID-19. Though the apartment where he was stayed was sealed down, the patient was shifted to a hospital in Udupi on the following day, due to unavailability of ambulance.  Jagadeesh said that there was no proof of infection spreading during the institutional quarantine. Many of the returnees did not practise hygienic practices or social distancing, he said. Having achieved zero pendency in tests on Monday, the district is bracing itself for receiving the next batch of about 16,000 migrant workers. With majority of them being from Maharashtra, the district administration has identified 1,200 beds in addition to the existing 695 beds. Jagadeesh said there was no shortage of ventilators or personal protective equipments (PPEs).  That the frontline workers are working without PPEs was exposed when a lab technician working in a private hospital, his five-year-old son and a policeman posted at a checkpost testing positive. On Monday, the DC received directions from Bommai to disburse PPEs (2,745) to frontline workers. With the likely increase in cases, the MLAs from the district have favoured home quarantine as an ideal system to reduce burden on the health facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/udupis-bitter-truth-it-let-guard-down-makes-amends-now-848072.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Medical officers' body blames burnout, stress for Hassan doctor's death||Stating that stress and burnout are taking their toll on the frontline health workers, the Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) on Wednesday held the health department’s circular to staff to work without break responsible for the death of a doctor in Hassan district. Alur taluk hospital paediatrician Dr C S Shivakiran died in line of duty on Wednesday. The doctor was hospitalised after he suffered brain haemorrhage and internal bleeding on June 3. He didn’t come out of coma ever since and passed away on Wednesday. In a letter addressed to Hassan District Minister K Gopalaiah on June 6, the KGMOA had stated that the health department’s doctors, health workers and pharmacists were under severe stress without a single day off in the past three months. The workload on the health workers was affecting their families as well, the letter stated. “This (Hassan doc) is not a single isolated incident. This is the condition of the health department officers across the state and someone needs to look into this,” the letter added. An obituary issued by the health commissioner stated that Dr Shivakiran had work experience of more than 20 years in various districts of the state, including rural areas. “The health and safety of doctors and other healthcare workers need to be prioritised, especially because they are on the frontline of the Covid-19 fightback,” the obituary stated.  Dr Srinivas GA, District Health Officer, Bengaluru Urban, and President, Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association, said, “We have written to Health Minister Sriramulu on Wednesday that he suffered a brain haemorrhage because of Covid-19 workload and that he should be given Rs 50 lakh insurance promised to Corona warriors. He died this morning. His wife is an ophthalmologist. He didn’t have a single off. He worked non-stop.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medical-officers-body-blames-burnout-stress-for-hassan-doctors-death-848073.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No change of guard in state, BSY to complete term: BJP||A senior BJP functionary on Wednesday clarified that the party leadership was in no mood to replace B S Yediyurappa as chief minister.   The party is “in no mood to change the Lingayat leader now,” he said.  The clarification comes amid a debate over possible change of guard in Karnataka after the BJP top brass junked the candidates recommended by the state core committee meeting attended by Yediyurappa for the Rajya Sabha polls.  “Yediyurappa is an unquestionable leader for the party in Karnataka. He brought the party to power and he will complete his term as CM. There is no question of disturbing him,” a senior leader said. “Moreover, the CM effectively handled the Covid-19 crisis and received appreciation from everybody. Even at 77 years, he is working tirelessly,” said the leader. The leader said that the selection of Rajya Sabha seats was a different issue. The state core committee headed by state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel had recommended five names. However, sources said, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda rejected the names and asked the state unit to send a new list comprising only party workers. Then the state unit recommended three names - Eranna Kadadi, Lingaraj Patil and Surana. After coming to know that both Kadadi and Patil belong to Panchamasali Lingayat sect, the high command sought one more name. Then the state unit recommended Ashok Gasti from Raichur. The nominations of Kadadi and Gasti were approved.  The BJP top brass also told the state leaders not to field third candidate and make things tough for H D Deve Gowda. The party did not want to send a wrong message to the Vokkaliga community to which Gowda belongs.  “By selecting ordinary workers, the party gave recognition to those who worked for the organisation. Even Yediyurappa is happy about it,” said the leader. However, the leader said the party will give the state unit full freedom to select candidates for seven Legislative Council seats going to polls on June 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-change-of-guard-in-state-bsy-to-complete-term-bjp-848086.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DPAR wants ‘essential’ posts of junior assistants to continue||The Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) has recommended the continuation of Group-B and Group-C posts, citing the shortage of staff. The government had planned to scrap several of these posts to cut costs. In a letter dated May 14, the DPAR provided details on the number of such posts to the cabinet sub-committee formed for the merger of a few departments and scrapping some posts. The department was also against scrapping such posts, citing demands by various departments to fill vacancies of junior assistants, senior typists and others. “It seems essential to continue the posts in the cadre,” the letter said. e-Office The DPAR had also noted that only 452 of 1,320 Group-C posts were occupied in government offices, and the cadre played a crucial role in the compilation and movement of important files pertaining to administration. While a letter by Additional Chief Secretary to CM, P Ravikumar, on May 7 argued that the role of junior assistants - 187 against a sanctioned strength of 542 - - had become redundant due to the implementation of e-Office software, the DPAR letter contradicted the same. The DPAR said that since e-Office was yet to be implemented completely in the secretariat, the cadre fulfilled several responsibilities. Apart from it, the cadre was storing and retrieving files in the archives, it said. Despite this, the Secretariat Employees’ Association alleges that some in the government were keen on abolishing posts and merging departments. “Even though DPAR acknowledged the importance of these posts in its report, a few ministers are going against the report. While DPAR opines that such posts are essential for administrative purposes, the government wants to scrap them citing the same ‘administrative reform’ as the reason,” Guruswamy, president of the Association, said. The government’s proposal has threatened the services of more than 400 employees, he said, adding that only ‘Group-C’ employees were being targeted. When contacted, DPAR (Administrative Reforms) Secretary Munish Moudgil said that nobody will be disengaged from service. “But the Cabinet sub-committee will decide which posts should continue or discontinue,” he said, adding that the five-member committee will also take a call on whether fresh recruitment for such posts should be held or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dpar-wants-essential-posts-of-junior-assistants-to-continue-848090.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||In a bid to attain moksha, man lights his funeral pyre||A 65-year-old man from Sahasralli village in the taluk is suspected to have ended his life by lighting his own pyre at the foothills of Soppina Betta. Shivaram Ramakrishna Hegde, a cancer patient, in his suicide note, said that he was doing it to attain moksha. “I am not committing suicide. Everything is Maya (illusion). I am liberating myself from the cycle of death and rebirth,” stated the suicide note purportedly written by Shivaram Hegde. He also quoted a shloka from the Bhagavad Gita in his death note. According to his family members, Hegde had lost his wife last year. He was suffering from cancer and he’d the feeling of being a burden to others. He himself performed his funeral rituals before lighting his own pyre. By doing so, he felt, he would attain the Moksha, they added. The jurisdictional police have found Hegde’s shirt, kerosene bottle, ashes, body fragments at Narayanagowdana Vakkere near Soppina Betta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-a-bid-to-attain-moksha-man-lights-his-funeral-pyre-848093.html
10-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||It's final, SSLC exams on schedule, says govt||Putting to rest confusion over the SSLC exam, especially after Telangana and Tamil Nadu scrapped it, the Karnataka government on Wednesday clarified that the exam will be held on schedule from June 25 to July 4. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar told reporters soon after a meeting with officials, “There is no question of cancelling SSLC exams. We have made all arrangements to conduct the exams in a safe environment keeping students’ safety in mind. Parents need not pay heed to rumours.” Around 8.5 lakh students will appear for the exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/its-final-sslc-exams-on-schedule-says-govt-848107.html
10-06-2020||West||Maharashtra e-Sanjeevani OPD app to be operational in a week: Rajesh Tope||The Maharashtra government has decided to come up with a mobile app of e-Sanjeevani OPD as the service has served 1,400 patients in the last one month, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday. The e-Sanjeevani OPD service allows people to consult medical experts online and 1,403 people benefited across the state with no fee being charged from any of them, he added. "The service, which was launched on an experimental basis in April, was fully operational by May. We are soon launching a mobile app for the same. The development of the app is in the final stage and will be operational in a week," he said. The app will allow people from anywhere in the state to communicate with medical officers of any district using laptops or computers, he said. "If required, the number of doctors can be increased and special time will be given for services of specialists," Tope added. The service is a joint venture of the Central and state health departments, and the online OPD service is available on all days, except Sunday, from9 am to 1.30 pm free of cost. "Online medical OPD service training has been imparted to 16 medical officers from various district hospitals. It is getting good response from cities like Mumbai, Thane, Pune," Tope said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-e-sanjeevani-opd-app-to-be-operational-in-a-week-rajesh-tope-847734.html
10-06-2020||West||Industrial hubs to come up along Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Corridor||Multiple industrial hubs will come up along the Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway that is currently under construction. The 701 km-long highway - Samruddhi Mahamarg - will be the longest expressway in India, and it is an extensive project connecting 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages. During a review of the project, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that there should be decentralisation of industries and more industrial hubs must come up along the new highway. The Rs 46,000 crore expressway is a Greenfield project that will have access control. It will be 7 meters above the land level. A total of 20,820 hectares of land is required for the project, of which 399 hectares is forestland.  The Mahamarg is being constructed through Engineering, Procurement and Construction model. It will pass through 10 districts of Nagpur, Wardha, Amravati, Washim, Buldhana, Aurangabad, Jalna, Ahmednagar, Nashik and Thane. The design speed of the Expressway will be 150 km per hour. It will have 3+1 lanes on either side of the median, concrete pavement.  Over 400 vehicular underpasses, over 300 pedestrian underpasses and cattle underpasses will be provided at every village/town and alignment will avoid passing through major town/city. It will have over 50 flyovers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/industrial-hubs-to-come-up-along-mumbai-nagpur-samruddhi-corridor-847800.html
10-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra govt requests Centre to start local trains||The Maharashtra government has reiterated its request to the Centre and Ministry of Railways to start suburban train services in Mumbai for people engaged in emergency services. The financial capital of Mumbai and the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) is totally dependent on the suburban train services, which is considered the lifeline of the city.  "We have requested the government to start train services for people in emergency services like nurses, ward boys, and so on," Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab said. "The Modi-government should allow suburban trains to start immediately for the essential services. The hospitals in Mumbai, in particular, are not able to give services to people who save lives due to shortage of staff who come from far away and need trains to travel," state Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Awhad said. More than 80 lakh people use Mumbai's suburban network daily that is spread across six lines covering 390-odd km and 157 stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).  The CR and WR collectively run 3,029 services daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-govt-requests-centre-to-start-local-trains-847811.html
10-06-2020||West||Mumbai Police chief meets Ganesh mandal representatives||Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh held a meeting with representatives of various Ganesh mandals from the city and sought their views on how they plan to organise the Ganpati festival celebration this year in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. The 10-day festival begins on 'Ganesh Chaturthi', which falls on August 22 this year. During the meeting, which took place on Tuesday at the commissioner's office, the mandals assured the police chief that they will follow all orders of the Maharashtra government and if directed, they will not organise the celebrations this year, a representative of one of the mandals said. Representatives of some of the prominent Ganesh mandals, including Mumbaicha Raja, Ganesh Galli Utsav Mandal, Lalbaughcha Raja, Tejukaya Mandal, Chintamani Mandal, were present at the meet. "During the over 30-minute meeting, the commissioner sought our views about the forthcoming Ganeshotsav. We said we will follow whatever is the decision of the state government," Ganesh Galli Mandal secretary Swapnil Parab said, adding that people's health was top priority at this time.  In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the GSB Ganeshotsav Samiti in Wadala area of Mumbai has postponed the celebration to 'Magh Shudh Chaturthi' in February next year, the samiti's trustee secretary Mukund Kamat said last month. The decision was taken in view of the health and safety of the public, he said. Ganeshotsav is the most popular festival in Maharashtra. The pandals set up by various mandals in Mumbai and other places attract thousands of devotees during the 10- day celebration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-chief-meets-ganesh-mandal-representatives-847827.html
10-06-2020||West||Contempt notice issued against Yatin Oza over 'gambling den' remark||The Gujarat High Court has issued a criminal contempt notice to the president of Gujarat High Court Advocates' Association (GHCAA), Yatin Oza, for his remarks against the court and its administration for allegedly being "biased" and running a "gambling den that caters only to the litigants with means and money power." The court while issuing notice to Oza returnable on June 16, has ordered Oza to restrain from making "any scandalous remarks or holding an official meeting and passing any resolution or circulating any material or communicating directly or indirectly either himself or through others in relation to the subject matter of contempt." Oza had made several serious allegations during a Facebook live press conference on June 5. The High Court has produced transcripts of Oza's comment in its order passed on Tuesday after taking suo motu cognisance of his remarks. In the transcript, Oza has been stated as saying, "High Court is an absolute gambling den today, wherein only billionaire can gamble. If poor people gamble for Rs 5 at home, the police would arrest them. This is the situation of the High Court. High Court can file a contempt petition against me."   Some of the allegations that Oza made has been reproduced in the court order which states, "corrupt practices being adopted by the registry of the High Court of Gujarat, undue favour is shown to high-profile industrialist and smugglers and traitors, the High Court functioning is for influential and rich people and their advocates, the billionaires walk away with an order from the High Court in two days whereas the poor and non VIPs need to suffer, if the litigants want to file any matter in the High Court person has to be either Mr Khambhata or the builder or the company..." The order notes that Gujarat is one of the worst-affected states while Ahmedabad has the highest mortality rate in the state and that's the reason why following the announcement of lockdown, physical functioning of the court was halted and hearings commenced through video conferencing. It says, "Like every change in the system, this change was not finding favour at some quarters and while the genuine grievances were being examined on administrative side by the High Court, the president of the Bar Association behaved in the most reckless manner. He levelled false and contemptuous allegations of corruption, malpractices against the administration of the High Court." The order states that from March 24 to June 8, the total numbers of matters filed in court including the civil applications were 5,039 and 3,147 were registered and 4057 are disposed of, "where the majority of them are of those who are having extremely meagre means. Without caring for the truth, riding on the wave of populism, he (Oza) appears to have crossed all limits by condemning recklessly the Institution," the order says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/contempt-notice-issued-against-yatin-oza-over-gambling-den-remark-847842.html
10-06-2020||West||Goa govt allows people to skip COVID-19 test on arrival||Starting Thursday, those entering Goa will have the option of skipping the COVID-19 test, provided no symptoms were found in them during the screening at the entry points, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. However, those who choose not to undergo the test will have to remain home-quarantined for 14 days, he said. Sawant said the government has brought a change in the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to execute this new plan considering the strain on the testing facilities in Goa in view of the rising number of people arriving in the state.  (edited) "As per the change in the SOP, people will be allowed to enter the state without having to undergo the COVID-19 test. Those not found carrying any COVID-19 symptoms will have this option. It will come into effect from June 11. However, it is mandatory for those who choose to skip this test to observe 14-day home quarantine along with the family members," he said. "Those who decide to undergo COVID-19 test on their arrival in Goa will have to remain under institutional quarantine till their test results are declared," the CM said. People can carry the medical certificate of being COVID-19 negative from any ICMR-affiliated laboratory, which should be issued less than 48 hours before their arrival, Sawant said. "Everyone entering the state will have to go through thermal scanner check, and if found symptomatic, that person will be taken to a quarantine facility, where test would be conducted," he said.  "The change in SOP has been brought as the testing facilities are getting stressed due to increasing number of people arriving in the state," he said. On the status of the COVID-19 patients in Goa, the chief minister said that so far, 359 positive cases were found in the state, of which 67 have recovered. "We have 292 cases, which are active, of which only 21 are symptomatic. None of the patients had to be put on ventilator," he added. Sawant said that except for three patients, all others are natives of Goa. "Of the total cases, 194 were from Vasco's Mangor Hill area, which has been declared as a containment zone," he added. The chief minister said that eleven health workers who were working to curb the spread of COVID-19 have tested positive, while four drivers of the state-run Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd who were on duty, were also found infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-allows-people-to-skip-covid-19-test-on-arrival-847903.html
10-06-2020||West||PMC Bank case: Bombay High Court seeks info on health condition of Wadhawans||The Bombay High Court has sought details from the Maharashtra government about the health condition of HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, arrested on charges of money laundering in the multi-crore PMC Bank fraud case. The court has also asked in which barrack of the Mumbai-based Arthur Road prison they are lodged. Justice Bharati Dangre was on Tuesday hearing petitions filed by housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan, seeking bail on medical grounds. The petitioners also claimed that there are no proper facilities in the jail in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. Apart from Wadhawans' medical condition and barrack details, Justice Dangre also asked the state government what steps it has taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among prisoners. The prosecution shall ascertain the position regarding the applicants (Rakesh and Sarang) with regard to their medical condition, their placement in the barracks and also steps taken to keep the prisoners free from the COVID-19 pandemic, the court said. It has posted the bail pleas for further hearing on June 12. The fraud at the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank came to light in September 2019 after the Reserve Bank of India found that the PMC Bank had allegedly created fictitious accounts to hide over Rs 4,355 crore of loans extended to the almost-bankrupt HDIL. According to RBI, the PMC Bank masked 44 problematic loan accounts, including of HDIL, by allegedly tampering with its core banking system, and the accounts were accessible only to limited staff members. The economic offences wing of Mumbai Police and the Enforcement Directorate later registered offences against senior officials of the bank and Wadhawans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pmc-bank-case-bombay-high-court-seeks-info-on-health-condition-of-wadhawans-847912.html
10-06-2020||West||Goa: Villages go for self-imposed lockdown fearing COVID-19||Fearing the spread of COVID-19 in rural areas of Goa, several villages in Sattari and Bicholim talukas have decided to remain under lockdown for at least four days as a precautionary measure. Keri village in Sattari, which borders with Karnataka, called for a lockdown on Tuesday and it was followed by Morlem where a bandh was observed, said Laxman Gawas, a member of the Keri village panchayat. Shops were closed in Pale village in Bicholim taluka and Sankhalim Assembly constituency as well. Incidentally, Sankhalim constituency is represented by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. Lockdowns will be observed in Keri and few other villages for at least four days, Gawas said. Meanwhile, state health secretary Neela Mohanan on Wednesday said although there was no need for such self- imposed lockdowns, the government had reports that some villages were imposing restrictions. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane had on Tuesday said that a few cases of COVID-19 were detected in Sattari taluka and testing has been initated in villages to reduce the risk of community transmission. In a press statement, Rane said, "As requested by Sattari MLA Pratapsingh Rane, COVID-19 tests will be conducted in certain areas of Morlem panchayat, including Shiroli and Guleli." The minister said the situation in Sattari and Usgao was being monitored and all possible measures were being taken to contain the spread. Meanwhile, a few local public transport unions have also suspended their services fearing the spread in the interiors of the state. Usgao Bus Owners Association, an organisation representing private buses, has decided not to operate their fleet for a few days. "The decision was taken after we realised that coronavirus has reached as far as Usgao, a village near Ponda town," said Santosh Manjrekar, executive committee member of the association. Buses originating from Ponda and plying via Usgao will not be operated for a few days to curb spread of COVID- 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-villages-go-for-self-imposed-lockdown-fearing-covid-19-847927.html
10-06-2020||West||Rajya Sabha polls: Gujarat Congress shifts 17 MLAs from Rajkot resort to Botad||Ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls in Gujarat, the opposition Congress on Wednesday shifted 17 of its MLAs from a resort in Rajkot to a farmhouse near Gadhada town of Botad district, a party leader said. Fearing poaching, the party had shifted its legislators to various resorts in Gujarat in the one last week, dividing them in zone-wise groups. While some MLAs gathered in Rajkot in Saurashtra, few others were in Abu Road in Rajasthan. "After meeting local leaders in Gadhada, the MLAs will proceed to Dhari town in Amreli district," Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani, who is also among these 17 MLAs from Saurashtra region, said. Both Gadhada and Dhari Assembly seats are empty at present after Congress's Pravin Maru and J V Kakadiya resigned as legislators soon after the Rajya Sabha polls were announced for the first time in March. "When people were fighting the coronavirus pandemic, elected representative of Botad deserted its people either due to pressure or for some financial gains. Thus, we have decided to meet the people of this leaderless region and understand their problems. People will not forgive those who had disrespected the mandate," Dhanani said. Congress's Tankara MLA Lalit Kagathara said, "Since Dhari legislator, too, had resigned in March, the sitting (Congress) MLAs will also visit that region to make people understand the game and teach a lesson to them (MLAs who have resigned) in the by-election." "From Botad, the MLAs will go to Dhari as part of our exercise to make people of that area understand how they were betrayed, both by the MLA and the ruling BJP," said Kagathara. To save its MLAs from "poaching", the party had divided its legislators as per zones and shifted them in different resorts across the state in the last one week. As per the earlier schedule, election for four Rajya Sabha seats was supposed to be held on March 26. However, it was eventually postponed for an indefinite period in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and subsequent imposition of the nation-wide lockdown. Till now, eight Congress MLAs have resigned, bringing their strength in the Assembly to 65, a number not enough to win two Rajya Sabha seats on which they the party have fielded its two candidates. In March, when Rajya Sabha polls were first announced, five opposition MLAs, including Maru and Kakadiya had resigned. The three more had resigned this month after fresh dates were announced. The Rajya Sabha election for four seats in Gujarat has now been scheduled on June 19. While the Congress has fielded Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, BJP has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin. In the 182-member Assembly, BJP has 103 MLAs and the opposition Congress now stands at 65. While the Bharatiya Tribal Party has two MLAs, Nationalist Congress Party has one legislator. One MLA, Jignesh Mevani, is Independent, while 10 seats are vacant, two due to court cases and eight others due to the resignations. The effective strength of the House is 172 at the moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajya-sabha-polls-gujarat-congress-shifts-17-mlas-from-rajkot-resort-to-botad-847955.html
10-06-2020||West||COVID-19 threat still persists, follow guidelines, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the COVID-19 threat still persists though restrictions have been partially eased to allow resumption of business and other activities. Urging people to avoid crowding and maintain physical distancing post easing of lockdown norms under "Mission Begin Again', he reiterated his demand for resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai for movement of staff on essential services duty. Thackeray hinted the coronavirus-induced lockdown, currently in force till June 30, will have to be extended if guidelines related to it are not followed strictly by people.  Addressing a press conference after a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the state legislature, he said lockdown measures have been eased because economic activities need to resume as "now we have to learn to live with the virus". "The virus threat still persists but we need to start economic activities. Outdoor physical activity has been allowed for your good health and not to spoil it," he said, referring to reports of people crowding on the roads after the restrictions were eased. The CM said people should follow coronavirus-related protocols for their own good. "Lockdown will have to continue if this (non-adherence of norms) happens. But I am confident people will listen to the government's rules and guidelines since it is taking care of their welfare," he said.  Thackeray said he has been demanding that suburban train services resume in Mumbai to allow people on essential services duty to commute. "Even now many of them are not able to travel because of lack of transport," he said. The Chief Minister rejected reports in a section of the media about friction between ministers and bureaucrats in the cabinet meeting which took place on Tuesday. "It is not true," he said. Thackeray said the monsoon session of the legislature will now be held from August 3 instead of June 22 scheduled earlier, a decision which comes in the backdrop of rising COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, where the infection tally has gone beyond the 90,000-mark. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who was also present at the press conference, said government was considering a proposal to provide concrete houses to people whose homes were destroyed in cyclone 'Nisarga' that hit coastal districts of the state last week. "We are considering whether this can be done under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana," said Pawar, who also holds the finance portfolio. He said for cyclone-damaged houses, a compensation of Rs 1.5 lakh will be given by the government, while the affected people will also get Rs 10,000 in cash. Also, a compensation of Rs 50,000 per hectare will be given for agriculture losses, Pawar said. Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said losses were minimal because the administration was put on alert before the cyclone made landfall in Raigad district on June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-threat-still-persists-follow-guidelines-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-847979.html
10-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Goa amends SOP for visitors; no mandatory swab tests anymore||In a decision which is expected to ease travel formalities to Goa, the state government from Thursday onwards is expected to roll out a new SOP for persons visiting the tourist state, by dropping the mandatory swab test norm for all incoming persons. "Persons with symptoms similar to COVID-19 though would be compulsorily scanned and tested free of cost," Chief Minister Sawant said. The new SOP was cleared by the state cabinet at a meeting called at the state secretariat on Wednesday. "Symptomatic patients will be tested using thermal scanners at entry points. This is compulsory, but we will not be charging for this test. It is our duty," Sawant said. The chief minister said that instead of thermal guns, full-fledged thermal scanners would be installed at the borders and entry points to the state. As far as asymptomatic persons are concerned, Sawant said, that one of the three options before them as per the new SOP, was to carry a COVID-19 certificate issued by an Indian Council for Medical Research-endorsed laboratory issued less than 48 hours before arrival in Goa. "Or they can opt for mandatory 14-day home quarantine. They will be duly stamped and their family members will also be required to maintain home quarantine," he said. "The third option is opting for a swab test for Rs 2,000 and stay in a paid quarantine facility till the test results are out, which may take two to three days," he added. Sawant has been taking flak from the Opposition, which has accused the chief minister of watering down entry norms, even as the count of active Covid-19 cases have shown an increase in the last one week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-goa-amends-sop-for-visitors-no-mandatory-swab-tests-anymore-848000.html
10-06-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra govt requests Centre to start local trains||The Maharashtra government has reiterated its request to the Centre and Ministry of Railways to start suburban train services in Mumbai for people engaged in emergency services. As far as the extension of restrictions after June 30, the Maharashtra government will take a call on people's response to the plea to avoid crowding. On the other hand,  the business advisory committee,  in its meeting, decided to reschedule the monsoon session of Maharashtra legislature form June 22 to August 3. The financial capital of Mumbai and the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) is totally dependent on the suburban train services,  which is considered the lifeline of the city. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has started Mission Begin Again as part of the unlocking post lockdown - and the government wants to start train services of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR). "We want to start the trains but only for emergency services," Thackeray said. "We have requested the government to start train services for people in emergency services like nurses, ward boys etc.," state transport minister Anil Parab said. "The Modi government should allow suburban trains to start immediately for the essential services. The hospitals in Mumbai, in particular, are not able to give services to save lives due to shortage of staff which come from far away and need trains to travel," state housing minister Dr Jitendra Awhad said. More than 80 lakh people use Mumbai's suburban network daily,  that is spread across six lines covering 390-odd km and 157 stations in the Mumbai metropolitan region.  The CR and WR collectively run 3,029 services daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-govt-requests-centre-to-start-local-trains-848012.html
10-06-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 149 coronavirus deaths and 3,254 cases in single day||The fear of massive COVID-19 spike in Maharashtra seems to be coming true with 149 deaths and 3,254 cases being reported on Wednesday.  This is the worst 24-hour jump in the cases of the COVID-19 pandemic, currently sweeping the globe. The total number of deaths in the state now stands at 3,438 and cases 94,041. The active cases now stand at 46,074, according to the Public Health department. On Wednesday,  1,879 patients were discharged taking the total of 44,517 who have been treated.  Of the 5,93,784 tests conducted, 94,041 were tested positive.  The toll in Mumbai now stands at 1,857 and cases 52,667. The same for the Mumbai metropolitan region is 2,338 and 70,700 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-149-coronavirus-deaths-and-3254-cases-in-single-day-848017.html
10-06-2020||West||Anil Deshmukh inaugurates special COVID-19 care facility at Navi Mumbai Police headquarters||A special 50-bed COVID-19 care centre to look into the healthcare needs of police personnel was inaugurated Wednesday by Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh at the Navi Mumbai Police headquarters at Kalamboli. "We want the police personnel who put themselves to such risk as frontline COVID-19 warriors to have the best care if they unfortunately get infected. Accordingly, I have instructed all the commissioners & superintendent's to start such facilities," the Home Minister said in response to a question from media. "I am happy that the Navi Mumbai Police Commissionerate has created such a well planned facility in such a short time," he said. He further expressed his sorrow that 35 police personnel have lost their lives in their battle with COVID-19. "Though nearly 3,500 personnel statewide have been infected, they don't hesitate in discharging duties even if it is a quarantine centre, isolation ward or any other high contagion area," he said praising police personnel for their dedication.  Senior police officials like Navi Mumbai CP Sanjay Kumar, who was present on the ocassion, expressed their happiness over the inauguration of the facility. "All the personnel need is a pat on their back and a signal that their interests and welfare will be taken care of,"  he said. The Home Minister later visited the commissionerate for a meeting with the CP and all the DCPs to take an overview of the law & order situation in the region. The Home Minister ended his visit to Navi Mumbai by visiting Saavli, the COVID-19 isolation centre for police personnel at Nerul. He interacted with two recovered personnel and thanked them on behalf of citizens for their contribution as Covid-warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-inaugurates-special-covid-19-care-facility-at-navi-mumbai-police-headquarters-848025.html
10-06-2020||West||'Missing' COVID-19 patient found dead inside hospital toilet||An 82-year-old woman COVID-19 patient, who had reportedly gone missing from the state-run Jalgaon district civil hospital eight days ago, was found dead inside a toilet there on Wednesday, officials said. The death came to light after some patients in the hospital complained of foul smell emanating from the toilet, where the body kept lying for eight days, the officials said. Jalgaon District Collector Avinash Dhakane confirmed the death of the elderly woman. Officials from the district collectorate said, "It is true that her body was found in the toilet of the civil hospital. The door was locked from inside." The woman was from Bhusawal town in the district, where she was initially admitted to a local hospital run by the railways. She was taken to Jalgaon civil hospital on June 1 and she tested coronavirus positive the next day, they said. "However, when her relatives contacted the hospital to inquire about her health status, they were told that they were unable to trace her. The family members then reported it to the Peth Police Station in Jalgaon, but it was of little help," an official said. An official of the civil hospital said, "The dysfunctional CCTV cameras posed more difficulties for the police. It was due to the foul odour emanating from Ward 7 led to the octogenarian woman patient's body being traced in one of the toilets. Her body was partially decomposed when recovered." BJP leader and former state minister Girish Mahajan, who had earlier served as the Jalgaon district guardian minister, said, "The incident underscores the poor condition of the hospital and the careless approach of the hospital staff in tracing a missing COVID-19 patient." "We had raised the issue of the Jalgaon civil hospital's poor management in some earlier meetings, but it was ignored," he said.  Mahajan said that the woman's body kept lying in the toilet for seven days. "It also means that the hospital staff does not clean it on a regular basis. The police are also equally responsible for not taking enough efforts to find her," he alleged. "Strict action should be taken against senior officials in the hospital to avoid such incidents in future," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/missing-covid-19-patient-found-dead-inside-hospital-toilet-848026.html
10-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: COVID-19 patient found dead in toilet in Jalgaon district||In a shocking lapse, an 82-year-old woman, tested COVID-19 positive, who went missing, was found dead in the toilet of the civil hospital in Jalgaon district. The victim, a resident of Bhusawal, was admitted last week but had gone missing. On Tuesday, the body was discovered from the toilet of the hospital. State BJP vice president and former Mumbai MP Dr Kirit Somaiya raised the issue. "This is shocking," he said. Zillapeth police station's senior inspector Akbar Patel said that the Jalgaon civil hospital authorities and the family had informed the police that she was ‘missing’ from 2 June. "We took a complaint,  scanned registers and CCTV footage," he said. "We found foul smell emanating from one of the toilets in the hospital and we found the woman’s body there. We have informed the family accordingly,” Patel said. The victim's grandson has appealed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to order a probe into the incident and punish those found negligent or guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-patient-found-dead-in-toilet-in-jalgaon-district-848046.html
10-06-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: For Dabbawalas of Mumbai, future is uncertain||When lockdown was announced, the famous Dabbawalas or lunch box carriers of Mumbai returned to their villages. Some of them had their agricultural farms to fall back on, but then came Cyclone Nisarga, which laid waste to their houses as well as crops in the fields. Like others in the unorganised sector, they too need help from the government, said Subhash Talekar, spokesperson of the Mumbai Dabbawala Association, on Wednesday. Dabbawalas stopped their service on March 19 after the coronavirus scare began to spread. The government is now allowing offices and businesses in Mumbai to reopen, but there is uncertainty about when Dabbawalas would be able to resume their service. "Our service is completely dependent on suburban trains. We cannot start our service until local trains start. When would the train services start, in July or August? Nobody knows," Talekar told PTI. There is also uncertainty about customers' response. "In most buildings in the city, housing societies have banned the entry of even relatives. Will they allow us to enter to pick up and drop lunch boxes even though we are ready to take utmost care by wearing masks and using sanitizers?" Talekar asked. On ordinary days, over 5,000 Dabbawalas deliver over two lakh lunch boxes to office-goers in Mumbai. They are now almost world-famous for their efficiency and punctuality; in 1998 Forbes Global magazine awarded them a Six Sigma rating. Most Dabbawalas come from Maval area of Pune district, nestled in the Sahyadris. After lockdown was imposed, many of them returned to their villages in Junnar, Ambegaon, Rajgurunagar, Maval, Haveli, Mulshi and other parts of the district. Due to the sudden coming into force of lockdown, they could not even collect payments for March, and most of them exhausted their saving soon. "It was difficult to survive in Mumbai. Therefore I returned to my village," said Raghunath Medge, speaking from Kadus in Rajgurunagar tehsil. He will return only when local trains start and currently he was busy preparing the fields for paddy as rains have arrived, Medge said. Talekar said the cyclone which hit Raigad coast on June 3 and passed through the Pune district proved to be a double whammy for the Dabbawalas as it destroyed houses, cattle sheds and farms. "Many of them can not be even contacted as electricity in villages has not been restored," he added. As in the case of labourers in other unorganised sectors, Dabbawalas are also expecting help from the government, he said. "Dabbawalas of Mumbai have always stood behind the Shiv Sena during elections. In this difficult time, we expect Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to help us," Talekar said. Normally Dabbawalas earn about Rs 20,000 per month. Even if they resume work, they are not sure if they would make the same income now as people could be wary of using their services because of the pandemic, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-for-dabbawalas-of-mumbai-future-is-uncertain-848063.html
