11-06-2020||First Edit||Blatantly partisan police conduct||There are major inconsistencies in the manner in which the police conduct investigations and file cases relating to criminal offences and the way norms for grant of bail are implemented in the country. These variations are seen across regions and are more pronounced in cases which have a political dimension. Politics and the conduct of the police have always had a bearing on each other, but unfortunately, the relationship is increasingly threatening the rights of citizens and the system to protect them. Humanitarian considerations are also disregarded in the process. The nationwide lockdown imposed to fight COVID-19 has been used to take action against people who have opposed the government's policies and actions and to ensure that such people find it difficult to escape the clutches of arbitrarily interpreted and enforced laws. Members of the minority community have overwhelmingly suffered the brunt of such actions, but all political opponents have been targets. In Delhi, three women activists, including a pregnant Jamia Milia student Safoora Zargar, who protested against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, were arrested and charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. They have not got bail, and Safoora’s request was not considered even on compassionate grounds. A Patiala House court rejected evidence produced in support of her innocence and even said that she “could not blame the wind if she chose to play with embers.’’ There are many others who were picked up and booked under various serious charges but have been denied the legitimate right to bail. Sedition charges have been levelled against protesters in violation of the Supreme Court guidelines on the framing of such charges. Those who have championed peasants’ rights and other peoples’ causes have also been charged under the UAPA on flimsy grounds.  On the other hand, those who are on the side of the government and the ruling party have been treated with kid gloves, howsoever serious their offences are. One person, Kapil Baisala, who fired rounds at the Shaheen Bagh protest venue, was granted bail. The charge-sheet filed in connection with the Delhi riots has not mentioned the incendiary speeches made by BJP leaders, including ministers, which could have triggered the riots. A judge who asked why there were no FIRs against these leaders was transferred overnight by the law ministry. Going by the FIRs and the arrests, the riots were planned and executed by anti-CAA protesters, and the ruling party’s leaders and their mobs had no role. The ends of justice are defeated by such partisan conduct of those whose duty it is to uphold it and enforce the rule of law. It will have dangerous consequences for citizens and the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/blatantly-partisan-police-conduct-848136.html
11-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||KIMS Hubballi receives 100 PPE kits; sufficient stock available for now||"District Administration is providing PPE kits and other material required, along with donors including organisations and individuals. The usage of PPE kits per day is between 100 and 150 here. However, any number of PPE kits given to us is very helpful," said KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani.  "KIMS has already conducted plasma therapy. We are getting plasma refrigerator, which can store 1,200 packets of plasma of 200 ml each, for one year. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 are being convinced to donate plasma, for future use. Other districts are also urged to arrange plasma donation for KIMS," Dr Ramalingappa said. KIMS Medical Superintendent, Arun Kumar C, noted that all efforts including dialysis were conducted on a 58-year-old (P-1,943) who had several other health problems, but he did not respond to the treatment and died. Earlier, Dr Ramalingappa and other doctors of KIMS received 100 PPE kits donated by Lions Club of Hubballi. "Each PPE kit costs from Rs 900 to Rs 1,000, and 100 kits are today being given for the safety of front-line warriors at the COVID-19 hospital here," said Lions Club of Hubballi president Uday Badkar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/kims-hubballi-receives-100-ppe-kits-sufficient-stock-available-for-now-848310.html
11-06-2020||In Perspective||Washington, DC, deserves Statehood||One of my earliest memories is of walking along a burned-out 14th Street in my hometown Washington, DC, in 1968, holding one parent’s hand as the other pushed my brother in a stroller; I was four years old. They took us to witness the destruction that arose from rage following Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination, and later to the Poor People’s Campaign for economic justice encamped on a muddy National Mall. My parents wanted to teach us that the America they loved harboured injustices and systemic racism, yet it was a union we had a duty to try to perfect. Fifty-two years later, not nearly enough has changed. Entrenched bigotry and senseless violence against African-Americans persist. We still have much to do to make this a truly equal and just America — from eradicating police brutality and reforming the criminal justice system to ensuring access to affordable housing, quality healthcare and education, and decent jobs for all regardless of the colour of their skin. An often overlooked piece of the justice agenda was cast into stark relief last week when President Trump ordered heavily armed federal forces into the District of Columbia against the will of Mayor Muriel Bowser. Largely because Washington lacks statehood, Trump had the authority to line city streets with military Humvees, to fly Black Hawk helicopters dangerously low to terrorise protesters, to fill the steps of the Lincoln Memorial with military personnel and to deploy thousands of federal forces, many unidentifiable with no discernible chain of command, like Russian “Little Green Men,” to intimidate residents. Most shockingly, after threatening to federalise the Metropolitan Police, Attorney General William Barr unleashed federal forces who violently dispersed journalists and peaceful protesters using tear gas, rubber bullets, pepper spray, horses, shields and batons. All for a presidential photo-op. For one long week, Trump transformed my hometown into a war zone to burnish his “law and order” credentials. Without statehood, Washington was virtually powerless to prevent Trump from using the capital as a petri dish to intimidate protesters, divide Americans and goad activists into ugly street battles to galvanise elements of his base. America, beware. Washington was the testing ground, but Trump could yet find a pretext to invoke the Insurrection Act and send active-duty US military forces into any state over the objections of its governor. He reportedly came close, only to be deterred by Pentagon officials. Fortunately, when taunted by Trump’s abuse of power, the people of Washington refused to take the bait. The protests proceeded mostly peacefully, following some early, condemnable looting. Facing down federal forces, my hometown refused to give Trump any racially charged urban war scenes. So, he gave up and ordered troops home. But not before his actions underscored the imperative that Washington must finally attain statehood. Washington is the only national capital in the democratic world whose citizens lack equal voting rights. Its population exceeds 700,000, more than Wyoming’s and Vermont’s, and comparable to Delaware’s and Alaska’s. Washington’s citizens pay more per capita in federal income taxes than any state in the country and more in total federal income tax than 22 states. Our men and women in uniform fight and die for America. Yet, we lack any senators or voting representative in the House of Representatives. Congress controls the city’s budget and can override our laws and withhold funds. As our licence plate proclaims, we suffer “taxation without representation,” which violates our democratic rights and relegates residents to second-class citizenship. Why does this injustice persist in the 21st century? Opponents of Washington statehood make specious legal arguments, claiming that the Constitution mandates complete federal authority over the district and thus precludes statehood. But the Constitution merely states that the federal enclave cannot exceed 10 square miles; it does not prohibit carving out a limited area for government buildings that remains under federal control, while making the rest of the district into a state. The real reasons for opposition are more sinister: racism and political interest. Washington was long predominantly black, and efforts to deny its citizens their civil rights date back to Reconstruction. The black population is now just below 50%, and the city remains overwhelmingly Democratic. Last month, Trump said the quiet part out loud. “D.C. will never be a state,” he told The New York Post: “They want to do that so they pick up two automatic Democrat — you know it’s 100% Democrat, basically — so why would the Republicans ever do that?” Washington has fulfilled the prerequisites for statehood under the “Tennessee Plan,” the same formula that admitted seven states to the union. District residents have approved a statehood referendum (86% in favour), ratified a state constitution and delineated new state boundaries to preserve a federal enclave, among other steps. Now the 51st state can be established simply by both houses of Congress passing a bill that is signed by the president. The House could approve a statehood bill, H.R. 51, as soon as this summer. It will certainly die in the Republican-controlled Senate. So, over 700,000 American citizens are doomed to remain abused and disenfranchised until Democrats control the White House and both houses of Congress. That goal is within reach this November. As masses of Americans call to fundamentally reform our criminal justice system, redress entrenched racism and fulfill the promise of equality for all people, let’s not forget the enduring oppression of the citizens of the District of Columbia. (The writer was National Security Adviser to the Barack Obama administration and a former US ambassador to the United Nations) (NYT)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/washington-dc-deserves-statehood-848139.html
11-06-2020||Kalaburagi||Star Air to commence flight operations from Kalaburagi to Mumbai||Star Air has come forward to begin flight operations on an experimental basis from Kalaburagi Airport to Mumbai via Bengaluru and Belagavi. It has now planned to commence operation on every Saturday. The flight services between Kalaburagi and Mumbai will begin from June 13. Booking for the services has already started.   Kalaburagi Airport Director Jnaneshwar said, OG-118 flight will leave Kalaburagi at 10.20 am to reach Bengaluru at 11.25 am. The same flight with OG-105 number will arrive Belagavi at 1 pm and will land at Mumbai airport with at 2.40 pm with OG-111 number, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/star-air-to-commence-flight-operations-from-kalaburagi-to-mumbai-848205.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt mulls extension of ban on online classes up to class 7||A day after the Prime and Secondary Minister Suresh Kumar announced that schools will be prohibited from conducting online classes till the fifth standard, the government is thinking to extend the same till class 7.  According to Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, a decision to this effect was taken in the cabinet meeting on Friday, after ministers opined that the online classes were posing a huge challenge to students in rural areas.  "All of us were of the opinion that there were challenges faced by students studying in rural areas. Hence, we urged the government to extend the ban on online classes till 7 standard," he said. However, Karnataka Education minister in his latest tweet said that the ban on online classes is only upto 5th standard, and the extension of the ban upto 7th standard was just a suggestion. "Karnataka Govt has decided to stop all On-line classes for LKG, UKG & classes up to 5th std. To extend this up to 7th std is only a suggestion from few cabinet ministers as expressed in an informal discussion and NOT a decision.," S Suresh tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-mulls-extension-of-ban-on-online-classes-up-to-class-7-848305.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||CBI seeks Karnataka government's sanction to prosecute 3 officials||The CBI has sought sanction from the Karnataka government to prosecute an IAS officer and two others in connection with the IMA Ponzi scheme, in which lakhs of people were duped after promising high returns using Islamic way of investment, the agency sources said. The officials are then Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Urban District B M Vijay Shankar, the then assistant commissioner of Bengaluru North Taluk L C Nagaraj and village accountant Manjunath N, the sources told PTI on Thursday. When the state government received complaints about the shady activities of the I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) jewels, it directed the district authorities to probe it. L C Nagaraj prepared a report stating that there was nothing wrong with the IMA investment firm and gave a clean chit to Mohammed Mansoor Khan, who operated the Ponzi scheme, the sources said. He added Shankar too accepted the report and without verifying forwarded it to the state government. Manjunath, the village accountant, allegedly acted as a middleman in this deal and accepted around Rs 1.5 crore as bribe from a builder, CBI sources added. The case surfaced in mid-2019 when Mansoor Khan suddenly fled to Dubai, from where he was later deported. Along with him the directors and others who benefited from the scheme were arrested. In all, around 25 people were arrested in connection with the scam. The CBI, which had filed its first charge sheet in the case in September last year, has also sought permission to prosecute two IPS officials in connection with the case. The agency has charged Khan, the then managing director of I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) jewels, and 19 other accused -- seven company directors, five members, an auditor, a private person, and five private group companies -- for alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating among other charges under the Indian Penal Code. The CBI had taken over the investigation into the case on August 30 last year on the request of the Karanataka government, routed through the Centre. According to the CBI sources, the size of the scam is of Rs 4,000 crore where more than a lakh people have been duped. A majority of the victims are Muslims who were convinced that the scheme promotes Islamic investment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cbi-seeks-karnataka-governments-sanction-to-prosecute-3-officials-848441.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Guest faculties end lives; depression suspected||Two guest faculties of a government degree college in Malavalli taluk ended their lives in one month, during lockdown. This has raised suspicion that depression might have been the cause for their suicide. The deceased are Kokila (35), a guest faculty of the Commerce stream, and Suresh (29), of History department of the same college. While Kokila ended her life by hanging on May 11, Suresh had died of self-immolation on June 4. Kokila, a resident of Bharathinagar, has a son, studying 7th standard. Suresh is a bachelor. Both lecturers were popular among the students. It is said that they were disappointed about not getting a government job. As the government had failed to release the salary since several months, they were facing financial problems and might have ended their lives, due to depression. Principal K T Venkatesh said, “Both lecturers were working in the college since three years. Kokila was very intelligent and Suresh aspired for a university job. They were conducting online classes for students during lockdown. They might have ended their lives out of depression.” Kokila’s sister has lodged a complaint with Bharathinagar Police that Kokila committed suicide due to depression. Mandya police have registered a case of unnatural death in connection with Suresh’s suicide. Suresh, who dreamt of a government job, was under depression. He was under treatment, according to his family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/guest-faculties-end-lives-depression-suspected-848474.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mall reopens with new safeguards||Following the lockdown, due to Covid-19 pandemic, a couple of malls opened in the city on Thursday. R Dhanasekaran of Forum Mall Mysuru said, “Safety and hygiene measures are being implemented in the interest of the visitors. Shoppers will undergo mandatory thermal screening at the entrance of the mall. Those with any sign of illness will not be permitted inside.” “A sanitisation tunnel has been placed at the entrance for people to pass through. Safety indication on Arogya Setu app, wearing of mask, sanitisation and social distancing is mandatory. Footfalls will be monitored, and there is a cut-off limit. There are foot markers in lifts and escalators to facilitate social distancing. QR code-based contact less food ordering and billing service, safe distance between tables and a separate family section is provided at the food court,” he said. “Sanitisers are placed at regular intervals, including at the entrance as well as in washrooms. “In washrooms, spacing is created between sinks as well as cubicles, and contact-less soap dispensers and taps are available. Other aspects like parking are made contact-less. There are precautions in material handling procedures such as sanitising and fumigation of delivery trucks and materials, wearing of masks, gloves for delivery personnel, limited entry of people and material in service lifts,” he said. The customers can plan their visit by booking convenient slots on www.forummalls.in. Once the slot is confirmed, the customer can use the E-Pass with QR code to enter and exit the mall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mall-reopens-with-new-safeguards-848476.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: discharge outnumbers new cases in Mysuru dist||The number of discharges outnumbering new Covid-19 cases has instilled confidence among the people, that they are on the path of recovery from the pandemic. On Wednesday (June 10), the new cases reported from across the state was 120, while the number of discharges was 257. Except, a few districts, the number of recovered patients is more than active cases. Hassan, Mandya and Mysuru districts have been reporting only a few or nil cases, of late. The number of discharges are increasing. It has come as a ray of hope amid the virus gloom, for the residents. Initially, Mysuru grabbed the attention by registering more than 70 cases, mostly employees of a Nanjangud-based pharma company and their contacts. It has reported 101 positive cases, as on June 10. While 96 patients have been discharged, there are five active cases. Mandya reported a spike in positive cases from Malavalli taluk, after clerics connected to a religious congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi, were found infected. As it was brought under control, it was the turn of migrants from Maharashtra, reporting a spurt in Covid cases. In all, Mandya reported 334 positive cases. While 247 patients have recovered and discharged, there are 87 active cases. Meanwhile, Mandya district is again seeing a surge of migrants from Maharashtra, since a couple of days. Approval from Seva Sindhu portal is no more required, they can just register their name and travel. Around 200 migrants have arrived to KR Pet and Nagamangala taluks, and all of them are quarantined at hostels. They are being intercepted at checkposts and quarantined. District Health Officer Dr H P Manjegowda said, "As the number of patients in the Covid hospital has come down, it is easier to manage newly entering migrants." Hassan and Chamarajanagar remained green districts, and had even returned to normalcy with business activities. However, returnees from Maharashtra opened the Covid account in the districts. The number of positive cases is 214 in Hassan. While 150 patients are discharged, there are 64 active cases. The recent addition is Chamarajanagar district, which remained Covid-free for almost three months. It registered its first Covid positive case on Tuesday. Chamarajanagar is the only district in the state, which had not reported any Covid case till recently. It also attracted the attention of the Union government, and Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan called up Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi to congratulate. A medical student from Maharashtra, who returned to Kollegal, tested positive, adding Chamarajanagar to the state's Covid tally. There is one active case in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-discharge-outnumbers-new-cases-in-mysuru-dist-848477.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivashankar Kallur urges govt to provide Rs 5K to Rs 7K unemployment allowance to jobless youths||JD(S) candidate for Karnataka West Graduates' constituency elections for Legislative Council, Shivashankar Kallur has urged the government to provide Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000 unemployment allowance to the youth who have no jobs, and 30 per cent reservation for graduates in government contracts. "A committee headed by MLC Basavaraj Horatti should be constituted, and based on its report, decisions should be taken about school reopening, SSLC examinations, and online education," he said. Special package for youth who have returned to villages due to the lockdown, additional wages for guest lecturers, withdrawal of the order to cancel BPL card for those having tractors, not asking teachers to visit schools when schools are closed, completion of teachers' transfer process before school reopening, decentralisation of PUC science paper valuation, and wages for guest lecturers of residential schools during the lockdown period are also among his demands. Campaigning "As more people cannot be gathered due to COVID-19 situation, I have personally met around 10,000 voters in last three months, and I will meet 25,000 more persons till the elections are held. Help of various organisations and villagers is taken, while social media is also being used for campaigning in district and taluk levels," he said. Serious attempts would be made to solve the problems haunting teachers, lecturers, government employees, retired employees, and advocates, Kallur added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivashankar-kallur-urges-govt-to-provide-rs-5k-to-rs-7k-unemployment-allowance-to-jobless-youths-848480.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Chigari' passengers rise by over 3 times in initial week||'Chigari' buses, considered to be the lifeline of public transport between Hubballi and Dharwad, and State's first Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), ferried only less than 2,000 passengers when the service resumed after a gap of over two months of COVID-19 lockdown, on June 5, and this number was only near 2 per cent of the total number of 'Chigari' passengers per day some five months back. After a week into its operations beginning, with only few more people coming out for essential works during Unlock 1.0, the number of passengers in 'Chigari' buses has increased to 6,500 daily till Wednesday, bringing just about Rs 1.50 lakh revenue. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, nearly one lakh people used to travel in 'Chigari' buses daily, and the revenue was upto Rs 9 lakh per day, the officials say. "We take up thermal screening, mask checking, and social distancing while allowing passengers to board the BRTS buses at Old Bus Stand in Hubballi, and at Mitrasamaj bus stand in Dharwad. But, some people board the bus in bus stations en-route, and then, maintaining social distancing becomes difficult," admits Hubballi-Dharwad City District Transport divisional traffic officer K L Gudannavar. More response needed COVID-19 scare still haunts many people, and students are also not coming. With less passengers, the cost of running a bus is Rs 27.72 km now, and it was Rs 18 per km earlier. There are no non-stop buses now. Using 40 buses out of 100, 125 to 130 trips from each direction are being run now, and it can be increased based on the demand from passengers. The number of trips was around 50 per cent less than this on June 5, he said. Before the relaunch of BRTS service, several buses of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) were being run in the City limits, and the response was also satisfactory. More City buses are being introduced to new areas now, and 70 NWKRTC buses are running on Hubballi-Dharwad route. This number will be reduced, when the number of BRTS buses will increase. In 170 city and sub-urban buses, more than 51,000 pssengers are travelling daily in recent days, Gudannavar added. 30% service NWKRTC's Hubballi division has 419 buses, and it is running only 30 per cent of the buses now. Around 3,000 passengers travelled in 61 buses operated on the reopening day on May 20. Daily earnings of the division was Rs 50 lakh per day earlier, and it was just Rs 1.40 lakh on Wednesday, with only 22,700 passengers travelling. "For inter-district buses, the demand is more for Gadag, Haveri, and Bengaluru. We have also started overnight Rajahamsa and non-AC sleeper buses to Bengaluru. The pushing of night curfew to 9:00 pm against the earlier 7:00 pm has helped us a lot," NWKRTC Hubballi divisional controller H Ramanagoudar told DH. City buses from CBT also stop at Old Bus Stand and Hosur regional terminal, for offering feeder service. Long-route buses leave from New Bus Stand and Hosur regional terminal, while Old Bus Stand is only for rural buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chigari-passengers-rise-by-over-3-times-in-initial-week-848511.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||2 guest faculties end lives; depression suspected||Two guest faculties of a government degree college in Malavalli taluk, ended their lives within one month of each other during the lockdown. This has raised suspicion that depression might have been the cause of their suicide. Kokila (35), a guest faculty of the Commerce and Suresh (29) of the History department of the same college are the deceased. While Kokila ended her life on May 11, Suresh had died of self-immolation on June 4. Kokila, a resident of Bharathinagar, has a son, studying class 7. Suresh is a bachelor. It is said that they were disappointed about not getting a government job. As the government had failed to release the salary for several months, they were facing financial problems and might have ended their lives, due to depression. Principal K T Venkatesh said, “They were working in the college for three years. Kokila was very intelligent and Suresh aspired for a university job. They were conducting online classes for students during the lockdown. They might have ended their lives out of depression.” Kokila’s sister has registered a complaint with the Bharathinagar police stating that Kokila committed suicide due to depression. Mandya police have registered a case of unnatural death in connection with Suresh’s suicide. Suresh, who dreamt of a government job, was under depression. He was under treatment, according to his family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-guest-faculties-end-lives-depression-suspected-848528.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Jindal plant, township grapple with mounting COVID-19 cases||The Torangallu-based Jindal steel factory and its township are grappling with mounting Covid-19 cases. As many as 74 contacts of the infected workers of Jindal’s CMD and Corex units, including eight women and two children, tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours (ending at 5 pm on Thursday). Taluk Health Officer Dr Gopal Rao told DH, “A total of 74 people - Jindal workers, their family members and contacts - have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. On Wednesday night, 34 people tested positive for the virus and the throat swab samples of another 40 returned positive for Covid-19 on Thursday morning.” More than 100 contacts of the 74 infected have been quarantined at OPJ and Rock Regency Hotel, the THO added. The Covid-19 tally in Jindal plant and its township has gone up to 101. In the last nine days, new infections have surfaced at Jindal township Vidyanagar, VV Nagar, Shankargudda Colony, Toranagallu village, Taranagar, Taaluru, Vaddu and Basapur. As many as 20 areas in the affected township and surrounding villages have been sealed. The Health and Revenue officials have taken up a door-to-door surveillance to identify the people with Covid-19 symptoms. Meanwhile, Jindal Company has formed four teams to screen all its employees for fever at the entrance of township and at all itsdepartments. Four teams - one each for containment, quarantine, contact tracing and the medical -have been formed to break the chain of infection. A fever clinic has also been set up at the plant, stated a press release by Jindal Group. In the wake of mounting infections at Jindal factory and township, Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul has ordered the conversion of JSW Sanjeevini Hospital into a designated Covid hospital. The DC has passed an order in this regard under the Disaster Management Act. Infections swell in Kalyana K’taka  Meanwhile, Maharashtra returnees continue to swell infections in Kalyana Karnataka. Four virus hotspots combined have accounted for 111 fresh cases - more than 50% of the total cases reported in the last 24 hours. The state has recorded 204 fresh cases on Thursday. Yadgir alone has witnessed 66 cases. Raichur reported 15 new cases, including a death. A 28-year-old woman, with a complaint of severe acute respiratory infection and a travel history to the virus-hit Bidar, died at the designated Covid hospital on Monday. Her swab sample tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. After drawing a blank for two days, Udupi saw 22 fresh cases on Thursday. All but two cases are Maharashtra returnees. Contact tracing for two women, aged 23 and 30, is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jindal-plant-township-grapple-with-mounting-covid-19-cases-848529.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||34 booked for late-night party at Krishnaraja Sagar dam||The police have filed cases against 34 people for allegedly partying till midnight violating the lockdown norms at a farm near Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam on Wednesday. The farmhouse belongs to Shekar of Mysuru. The party was arranged as part of birthday celebration of Bharat Raj of Mysuru. The locals lodged a complaint with the police, alleging public nuisance, loud noise and dancing. Ban orders are in place from 9 pm to 6 am. They were warned and released on station bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/34-booked-for-late-night-party-at-krishnaraja-sagar-dam-848540.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||MLC polls: Fresh drama likely amid ticket race||After the drama over Rajya Sabha elections, a fresh act is now expected to play out for the Legislative Council elections and nominations, especially in the ruling BJP.  The term of seven MLCs will end June 30 and the Election Commission has announced polls to fill up these vacancies on June 29. The outgoing MLCs are Naseer Ahmed, Jayamma, M C Venugopal, N S Bose Raju, H M Revanna (all Congress), T A Sharavana (JDS) and independent D U Mallikarjuna.  At present, the 75-member Council has 37 Congress, 19 BJP, 16 JD(S), two independents and a chairperson.  It will be a tightrope walk for the ruling BJP, which has more than enough hopefuls lobbying for Council berths, including three who defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition and are waiting for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to keep his promise. Although there are several names doing the rounds, the party is still unclear. “It is possible that the trend of accommodating grassroots party workers will continue,” BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar said. “Selection of candidates is left to the discretion of the high command.”  The candidates will be discussed in the BJP core committee scheduled for June 14 or 15.  Yediyurappa is under pressure to accommodate former ministers H Vishwanath, M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar, who quit the Congress-JD(S) and jumped ship to BJP. While Vishwanath and Nagaraj lost the byelections, Shankar did not contest in exchange for a Council berth promise.  Nagaraj met Yediyurappa on Wednesday and said he had no qualms in waiting for his turn. “I didn’t discuss the MLC elections. I talked about the development of Hoskote,” Nagaraj said. “Whatever the CM and the party decide, I’ll abide by it. Opportunity will come when the time is right,” he said, when asked about him becoming a minister via Council membership.  The Congress is under pressure from ticket aspirants. Sources said aspirants are seeking tickets under the minority, OBC and women quotas. “Among minorities, Nivedith Alva, Naseer Ahmed and Shafiulla are asking for tickets. Under OBC, Venugopal, Revanna and Bose Raju want another term, whereas Nagaraj Yadav and V R Sudarshan are other contenders. Women leaders Rani Satish, Bharti Shankar among others are vying for it,” a leader said. The JD(S) is yet to take a call on the MLC elections, according to sources, but Sharavana has sought another term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlc-polls-fresh-drama-likely-amid-ticket-race-848116.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress can go ahead with KPCC president coronation with limited people: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said his government doesn't have any reservation about the Congress organising an event for D K Shivakumar's formal take over as the party-state Chief, with a limited number of people in attendance. The government on Tuesday had denied permission for the event that was scheduled to take place on June 14, citing COVID-19 related guidelines that are in place, aimed at controlling the spread of coronavirus, which elicited a strong reaction from the Congress. "We don't have any reservations for D K Shivakumar to organise Congress party events, but because of COVID-19 there are restrictions everywhere regarding gathering of people in large numbers," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, we don't have any problem about them organising their party activities. political parties have their freedom. "Yesterday, I contacted him (Shivakumar) over the phone and conveyed that he can organise the event in a peaceful manner without gathering many people and we don't have anything against it," the CM said, adding that they can do it on any day, but should not gather too many people. The event for formal takeover as KPCC President was planned for June 14, after it was postponed twice in the past- on May 31 and June 7- due to COVID-19 related restrictions in place. Shivakumar on June 5 had written to Yediyurappa, seeking to organise an event on June 14 to mark official take over party's headquarters here in the presence of around 150 senior leaders, and the event would be telecast live and party workers at about 7,800 locations across the state were to take an oath and read the preamble of the Constitution. However, replying to Shivakumar on Tuesday, a Revenue Department official in a letter pointing out that large public gatherings or congregations continue to remain prohibited, under the new set of guidelines issued by the Centre, said, " hence the request cannot be considered." Irked by the denial of permission, despite written assurance about following all precautionary measures, Congress leaders had hit out at the BJP accusing it of "double standard". Meanwhile, thanking Yediyurappa for permission to go ahead with the event, Shivakumar on Thursday said he would speak to senior party leaders and decide about a new date for organising the event. He said, "it cannot be held on June 14, as I have already informed party men about rescheduling the event after the government denied permission." The event will be organised as per the guidelines, taking all precautionary measures, he said, adding that "I will announce a new date soon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-can-go-ahead-with-kpcc-president-coronation-with-limited-people-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-848388.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar can go ahead with event, but within limits, says B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the government had “no problem” with Congress leader D K Shivakumar taking formal charge as his party’s president as long as the event was held within limits.  The olive branch came after repeated criticism by Shivakumar and other Congress leaders who accused the government of “political vendetta” in denying permission to assemble some 150 senior leaders for his formal coronation as the KPCC president.  “We have no problem with Shivakumar conducting the Congress’ event,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “I spoke to him over the phone. I told him that he can do it peacefully without assembling too many people, within limits."  Yediyurappa also said the COVID-19 pandemic did not allow many people to come together at one place. “This is a restriction applicable everywhere. But every party is free to conduct their events,” he said.  Shivakumar had planned to bring some 150 seniors together for the event at the party’s headquarters, which was to be live-streamed across 7,800 locations. This was first scheduled on May 31, then to June 7 and then to June 14. After Yediyurappa signalled his go-ahead, Shivakumar said that he would announce a new date for the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-can-go-ahead-with-event-but-within-limits-says-b-s-yediyurappa-848532.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||JP Nadda to address virtual rally in state||BJP national president J P Nadda will address a virtual rally on Sunday, which will reach 20 lakh people live, through various online platforms. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and state president Nalin Kumar Kateel will participate in the "largest of the 600 virtual rallies scheduled by the BJP during its ongoing COVID-19 awareness campaign," BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar said. During the day, as many as 50 lakh families in the state will take an oath to use products manufactured in India only, as part of its 'Swadeshi Andolan', he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jp-nadda-to-address-virtual-rally-in-state-848539.html
11-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Irrigation, preventing migration my priorities: Ashok Gasti||BJP’s Ashok Gasti, about whom little was known until recently, is all set to enter the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka alongside veterans H D Deve Gowda and Mallikarjun Kharge. Hailing from Raichur, Gasti is a lawyer and BJP worker for over three decades. In conversation with Akram Mohammed, Gasti delves briefly on his past work, previous differences with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the road ahead. Excerpts:  You became known widely after your nomination to Rajya Sabha. How active were you politically before? I have been active in the organisation since 1982, when I was a member of the ABVP, following which I joined RSS in 1987. I have fulfilled various roles for the party over the last few decades - I was in charge of six Lok Sabha and seven Assembly elections, I was Raichur district unit president in 2010, chairman of the Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation for five months and also headed the State Backward Classes Commission. Did you expect the Rajya Sabha ticket? It was a totally surprise decision for me. I was organising a party workers’ meeting at Ballari district when I learnt through the media that I was nominated. Your name was not recommended by the state BJP core committee. I’m unaware of the names recommended by the core committee. The Central Election Committee nominated me as the party candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections and I’m grateful to my party. One argument is that you and Eranna Kadadi were picked because of your past differences with B S Yediyurappa and proximity to BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh.  We’re party workers who abide by any decision taken by the leadership. The leadership has now sought my service - I hail from a micro community Savita Samaj, that I will represent in the Rajya Sabha. Both Santosh and Yediyurappa are our leaders, from whom we have learnt a lot and there is no question of any conflict. But, you were once opposed to Yediyurappa. The difference of opinion was because of the way grassroots workers were treated several years ago. That has been addressed since. We are all together in the interest of the party, and there aren’t any differences. How do you plan on representing Karnataka in the Rajya Sabha? One issue is increasing the land under cultivation in Krishna and Tungabhadra basins in Kalyana Karnataka districts. The second is to ensure that employment is generated to prevent the large-scale migration from these resource-rich districts. While several projects are on the anvil for irrigation purposes, we will have to ensure they are implemented quickly to benefit the rural population; this will address the migration problem. I’m also studying the region and seeking advice from experts, so that I can raise issues appropriately in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/irrigation-preventing-migration-my-priorities-ashok-gasti-848542.html
11-06-2020||Main Article||We’re all implicated ||Any essay that would be written on India a few years hence cannot ignore reference to the present day pandemic that has laid siege to our lives. And it is incomplete without dwelling in depth the defining images of these times. The gaunt faces of famished, desperate men and women, fleeing from cities, trudging along the highways and railway tracks with children in arms and their bare belongings on their heads, and ghastly pictures of many of them, perishing from hunger and thirst and accidents on their long march home are hard to forget. It’s a tragic but heroic tale of resilience -- a determined saga of sullen dispossessed people, of stoic courage who eschewed violence and protest.Even under such extreme hardships, they showed rare dignity and magnanimity. One can only see nobility in that spirit. Juxtaposed is the other contrasting picture -- of a gross, vulgar, complacent, self-engrossed middle class, the new bourgeois India, confined and content in the comfort of their homes, enclosing themselves in their snug social bubbles, drowning themselves in social media -- sharing recipes, cures by quacks for fighting the virus, watching movies of mush and muck, wallowing in films of mythology and macho jingoism, exchanging gossip of Bollywood stars and their silly fashions during the lockdown, taking part in inane rituals to drive out the virus by invoking gods and spirits even as they watched through their windows the march of the forsaken as they wound past under their gaze to their distant homes. An imaginary world was the best anaesthetic to shut out the grim reality outside. And the day cannot end for the modern Indian without the daily dose of high octane raucous television news, almost a prescriptive ‘night cap’ under the spell of rabid anchors whipping up and polarising the sentiments of its bored audience -- for whom whether the events unfolding on their screen during the news hour, be it the heart-rending mass exodus of migrants or an encounter with terrorists or skirmishes with soldiers on the borders with Pakistan or China, seem like any other Bollywood movie.  And superimposed above those images -- one tragic, and the other pathetic -- are daily visuals of pompous, bumbling leaders in the government, both at the Centre and the states, talking and acting at cross purposes and wreaking havoc on the lives of the poor. They issued diktats impetuously and imperiously, impervious to the misery that befell on the lives and livelihoods of the poor. They strutted about haranguing people and seemed like stuffed and hollow men tilting at the windmills.  Future historians may very well wonder and ask, when there were no raging battles, aerial bombings, there was no foreign invasion, the country was not in a civil war, why did the country witness an exodus of fleeing labourers on a magnitude that you only saw in war-ravaged countries of the Middle East and Africa. How and why did its leaders bungle and inflict such calamity on their own people and trigger a migration that no other country in the world, rich or poor, witnessed? They will be tempted to ask, why did India resemble a ‘failed state’?  We are preparing to send a man into space, we are evacuating thousands back home by aeroplanes and by ships from distant lands, we are one of the largest producers of milk and vegetables and poultry and meat in the world and our granaries are full, we are proud of our railways -- though creaking, it is still one of the biggest networks in the world and somehow miraculously ferries every year over eight billion passengers to every nook and corner of this country with the cheapest fares in the world. And yet, with all those bounteous resources, we seem totally inept and we cannot get our act together to feed and take our migrant workers home.  Is it lack of empathy for the poor? Or is it wanton cruel pranks by the leaders who are intoxicated by power, reminding us of Shakespeare’s words, “As flies to wanton boys are we to th’ gods. They kill us for their sport.”    Unlikely. There are likely other reasons why this government acted so irrationally during the pandemic. Like Marie Antoinette, they never really saw the migrants. Our leaders seem to be living in a cloud cuckoo land. They are increasingly mistaking the make-believe world painted for them by their cronies and their social media for the real India. Glitzy slogans and hoardings, sycophants and courtiers create an opaque vision. It obfuscates the writing on the wall. The leader becomes delusional and believes himself to be infallible.  The bureaucrats, the politicians at the state and Centre are guilty. They are of the moment. They come and go. But can we condone ourselves? Did we show courage and take up the cause of the migrant workers -- we who live out of the sweat and labour of these millions of migrants, whom we ignored by shutting one eye? The politician is me in the mirror. He panders to us. We are all implicated. Haven’t we gone along with the ‘system’ as usurpers and rent-seekers aided by fortuitous circumstances of our birth, our education, our jobs and connections? Haven’t we acquiesced and hoisted these politicians onto the throne? Haven’t we cheered those who rule us to perpetuate these inequities -- some of us tacitly and many of us lustily?   As Ralph Waldo Emerson said speaking of American society 150 years ago, “The sins of our trade belong to no class, no individual. One plucks, one distributes, one eats. Everybody partakes, everybody confesses...yet none feels himself accountable. He did not create the abuse.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/we-re-all-implicated-848138.html
11-06-2020||National||Dept of Pharma has approved lifting ban on export of hydroxychloroquine: D V Sadananda Gowda||The Department of Pharmaceuticals has given its nod for lifting of ban on the export of hydroxychloroquine, Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said on Wednesday. India had banned export of hydroxychloroquine on March 25, with some exceptions, amid views in some quarters that the drug could be used to fight COVID-19. On April 4, it completely banned the exports without any exception. "Department of Pharmaceuticals has approved the lifting of ban on export of Hydroxychloroquine API as well as formulations. Manufacturers except SEZ/EOU Units have to supply 20 per cent production in the domestic market," the minister of chemicals and fertilisers said in a tweet. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) has been asked to issue formal notification in this regard, he added. In another tweet, Gowda said he held discussions with representatives of pharma companies along with some of his ministerial colleagues on the challenges being faced by the industry and on the roadmap to boost exports. "Had detailed discussion with representatives of pharma companies & association, stakeholder Ministries along with Hon Ministers @piyushGoyal  ji, @HardeepSPuri  ji, & @MansukhMandviya  ji on entire gamut of challenges faced by the industry as well as strategies to boost pharma export," Gowda tweeted. India exported hydroxychloroquine API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) worth USD 1.22 billion in April-January 2019-20. During the same period, exports of formulations made from hydroxychloroquine was at USD 5.50 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dept-of-pharma-has-approved-lifting-ban-on-export-of-hydroxychloroquine-d-v-sadananda-gowda-848134.html
11-06-2020||National||Air India suspends executive pilot for alleged abusive behaviour||National carrier Air India has suspended one of its executive pilots for allegedly behaving in an abusive manner with a senior DGCA official over sanitisation issues during a simulator training session, a source said. The official involved in the incident here last week is also from Air India and on deputation at the DGCA. According to the source, the DGCA official filed an official complaint with Air India. Following the complaint, the pilot has been suspended pending investigation, the source added. "After carrying out standardisation checks of two pilots on B-777 simulator, the DGCA official was filing the report. At that time, the pilot entered the briefing room with a box of masks and a few bottles of sanitisers. "He started arguing why such a requirement is there from DGCA to sanitise the simulators. He was told categorically that all ATOs (Approved Training Organisations) are required to adhere to the guidelines of DGCA," the source said, quoting the official's complaint. At this stage, the source said the pilot became abusive. "He (pilot) was told to lower his tone of language and not be abusive and not shout. During this period, the official remain seated calmly. Then suddenly the pilot became further abusive and came to hit the official but was pulled back by the two pilots," the source said. Air India, in a late evening statement, said,"We don't have any such information like this. If something like this has happened, we will probe into it internally in sync with our internal administrative policies." According to the source, the pilot had in the past too acted in such a manner with outbursts of temper. "Such behaviour of the pilot is not unacceptable. Moreover, using abusive language and shouting at a DGCA official while performing his duty is not tolerable," the source said. As per the source, the official has sought strict action against the pilot "who needs a psychiatric help/ evaluation and appropriate instructions be issued that such incidents are not repeated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-suspends-executive-pilot-for-alleged-abusive-behaviour-848153.html
11-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 11, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-11-2020-edition-848160.html
11-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 11||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,96,879 as of June 11. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 8,445   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,41,028 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-11-848161.html
11-06-2020||National||The Lead: Journey of a disposable face mask||In this episode, go on a journey with DH journalist Varsha Gowda to chase down the trail that a used-mask would take. And along the way, discover some hard-hitting truths.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-journey-of-a-disposable-face-mask-848163.html
11-06-2020||National||Fuel prices hiked for fifth straight day; Petrol, diesel each to cost 60 paise more per litre||Petrol and diesel prices on Thursday were hiked by 60 paise per litre each. This is the fifth straight daily increase in rates after oil PSUs ended an 82-day hiatus in rate revision. Petrol, diesel price hiked by 60 paise/litre each; 5th straight daily increase in rates after oil PSUs ended 82-day hiatus in rate revision Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 74 per litre from Rs 73.40 while diesel rates were increased to Rs 72.22 a litre from Rs 71.62, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. With today's hike, the cumulative hike in prices nears Rs 3 per litre since Sunday. In five hikes, the petrol price has gone up by Rs 2.74 per litre and diesel by Rs 2.83.  On Wednesday, the petrol price was hiked by 40 paise per litre and diesel by 45 paise. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-for-fifth-straight-day-petrol-diesel-each-to-cost-60-paise-more-per-litre-848192.html
11-06-2020||National||CAA back in political discourse||After a lull of more than three months, BJP has brought CAA into political discourse in a big way as parties gear for upcoming polls in Bihar and West Bengal. The party has, however, still refrained from raising the bogey of NRC at the national level, a pitch that coupled with aggressive campaigning for and against CAA had triggered massive protests between December and February, also culminating into Delhi riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caa-back-in-political-discourse-848195.html
11-06-2020||National||US ‘very concerned’ about religious freedom in India: Trump admin official||Observing that historically India has been a very tolerant, respectful country for all religions, a top Trump administration official has said that the US is “very concerned” about what is happening in the country in terms of religious freedom. The remarks of Samuel Brownback, the Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, came hours after the release of the '2019 International Religious Freedom Report' on Wednesday. Mandated by the US Congress, the report documenting major instances of the violation of religious freedom across the world was released by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo at the State Department. India has previously rejected the US religious freedom report, saying it sees no locus standi for a foreign government to pronounce on the state of its citizens' constitutionally protected rights. Brownback, during a phone call with foreign journalists on Wednesday, said India has been a country area that spawned four major religions itself. “We do remain very concerned about what’s taking place in India. It’s historically just been a very tolerant, respectful country of religions, of all religions,” he said. The trendlines have been troubling in India because it is such a religious subcontinent and seeing a lot more communal violence, Brownback said. “We’re seeing a lot more difficulty. I think really they need to have a – I would hope they would have an - interfaith dialogue starting to get developed at a very high level in India, and then also deal with the specific issues that we identified as well.  “It really needs a lot more effort on this topic in India, and my concern is, too, that if those efforts are not put forward, you’re going to see a growth in the violence and of the increased difficulty within the society writ large,” said the top American diplomat on international religious freedom. Responding to a question, Brownback hoped that the minority faiths are not to be blamed for the COVID-19 spread and that they would have access to the healthcare and the foods and the medicines that they need during the crisis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has criticised any form of discrimination, saying the COVID-19 pandemic affects everyone equally. "COVID-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood," Modi said in a post on LinkedIn in February. The Indian government, while previously rejecting the US religious freedom report, had said: “India is proud of its secular credentials, its status as the largest democracy and pluralistic society with a longstanding commitment to tolerance and inclusion”. “The Indian Constitution guarantees fundamental rights to all its citizens, including its minority communities. It is widely acknowledged that India is a vibrant democracy where the Constitution provides protection of religious freedom, and where democratic governance and rule of law further promote and protect the fundamental rights. “We see no locus standi for a foreign entity/government to pronounce on the state of our citizens’ constitutionally protected rights,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in June last year. Earlier in the day, the US State Department in its India chapter of the report said that there were reports of religiously motivated killings, assaults, riots, discrimination, vandalism and actions restricting the right of individuals to practice and speak about their religious beliefs. According to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) data, 7,484 incidents of communal violence took place between 2008 and 2017 in which more than 1,100 people were killed, it said. The Federation of Indian American Christian Organizations (FIACONA) in a statement welcomed the US annual religious freedom report. FIACONA President Koshy George said that his organisation finds the list of incidents affecting the rights of the people to believe and practice their faiths as reported to be accurate though there are a few more thousand such incidents that have taken place in India during the reporting period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-very-concerned-about-religious-freedom-in-india-trump-admin-official-848210.html
11-06-2020||National||441 detained in Manipur for not wearing masks in public places||As many as 441 people have been detained in Manipur for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing in public places amid the COVID-19 outbreak, police said. A total of 467 vehicles were also seized from their possession, they said. The accused were produced before courts on Wednesday and a total fine of Rs 71,300 was imposed on them, a release issued by Additional Director General of Police, L Kailun said. Those violating the safety norms will face legal action under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, it added. A total of 311 COVID-19 cases have been reported in Manipur till Wednesday, of which 248 are active||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/441-detained-in-manipur-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public-places-848215.html
11-06-2020||National||3 arrested for using plastic scrap to make jaggery||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly using plastic scrap to make jaggery at Bhokaheri village under Bhopa police station here, as official said on Thursday.  Police raided a jaggery manufacturing unite (kolhu) and arrested three persons on Wednesday, SHO, Bhopa police station Sanjive Kumar said. Police have registered a case against five persons including the trio that was arrested while two of them managed to escape, he said, adding that two loaded tractor trollies of plastic scrap have been seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-arrested-for-using-plastic-scrap-to-make-jaggery-848217.html
11-06-2020||National||COVID-19: India records highest single-day spike of 9,996 cases, 357 fatalities||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 8,102 and the number of cases climbed to 2,86,579 in the country after it registered the highest single-day spike of 357 fatalities and 9,996 cases till Thursday 8 AM, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of recoveries remained more than the active novel coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day. The number of active cases stands at 1,37,448 while 1,41,028 people have recovered and one patient has migrated to another country, as per the data.     "Thus, around 49.21 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 357 new deaths reported till Thursday morning, 149 were in Maharashtra, 79 in Delhi, 34 in Gujarat, 20 in Uttar Pradesh, 19 in Tamil Nadu, 17 in West Bengal, eight in Telangana, seven each in Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, four in Rajasthan, three each in Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka, two each in Kerala and Uttarakhand, one each in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh.  Out of the total 8,102 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,438 deaths followed by Gujarat with 1,347 deaths, Delhi with 984, Madhya Pradesh with 427, West Bengal with 432, Tamil Nadu with 326, Uttar Pradesh with 321, Rajasthan with 259 and Telangana with 156 deaths.  The death toll reached 78 in Andhra Pradesh, 69 in Karnataka and 55 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 51 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease, while 52 deaths have been reported from Haryana, 33 from Bihar, 18 from Kerala, 15 from Uttarakhand, nine from Odisha and eight from Jharkhand. Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh have registered six COVID-19 fatalities each, Chandigarh has five while Assam has recorded four deaths so far. Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to the ministry's data.  More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the ministry's website stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-9996-cases-357-fatalities-848227.html
11-06-2020||National||Amitabh Bachchan-arranged special flight carrying 180 migrants from Mumbai lands in Lucknow||After days of facing uncertainty in Mumbai, there was a sense of relief among the 180 migrant workers who arrived at the airport here on Thursday morning by a special flight arranged by megastar Amitabh Bachchan. Migrants hailing from Gonda, Ambedkar Nagar, Unnao and other parts in Uttar Pradesh were looking forward to reach their homes. Coming out of the airport after due testing, Abdul Jalil Khan of Gonda who lives in Bandra in Mumbai, said he had boarded the flight with his wife and children. Khan said he failed to register for a train journey and then came to know that Bachchan was making travel arrangements for migrants in the area. "We were stranded there since the lockdown began and there was nobody to help. We came to know that Amitabh Bachchanji is making arrangements through Mahim trust and Haji Ali Dargah for helping people return home and we filled the form. I am an imam at a mosque and would pray for his long life," Khan said. Unnao's Ilyas, who worked as a tailor in Bandra area, said he got to know about the flight from a friend and applied. "There was no money and we were facing issues even for food. I was trying to get a train ticket but now, we got the chance to travel by air. Thank god and Amitabh saheb for sending me back to my family," he said. Airport Director, AK Sharma, said 180 passenger arrived by the special flight. There were six flights scheduled to take off from Mumbai and on Wednesday four flights with about 700 people took off for Allahabad, Gorakhpur and Varanasi.   The remaining two flights left for Lucknow and Allahabad on Thursday, sources close to the actor said. The flights were organised on Bachchan's directive by his close aide Rajesh Yadav, managing director of his home production company AB Corp Ltd, who collaborated with Haji Ali Trust and Mahim Dargah trust under 'Mission Milap' to send migrants home. The actor originally wanted to book a train for the migrants but decided to arrange for special flights after logistics for train travel did not work out. Yadav, on Bachchan's behalf, had also recently flagged off 10 buses for 300 migrants to reach their villages in Lucknow, Allahabad, Bhadohi and other places in Uttar Pradesh. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown, which began on March 25, left lakhs of migrants stranded in different parts of the country. With no money and no work, many walked, cycled or hitchhiked their way to villages hundreds, sometimes thousands, of kilometres away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchan-arranged-special-flight-carrying-180-migrants-from-mumbai-lands-in-lucknow-848230.html
11-06-2020||National||Sharad Pawar's political timing always right: Saamana||The Shiv Sena on Thursday defended the visit of NCP chief Sharad Pawar to Maharashtra's Konkan region to assess the damage caused by cyclone Nisarga, and lashed out at the opposition BJP in the state for criticising the veteran politician's tour. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said Pawar is always awake and that is why he gets his "political timing always right". It said BJP's attempt to indulge in politics when Maharashtra is battling the COVID-19 crisis and cyclone Nisarga is "pitiable", and asked why the Centre has not provided any assistance to the state for the damage caused by the cyclone. Pawar, whose party is a key constituent of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by the Shiv Sena, visited Raigad and other parts of Konkan region in the last two days to take stock of the damage caused by cyclone Nisarga last week. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil questioned his visit and reportedly asked why Pawarhas is woken up now. In response, the Sena said, "But Pawar is always awake, that is why he gets his political timing always right. Six months ago, BJP leaders woke up at midnight and a swearing-in was held early morning. But, Pawar checkmated them in two days." It was referring to the hush early morning ceremony at the Raj Bhavan, held after the state polls last year, where BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as chief minister after the Shiv Sena fell out with the BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. Along with Fadnavis, NCP leader Ajit Pawar was also sworn in as deputy chief minister. But, after four days, the Fadnavis-led government fell, and the NCP and Congress later entered into an alliance with the Shiv Sena to form government under the leadership of Uddhav Thackeray. "After that incident, BJP leaders are still wide awake and are still waiting to see if they can come to power. The BJP's attempt to indulge in politics when Maharashtra is battling the COVID-19 crisis and cyclone Nisarga is pitiable," the Sena said. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party asserted that in times of crisis, the state government is "always awake". More than Pawar, the question is whether the Centre is awake to the crisis the state is facing, the Marathi publication said. "It is good that Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached West Bengal to assess the damage of cyclone Amphan. Even the Konkan coast was destroyed in cyclone Nisarga. Why hasn't the Centre reached out to Maharashtra? Has ChandrakantPatil woken up the central government?" it asked. Elections in West Bengal are around the corner (slated in 2021), hence there is "central intervention", it said. "There is no likelihood of an election in Maharashtra before the term of the present Assembly ends (in 2024). It is clear that the BJP will not win," the Sena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawars-political-timing-always-right-saamana-848238.html
11-06-2020||National||India facing multiple challenges along with COVID-19, says PM Narendra Modi||While addressing on the occasion of 95th Annual Day of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), via video conferencing, PM Modi said, "Every citizen of this country has resolved to turn this crisis into an opportunity. We have to make this a major turning point for this nation. What is that turning point? A self-reliant India." He said that decades ago Swami Vivekananda wrote, 'The simplest method to be worked upon at present is to induce Indians to use their own produce and get markets for Indian artware in other countries'. This path shown by Swami Vivekananda is an inspiration for India in the post-COVID world, the prime minister said.  "At this time we've to take the Indian economy out of 'command and control' and take it towards 'plug and play'. This isn't the time for a conservative approach. It's time for bold decisions and bold investments. It's time to prepare a globally competitive domestic supply chain," PM Modi said.  PM Modi further said that we have to revive the historical excellence of Bengal in the manufacturing sector. "We've always heard "What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow". We have to take inspiration from this and move forward together," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-facing-multiple-challenges-along-with-covid-19-says-pm-narendra-modi-848245.html
11-06-2020||National||Palghar case: SC seeks Maharashtra govt's reply on pleas for CBI, NIA probes into killings||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre and the Maharashtra government on a plea for a CBI probe into lynching of two Hindu saints in Palghar district on April 16, 2020. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, M R Shah and R Ramasubramanian sought a response in a writ petition filed by Mahant Shraddhanand Saraswati of Panchdasnam Juna Akhara and family members of the two deceased. The court also admitted for consideration a related PIL by Ghanshyam Upadhyay for an NIA probe into the matter. Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, in his plea, claimed the involvement of people in religious conversion. The Maharashtra police have arrested over 100 people in the case. In his argument, the state government counsel opposed the plea, saying the Bombay High Court was already examining the plea for the CBI probe. The bench, however, decided to further consider the issue in the second week of July. In his brief submission, advocates Balaji Srinivasan and Lakshmi Rao, representing the family members of the victims, contended that witnesses were committing suicide in the case. We have reasons to believe that the investigation conducted by the CID was not taking its due course. On April 16, two Hindu saints Swami Kalpvrikshya Giri (70) and his disciple Swami Sushil Giri (35) and their driver Neelesh Telghre were lynched by a mob of over 100 villagers when they were going to Surat in Gujarat for last rites of a senior seer from 'Juna Akhada'. In the plea, the petitioners contended that the entire incident and its handling raised several questions which remained unanswered till date and those could never be answered unless the matter was investigated by "an independent, unsullen and reputed arm of the central agencies". "Why the police persons are not being investigated, particularly when there are serious and grave allegations of their complicity with the group of persons who murdered a 73-year-old and a 35-year-old sadhu as well as a simple car driver?" they asked in their plea. They referred to video clips, which they claimed, very categorically depicted that the police concerned might have an active role in the case, therefore to expect the CID, constituted of members belonging to the police, to conduct and conclude a fair and unbiased investigation without generating any apprehensions about its credibility and impartiality was not possible. Notably, the top court had on May 1 asked the Maharashtra government to respond to a PIL filed by Shashank Shekhar Jha for an SIT or CBI probe into the Palghar lynching case and shifting its trial to Delhi. In their PIL, the family members of the victim urged the Supreme Court to direct the state government to decide upon their representations of April 28 for allotment of land at the site of the murder of the revered sadhus to enable them to set up a memorial of the persons wronged and pay compensation to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/palghar-case-sc-seeks-maharashtra-govts-reply-on-pleas-for-cbi-nia-probes-into-killings-848252.html
11-06-2020||National||Free from doping charges, weightlifter Sanjita Chanu hopeful of getting Arjuna this time||Her name cleared of doping charges, two-time CWG champion Sanjita Chanu is hoping to receive the recognition she deserves, starting with the prestigious Arjuna Award which has eluded her since 2016. The International Weightlifting Federation (IWF), on the recommendation of World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) dropped the doping charge against Chanu after more than two-and-a-half years of investigation, making the 26-year-old eligible to apply for the Arjuna Award. "I applied for Arjuna first in 2016 but I was not given it then. I was ignored again in 2017 despite having the points," Chanu told PTI from Manipur. "But then because of this dope case, I was ineligible. I am going to try and get it now," she added. Chanu, who won gold at the 2014 and 2018 Commonwealth Games in 48kg and 53kg respectively, has been trying for the prestigious Award for the past four years. After she was ignored for the second time in 2017, she filed a writ petition before the Delhi HC, challenging the decision of the Awards Committee to exclude her name from those recommended for the coveted honour. The High Court in its order had directed the Awards Committee to consider Chanu for the Arjuna Award and keep its decision in a sealed cover to be disclosed only if she is absolved of the doping charges which happened on June 8. The 26-year-old had also applied for the award last month as her provisional suspension was revoked and IWF had allowed her to compete in tournaments. However, since her case had not been closed the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) informed her that she was ineligible for the sports awards, which cannot be given to dope-tainted athletes. But on Wednesday, the IWLF wrote to the sports ministry to comply with the High Court order. "I have always performed well and have two medals in the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and in Gold Coast without doping. I am lifting for 11-12 years. I don't know why I have been ignored for this award till now," Chanu added. The deadline for for submitting applications for the national sports awards has also been extended till June 22 by the sports ministry. Chanu, who holds the CWG snatch record in the 53kg weight category, is happy after being exonerated of the doping charges that once pushed her to the brink of quitting the sport, but the weightlifter says the final verdict feels bitter-sweet as she's still struggling to find closure. "I am very happy, I was waiting for this day for so many years. But the result is also sad as my life has changed completely. It has been ruined because of this case." After demanding answers and explanations for over a year and a half since her provisional ban was lifted last year in January, on Tuesday night, Chanu received an email from IWF just stating the case was "closed" and the "IWF has decided to withdraw the charges." "They should give a proper response. Instead they have just written two lines. I have suffered so much because of this. This cannot end it like this. You put an athlete under suspension for years without a final judgement, and one fine day you send an email saying that you are now free from charges?" "I cannot explain what I have gone through, to be kept in uncertainty for so long. I was so disheartened that I thought I'd just leave the sport because what happened to me was so incredibly unfair," Chanu said. In a case that was marred with discrepancies at every level, Chanu is now demanding an apology and compensation from the IWF for causing her mental trauma. "Obviously an apology won't take away my suffering. But I want an explanation because there is still no clarity about my case. I will file case against the IWF to Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), " she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-from-doping-charges-weightlifter-sanjita-chanu-hopeful-of-getting-arjuna-this-time-848256.html
11-06-2020||National||North Korea defectors push ahead with leaflet||Two North Korean defector-run groups targeted for legal action by South Korean authorities say they intend to continue sending propaganda leaflets and humanitarian aid into North Korea, despite criticism from governments in both countries. South Korea, which is trying to improve ties with the North, on Wednesday accused the two groups, Kuensaem Education Center and Fighters for a Free North Korea, of violating the Inter-Korean Exchange and Co-operation Act by sending leaflets and aid such as rice and medicine. On Thursday, the South's Unification Ministry said it had asked Seoul police to investigate the groups. For the past week, North Korean state media have carried a series of reports and statements from senior officials expressing outrage over defectors, denouncing them as "mongrel dogs" and "human scum little short of wild animals". Park Jung-oh, who defected to South Korea in 2000 and heads Kuensaem, said the organisation is still planning to send hundreds of bottles stuffed with rice, medicine and medical face masks to North Korea by throwing them into the sea near the border next week. Fighters for a Free North Korea, which is run by Park's brother Park Sang-hak, has also said it plans to send more leaflets into North Korea by balloon over the heavily fortified border. South Korean authorities have occasionally moved to stop such operations, including in 2018 during a series of summits between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. The two Koreas even traded fire in 2014 after the North's military fired machine guns at balloons launched by defector activists. This week, the ministry said it was considering a law to ban the leaflets and aid, saying they raise tensions with North Korea, pose risks to South Koreans living near the border, and cause environmental damage. South Korean residents near the border have complained about the two defector groups and they had failed to register the goods before sending them to the North, the ministry said when asked why they had been singled out from around a dozen groups which send goods over the border. Over the weekend some locals stopped an effort by a separate group to send bottles of rice by sea. In a poll released on Thursday by South Korean pollster Realmeter, 50% of those surveyed said they would support a ban on such operations, while 41% said they were opposed. Heo Kwang-il, head of the defector-run Committee for the Democratization of North Korea, said defector groups had been doing work the Moon administration was failing to do to support human rights in North Korea. U.S.-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) called the leaflets a "relatively harmless expressive act" that should not be banned. "It is shameful how President Moon and his government are totally unwilling to stand up for the rights of North Koreans," Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director for HRW said in a statement. Engagement with North Korea should incorporate South Korean values of democracy and freedom of expression, said Sokeel Park of Liberty in North Korea, which supports defectors. "Ditching such hard-won values to comply with harsh threats from Pyongyang, just to preserve a veneer of improved inter-Korean relations, sets a terrible precedent and puts all future engagement efforts on a tenuous footing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-korea-defectors-push-ahead-with-leaflet-848270.html
11-06-2020||National||54 disaster response personnel among 136 new cases in Odisha, total tally 3,386||As many as 136 more people, including 54 disaster response personnel who were engaged in cyclone Amphan relief work in West Bengal, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, raising the total tally in Odisha to 3,386, a health department official said. One COVID-19 patient has died due to a co-morbidity, the official said. With that, a total of three coronavirus-afflicted persons have died in the state due to non-COVID reasons, the official said. "Regret to inform that one female COVID positive patient of Bhubaneswar, aged 38 years, who was under long-standing treatment for psoriasis and was on immunosuppressant drugs, has died. Cause of her death was septic shock with multi-organ failure," the health department said in a statement. Of the 136 fresh cases reported from 14 districts, 134 came from quarantine centres, where people returning from different states have been put up for primary observation, and two others from localities, the official said. At least 54 personnel of the NDRF, the ODRAF and fire service were diagnosed with the disease. "All of them had recently returned from Amphan duty in West Bengal," the official said. Earlier in June, 49 NDRF personnel and 12 Odisha Fire Service officials had tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 3,333 samples were examined for the deadly virus in the last 24 hours, taking the number of coronavirus tests thus far in the state to 1,88,743. The number of active cases in Odisha currently stands at 1,092. Altogether, 2,282 patients have recovered from the disease, while nine have succumbed to the virus. Eleven of the state's 30 districts have reported more than 100 cases. Ganjam district topped the list with 652 cases, followed by Jajpur at 326, Khurda at 307, Cuttack at 216, Balasore at 197, Kendrapara at 171, Bhadrak at 152, Jagatsinghpur at 130, Bolangir 124, Sundergarh and Puri at 118 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/54-disaster-response-personnel-among-136-new-cases-in-odisha-total-tally-3386-848286.html
11-06-2020||National||Congress played horse-trading game for 55 yrs: Rajasthan BJP||A day after the ruling Congress in Rajasthan alleged that attempts were being made to poach its legislators ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls, the state BJP on Thursday challenged the party to prove the allegation. State BJP president Satish Poonia said the Congress was "putting a strain on the party to cover up its failure". "It is surprising that those who played the game of horse-trading for 55 years are blaming BJP. They have their internal differences," Poonia told PTI. He said the Congress should prove the allegation that attempts were being made to poach Congress and independent legislators in the state. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday night claimed that some of the party MLAs were offered Rs 25 crore each. Government chief whip Mahesh Joshi had moved a written complaint to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, seeking a probe into the "attempt to lure the public representatives in order to destabilise the state government". The Congress will again hold a meeting of the party and independent MLAs on Thursday evening at a luxury resort in Jaipur where it met its legislators on Wednesday. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande and senior leader KC Venugopal will also remain present at the meeting. The biennial elections for the three Rajya Sabha seats in Rajasthan are scheduled on June 19. The Congress has nominated Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the elections while the BJP fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six who defected to the party from the BSP last year. The party enjoys the support of 12 of the 13 Independent MLAs in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-played-horse-trading-game-for-55-yrs-rajasthan-bjp-848287.html
11-06-2020||National||PIL in HC for imposing lockdown in Delhi due to steep rise in COVID-19 cases||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking a direction to the AAP government to impose a strict lockdown in the national capital in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases here. The plea, by a lawyer and his office boy, has said the Delhi government itself admitted there would be around one lakh COVID-19 cases in the national capital by end of June and the number would escalate to around 2.25 lakh by mid-July and over 5.5 lakh by July end. In such a scenario, the government should consider imposing strict lockdown in Delhi, the plea by lawyer Anirban Mondal and his employee Pawan Kumar has contended. The petition, filed through advocate Mridul Chakravarty, has also sought a direction to the Delhi government to consider constituting an expert committee of doctors, medical specialists and virologists to prepare a "detailed blue print" for controlling or containing the spread of the virus. The petitioners have sought imposition of lockdown on the ground that during the earlier lockdown period the rate of increase in cases was low.  They claimed that by allowing movement of people and activities in the national capital like reopening of public transport, religious places, malls, restaurants/ hotels, "the spread of the virus has severely spiked, resulting in a sharp rise in numbers of the daily cases of COVID-19". The petition also alleged that there already exists a huge deficiency in the number of adequate beds/ ventilators/ ICU wards/ testing facilities in Delhi for dealing with COVID-19 and therefore, with increase in infections the situation in Delhi could get "darker" and "unmanageable". It has also contended that the forthcoming rise in cases could send the healthcare infrastructure in Delhi into disarray. "That, primary focus/efforts/ resources of the State, as of right now should not be on the monetary/ economic aspects, but on health and safety of its people," the petition has also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-hc-for-imposing-lockdown-in-delhi-due-to-steep-rise-in-covid-19-cases-848288.html
11-06-2020||National||New education policy will have sports as part of education: Rijiju||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju wants to make sports a compulsory part of school syllabus and said the country's new education policy will have sports as part of it and not as an extra-curricular activity. "The new education policy of India is also going to have sports as a part of education (and) sports not as extra-curricular activities," Rijiju said on Thursday during the inaugural session of the 'International Webinar on Olympism and Olympic Education in the 21st century'. "I always believe in that, education is one, sports is one. It is the same," he added. Rijiju said sports cannot be treated as an optional subject and it has to be accepted as a part of education. "Sports is also an education, so sports cannot be extra-curricular activities. Thereby sports cannot be treated as an optional subject ... sports as part of education has to be accepted by all," he said. "The new education policy of India is not officially declared yet, but it is almost in the final shape. My ministry has already pushed very strongly during our interaction and my participation in the national committee to make sports an integral part of the education system." Rijiju said he has formed a high-level committee for the formation of the National Sports Education Board. "I am very happy to share that we have already announced our National Sports Education Board. Now it is in a formation stage and I have constituted a very-high level committee and this committee is under discussion on how to bring the national sports education board into shape," he said. Rijiju is also keen to have an "Olympic Museum" for the country and said discussions regarding it would take place once situation normalises post the COVID-19 pandemic. "About the Olympic Museum, I personally feel that the Olympic Museum is a very important treasure. We need to have in every country and a country like India, we have a good legacy, we must have that," he said. "So may be after this COVID-19, when everything is over, we will discuss about having a beautiful (and) worthy of calling it (an) Olympic museum, may be in Delhi, may be in our National Stadium ... I am very keen to have an Olympic Museum in India."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-will-have-sports-as-part-of-education-rijiju-848292.html
11-06-2020||National||First trial flight of Gaganyaan may face some delay due to lockdown||India's first unmanned mission slated this year as part of its ambitious human space flight venture "Gaganyaan" may face some delay with preparations adversely impacted due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, according to ISRO officials. Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) had earlier said it has planned two trial flights without crew ahead of Gaganyaan -- the first one around December 2020 and the second around July 2021. "...there are some disturbances because of COVID, but still nothing is confirmed (about delay). We need to see, still, we have got some six months time. We are trying to see if we can reach there," a senior ISRO official told PTI. He added: "There may be slightly up and down (in the schedule), but that will be known only when we do the complete evaluation...it is premature to say anything because the team that is working (on the project) has not indicated (about delay)." ISRO plans to carry humanoid "Vyommitra" in the first test flight.  The space agency is expected to launch the Rs 10,000- crore "Gaganyaan" in 2022, the year of the 75th anniversary of India's Independence. Four Indian Air Force fighter pilots -- potential candidates for the Gaganyaan project -- are currently under training in Moscow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-trial-flight-of-gaganyaan-may-face-some-delay-due-to-lockdown-848304.html
11-06-2020||National||MP gets Rs 1,280 crore from Centre under Jal Jeevan Mission||In a bid to provide adequate drinking water to rural households, the Centre has approved Rs 1,280 crore for the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in Madhya Pradesh for 2020-21, an official said on Thursday. The state government had presented an annual action plan on drinking water and sanitation aimed at providing adequate drinking water to rural households in the state, said Malay Shrivastava, principal secretary of the public health engineering department. "We made a presentation before the national committee on June 9. As per the plan, we will provide 1.80 lakh water tap connections in June, followed by 3.60 lakh in the next quarter and 7.20 lakh and 14.5 lakh in subsequent quarters," he said. The Centre on Wednesday approved Rs 1,280 crore for the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission in the state in 2020 -21, the senior official said. With an amount of Rs 244.95 crore as unspent balance and this year's Central allocation and matching state share, Rs 3,093 crore will be available with the state this year, a release here stated. The JJM, implemented by the ministry of Jal Shakti in partnership with states, aims to provide adequate drinking water of prescribed quality on regular and long-term basis to every rural household in the country by 2024. as planned to have 100 per cent functional household tap water connection (FHTC) by 2023-24. Out of 1.21 crore rural households in thUnder the initiative, Madhya Pradesh he states, 13.52 lakh have already been given tap connections, while the state government plans to provide connections to 26.27 lakh homes in 2020-21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-gets-rs-1280-crore-from-centre-under-jal-jeevan-mission-848312.html
11-06-2020||National||Communal harmony, tolerance in DNA of India, majority community: Kiren Rijiju||Union Minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday said the religious and constitutional rights of minorities are absolutely safe in India and it does not need any certificate from anyone as communal harmony and tolerance are in the DNA of the country and its majority community. Comments of Rijiju, a Buddhist, came after a top Trump administration official has said that the US is very concerned about what is happening in India in terms of religious freedom. "India doesn't need certificate on communal harmony and tolerance which is in the DNA of India and the majority community in India," Rijiju, who holds the charge of the Union minister of state for minority affairs besides being the union sports minister, said in a statement. Rijiju said the social, religious and constitutional rights of minorities are absolutely safe in the country. "A few politically intolerant people are trying to create an atmosphere of fear and intolerance. As a member of the minority community, I feel India is the best country in the world for the minorities," he said. Samuel Brownback, the US Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, said on Wednesday that India has been a country area that spawned four major religions itself. "We do remain very concerned about what's taking place in India. It's historically just been a very tolerant, respectful country of religions, of all religions," he said. The trendlines have been troubling in India because it is such a religious subcontinent and seeing a lot more communal violence, Brownback said. His comments came after the release of the '2019 International Religious Freedom Report'. Mandated by the US Congress, the report documenting major instances of the violation of religious freedom across the world was released by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo at the State Department. India has previously rejected the US religious freedom report, saying it sees no locus standi for a foreign government to pronounce on the state of its citizens' constitutionally protected rights. "India is proud of its secular credentials, its status as the largest democracy and a pluralistic society with a longstanding commitment to tolerance and inclusion", the government had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/communal-harmony-tolerance-in-dna-of-india-majority-community-kiren-rijiju-848317.html
11-06-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 fatalities mismatch claim, Tamil Nadu CM K Panaliswani says deaths cannot be hidden||The Tamil Nadu government has been transparent in reporting COVID-19 deaths and none can hide information, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Thursday, rejecting claims of under-reporting of fatalities. He also asserted there was no community transmission of coronavirus in the state, which has reported 1,500 plus fresh cases for four successive days till Wednesday with the tally crossing the 36,000 mark. "Where is the difference in deaths ? ... there is no ground to conceal deathsand nobody can hide deaths," the chief minister shot back when reporters here asked him about under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths. A day after the government set up a reconciliation committee to look into alleged mismatch of COVID-19 deaths, Palaniswami said it was issuing a COVID-19 bulletin on a daily basis furnishing data on aspects including testing, recoveries, active cases and deaths. The data on fatalities reflected deaths from both government and private hospitals, he said during the media interaction after inaugurating infrastructure projects, including a bridge named after late Chief Minister J Jayalalaithaa. Also, the Chief Minister wondered how was it even possible to under-count deaths and project it on a lower side. "How it (deaths) could be shown less ? if somebody dies of COVID-19, the media shows (visuals) and people come to know. This cannot be hidden. For the government, it serves no good (purpose) by hiding deaths," he said. Palaniswami reiterated that there was no community transmission of the deadly virus in Tamil Nadu and maintained that the spread was through contacts. Population density, congested neighbourhoods were among the reasons for the high number of cases in Chennai, he said. The capital city remains the hotspot of the virus spread with 25,937 cases out of the state's tally of 36,841 as of Wednesday. Following claims of discrepancies between the register of COVID-19 deaths of Greater Chennai Corporation and the data of state government's health authorities, the government set up the 'reconciliation committee' on Wednesday. Comprising doctors from the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services and Directorate of Medical Education and the city corporation, the panel would look into the question of alleged discrepancies in deaths. The reconciliation initiative was taken up by the government also in the wake of a complaint by an NGO to authorities claiming that three COVID-19 deaths were not recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-fatalities-mismatch-claim-tamil-nadu-cm-k-panaliswani-says-deaths-cannot-be-hidden-848318.html
11-06-2020||National||Priority to protect personnel from COVID-19, keep force's morale high: Delhi Police Commissioner||From counselling police personnel on social distancing to maintaining the law and order situation in a city that witnessed a communal flare-up just a few months ago, Delhi Police is fighting the battle against coronavirus for its own safety as well as for the safety of Delhiites, its chief SN Shrivastava said on Thursday. Shrivastava said the force has various Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in place for the personnel right from guiding them on taking precautions to their treatment in case they test positive. Over 800 Delhi police personnel have tested positive while five have so far lost their lives to coronavirus. The Delhi Police Commissioner said the number of COVID-19 cases are bound to increase in the force as the figure for the entire national capital increases. But he stressed that it is important that the pandemic does not affect the force's morale and also doesn't lead to fatalities.  Shrivastava said Delhi Police is taking good care of its personnel and they have been praised for being involved in humanitarian work on the ground. "We are taking the best care of our policemen. All the policemen are feeling that they are being looked after by their seniors," he added. Listing out how police personnel are getting exposed to the virus, he said Delhi Police is deployed at various key points like quarantine centres, private and government hospitals, containment zones to ensure law and order. The force is also keeping a close watch on those who have been advised home quarantine. In order to ensure that the police personnel feel they are "being looked after well", there are various Special Commissioner rank officers tasked to look at various aspects of ensuring the well-being of the over 81,000-strong force, he said. Insisting on the importance of taking care of the individual health of police personnel, he said it is also very important for the force's morale.  "Delhi police while fighting coronavirus for itself, is doing so for others as well. And at the same time, maintaining law and order, crime prevention and many other functions that police is called upon to do," he said. Recalling the riots that broke out in Northeast Delhi in February this year, the Commissioner said there are always chances of a communal flare-up because of previous history. "We had riots in February so we are keeping a close watch and are taking legal action. We are also keeping very close eye on the developing situation," Shrivastava told PTI over phone. Talking about his department, Shrivastava said, "We need to take care of specially the older people who are not maintaining as good health as they should be. Or if they have an illness like diabetes. So we are especially focusing on such people and attending to them. If somebody gets sick and is in hospital, we need to ensure he is been taken care of so that he recovers from the illness. This is the primary target." To strengthen the immunity of its personnel, Delhi Police has distributed Ayurvedic medicines from AYUSH to each of the over 81,000 of them while in the second round 15,000 police personnel were given Ayurvedic medicines.  The Police Commissioner has also advised his personnel to "opt for homoeopathic medicines" and "also do physical exercise and practice yoga to build immunity". The police personnel have been strictly told to maintain social distancing among themselves and to not get exposed to unknown people at home and the work space.  A detailed SOP has been prepared in this regard for the staff in police stations, PCR, traffic and the armed police, he said. By holding detailed webinars and counselling sessions, Shrivastava himself has been in touch with his personnel. "I have been myself interacting with the policemen at the ground level and the police station staff through video conferencing. I also encourage all my officers to interact with as many police officers as possible so that they all are aware, understand the best practices so that everyone is in sync. They know what the department is doing with regard to prevention of spread." Another detailed SOP has also been prepared regarding the measures to be taken in case a police personnel falls sick.  If a personnel shows any signs of illness, they need to immediately report to a police station health officer or unit health officer to get tested, he said.  In case of medical emergency, they have to immediately contact their SHO or the unit Inspector who has been made responsible for admitting them to hospital and showing them to a doctor. On doctor's advise, they are either sent to home quarantine, institutional quarantine or admitted in hospital, he said. The progress of recovery of the personnel who have been tested positive for the virus is being monitored by a dedicated Special Commissioner of Police rank officer who monitors the health of each individual who was corona positive whether he or she is in hospital, at home or in institutional quarantine, he said. Another Special CP rank officer is responsible to ensure those police personnel infected with the virus get beds in hospitals in case there is difficulty in admission. "I myself have spoken to some places to get beds for Delhi Police. No policeman is denied a bed in the hospital. There is another special CP rank officer who is responsible for counselling, conducting webinars. All police stations are very clean, there are all equipments like temperature guns and sanitisers," he said. The police personnel on the field are provided PPE kits, gloves and masks. "There is a need to balance things. How much we expose ourselves and do the work that is required of us, and the same time we do not affect the health of the policemen in a big way, this is the main challenge that we are addressing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priority-to-protect-personnel-from-covid-19-keep-forces-morale-high-delhi-police-commissioner-848322.html
11-06-2020||National||Nirav Modi remanded in custody till July 9 by UK court||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, fighting extradition to India on charges over the nearly USD 2 billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and money laundering case, was remanded in further custody until July 9 by a UK court on Thursday. The 49-year-old jeweller, who has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest in March last year, appeared via videolink for the remand hearing at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London. He was remanded in further custody until July 9 as part of the regular 28-day “call-over” hearing. "The next hearing will be a similar videolink call-over towards the next stage of your extradition proceedings scheduled for September 7,” District Judge Samuel Goozee told Modi, who spoke only to confirm his name and nationality. Last month, Judge Goozee presided over the first part of the extradition trial, held in a partial remote setting due to the coronavirus lockdown restrictions, with the second part scheduled for a five-day hearing from September 7. "I hope Mr Modi by the time we get to September, the current restrictions on movement from prisons have been eased and you can be in court in person to follow the proceedings,” the judge had told Modi, at the end of a four-day partial hearing of the case on May 14. Modi had been following the court proceedings from a room at Wandsworth Prison and could be seen taking notes during the course of the trial. The first part of the case focused on establishing a prima facie case against him but the schedule had to be re-timetabled as the government of India submitted a further set of documents as “corroboratory evidence”. The judge allowed the additional evidence to be introduced but agreed that Modi’s defence team would require enough time to “digest” them. Therefore, a hearing already planned to deal with a second extradition request, made by the Indian authorities and certified by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel earlier this year on two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, has been effectively extended to conclude the prima facie case arguments. The judge has indicated that the two requests are “inextricably linked” and therefore he would be handing down an overall judgment at the conclusion of the second hearing, scheduled between September 7 and 11. The charges against the diamond merchant centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by the Punjab National Bank (PNB), known as “letters of undertaking” (LoUs). Modi’s team has sought to counter allegations of fraud by deposing witnesses to establish the volatility of the gems trade and that the LoUs were standard practice. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian government, have been laying out the case that a number of PNB staff conspired with Modi to ensure LoUs were issued to his companies without ensuring they were subject to the required credit check, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions. This resulted in a fraud amounting to nearly USD 2 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-remanded-in-custody-till-july-9-by-uk-court-848327.html
11-06-2020||National||Monsoon rains spread over a third of India, weather office says||Annual monsoon rains key to farm output and economic growth have covered more than a third of India and could spread further into its eastern and western regions this week, the weather office said on Thursday. The rains are critical for farming, which makes up about 15 per cent of Asia's third-biggest economy at a size of nearly $2 trillion, since about 55% of arable land in the south Asian nation is rain-fed. "Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into more parts of the central Arabian Sea and Maharashtra," the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a statement. In the next 48 hours, the monsoon would also advance into some more parts of the eastern states of Odisha and West Bengal, it added. The western state of Maharashtra is India's second biggest producer of cotton, soybean and sugar, while West Bengal is the top rice producer. The monsoon's progress will help farmers speed up sowing of summer crops such as soybean, cotton, rice and pulses. Since the season began on June 1, the rains brought by the monsoon have been 32% greater than normal, weather department data shows, particularly as a cyclone, Nisarga, brought heavy rain last week to the west coast. India is likely to receive above average monsoon rain for the second straight year in 2020, the IMD said this month, boosting hopes for higher farm output in an economy reeling under the impact of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-rains-spread-over-a-third-of-india-weather-office-says-848331.html
11-06-2020||National||Truncated will: Landowner bequeaths 2.5 hectares to elephants||An Indian landowner has willed most of his land to two elephants he said saved his life from gun-toting criminals, a decision that has upset his wife and children. Akhtar Imam, from a village in the eastern state of Bihar, said he changed his will to bequeath 2.5 hectares (6.2 acres) to gentle giants Moti (pearl) and Rani (queen). "I simply don't want hardship for my Moti and Rani, who are no less my family," Imam, 50, told AFP as his bathed the pachyderms on a swelteringly hot day. "I don't want my elephants to face the fate of orphaned or abandoned captive elephants who die on the streets or in deserted fields due to lack of proper care." Imam, who runs a wildlife trust, raised Moti, aged 20, and Rani, aged 15, from when they were born to another domesticated jumbo that has since died. Each elephant has two staff looking after them day and night, and roam his property freely. He said his love for the pair grew even more when they saved him from "gun-carrying criminals" who he said tried to kill him last year while he slept. "When I opened my door to see why the elephants were trumpeting, I saw they were chasing criminals nearby," he said. "I am alive due to my elephants who had worked like bodyguards to me." Imam said he would also bequeath a smaller amount of land and his house to his wife and children, but they weren't entirely happy. "They don't understand that the elephants are not a showpiece for me... My relationship with elephants is life-long. We love each other." He added: "Human greed is endless, even if you give them the whole world it's not enough." His wife and children declined to speak to AFP. Imam's gesture came as controversy raged in India over the recent death of a pregnant elephant after eating fruit laced with explosives in the southern state of Kerala. Asian elephants -- Elephas maximus -- used to roam across most of Asia, but are today restricted to 15 percent of their original range. The species is listed as endangered on the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Red List. Of the 45,000 remaining, about a third live in captivity. Some Asian elephants live well into their 70s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truncated-will-landowner-bequeaths-25-hectares-to-elephants-848347.html
11-06-2020||National||Remdesivir, tocilizumab being considered for 'restricted use' on severely ill COVID-19 patients||Anti-viral drug remdesivir and tocilizumab, an immunomodulator, are being considered for "restricted use" on severely ill COVID-19 patients on "emergency and compassionate grounds", according to revised clinical management guidelines to be released soon. The much-touted anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine will continue to be used while azythromycin may be dropped from the treatment protocol, sources in the know of the developments told PTI. A clinical management guideline issued on March 31 had recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin on COVID-19 patients who require ICU management. "Since COVID-19 is a new disease and there is no drug or vaccine for it as of now, treatment protocols are being revised from time to time based on emerging evidences," a source said. Tocilizumab, an immunomodulatory drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning, will be used on experimental basis. Based on evidence, some more drugs to be used in combination with hydroxychloroquine may be added to the protocol, but no consensus has been reached regarding them as yet, the source said. The new clinical management guidelines for COVID-19 is in the process of being finalised by the experts of the National Task Force on COVID-19, which last held its meeting on Sunday. India's drug regulator had last week granted US pharma giant Gilead Sciences the marketing authorisation for its drug remdesivir for "restricted emergency use" on hospitalised COVID-19 in the country, sources said. The approval process for remdesivir was accelerated in view of the emergency situation and the unmet need for medicines in light of the coronavirus outbreak. "This medicine, which is administered in the form of an injection, has been approved to be sold by retail on the prescription of specialists for use in a hospital or in institutional set-up only. It has been approved for use for a maximum of five days," a source said. India currently does not manufacture remdesivir. The four companies -- Hetero, Jubilant Life Sciences, Cipla and Mylan NV -- with which Gilead Sciences Inc have entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements are still awaiting permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for manufacturing and distribution remdesivir in the country. Remdesivir has been issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of hospitalized patients with severe COVID-19 illness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-tocilizumab-being-considered-for-restricted-use-on-severely-ill-covid-19-patients-848355.html
11-06-2020||National||Marandi urges Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren to distribute smartphones to govt school students||BJP leader Babulal Marandi on Thursday urged Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren to distribute smartphones among students of government schools so that it helps them in online learning during coronavirus crisis. In a letter to the chief minister, Marandi said that poor students should not lag behind in academics amid the coronavirus pandemic due to lack of digital technology. In the changing times, providing resources for studies is the need of the hour, the BJPs Legislative Party leader said in his letter. "Students of private schools are in tune with the times, and it should not be that students of government schools lag behind in studies due to lack of resources (gadgets)," Marandi said. Noting that online studies cannot be an alternative to offline studies, Marandi said, reopening of schools is not likely till August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marandi-urges-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-to-distribute-smartphones-to-govt-school-students-848358.html
11-06-2020||National||Coal India workers observe 'black day', shout slogans against govt's 'wrong policies'||Coal India workers observed Thursday as "Black Day" on the call of central trade unions and shouted slogans against the "wrong policies" of the Centre, the Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation, affiliated to the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, said. A day before, Coal India (CIL) trade unions held a "peaceful protest" against the government decisions on commercial mining, amendment of labour laws, rights of workers, among others. "In continuation of dharna and procession held on June 10, 2020, on the call of central trade unions namely Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation, BMS, AITUC, INTUC and CITU, the coal workers observed today... as 'black day' and the workers with black badge shouted slogans against the wrong policies of central government...," Nathulal Pandey, president of the Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation, said. The trade unions of Coal India are against the Centre's decision to allow commercialisation of coal, plans to carve out its subsidiary Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, etc. As per information received from all the subsidiaries of Coal India, the workers observed 'black day' at all entrances of mines while attending duty, he said. "Even though the auction of commercial mining of coal blocks proposed on June 11, 2020 was postponed, but the central government is adamant for auction and as per the information received, it is proposed on June 18, 2020. It shows that the central government is behaving like dictators and wants to suppress the voice of workers," Pandey said. "It is the time to show the solidarity of trade unions and hope the central leadership of all central trade unions will think over the current scenario to take effective steps to oppose the government from curtailing the rights of workers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-india-workers-observe-black-day-shout-slogans-against-govts-wrong-policies-848364.html
11-06-2020||National||Priyanka eyes migrant workers to revive party's fortunes in Uttar Pradesh||Striving hard to regain its footing in the Uttar Pradesh politics, Congress has set its eyes on the migrant workers to revive its fortunes in the state. The grand old party, which finds itself relegated to the back burner in the stat's political scenario, has been undertaking a massive campaign to reach out to the migrant workers, who have arrived in the state from the industrial towns in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab and other places during the lockdown. On the direction of the party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was also the in-charge of the state, Congress leaders have been providing the migrant workers with food, ration, and masks. ''We have been running kitchen service for the migrant workers in several parts of the state....our leaders and workers have been reaching out to the migrant workers and providing them food and other things,'' said senior Congress leader Deepak Singh here. Singh himself led the party leaders and workers in the distribution of the lunch packets and other things among the migrant workers in the state capital of Lucknow on Thursday. In the eastern UP district of Azamgarh also, Congress workers distributed lunch packets, water bottles and other eatables among the migrant workers, when they alighted from the buses at the bus stand in the town on Wednesday.  According to the party leaders here, Priyanka had directed them to fan out in the villages and visit the homes of the migrant workers and provide all help to them. ''We will also be taking up other issues, that concern them....whether they are getting work under the MNREGS.....they have ration cards or not etc,'' said another senior UP Congress leader here. Priyanka has been attacking the UP government for what she alleges 'ignoring' the plight of the migrant workers many of whom were forced to walk hundreds of miles to reach their homes while many others died in road mishaps and from exhaustion on the roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-eyes-migrant-workers-to-revive-partys-fortunes-in-uttar-pradesh-848366.html
11-06-2020||National||'One-time cash transfer, basic food supplies for 3 months can help tackle labour migration problem'||Two policy options -- a one-time cash transfer, and provision of basic food supplies per person from the public distribution system for three months before some industrial activity restarts -- can help tackle the migration labour problem, according to a report. Tackling the migration labour problem is partly economic and partly administrative and the respective states would have to scale up testing and medical facilities to contain the spread of the pandemic, and immediately provide a one-time financial relief that can partly offset the wage loss, a joint report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water and the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy said. However, providing such relief will require identification and a direct benefit scheme and "two policy options would be most effective in such a situation -- a one-time cash transfer, and provision of basic food supplies per person, from the PDS (public distribution system) for three months, before some industrial activity restarts," it said. It said distributing money through direct benefit transfer (DBT) and food via the PDS will adversely impact the finances of state governments, especially in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, as they are home to almost all migrant workers. "However, this fiscal measure is an essential relief intervention to prevent millions of workers and their families from slipping into further distress," it said. It said the road to recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on the exit strategies from the lockdown and post-lockdown public finance would have to focus on two areas -- fiscal stimulus to alleviate the adverse impact on firms, self-owned enterprises, and migrant workers; and structural economic recovery through stabilisation of financial institutions and inflation rates, and increased rate of economic growth. Factory and establishment survey is critical to assess employment conditions in organised as well as unorganised sectors and a quick survey of registered factories and informal self-owned enterprises could estimate the extent of job loss and likelihood of closure. On charting a strategic road to recovery, the report said formulating a post-pandemic recovery map for India requires assessing the immediate distress to daily/ casual workers in sectors that have taken the maximum brunt of the lockdown, and preventing the closure of firms and establishments in the near future. "The government's much-needed, major economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore (USD 263.5 billion) requires some more clarification: What measures will contribute to the recovery package? How will those contributions be funded? How will the resources be spent?" it said. For MSME, it suggested to identify micro, small and medium enterprises and their workers, development of a vulnerability assessment framework of the MSME sector, increase capacity of the SAMADHAAN system, a delayed payment monitoring system, to expeditiously clear government dues and improve creditworthiness of small businesses. The MSME ministry should build an accurate, scalable, and real-time information system to identify and serve genuine beneficiaries of government schemes and aid, it said adding that it is imperative to take a fresh census of MSMEs and issue them a unique business identification number (UBIN) so that they can be recognised and referenced MSMEs can be segregated at national, state, or sectoral levels. The government should mandate the lenders to introduce a mechanism to track the fund utilisation and financial health of the borrowers on a monthly basis, and intervene at the first signs of distress, it said adding that there is an urgent need to increase bench strength of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to address the peak in bankruptcies. On trade front, the report said the immediate requirement is to identify the goods categories which lie in the suspicious category of violating the rules of origin country of the trade agreement between India and ASEAN countries. "To revive the manufacturing sector and protect domestic industries from dumped imported goods, India must urgently enforce and track the 35 per cent minimum value addition requirement," it added. Further, it said the government's decision to restrict foreign direct investment (FDI) from countries sharing land border with India can impact citizens, companies and investing entities of seven neighbouring countries, but is expected to mainly address apprehensions of Chinese firms taking over financially stressed Indian firms in the wake of the pandemic. The other suggestions include creation of an environment and health de-risking mission to focus on risks posed by climate change, air pollution, chemicals, and antimicrobial resistance, and develop a climate risk atlas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-time-cash-transfer-basic-food-supplies-for-3-months-can-help-tackle-labour-migration-problem-848368.html
11-06-2020||National||SC seeks roadmap from telcos on AGR dues, Vodafone says no money to even pay salaries||The Supreme Court Thursday asked private telecom operators to furnish undertakings and file affidavits giving a road map for clearing the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related dues as Vodafone Idea said that it does not have enough money to even pay salaries to its employees. Bharti Airtel on other hand told the top court that it has paid 70 per cent dues as per its own calculations and the rest would be cleared after consulting the government. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah, which adjourned the hearing for next week, asked the firms as to what was the guarantee that they would clear the dues in the 20-year time-frame being sought by the government. It questioned the telecom companies whether they were ready to give bank guarantee or directors are prepared to issue personal guarantee or any other security can be furnished because the court cannot allow such staggered payments of dues. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Vodafone Idea, said that as per the government’s calculations it owes over Rs 53,000 crore, which includes interest and penalty for non-payment of dues. He said license and spectrum are separately auctioned and they have purchased it for thousands of crores of rupees. “The value of spectrum can be best security for payment of dues and licence and spectrum can be cancelled, if the dues are not paid”, he said, adding that they do not have enough money to give any bank guarantees. Rohatgi said, “We are not in a position to give bank guarantees. We don't have money to pay salaries to our employees and meet our expenses. Spectrum is very valuable and can be the best guarantee for payment of our dues”. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Bharti Airtel, said that as per their calculation they have paid 70 per cent of the dues and only minimal amounts remains, which would be cleared after consulting the government. He said the company would file a detailed affidavit. The bench said that the government has suggested 20 years for payment of dues by the telecom companies but no one has seen the future and what would happen, if any one of the company goes into liquidation. It said that litigation started in 1999 and 20 years have already gone and now another 20 years is being sought, can it be termed reasonable. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for interim resolution professional said that three telecom companies are facing insolvency proceedings and are in the process of resolution. Justice Shah told the counsels for the telecom firms that despite earning so much not a single company deposited anything towards Covid-19 relief funds. While Airtel said that it has paid Rs 100 crore in Covid fund, Tata Group said has paid Rs 1,500 crore. Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Tata Group's self-assessed dues to the government are a whopping Rs 82,300 crore, which is short of what DoT calculated after the apex court's October 24 ruling on the AGR. In its submission before the apex court seeking relief in payment tenure, DoT had pegged Bharti Airtel's dues at Rs 43,980 crore, Vodafone Idea at Rs 58,254 crore and Tata Group at Rs 16,798 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-roadmap-from-telcos-on-agr-dues-vodafone-says-no-money-to-even-pay-salaries-848373.html
11-06-2020||National||SC asks DoT to reconsider Rs 4 lakh crore claim on PSUs, says demand impermissible||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to reconsider seeking Rs 4 lakh crore in past dues from non-telecom PSUs such as GAIL, saying raising such a demand using its verdict on dues of telecom companies was "totally impermissible". It also asked telecom companies, including Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea Ltd, to file affidavits explaining the time needed by them to clear the remaining statutory dues that arose from the court verdict of including non-telecom revenues for calculating dues to the government. A bench of Justice Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah sought the government's response on guarantees that can be sought to ensure telecom companies abide by a timeframe and payment schedule. "Our judgment could not have the basis for demands on PSUs," the bench observed. "We would request you (DoT) to withdraw this otherwise we will take strict action." "This is wholly and totally impermissible," it said while referring to the demand raised against the PSUs. Following the apex court's October 2019 verdict on the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) to be used for calculating government dues such as license fee and spectrum charges, the DoT had sought Rs 4 lakh crore in past dues from gas utility GAIL India Ltd, electricity transmission firm PowerGrid, Oil India Ltd, Delhi Metro, and others. The state-owned firms challenged the demand saying telecom wasn't their core business and revenue from licences such as ISP formed a meagre part of their revenue. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for DoT, told the bench that the department would file an affidavit explaining as to why the AGR demands were raised against the PSUs. On the government request for allowing telcos up to 20 years to pay the remaining Rs 93,520 crore in AGR dues, it sought to know the rationale for such a long time period and wanted to know what guarantees the company and their directors can provide. The court will hear the case next on June 18. After the apex court rejected pleas by Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices seeking review of the October 24 verdict that widened the definition of AGR by including non-telecom revenues as well as condoned reopening of dues payable by doing self-assessment, the DoT had in March moved a plea seeking staggered payment over 20 years of dues. The plea also asked that telcos not be charged a penalty and interests on penalty and principal beyond the date of the judgement. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Thursday, Mehta told the bench that the government has extensively examined the issue of AGR dues and it would be difficult for the telecom companies to pay the amount in one go. The bench asked the DoT about the time frame within which the telecom companies would pay the AGR dues. Mehta told the bench that telecom firms should give an undertaking on the issue of payment of dues. The bench questioned the demand raised against PSUs and said that its verdict had not dealt with this issue. When Mehta said that PSUs held the telecom spectrum, the bench asked why no such demands were made earlier from them and how it was made after the apex court's verdict. Mehta, however, said PSUs need to be treated differently as they are class in itself and discharge government functions and they are not providing mobile services like other telecom providers for commercial means. Observing that the DoT has misinterpreted its judgment, the bench asked Mehta to explain why the "totally impermissible" demand of Rs 4 lakh crore has been raised against PSUs. "We want them to file an affidavit how this could be done by them? We will punish them," the bench observed. Mehta urged the bench to clarify that the AGR verdict does not apply to PSUs. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on June 18, also asked the telecom companies to file affidavits on how will they pay the dues. At the fag end of the hearing, the bench asked the telecom companies as to whether they have contributed to the relief funds for COVID-19. The advocates appearing for the private telecom companies apprised the bench that these firms have contributed towards COVID-19 relief including in the PM CARES Fund. Of the Rs 43,980 crore dues, Bharti Airtel has paid Rs 18,004 crore. Vodafone Idea has paid only Rs 6,854 crore out of its dues of Rs 51,400 crore. Tata Group has paid Rs 4,197 crore out of due of Rs 16,788 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-dot-to-reconsider-rs-4-lakh-crore-claim-on-psus-says-demand-impermissible-848377.html
11-06-2020||National||COVID-19: India is not in community transmission stage, says ICMR||India's first sero-survey on COVID-19 spread has found that lockdown and containment measures were successful in preventing a rapid rise in infections, but a large proportion of the population still remains susceptible, the government said on Thursday, asserting that the country is not in the community transmission stage. The sero-survey has two parts, the first being, estimate fraction of population that has been infected with SARS-CoV-2 in general population and the second being, estimate fraction of population that has been infected with the coronavirus in containment zones of hotspot cities, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava said at a media briefing. The first part has been completed and the second is ongoing, he said, adding that the survey was launched in May by the ICMR in collaboration with state health departments, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO). Bhargava said the study involves surveying of a total of 83 districts with 26,400 people enrolling for it. The figure that was shared with the media stated that data from 65 districts has been compiled till now. The sero-survey has found that 0.73 per cent of the population in the districts surveyed had evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2 , Bhargava said. “Lockdown and containment (measures) have been successful in keeping it low and preventing rapid spread,” he said, citing the survey. However, it means that a large proportion of the population is still susceptible and risk is higher in urban areas (1.09 times) and urban slums (1.89 times) than rural areas, Bhargava said  It found that infection fatality rate is very low at 0.08 per cent and infection in containment zones were found to be high with significant variations, but the survey is still ongoing, he said. Since, a large proportion of the population is susceptible and infection can spread, non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing, use of face mask or cover, hand hygiene, cough etiquette must be followed strictly, Bhargava said. Urban slums are highly vulnerable for the spread of the infection and local lockdown measures need to continue as already advised by the government, he said. Elderly, chronic morbidities, pregnant women and children less 10 years of age need to be protected as they fall in the hig-risk category susceptible to COVID-19, he said. “Efforts to limit the scale and spread of the disease will have to be continued by strong implementation of containment strategies by states. The states cannot lower their guard and need to keep on implementing effective surveillance and containment strategies,” Bhargava said. "India is not in community transmission. We have to continue with our strategy of testing, tracing, tracking, quarantine and containment measures; we should not give up our guard on these,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-is-not-in-community-transmission-stage-says-icmr-848390.html
11-06-2020||National||Railways planning to increase MGNREGA use for migrant workers||The Railways is planning to scale-up utilisation of MGNREGA for construction and repair of approach roads for level crossings and railway stations to mitigate the employment crisis among migrant workers who have returned to their villages because of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said Thursday. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, who discussed the plan at a high-level meeting, has asked the Zones to increase work allotted under the government's flagship rural job guarantee programme and explore ways to hire workers under the scheme, they said. The Railways has asked Zones to prepare a list of labourers against the kind of work they can be involved in. While the Railways has made use of the scheme in some district like Katihar in Bihar, Warangal in Andhra Pradesh, Udaipur in Rajasthan, Madurai in Tamil Nadu, Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh and Malda West Bengal, it has largely depended on private skilled labour in other areas, the officials said. "We are exploring opportunities to generate jobs under MNREGA for migrants who have come back to the villages. It will be a win-win situation for all," said railway spokesperson DJ Narain. A record 4.89 crore persons belonging to 3.44 crore households sought work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act in May this year, according to government data and the chasm between demand and supply seems to be widening with more and more migrant workers returning home. Officials said since these workers are largely unskilled, they can be hired to construct and maintain approach roads for level crossings, cleaning silted water-ways, trenches, drains along track, construction and maintenance of approach roads to railway stations, repair of earthwork to the existing railway embankments/cuttings, clearing vegetation growth and take on activities like plantation at extreme boundary of railway land. "Work under MNREGA for the Railways had not really taken off because the work would be far from the villages, being concentrated in urban areas. There are no railway tracks close to villages, there are hardly any bridges where we could use them. "Second, these are all unskilled workers, the Railways does not have much use for them because of safety issues. However, these are uncertain times and is the need of the hour, so we want to ensure that we can maximise their employment," another official said. According to official data, states like Uttar Pradesh (299.3 per cent), West Bengal (214.5 per cent), Odisha (113.5 per cent), Chhattisgarh (68.9 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (65.1 per cent) and Bihar (62.1 per cent) have shown the maximum increase in demand for jobs in May 2020 as compared to the same period last year. These are all states where maximum labourers have returned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-planning-to-increase-mgnrega-use-for-migrant-workers-848392.html
11-06-2020||National||Dead body sent for autopsy in garbage truck in UP, seven suspended||In an incident reflective of complete lack of sensitivity on the part of the Uttar Pradesh police and the employees of a local body, a dead body was sent for autopsy in a garbage truck. The shocking incident happened in UP's Balrampur district, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow.  According to the sources, a man was found dead near the office of the municipality in Utraula town in the district on Wednesday evening. The cops, who reached there on getting the information, stood at a distance as they suspected that the man might have died from COVID 19. A few sanitation workers of the municipality also refused to go near the body. The cops then arranged some private labourers to load the dead body on a garbage truck and sent it for postmortem. The pictures showing the body lying on the garbage went viral on social media. Seven people, including three cops and four municipality workers, were suspended in this connection and a probe was also ordered in the matter, sources said.  ''It is shameful that the dead body was transported in a garbage truck...we will take stern action against the guilty,'' said a senior police official in Balrampur on Thursday (June 11). Earlier also the UP cops had sent the bodies of the migrant workers, who had been killed in a road mishap in the state last month, to their native state of Jharkhand in trucks with injured workers also sitting in the same vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dead-body-sent-for-autopsy-in-garbage-truck-in-up-seven-suspended-848393.html
11-06-2020||National||Jama Masjid closed till June 30 due to 'critical' COVID-19 situation in Delhi: Shahi Imam||The historic Jama Masjid will be closed for devotees with immediate effect till June 30 in view of "critical" conditions in the city due to a surge in COVID-19 cases, the mosque's Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Thursday. Bukhari said he took the decision after consulting public and Islamic scholars.  The development comes after the Shahi Imam's secretary Amanullah died due to the novel coronavirus at the Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday night. The Shahi Imam said, "If the situation arises where the human life is at risk, it becomes obligatory to protest ones life." "Majority of the opinion is that saving of the human lives is paramount and the Shariah (Islamic jurisprudence) has ample excuse for this," he said.  After taking public opinion and consulting scholars, it has been decided that from 'maghrib' (sunset) on Thursday till June 30, no congregational prayers will be performed in the Jama Masjid, Bukhari said. "A select few people shall perform the daily five times namaz while the general worshippers will perform the prayers at their homes," he added. The mosque had opened on June 8 after a gap of over two months with the government allowing further relaxations as part of "Unlock-1", the first phase of a calibrated exit from the novel coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown.   As religious places along with several other establishments, like shopping malls and offices, opened across the country on June 8, Bukhari asked governments to reconsider their decision in view of the rapid spread of the coronavirus. According to latest official figures, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi is over 32,000 including 984 deaths. The number of active coronavirus patients in the city is over 19,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jama-masjid-closed-till-june-30-due-to-critical-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-shahi-imam-848394.html
11-06-2020||National||Delhi: Juvenile stabbed to death, 3 held||A juvenile was stabbed to death while his brother sustained injuries following a quarrel in north Delhi's Azadpur area, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Tuesday night at Lal Bagh in Azadpur area, police said, adding that they received a call at around 10.20 pm. "Upon reaching the spot, it was revealed that the injured were shifted to Vinayak Hospital in Model Town. One Pramod, a resident of Lal Bagh, was declared brought dead," Deputy Commissioner of Police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said. His brother Deepak, who too sustained stab wounds, was referred to Sushrut Trauma Centre in Civil Lines, the DCP said. Their father, Raju, lodged a police complaint following which a case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered at Adarsh Nagar Police Station, Arya said. A man named Sanjay was arrested and his two juvenile sons were apprehended. A knife which was used in the incident was also recovered from their possession, the officer said. The accused had passed lewd remarks at the victims' sister due to which the quarrel ensued, the family members of the deceased alleged. Police said they are investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-juvenile-stabbed-to-death-3-held-848398.html
11-06-2020||National||From The Newsroom: 'COVID-19 an opportunity for Atmanirbhar Bharat', insists PM Modi; Fuel prices continue to rise||From The Newsroom, your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. In today's episode, Prime Minister Narendra Modi insists that the COVID-19 crisis should be turned into an opportunity to create an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. The lockdown may also impact India's first unmanned mission slated this year, and petrol and diesel prices hiked by 60 paise per litre each.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-covid-19-an-opportunity-for-atmanirbhar-bharat-insists-pm-modi-fuel-prices-continue-to-rise-848399.html
11-06-2020||National||High chances of child labour increasing in aftermath of coronavirus crisis: CRY||There are high chances that child labour in home-based enterprises, agriculture and in hazardous occupations may see a rise in the aftermath of the coronavirus crisis, child rights body CRY said on Thursday. Noting that many children are likely to be pushed into unskilled labour to compensate for the economic loss and supplement dwindling family income, the NGO Child Rights and You (CRY) said in all likelihood the children who are experiencing the struggle of their families may choose to work instead of study to help their household. In this context, CRY organised an e-consultation to underscore how the COVID-19 pandemic will affect the situation of the child and adolescent labour in India. The consultation revolved around how the recent labour law relaxation in some states will have far-reaching effects on adolescent labour and explored the collective effort of the civil society and state to combat the evil of child labour. The experts' panel was chaired by Priyank Kanoongo, Chairperson, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights and included Rahul Sapkal, Assistant Professor at Centre for Labour Studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Protiva Kundu, Additional Coordinator-Research, Centre for Budget and Governance Accountability and Ashok Kumar, Convener of National Advocacy at Campaign against Child Labour. Kanoongo highlighted that it is crucial to use existing laws efficiently to address child labour. "We need to ensure that we are using the existing laws, not sitting and feeling helpless. The Number of FIRs filed so far is extremely poor compared to the large number of child labourers in the country. Therefore, it is everyone's responsibility to report and file FIRs on child labour," he said. "I appeal to civil society organisations to help strengthen reporting mechanisms and compensation and rehabilitation schemes to address child labour in the country," said Kanoongo. Puja Marwaha, CEO at CRY said, “The advent of COVID-19 seems to be one major contributing factor to undo all efforts made in reducing and ending child labour." "Though child protection programming is vital to resolve the issue, CRY believes that the mechanism will be effective only when there is convergence among key departments of women and child development, education, labour, health and home affairs." Rahul Sapkal, Assistant Professor, Centre for Labour Studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) said, "Changes in labour laws will weaken enforcement mechanism which may further increase child labour amid this crisis. The Child Labour legislation needs to be revised as many aspects of climate change and hazardous industries are not yet incorporated. This revision must include revisiting the definition of what constitutes as hazardous industries keeping the developing capacities of children in mind."  The CRY presented a set of recommendations, including that the government needs to make concerted efforts to improve the public health system along with strengthening social security, education and child protection mechanisms. The child rights NGO also recommended stringent enforcement of the child labour law. "The Integrated Child Protection Services Scheme is critical to safeguard children from the impact of the COVID-19, including the fallouts of an economic slowdown. The government should also open special training centres with bridge classes in keeping with social distancing and other norms to help children make up for the academic loss," the CRY said. It also called for non-government and civil society organisations to support and strengthen government efforts, especially when it comes to identifying vulnerable children. "They also join in the effort to build awareness and act as channels for multiplying children's voices. They can also play a huge role in reaching out to last-mile children and families and help the government to deliver the social protection schemes to children and their families," the NGO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-chances-of-child-labour-increasing-in-aftermath-of-coronavirus-crisis-cry-848400.html
11-06-2020||National||Stand-off still on, India says peace on border with China essential for ties to grow||The stand-off between Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh continued, as the latter has not yet withdrawn its soldiers, who had transgressed the disputed boundary on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake. New Delhi on Thursday said that peace along the disputed boundary is “essential” for “further development” of India-China bilateral relations. Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), reiterated that the June 6 meeting between the senior military officials of India and China had seen both sides agreeing that “an early resolution of the situation would be in keeping with the guidance of the leaders”. He was referring to the strategic “guidance” Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping had agreed to issue to militaries of the two nations when they had held the first “informal summit” at Wuhan in central China in April 2018.    Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, led the delegation from India in the meeting with the Chinese PLA officials at Chushul-Moldo point on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – on June 6. The Chinese PLA delegation was led by its commander in charge of the South Xinjiang Military Region, Maj Gen Liu Lin. The MEA spokesperson on Thursday said that India and China were continuing “the military and diplomatic engagements to peacefully resolve the situation at the earliest as also to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas”. “This is essential for the further development of Indian-China bilateral relations,” Srivastava told journalists in New Delhi. He, however, did not elaborate if the Chinese PLA had withdrawn some of its soldiers from some locations along the LAC after the June 6 meeting between the senior military officials of the two nations. His counterpart in Chinese Government’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hua Chunying, had on Wednesday said that China and India had “effective communication” through engagements between diplomats and military officials of the two nations and “reached agreement on properly handling the situation in the west section” of the boundary. She had also said that the two sides were at present taking actions in line with the “agreement to ameliorate the border situation”. The June 6 meeting between the senior military officials had been preceded by a video-conference between the diplomats in New Delhi and Beijing. It was followed by a meeting between Major General Abhijeet Bapat of Indian Army and his counterpart in the PLA. Sources said that though the Chinese PLA had thinned out its troops along the LAC in certain points of transgressions, it had not fully withdrawn its soldiers, who had transgressed into the territory of India, particularly on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake. The Chinese PLA had also not agreed to demolish the bunker and the moat like structure it built to restrict Indian Army soldiers’ access to an area where they had earlier routinely patrolled. The Indian Army asked the Chinese PLA to restore the status quo ante that prevailed before the May 5, when the soldiers of the two nations had a scuffle – leading to the build-ups by both sides and escalation of tension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stand-off-still-on-india-says-peace-on-border-with-china-essential-for-ties-to-grow-848402.html
11-06-2020||National||2 LeT operatives held in Punjab; weapons meant for terror attacks in Kashmir seized: Police||The Punjab Police on Thursday said it foiled a major attempt to smuggle arms and ammunition into Kashmir to carry out terror attacks there with the arrest of two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operatives. Ten hand grenades, an AK-47 rifle with two magazines and 60 live cartridges were seized from the duo, identified as Aamir Hussain Wani (26) and Wasim Hassan Wani (27) of Shopian, the police said. "The duo, actively involved in transporting automatic weapons and hand grenades from Punjab to the Kashmir Valley, were nabbed by the Pathankot police, which intercepted a truck bearing J&K registration number at a naka on the Amritsar-Jammu highway," Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said in a statement here. Gupta said a search of the truck led to the weapons and ammunition, and the accused, during a preliminary investigation, revealed that they had been directed to collect the weapons from Punjab by Ishfaq Ahmed Dar, alias Bashir Ahmed Khan, a former J&K constable. The DGP said that as per disclosures made by the two arrested LeT operatives, the weapons were to be delivered to Dar for carrying out terror attacks in the Valley.  Currently an active militant of the LeT in the Kashmir valley, Dar had absconded in 2017, he said. During questioning, the duo further disclosed that they had collected the consignment from two unknown persons early Thursday morning at a pre-arranged location on the Maqboolpura-Vallah road near the vegetable market in Amritsar. They had concealed the consignment in the truck brought ostensibly for the purpose of loading vegetables and fruits from the mandi in Amritsar, according to the DGP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-let-operatives-held-in-punjab-weapons-meant-for-terror-attacks-in-kashmir-seized-police-848404.html
11-06-2020||National||Shivraj Chouhan tacitly owns up controversial audio, invokes religion||Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday (June 11) tacitly owned the controversial audio clip in which he is heard admitting that the BJP central leadership toppled the Kamal Nath government. The audio clip is about Chouhan’s discussion with BJP workers at Residency Kothi in Indore on Tuesday. Ever since it went viral, the audio has kicked up a political storm in the state because hitherto the BJP had been blaming the Congress’s internal contradictions for the fall of the Congress government in March this year. Citing the audio, the Congress is asserting that the chief minister’s admission has validated the party’s allegation that the BJP conspired in collusion with Jyotiraditya Scindia to unseat a democratically elected government. In a cryptic tweet, which is being viewed in the context of the audio row, Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Annihilation of sinners is a pious act. This is precisely what our religion says.”  Chouhan’s tweet has further fuelled the controversy with Congress vowing to take up the matter to the Supreme Court. Former chief minister Kamal Nath said he had been saying from day one what the chief minister is heard in the audio. Senior Congress leader Digvijay Singh has extended left-hand compliment to Shivraj Singh Chouhan for what he called “ exposing hands of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah in the conspiracy to topple the Kamal Nath government.    “Now it has become clear that when the Prime Minister was supposed to devote his time to fighting the outbreak of the coronavirus, he was busy in toppling the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh”, Singh said.   BJP sources said the chief minister has tried to shift the blame for the fall of the Congress government to avert BJP workers simmering anger against him. A perception has been growing in the BJP cadres, particularly in the Chambal-Gwalior region, that some ambitious state leaders including Shivraj Singh Chouhan played a key role in engineering defection of Jyotiraditya Scindia and his 19 MLAs to grab power for themselves at the expanse of the political future of local party leaders.  As per the deal with Scindia, the BJP is obliged to field all the defectors MLAs from the Congress, ignoring its own aspirants in the 24 assembly seats where by-elections are due sometime in September. Of these 24  seats, 16 are in the Gwalior region considered Scindia’s political bastion. The BJP sources said the chief minister deliberately but astutely mentioned the high command’s role in the toppling game in the discussion with party workers to subtly send out the message that he merely complied with the central leadership’s command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shivraj-chouhan-tacitly-owns-up-controversial-audio-invokes-religion-848413.html
11-06-2020||National||Pakistan will not succeed in its 'sinister' plans: Prakash Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said Pakistan will never succeed in its "sinister" plans and asserted Indian security forces are giving a befitting reply to terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. The BJP leader said the Narendra Modi government has done a lot during its tenure and cited scrapping of Article 370 in J&K, the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor and enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA, among others, as its major achievements. He was addressing a 'virtual' Jan Samvad for the Saurashtra zone of Gujarat to mark the completion of one year (in late May) of the Modi government in it second term. "Indian forces are giving a befitting reply to terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir since the last one week. While many terrorists were killed, some were also arrested during the operation. "India has clearly conveyed that Pakistan will never succeed in its sinister plans," said Javadekar. In his address, he listed several other achievements of the Modi government, including the enactment of the CAA, the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor (between India-Pakistan), scrapping of Articles 370 and 35A in J&K, the introduction of the GST and commencement of construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Javadekar also mentioned about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's resolve to build an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. After his address, Gujarat BJP leaders, who had gathered inside a hall, took a pledge to promote locally- manufactured products as propagated by the PM. They also pledged to buy locally-manufactured products whenever possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-will-not-succeed-in-its-sinister-plans-prakash-javadekar-848414.html
11-06-2020||National||Over 2,000 people died due to COVID-19 in Delhi? Municipalities claim so||The COVID-19 death toll in Delhi is once again in spotlight with the three municipal corporations in the national capital on Thursday claiming that it had facilitated the funeral of at least 2,098 people who contracted the virus infection, more than double the government has accounted for so far. With the addition of 101 deaths on Thursday, the highest for a single day, the official Delhi government toll has now risen to 1,085. On June 10, the medical bulletin has said, there were 984 deaths.  North Delhi Municipal Corporation Standing Committee, Chairman Jai Prakash said the East, North and South municipal corporations arranged the cremations and burials of 2,098 confirmed COVID-19 cases and over 200 suspected COVID-19 positive patients between March and June 10. His count does not include the deaths in New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), which governs the VVIP areas of the capital. The Delhi government had on May 16 written to the municipal corporations on May 16 to verify the deaths, as there was a mismatch in numbers and a consolidated report from the three municipal corporations were sent the next day, he said. He said the three corporations report had noted that its numbers were double than the official figures then. "Now, it is June. Still the municipal corporations figures are double than the official figures," he added. In a statement, Delhi government said it has set up a death audit committee consisting of senior doctors, who are working in an impartial manner, and the Delhi High Court has appreciated its functioning.  "Our hope is that no one should die due to COvid-19. We should stand united to save the lives of people. This is not the time of accusations and we all will have to fight the pandemic and ensure that there is not even a single death due to Covid-19," it said. Responding to Jai Prakash, AAP's Rajya Sabha leader Sanjay Singh said Delhi High Court had made it clear that they have no doubts about the expertise of the Death Audit Committee set up by the Delhi government in April to analyse the reports and confirm whether the deaths were due to COVID-19. "If BJP thinks they are above courts and want to play politics, I can't say anything," he said. Union Health Ministry's Joint Secretary Luv Agarwal said the Centre compiles the country-wide death report based on states' data. "States sometimes take a day or two more in conducting the death audit and if there is a change in number, it is accounted for in the central toll later," he said in response to a question on the mismatch between the figures of the state government and the municipal corporations. In May, Delhi government faced allegations that it was under-reporting deaths in the national capital, as the hospital count and figures in official bulletins had huge mismatches. The government had then blamed the hospital authorities for late reporting of deaths and issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for reporting deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2000-people-died-due-to-covid-19-in-delhi-municipalities-claim-so-848418.html
11-06-2020||National||Biggest single-day coronavirus spike in Uttar Pradesh: 24 deaths, 478 new cases||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday reported 24 more coronavirus deaths and 478 new cases, the biggest single-day spike in both numbers so far as the state battles a COVID-19 surge. The death toll in the state now is 345 after three consecutive days of record highs with the coronavirus tally reaching 12,088. On Thursday, the maximum five deaths were reported from Meerut; three each in Agra and Ghaziabad; four in Kanpur; one each in Moradabad, Hapur, Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Bijnore, Badaun, Jhansi and Hathras, according to a Health Department release. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 7,292 of the total infected people have recovered. The state has 4,451 active COVID-19 cases now, he said. He said 15,079 tests were conducted in UP on Wednesday, which is so far the highest in a day in the state. Prasad said accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace the workers who have returned from other parts of the country and till now over 15 lakh of them have been tracked. I In the state, 3,303 workers tested positive, the release said. Samples of those who had symptoms of the virus have been sent for testing, he said. The state government's 1.15 lakh surveillance teams have surveyed 88 lakh homes, the principal secretary said, adding that the Aarogya Setu mobile application is also being used to track suspected patients. "Acting on alerts generated by the app, 71,736 people were called for testing, of them 155 were found positive for coronavirus and they are undergoing treatment, while 3,289 people are in quarantine," he said. Friday onwards, the Health Department will start targeted sampling and take random samples from old-age homes, juvenile homes, orphanage, hospitals, pharmacists, delivery boys, hospital staff and others "to find the ground reality", the principal secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biggest-single-day-coronavirus-spike-in-uttar-pradesh-24-deaths-478-new-cases-848425.html
11-06-2020||National||Bank unions demand regular sanitisation of branches, daily allowance during coronavirus pandemic||Worried over death of bank employees due to coronavirus, the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has demanding regular sanitisation of branches, Rs 1,000 daily allowance and Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for bank staff as provided to healthcare workers. In a letter to the Department of Financial Services, the UFBU has said 11 bank employees have already died due to coronavirus and additional steps are needed to ensure safety of staff. The UFBU, an umbrella organisation of bank unions, said bank employees and branches are facing problems due to non-availability of transport and reduced number of security staff and workers responsible for cleanliness of branch premises. Among other things, the UFBU demanded that bank branches to be regularly sanitised and provided adequate security for regulating entry. Also, senior and women employees be allowed to work from home and those attending the duty at branches be given a daily allowance of Rs 1,000. According to the last week's letter to the ministry, the bank union also demanded that transport facility be provided to bank employees, and the central government compensation scheme of Rs 50 lakh insurance be extended to bank employees along with compassionate appointment in case of death. "All the centres such as Mumbai, Nasik, Aurangabad, Pune and similar such places be covered under above provisions of work such as 50 per cent attendance, work from home facility, alternate day attendance, flexi timings, and the same be implemented uniformly in all banks at all such areas," the union said. Bank employees from Maharashtra and more particularly from Mumbai are striving their level best to provide continued banking services to the common people despite the numerous difficulties faced by them and in the process, 11 bank employees have lost their lives due to COVID-19, it said. As per the letter, these deceased staff include three from State Bank of India, one from Punjab National Bank, one from Federal Bank, one from Central Bank of India, two from Bank of India, one from IDBI, one from Canara Bank, and one from Bank of Maharashtra. Also, one employee from Federal Bank and an executive from Central Bank of India, even though were not diagnosed as coronavirus-affected, were suspected to have died of the same, it said. "In view of increasing deaths of the bank employees from the Mumbai Metropolitan Area employees have become perturbed and in this background, there is a need to give them some comfort in attending their duties, failing which it will be difficult to give uninterrupted services," the letter said. The union has also demanded that bank employees be permitted to travel by state transport buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-unions-demand-regular-sanitisation-of-branches-daily-allowance-during-coronavirus-pandemic-848432.html
11-06-2020||National||Congress writes to PM, seeks probe into Assam gas well tragedy||The opposition Congress urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday to initiate a high-level probe into the gas well tragedy of Oil India Limited (OIL) in Assam and said strict action should be taken against those found responsible for it. Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi demanded Rs one lakh each for the affected families in the Baghjan area of Tinsukia district as an interim financial assistance. The well number 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district has been spewing gas uncontrollably for the last 16 days and it caught fire on Tuesday afternoon, killing two of OIL's firefighters at the site. Submitting a memorandum to the prime minister through Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi, the state unit of the Congress alleged that the Union Petroleum Ministry has not taken the matter seriously. The memorandum urged the prime minister to institute a high-level inquiry into the incident and take action against those officials who are found responsible for it. State Congress president and Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora also demanded in the memorandum that adequate compensation be paid to the families whose land and property were damaged due to the leakage of gas and the resultant fire. The party demanded that petroleum ministry officials be deputed, along with experts, to take effective steps on a war footing to control the situation and restore normalcy. Stating that OIL failed to control the gas flow, the Congress said, "Even the Ministry of Petroleum had also not taken it seriously. Till now neither the Minister of Petroleum nor any senior officer from the ministry with experts has visited the spot." Hitting out at Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Bora said he has taken the matter "very casually" and a timely intervention was needed to bring experts to control the non-stop leakage of natural gas from the well. "It is very surprising that the Chief Minister of Assam visits different places by helicopter, but he could not spare some time to visit the spot and see the plight of the people in the surrounding areas," the memorandum said. In a separate letter to Sonowal, Gogoi said a number of houses, vehicles, small tea gardens and some forest areas got burnt in the blaze. "The disruption has caused a serious threat among the local people and damaged the flora and fauna of the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, which is providing a secure home to wide-ranging fauna, including birds and aquatic species. The floating crude oil, as a result of the explosion, is a definite threat to the area's rich biodiversity," he said. All efforts must be made to evacuate the people residing in the vicinity of the well to safe places and necessary arrangements should be made for their security, food and shelter, Gogoi said. "I am sorry to say that despite the alarm raised by people across the state, the government mechanism, including the central government, state government and Oil India Ltd remained silent spectators to this tragedy. "Therefore, I request you to release an interim financial assistance of Rs one lakh each to the families who have been affected by the incident," the Congress leader urged the chief minister. Sonowal ordered an inquiry by an additional chief secretary on Thursday into the circumstances leading to the blowout and asked for the report to be submitted in 15 days. The blaze at the well was so massive that it could be seen from a distance of more than 30 kms with thick black smoke going up several metres, endangering the local biodiversity. The company and Tinsukia district administration said they have moved around 7,000 people from the nearby areas of the gas well site to 12 relief camps. Two OIL officials have been suspended for alleged negligence of duty at the gas well site, while a show-cause notice has been issued to John Energy Private Limited, the outsourced private operator of the well. A PIL was filed in the Gauhati High Court on Wednesday against OIL, John Energy, the Centre and the state government over the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-writes-to-pm-seeks-probe-into-assam-gas-well-tragedy-848433.html
11-06-2020||National||Indian Railways gets demand from states for COVID-19 care coaches||With COVID-19 cases increasing in different parts of the country, the states have requested the Indian Railways to allot COVID-19 isolation coaches to treat patients. The railways on Thursday received request from Uttar Pradesh and Telangana governments for COVID-19 isolation coaches. The Uttar Pradesh had  finalised 24 stations while Telangana has asked for coaches to be stationed in 3 locations- Secunderabad, Kachiguda and Adilabad. The Delhi Government was the first to seek COVID-19 coaches. A rake, comprising 10 coaches, stationed at 1 Shakurbasti Railway Station in national capital to treat patients.  The COVID-19 coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the COVID-19 Care centers as per guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. These coaches can be used in areas where State has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed COVID-19 cases. The Indian Railway converted 5231 non AC sleeper and General coaches as COVID coaches to suppliment hospital isloation beds. The railways also identified 215 major stations across the country for its deployment and  asked the states to utilise it treat mild and very mild COVID-19 patient treatment. Since no states have come forward to utilise it, the Railway Board has decided to convert around 3100 coaches  as normal and deploy it for Shramik Special trains as there is huge demand for non-AC coaches. However, around 2131 coaches will remain as isolation coaches and will be given to states as and when they demand, said an official in the railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-gets-demand-from-states-for-covid-19-care-coaches-848434.html
11-06-2020||National||CBI registers separate cases against 3 firms for defrauding PNB of over Rs 125 cr||The CBI has registered three separate cases against two Nagpur-based companies and a Bhubaneswar-based firm pertaining to loan frauds in Punjab National Bank totalling over Rs 125 crore, officials said on Thursday. The probe agency has booked Nagpur-based Linkson Ispat and Energies Pvt Ltd, its Chairman-cum-Managing Director Yashwant Sangla and Linkson International Ltd in which he is a Director in two separate cases for alleged cumulative fraud of around Rs 93 crore through diversion of loan funds and cheating, they said. The cases against Linkson International Ltd pertains to a loss of Rs 62 crore while that of Linkson Ispat and Energies Pvt Ltd to the tune of Rs 31 crore. The bank has alleged that the companies trading in coal allegedly availed the facilities on the basis of forged documents and diverted the loan funds to companies having common directors. The bank noted that the Chartered Accountant who was signing the financial records of the accused company was clearing the financial documents of companies suspected to be receiving funds from them. In an unrelated case, the CBI has also booked a Bhubaneswar-based company Global Trading Solutions Ltd and its Managing Director Abinash Mohanty along with three other former and sitting Directors besides three senior PNB officials in a case of cheating the public sector bank of around Rs 32 crore, they said. After registering the case against the company, the CBI carried out searches at official and residential premises of PNB officials and the company executives in Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), Kolkata (West Bengal), Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir), Bhubaneswar and Cuttack (both in Odisha), the CBI said in a statement. "It was alleged that the said PNB officials had entered into a conspiracy with the Bhubaneswar-based private firm through its said Director(s) in the matter relating to fraud perpetrated in processing, sanctioning and disbursing CC facility, bill discounting and issuing Letters of Credit to said Bhubaneswar based private firm during 2010-15," CBI Spokesperson R K Gaur said in a statement. The PNB alleged that the company had illegally diverted the funds received from the bank to its sister/ group companies in India and abroad in "such a clandestine manner" that it could not be detected during routing banking operations. The company allegedly round tripped funds among companies having common directors with a criminal conspiracy to defraud the bank causing a loss of around Rs 32 crore, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-registers-separate-cases-against-3-firms-for-defrauding-pnb-of-over-rs-125-cr-848438.html
11-06-2020||National||India rebuffs Pakistan PM Imran Khan for offer on cash transfer programme||In a sharp retort to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's offer to share experience of his government's cash transfer scheme, India on Thursday reminded him that the size of its economic stimulus package to deal with the coronavirus pandemic is as large as Pakistan's GDP. The response by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) came hours after Khan, in a series of tweets, offered to share with India Pakistan's experience of implementing its "successful" cash transfer programme following reports of how poor people in India are battling poverty in view of the coronavirus lockdown. "Pakistan is better known for making cash transfers to bank accounts outside the country rather than giving to its own people. Clearly, Imran Khan needs a new set of advisers and better information," MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said during an online media briefing. "We all know about their debt problem (almost 90 per cent of GDP) and how much they have pressed for debt restructuring. It would also be better for them to remember that India has a stimulus package, which is as large as Pakistan's annual GDP," he said. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package for various key sectors to deal with the adverse impact of the pandemic. In his tweets, Khan said his government has successfully transferred Rs 120 billion in nine weeks to over 10 million families in a "transparent manner" to deal with the fallout of COVID-19 on the poor. I am ready to offer help and share our successful cash transfer programme, lauded internationally for its reach and transparency, with India, the Pakistan prime minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rebuffs-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-for-offer-on-cash-transfer-programme-848444.html
11-06-2020||National||Pretty in pink: India crater lake changes colour overnight||A crater lake in India's western Maharashtra state has turned pink overnight, delighting nature enthusiasts and surprising experts who attributed it to changing salinity levels and the presence of algae in the water. Lonar lake, formed some 50,000 years after an meteorite crashed into Earth, is located 500 kilometres (310 miles) from India's financial capital Mumbai and is a popular hotspot for tourists and environmentalists. As photos of the lake's new flamingo-hued waters began to circulate on social media, experts said that although Lonar had changed colour in the past, the transformation had never been so sharp before. "Salinity in the lake has increased as water level has gone down drastically this year and it has become warmer too resulting in overgrowth of algae," geologist Gajanan Kharat said in a video posted by the state-run Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation on Twitter. "This algae turns reddish in warmer temperatures and hence the lake turned pink overnight," Kharat explained. Officials from the state's forest department have collected water samples to determine the exact cause behind the shift, experts said. With factories and offices shuttered for months due to the lockdown, which only began to ease this week, blue skies have returned to India's polluted cities, sparking speculation that the restrictions may have also had an impact on the lake. "There wasn't much human activity due to lockdown which could also have accelerated the change," said Madan Suryavashi, head of the geography department at Maharashtra's Babasaheb Ambedkar University. "But we will only know the exact causes once our scientific analysis is complete in a few days," he told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pretty-in-pink-india-crater-lake-changes-colour-overnight-848445.html
11-06-2020||National||SC imposes Rs 5 lakh cost on PIL petitioner for seeking ban on Coca-Cola and Thums Up||The Supreme Court on Thursday imposed Rs 5 lakh as an exemplary cost on a social worker for abusing the process of law by filing a PIL for a ban on soft drinks - Coca-Cola and Thums Up. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi noted that the petition has been filed without the petitioner having any technical knowledge on the subject.  "The source of his assertions has not been substantiated. No justification or explanation is forthcoming during the submissions of senior advocate SP Singh, on why two specific brands in particular are chosen to be the target of the proceedings," the bench said.  The court said the petition has been filed for extraneous reasons and the invocation of the jurisdiction under Article 32 was an abuse of the process. Petitioner Umedsinh P Chavda sought an order, prohibiting the sale and use of Coca-Cola, Thums up, soft beverages and also apprising people at large not to drink them, claiming the drinks to be detrimental to the cause of health. He also sought a direction to the Centre to submit complete analytical report and scientific approval by a scientist in providing license of sale and use of liquid items like Coca-Cola, and Thums Up. After petitioner's counsel failed to explain his assertions, the bench said, "we have come to the conclusion that invocation of the jurisdiction under Article 32 is not a bona fide recourse to the jurisdiction in a public interest litigation. Consequently, besides dismissing the petition, an order directing the imposition of exemplary costs is necessary." The court directed the petitioner to deposit cost of Rs 5 lakh within one month with the registry for disbursal to SC Advocates-on-Record Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-imposes-rs-5-lakh-cost-on-pil-petitioner-for-seeking-ban-on-coca-cola-and-thums-up-848448.html
11-06-2020||National||Racism hurtful, it's due to ignorance: Sunil Chhetri||Indian football captain Sunil Chhetri on Thursday said racism is rooted in ignorance as he offered his views on the raging issue that has triggered violent protests across the world following African-American George Floyd's death in the US. Asked about his thoughts on incidents of racism, Chhetri said, "It hurts me like anyone lese. It is bad. But most of time, it is due to ignorance, it is because of not knowing. "If you catch a person who is talking these things (racist remarks) you will find he is ignorant and not knowing the things," Chhetri said during a Live Chat on Indian football team Facebook page. "You are looking down somebody on the basis of colour or caste or religion, it does not make any sense. There is no logic or truth in that, it should not be done," he added. Several international cricketers like the West Indies duo of former World Cup-winning captain Darren Sammy and star batsman Chris Gayle have come forward and alleged racial abuse after Floyd's death at the hands of a white police officer. Sammy, while commenting on the protests, had spoken about being called 'Kalu' -- a derogatory word to describe black people -- while playing in the Indian Premier League. Chhetri said said if more people are made aware and educated about the issue, the incidents of abuse will also go down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/racism-hurtful-its-due-to-ignorance-sunil-chhetri-848461.html
11-06-2020||National||India asks UK to reject Vijay Mallya's asylum plea||India has asked the British Government to reject fugitive business tycoon Vijay Mallya’s plea for asylum in the United Kingdom. New Delhi conveyed to the British Government that Mallya should not be granted asylum if he asked for it, because he would not face any persecution after his extradition from the UK to India. The business tycoon, recently, purportedly sought asylum in the UK, making a last ditch attempt to avoid extradition to India, where he would have to stand trial for his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines’ willful default of bank loans to the tune of about Rs 9,000 crore. Mallya had moved the High Court of the UK challenging the December 10, 2018 decision of the Westminster Magistrate’s Court in London to approve his extradition to India. But the High Court had on April 20 rejected his appeal and also turned down on May 14 his plea to move the Supreme Court of the UK. A spokesperson of the British High Commission in New Delhi recently stated that the fugitive business tycoon would not be extradited from the UK immediately as a “confidential” legal issue would have to be sorted out before a decision could be taken if he should be sent back to India. The spokesperson, however, did not confirm or deny if he had sought asylum in the UK. The recent reports on UK media, however, indicated that he had requested the British Government to grant him asylum, invoking the Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR), which had prohibited torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The British Government has not yet decided on his plea for asylum. “We have been in touch with the UK authorities for early extradition of Vijay Mallya. We have also requested the UK side not to consider his asylum if requested by him,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi.   Sources said that Mallya might have cited reports about several inmates of Arthur Road prison in Mumbai being tested COVID-19 positive in his plea for asylum to the UK to resist his extradition to India. The Government of India already conveyed to the UK courts that he would be lodged in the Barrack No 12 in the Arthur Road prison after his extradition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-uk-to-reject-vijay-mallyas-asylum-plea-848469.html
11-06-2020||National||Jitendra Singh proposes initiative to help women prepare for civil services exam||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday proposed a special training initiative on the lines of 'Women Super 30' group to help them prepare for the civil services examination. He has asked Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani to work out a plan in this regard, according to an official statement. The proposal was mooted during a video conference interaction with the faculty of Mussoorie-based Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) -- the country's premier training institute for civil servants. During the interaction, Irani and other officials of the ministry were briefed about the activities of National Gender Centre at LBSNAA and the possibilities of further collaboration on women and child issues, the statement said. "Jitendra Singh appealed to the Women and Child Development Minister to work out a plan on the lines of 'Women Super 30' group so that they could be trained for civil services exam in a focussed manner," it said. Super 30 is a training programme run by Patna-based scholar Anand Kumar. As part of the programme, he trains 30 deserving, economically-backward students for IIT-JEE entrance exams every year. During the video interaction, Singh said women are excelling in the civil services exam and for the last few years they have been among the toppers. Women candidates topped the exam for three consecutive years, the Union minister of state for personnel, public grievances and pensions said. In 2014, it was Ira Sehgal from Delhi, Tina Dabi in 2015 and Nandini from Karnataka in 2016, he added. Singh said women candidate toppers and women candidate pass-outs have also contributed to making the demography of civil service exams pan-India. Till few years ago, the list of successful civil services candidates was confined to a few states, while many other states went unrepresented. In the Mussoorie academy, he said, while around 20 to 23 per cent probationers are women candidates, women constitute a significant parts of the faculty there. Singh also hailed the social activities undertaken by the faculty members, including conducting classes for needy children. He noted with appreciation that even during the corona pandemic these classes were not interrupted and held online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jitendra-singh-proposes-initiative-to-help-women-prepare-for-civil-services-exam-848475.html
11-06-2020||National||Fire breaks out at chemical godown in northwest Delhi's Swaroop Nagar||A major fire broke out at a chemical godown in northwest Delhi's Swaroop Nagar area on Thursday evening, an official of the Delhi Fire Services said. However, no casualty has been reported so far. A call about the blaze was received at around 7.42 pm and 16 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg,  Director of Delhi Fire Services. Efforts are being made to control the fire. The cause of fire is not yet known, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-godown-in-northwest-delhis-swaroop-nagar-848499.html
11-06-2020||National||Economy in safe hands; worry not, Mr. Guha: Nirmala Sitharaman||A war of words broke out on twitter between Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Ramchandra Guha with the minister asking the historian not to worry about economy as it is in "safe hands". Earlier in the day, Guha tweeted quoting British writer Philip Spratt's comment in 1939 that Gujarat was economically strong but "culturally backward". Sitharaman then posted a weblink to an article published in September 2018 about the Poland government organising event to honour former Jamnagar king, Maharaja Jam Saheb Digvijaysinhji Jadeja, for giving shelter to 1,000 Polish children during World War II. "In 1939, when Philip Spratt, from Britain, belonging to the Communist International wrote, (who @Ram_Guha quotes) this was what was happening in Gujarat: Jamnagar... Maharaja Jam Saheb Digvijaysinhji Jadeja... saved 1,000 Polish children #Culture," Sitharaman tweeted. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani also responded to Guha's tweet saying that Indians would not fall for "tricks" of dividing them. Soon after, Guha tweeted: "I thought it was only the Gujarat CM, but now it seems even the FM is obsessing about a humdrum historian's tweets. The economy is surely in safe hands." Taking a swipe at Guha, Sitharaman tweeted late in the evening: "The economy is very much in safe hands; worry not, Mr. Guha. Taking cognisance of thoughts in current national discourse+responsibly doing my job aren't mutually exclusive. Either way, an interest in history is a plus. Surely an intellectual such as yourself should know that."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economy-in-safe-hands-worry-not-mr-guha-nirmala-sitharaman-848501.html
11-06-2020||National||SC to pronounce judgement on validity of order for full salary to staff during lockdown||The Supreme Court would on Friday pronounce its judgement on a batch of petitions, challenging the Union government's order to companies to make full payment of salaries to employees during the 54 days period of lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah would deliver the judgement at 10.30 am on June 12 on the petitions filed by Ficus Pax Private Ltd and others. On June 4, the top court had directed that no coercive action should be taken against the companies until June 12, when it would pronounce its judgement on petitions questioning validity of March 29 order issued under the Disaster Management Act. It had earlier also on May 15 protected the companies against any prosecution on non-compliance of the notification. During the hearing, the court had suggested to find a middle ground to protect the interest of crores of contractual workers and employees as well as a group of companies, which vehemently opposed the Union government's order to pay full salary for 54 days during the nationwide lockdown. The court had then observed that an industry cannot be run without protecting interest of labour. The court had agreed that it may not be possible to give 100 per cent wages and the government can play a role of a facilitator. Attorney General K K Venugopal said a balance has to be struck between the two sides. He said in any event they have to pay 50  per cent. He asserted the government has done a good job as it infused Rs 20,000 crore in the MSME sector.  Notably, the March 29 order for payment of wages without any deduction was revoked on May 17. In an affidavit, the Union government defended its notification, saying it would neither be in interest of justice nor in public interest to adjudicate upon validity of the notifications which operated only for 54 days to mitigate financial hardships of crores of workers and employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-judgement-on-validity-of-order-for-full-salary-to-staff-during-lockdown-848502.html
11-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi warned about COVID-19 crisis well in advance: Prakash Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said though the first COVID-19 case emerged in the country on January 30, Prime Minister Narendra Modi knew well in advance that the viral infection was a serious threat and the entire world would get affected by it. Referring to the recent anti-terror operations carried out by security forces in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, the Information and Broadcasting minister said Pakistan will never succeed in its "sinister" designs. He was addressing a 'virtual rally', named "Jan Samvad Rally", for Saurashtra and Central Gujarat zone to mark completion of one year (in May-end) of the Modi-led government in its second term. "No one had even heard the name of coronavirus till last year. The first case of coronavirus in India was registered on January 30 (in Kerala). "However, almost a month before the first case emerged, the PM used to tell us in every Cabinet meeting that it poses a serious threat and it may spread across the world," said the senior BJP leader. "He used to ask us to ramp up preparations to tackle it and take necessary precautions. This is the sign of a leadership which loves its people," said Javadekar in his address via video conferencing facility. Javadekar said from zero COVID-19 hospital and only one testing lab - NIV in Pune - India now has 800 hospitals to treat coronavirus patients and around 300 laboratories for testing. "As soon as the coronavirus entered India, Modiji declared a package of Rs 1,70,000 crore. We gave free ration to 80 crore people and deposited Rs 500 in the bank accounts of 20 crore women for three months. "Almost 70 lakh migrant workers were sent back home by 5,000 trains," said the minister, who also handles the Environment, Forest and Climate Change portfolio. "We gave Rs 2,000 each to nine crore farmers (as part of PM-KISAN scheme). We all need to understand this. The Congress waived farm loans of Rs 57,000 crore only once. "While we are giving Rs 60,000 crore to farmers every year and it will be given for 10 years," said the BJP leader. He added that Modi showed how a 'Janta ki Sarkar' works. In his address, he listed several other achievements of the NDA government, including scrapping of Articles 370 & 35-A in J&K, opening of the Kartarpur Corridor, enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the Bodo agreement, GST implementation and commencement of Ram temple construction in Ayohdya following the Supreme Court verdict, among others. "Indian forces are giving a befitting reply to terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir since the last one week. While many terrorists were killed, some were also arrested during operations. "India has clearly conveyed the message that Pakistan will never succeed in its sinister plans," said Javadekar. Javadekar also mentioned about Prime Minister Modi's resolve to build an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. "It does not entail cutting trade ties with the world. It means we will import less and export more. It also encourages people to buy locally-made products," he said. After his address, Gujarat BJP leaders, who had gathered inside a hall in Gandhinagar for the rally, took a pledge to promote promote locally-manufactured products as propagated by the PM. They also pledged to buy locally-manufactured products whenever possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-warned-about-covid-19-crisis-well-in-advance-prakash-javadekar-848508.html
11-06-2020||National||Gujarat records its highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-records-its-highest-single-day-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-848521.html
11-06-2020||National||SC registers Suo Motu case for dignified handling of bodies of COVID-19 victims||The Supreme Court on Thursday registered a Suo Motu case in order to ensure proper treatment and dignified handling of dead bodies of COVID-19 patients in the country. Chief Justice of India S A Bobde took Suo Motu cognisance of the matter as several reports emerged showing disrespect to the dead bodies, which is in gross violation to Article 21 of the Constitution. The CJI assigned the matter to a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah for passing necessary directions on Friday. Recently, a video of government workers throwing body of a COVID-19 patient and dumping into a grave has caused massive outrage in Puducherry. Reports also emerged in several cases where even the family members were not willing to take the body of the patient for the last rites. Notably, the Supreme Court in Pt Parmanand Katara case (1995) held that the right to dignity and fair treatment under Article 21 of the Constitution is not only available to a living man but also to his body, after his death. Right to decent burial or cremation is also recognised in Ashray Adhikar Abhiyan Vs Union of India (2002) by the Supreme Court. The Delhi High Court had also recently taken Suo Motu cognisance violation of human rights, after noting reports showing piles of undisposed bodies of those who died of COVID-19 in hospitals, mortuary and crematoriums in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-registers-suo-motu-case-for-dignified-handling-of-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-848522.html
11-06-2020||National||Low prevalence of COVID-19, but large population susceptible: Survey||India’s first ever sero survey has found prevalence of COVID-19 in less than 1% in 65 districts but warned that a large proportion of population, particularly in urban slums, was susceptible to infection. Presenting the findings of the sero survey, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) director-general Balram Bhargava also asserted that the COVID-19 outbreak had not entered the community transmission phase in India. Bhargava’s statement came on a day India reported its highest single-day spike in deaths – 387 – to touch 8,492. The total confirmed cases in the country also jumped to 2,98,075, overtaking the UK to become the fourth worst-hit nation. Bhargava cautioned state governments against lowering the guard in the fight against Covid-19 and asked for continuance of local lockdown measures. The survey, which is also being conducted in Bengaluru Urban, Chitradurga and Kalaburgi, involved testing samples of identified individuals for antibodies against Covid-19.   “Around 0.73% of the population in these districts had evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2,” Bhargava told reporters here on Thursday. He said the findings indicate that a large proportion of population, particularly in urban areas, was susceptible to the disease. “The risk is 1.09 times higher in urban areas and 1.89 times higher in urban slums than in rural areas,” Bhargava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-prevalence-of-covid-19-but-large-population-susceptible-survey-848523.html
11-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre plans more cash doles for poor||With COVID-19 woes continuing unabated for the poor and the marginalised, the government may come up with more stimulus, especially direct cash transfers that will mitigate their hardship and boost consumption demand, much needed to lift the economy at this stage. The one-time cash benefits to the Jan Dhan accounts of women and poor senior citizens — announced by the government under the COVID package for three months till June — may get extended by up to three more months. The government is also mulling increasing the amount, according to officials privy to the matter. Cash transfers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) may also see an increase, as the return of migrant labourers to their hometowns has further increased demand for work under the scheme, they said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in late March announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore stimulus package comprising free foodgrains and cooking gas to the poor and cash doles of Rs 500 a month to women and elderly for three months under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. Subsequently, the government had also assigned Rs 40,000 crore under MGNREGS, which was over and above the Rs 61,500 crore allocated in the Union Budget 2020-21. Sitharaman, who recently announced the suspension of all new schemes up to Rs 500 crore, had said only the schemes under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Packages will be initiated and continued. Economists and credit rating agencies have raised the pitch for more demand-side measures to lift the economy and avoid a second-round impact of COVID. The fiscal impact of the Rs 20 lakh crore package, according to many, was only Rs 2.14 lakh crore or a little over 1% of the GDP, not enough for a country of 130 crore people. A comparison of COVID support packages of 20 major economies shows the actual fiscal stimulus is the lowest for India at 1.3% of the GDP and the highest for Singapore at 10.4% of the GDP. Recovery now uncertain: CEA The surge in virus cases has led to an uncertainty in India’s economic recovery, which may get delayed by six more months, Chief Economic Adviser K V Subramanian said. “What is uncertain is whether the recovery will happen in the second half of the year or the next year. The actual growth will depend on when it happens,” he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-plans-more-cash-doles-for-poor-848547.html
11-06-2020||National Politics||Election Commission may notify Bihar Assembly poll dates in September, says CM Nitish Kumar||Putting all speculations to rest, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has said that the Assembly polls in the state will be held as per the schedule and “the Election Commission is likely to announce the dates in September.” Nitish was interacting with his party workers through a ‘virtual meet’ where he told them he had around two months’ time (July and August) to complete the pending work. “Once the Election Commission announces the poll schedule in September, the Model Code of Conduct will come into force. So essentially, we have around two months’ time to finish the incomplete task,” he told the JD(U) workers and leaders from nine districts, with whom he interacted in different sessions. Asking his party workers to divide their time and energy in the ratio of 90:10, Nitish said, “Your 90 percent of the time should be devoted in explaining to the voters how Bihar has moved forward by leaps and bounds in terms of power supply and road connectivity, besides improved law and order and good governance. The rest 10 percent time and energy should be used to counter misinformation campaign against my government on social media and other such platforms.” The first sign of polls being held on time was evident when the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Bihar, H R Srinivasa, earlier this week held confabulations with the District Magistrates (DMs) and asked them to get the physical verification of 72,000 polling booths done at the earliest. “The DMs have also been asked to appraise him (the CEO) about the status of EVMs procurement in the next meet, besides getting the voters’ list revised and updated,” a senior official, aware of the discussions, averred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/election-commission-may-notify-bihar-assembly-poll-dates-in-september-says-cm-nitish-kumar-848264.html
11-06-2020||National Politics||People suffering in Delhi due to bickering, misgovernance of AAP, BJP: Congress||The Congress on Thursday said people in the national capital are suffering as the "political blame game, bickering and misgovernance" of the AAP and BJP governments in Delhi and the centre led to worsening of COVID-19 situation in city. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said his party has requested the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to intervene and direct the AAP government to ensure that coronavirus-hit areas be kept in containment with realistic, scientific and efficacious definitions and demarcation. "We hope and trust, but sadly do not expect, that the AAP and BJP, rather than indulging in optics, advertisements and diversionary tactics, will take our constructive suggestions into account for the betterment of the lives of the people of Delhi," he said. While the common man suffers in Delhi, the AAP and BJP governments are engaged in a blame game and have not shown good governance in handling the coronavirus crisis, Singhvi said. He said thousands of people are running from pillar to post in search of beds and are fighting tooth and nail to even get COVID-19 test done, as bodies keep piling up. "The health atrocities are a fundamental assault on human rights and we are very happy that the NHRC has taken this up," the Congress leader said. Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has "proven to be a failure on every issue", be it in sending home labourers safely or making health arrangements in Delhi hospitals and handling the crisis. Singhvi said it is heartening that the NHRC has acted promptly, strongly and categorically on the complaint of former Delhi Congress chief and ex-Union minister Ajay Maken. "The common man suffers the highest degree of health atrocities for the political blame game, bickering and misgovernance or non governance of the duo AAP-BJP," he said at an online press conference. "The BJP-AAP ruling diarchy has attempted to project an exemplar of how not to manage a crisis. These two mismanaging musketeers have cost Delhi dear, both in precious lives and the exponential and unceasing rise of the virus. This duo fiddles through cross allegations, passing the buck and scoring debating points over each other while the people and city of Delhi burn," Singhvi said. Claiming that the Delhi government has reduced testing even as infections have risen substantially, he said, "It is astonishing that instead of progressing, it is regressing as far as testing is concerned." Chaudhary said, "Neither was the AAP government able to send labourers safely, nor were they able to make health arrangements in hospitals in Delhi. Kejriwal is misleading the people of Delhi." The Delhi Congress president said the chief minister had a big opportunity to prove himself, but he did nothing. "Arvind Kejriwal was elected by the people of Delhi with a big majority as a hero, but the way he has handled the COVID crisis, he has proved to be a 'zero' on all fronts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-suffering-in-delhi-due-to-bickering-misgovernance-of-aap-bjp-congress-848371.html
11-06-2020||National Politics||BJP-Congress draw veterans in sparring over LAC||After my MGNREGA versus your MGNREGA and Aadhar versus Niradhaar slugfest post lockdown, BJP and Congress are now engaged in veterans versus veterans fight on the issue of Indo-China standoff at LAC. Thursday released a press statement issued by 71 Armed Forces Veterans on “deplorable tweets/comments of Rahul Gandhi on the present standoff with China at the Ladakh border”. This was a day Congress cited claims of a number of Armed Forces veterans to hammer home its line that the NDA government is trying to convert Chinese aggression and encroachment into the new normal. Condemning the comments of Rahul Gandhi as “undesirable, uncalled for and deplorable” by “a person, who has no idea that our soldiers work in the world’s most difficult and unfriendly terrain”, the veterans including AVM Sanjib Bordoloi, Air Cmdre SS Saxena, Air Cmdre PC Grover, Brigadier D S Sandhu and Brigadier Dinkar Adeeb also reminded Gandhi of the 1962 Indo-China war fought during the Prime Ministership of Jawaharlal Nehru. On Wednesday, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had also reminded Gandhi of  the 1962 war in which China had defeated India. He said that it is no longer the India of 1962 and the country is currently led by a courageous leader like Narendra Modi and not Congress leaders. Gandhi had on Wednesday said, “The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile The PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene.”  His party Congress had cited questions raised on Chinese incursion by Lieutenant General H S Panag, Lieutenant General Prakash Menon, former Army Chief General V P Mallick, Colonel (retired) Ajay Shukla and Lieutenant General D S Hoooda. Referring to defence expert Brahma Chellaney’s remarks, he said China's statement doesn't support Indian claims about "troops' de-induction" and "disengagement.",  Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said since Chellaney, who  is among India’s pre-eminent strategic scholars, says China’s statement doesn’t support India’s claim, it makes one wonder ‘if the NDA/BJP Govt selling India a pup? Are they trying to convert Chinese aggression/ encroachment into the new normal?’   The 71 Armed Forces Veterans, who on Thursday condemned the statements of Rahul Gandhi said they wish “ Gandhi had gone through at least the history of this dispute and should never forget 1962, when the country was headed by none other than his great grandfather Shri Jawaharlal Nehru and we were not only caught totally unprepared but had to suffer very humiliating defeat at the hands of China, despite the fact that our soldiers fought valiantly and caused huge casualties to China.” They further said, “we, the veterans, who are party to this statement have been in the field and have participated in several operations/ actions and therefore we all feel insulted and humiliated by such low level politics resorted to by Shri Rahul Gandhi.” They also said that by issuing this press statement, they are “calling the bluff of such petty politicisation of issues of great national importance”. Union Minister Prasad had earlier Slamming Congress President Sonia Gandhi over her MGNREGA remarks claimed that unlike the MGNREGA during UPA, the scheme during NDA  was made more full proof with greater allocations and similarly discrepancies in “Aadhar’ were also done away with by Modi government, which was a “niraadhar’ (lacking foundation) during UPA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-congress-draw-veterans-in-sparring-over-lac-848375.html
11-06-2020||National Politics||By sending Kharge to Rajya Sabha, Sonia keeps her promise||With senior leader Mallikarjuna Kharge winning Rajya Sabha election unanimously, along with three others is a certainty, finally, Congress President Sonia Gandhi has kept her promise to bring veteran party leader to Parliament. Kharge, who had never seen defeat in his entire political carrier, was shocked after 2019 Lok Sabha debacle from Kalaburgi segment. However, Sonia assured him to accommodate in Rajya Sabha whenever an opportunity arises. While acknowledging his performance as party leader in Lok Sabha during the first term of NDA government, Sonia advised him to stay put in the national capital and made him as in charge of Maharashtra. As per Sonia assurance, Kharge first attempted to enter Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan in 2019. But the Congress decided to field former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh whose term as Rajya Sabha member from Assam had ended a few months earlier. Later Congress attempt to send Kharge to  Rajya Sabha from Tamil Nadu also failed to materialise as the DMK, coalition partner of Congress,  refused to spare any seat. With Karnataka Rajya Sabha election announced where  Congress can win only one seat comfortably,  the party was quick to announce the name of Kharge without waiting for state unit recommendation soon after Election Commission of India announced the calendar of events for polls. Had the party waited for state unit recommendation, the matter would have got complicated as the party unit would send more names for consideration since many leaders were aspiring for the seat, said a Congress leader.  To avoid any confusion the party announced Kharge's name and decided to extend the support to J D ( S) supremo former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda as fourth candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/by-sending-kharge-to-rajya-sabha-sonia-keeps-her-promise-848543.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||`Recovery rate of Madhya Pradesh climbs to 69%, second-best in country'||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday said that the coronavirus recovery rate in the state has gone up to 68.6 per cent, which is the second best in the country after Rajasthan. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a review meeting of officials on the coronavirus situation in the state, a government official said. It was informed in the meeting that the recovery rate of coronavirus patients in Rajasthan is around 74 per cent while the national average is 48.7 per cent. The recovery rate in Madhya Pradesh has gone up to 68.6 per cent, officials said. The rate was barely nine per cent on April 13. Coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh are doubling in 31 days against average doubling rate of 14.17 days at the national level. Further, no new case has been found in Alirajpur, Harda and Hoshangabad in the last 21 days. No new case has been reported in Seoni district in the last 19 days, in 15 days in Jhabua and in last 10 days in Sehore district, officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovery-rate-of-madhya-pradesh-climbs-to-69-second-best-in-country-848155.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistani National held in tax evasion of Rs 8 cr in paan masala smuggling case||Probe into an illegal paan masala trade racket has revealed that the accused, which include a Pakistani national, evaded GST of over Rs 8 crore, the Directorate General of Goods and Services Intelligence (DGGI) told a court here on Wednesday. According to DGGI, Sanjay Matta, a Pakistani national who was arrested on June 2 for involvement in the case, was allegedly involved in tax evasion of Rs 8.04 crore and smuggling of paan masala to different states. After his DGGI custody ended on Wednesday, he was produced before the court of special judge Vijendra Singh Rawat which sent him to a temporary jail under judicial custody till June 17. The jail was created because of COVID-19 scare, DGGIs special public prosecutor Chandan Airen said. Matta was living with his family in Indore. The agency seized paan masala of different brands and Rs 66.47 lakh cash during the probe. The illegal trade was going on even during the COVID- 19-induced nationwide lockdown, sources said. One of the main suspects who is absconding is also a Pakistani national. Further probe is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-national-held-in-tax-evasion-of-rs-8-cr-in-paan-masala-smuggling-case-848157.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Woman dies due to COVID-19; 6 resident doctors test positive at govt hospital||A 42-year-old woman from the district who had tested positive for coronavirus died at a hospital in Meerut, an official said on Thursday. According to subdivisional magistrate Inderkant Dwivedi, the woman, a resident of Khatoli town here, was ill for a long time and had tested positive for COVID-19. She died at Subharti Medical Hospital in Meerut Wednesday evening. Meanwhile, a hostel for resident doctors at the Muzaffarnagar Medical College in Begrajpur in the district has been sealed after six of them tested positive for coronavirus and were shifted to a COVID-care hospital, the official said. The remaining over 70 resident doctors have been quarantined in their hostel rooms at the medical college, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-dies-due-to-covid-19-6-resident-doctors-test-positive-at-govt-hospital-848200.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court to hear pleas on 50% reservation in all-India quota seats for medical courses||The Supreme Court will hear a batch of petitions filed by the Tamil Nadu government and political parties like DMK, AIADMK and others for 50 percent reservation in medical courses in all-India quota seats in the state. In MBBS and MD/MS courses, 15% and 50% seats, respectively, are filled from all-India quota in state colleges. Meanwhile, on June 9, AIADMK had moved the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for the OBC in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical seats of the all India quota as per the mandate of the state law.  A writ petition, filed by party leader and state law minister C Ve Shanmugham, contended that denying reservation in state-surrendered seats to the all-India quota (other than central educational institutions) was unconstitutional, and violative of the basic feature of the Constitution. This was also ultra vires Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution.  The petitioner maintained that the party has a long history as a vanguard for the rights of oppressed and socially disadvantaged groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-hear-pleas-on-50-reservation-in-all-india-quota-seats-for-medical-courses-848203.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces and militants in Jammu & Kashmir's Budgam||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir in the early hours of Thursday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Pathanpora area of Budgam in central Kashmir after receiving specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the hiding militants fired at the security forces. The exchange of firing is on and further details are awaited, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-jammu-kashmirs-budgam-848211.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Over 600 people fined in Shamli for not wearing masks at public places||During a drive against violation of COVID-19 norms, the police here has fined 610 people for not wearing masks in public places in neighbouring Shamli district, an official said on Thursday. Superintendent of Police Vinit Jaisval told mediapersons here that police started a drive against violation of norms and imposed fines amounting to Rs 63,000 on 610 people on Wednesday. Police in Shamli has appealed to people to follow the norms strictly to prevent the virus from spreading, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-600-people-fined-in-shamli-for-not-wearing-masks-at-public-places-848213.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Army personnel killed, civilian injured as Pakistan shells villages, forward posts in Rajouri, Poonch||An Army jawan was killed and a civilian injured when the Pakistani army heavily shelled villages and forward posts along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts on Thursday, the fourth day of unprovoked ceasefire violation, officials said. Several houses were damaged in the Pakistani shelling with heavy mortars and guided missiles that began last night in over a dozen villages in Nowshera and Balakote sectors, triggering panic among residents who took shelters in underground bunkers. Six houses have been damaged and several animals killed, they said. "On Thursday at about 1945 hours, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & shelling with mortars along LoC in Mankote sector in Poonch district," a defence spokesman said. An hour later, Pakistan again violated the ceasefire, they said. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he said. The jawan who was killed in the Pakistani firing, Naik Gurcharan Singh, was from Gurdaspur district in Punjab. "Naik Gurcharan Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-personnel-killed-civilian-injured-as-pakistan-shells-villages-forward-posts-in-rajouri-poonch-848221.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||One dead, 10 injured in clash between rival groups||One person was killed and about 10 others were injured in a clash between two parties in Raghaipur village under Sangrampur police station here, police said. The incident took place on Wednesday when women belonging to rival groups involved in a land dispute had a tiff over a minor issue. It resulted in a clash in which about 11 people were injured of which one, Ram Anand Varma (57), succumbed to his injuries later in hospital, SP Khyati Garg said. After the incident, the SP and deputy SP Piyush Kant Rai visited the spot. Appropriate action will be taken against the accused, the SP said. An FIR has been lodged by Sangrampur police in this regard and extra police force has been deployed in the village, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-dead-10-injured-in-clash-between-rival-groups-848244.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court declines to consider plea on 50% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota for medical courses in Tamil Nadu||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to consider petitions filed by DMK, AIADMK, CPI(M), the Tamil Nadu government and others for implementing 50 percent reservations for Other Backward Castes (OBCs) in medical courses in all-India quota seats in colleges in the state.  "All the political parties have come together for the welfare of backwards classes in Tamil Nadu, it is something unusual. But the Supreme Court has held that reservation is not a fundamental right," a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said. On the court's observations, the petitioners, including Vaiko and TN Congress Committee, preferred to withdraw the plea to approach the Madras High Court. The petitioner parties here sought a direction to the Centre, Directorate General of Health Services, Medical Council of India to implement the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993. The law, already put into the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, provided for 50 percent reservation for OBCs, besides 18 percent for SCs and 1 percent for STs.  According to the Medical Council of India’s Regulations, 1997, 15 percent of seats in all undergraduate medical colleges and 50 percent in all postgraduate medical colleges are surrendered to the all-India quota.  The petitioners claimed in 2018-19, only 220 OBC candidates were admitted to postgraduate courses against a claim on 2,152 of the 7,982 seats. They also said only 66 OBC students were admitted under all-India quota to the undergraduate course. Of 4,061 MBBS seats, 50 percent (2,030) seats were to be filled with OBC candidates. In the year 2020, they said out of 9,550 seats under all-India quota, 8,800 seats are surrendered from the colleges by the state governments. Of these 8,800 seats, OBCs are not given any reservation and the seats are transferred to the general category. They further alleged that the Centre failed to fill 27 percent reserved seats for OBCs as mandated under the 2006 Act. This has resulted in OBCs being robbed off of 10,000 seats in the last three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-plea-on-50-reservation-for-obcs-in-all-india-quota-for-medical-courses-in-tamil-nadu-848272.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Seven fresh COVID-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh; total rises to 459||Three fresh cases were reported from Una district and two each from Solan and Chamba districts, Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said. In Solan district, a truck driver from Nalagarh, has been quarantined in his vehicle, while a former village panchayat pradhan from Baddi area tested positive for the infection, a district official said. In Chamba, a 23-year-old man from Kehal Bakan village and a 25-year-old woman from Salooni tested positive. The man was home quarantined since his return from Gurgaon in Haryana on June 2 and the woman was institutionally quarantined at Banikhet since she came back from Delhi on May 28, a Chamba district official said. Their samples were taken on Wednesday and they tested positive early in the morning, Jindal said. Twenty-two patients -- seven in Hamirpur and one in Solan – have recovered from the disease, he said. The number of recoveries is 259, while 11 COVID-19 patients have migrated out of the state, Jindal said.   The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 182 and fatalities at seven. The deaths include that of a 70-year-old woman from Delhi, who was staying at a factory guesthouse in Baddi in March. She died at the PGIMER in Chandigarh on April 2. Kangra district has the highest number of active cases in the state at 53, followed by Hamirpur (38), Una (22), Solan (15), Chamba (13), Bilaspur (12), Sirmaur (11), Mandi (10), Shimla (4), Kullu and Kinnaur (2 each).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-total-rises-to-459-848277.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 crisis: Uttarakhand govt puts brakes on fresh recruitment, no increment for employees||The Uttarakhand government has announced a slew of cost-cutting measures, including stopping increment to employees and fresh recruitments in all departments except health and police, to offset  losses caused by the lockdown and the battle against COVID-19.  No employee will be given increment during the ongoing fiscal and there will be a moratorium on fresh recruitments in all departments barring health and police, an order issued by Chief Secretary Utpal Kumar Singh late on Wednesday night said.         As the digital system has cut down the work load across government departments, posts which are not required should be cancelled and those occupying them should be moved to other departments, it said.   The order asks all departments to reduce expenses on stationery, travel and furniture besides imposing  restrictions on publicity, advertising and foreign trips. Expenses on buying calendars, diaries and greeting cards should be stopped, the order said. Promotions which entail a hike in salary will also not be allowed during the current financial year, it said. Purchase of vehicles by departments except when necessary for security purposes will also not be allowed.  Workshops, seminars and training programmes will be held in government buildings, not in hotels, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-uttarakhand-govt-puts-brakes-on-fresh-recruitment-no-increment-for-employees-848282.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Armed forces veterans criticise Rahul Gandhi for remarks on eastern Ladakh row||A group of armed forces veterans on Thursday described Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's attack on the central government over its handling of the Ladakh border row as "undesirable and deplorable". The veterans said in a statement that Gandhi's earlier statements on Pakistan were "used and supported" by the Pakistan government and military, "encouraging the anti-national forces." The former officers include Air Vice Marshal (retd)Sanjib Bordoloi, Air Commodore (retd) P C Grover and Brig (retd) Dinkar Adeeb.  "Such twisting of issues of military importance for petty political gains are highly deplorable. Undoubtedly, such statements always undermine the morale and indomitable spirit of our armed forces, who are known to be the best professional forces in the world and have been in active action throughout since Independence," they said.  They also referred to the 1962 war with China, noting that India was then led by Jawaharlal Nehru.  "We were not only caught totally unprepared but had to suffer a very humiliating defeat at the hands of China despite the fact that our soldiers fought valiantly and caused huge casualties to China," they said.  The current dispute and standoffs are the consequences of that Himalayan blunder, they added.  "We are seriously concerned with the recent undesirable tweets/comments of Rahul Gandhi regarding the present standoff on the border in Ladakh between Indian and Chinese forces. We wish to condemn such undesirable and deplorable comments by a person who has no idea as to how our soldiers work in the world's most difficult and unfriendly terrain," they said.  Gandhi had on Wednesday alleged that China has taken away India's territory in Ladakh and questioned the prime minister's silence on the issue, saying he has vanished.   "The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile. The PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene," he had said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/armed-forces-veterans-criticise-rahul-gandhi-for-remarks-on-eastern-ladakh-row-848296.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: HC allows woman to give representation to authorities on overcharging by private hospitals||The Delhi High Court has allowed a woman to give representation to the authorities disclosing the instances of private hospitals overcharging patients under various heads in the garb of COVID 19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan disposed of the plea as withdrawn granting liberty to the petitioner to prefer a representation disclosing instances as to how much and under which head a particular hospital is overcharging from the patients. “As and when such representation is received, the same will be decided by the concerned respondent authorities in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policies applicable to the facts of the case,” the bench said during the hearing conducted via video conferencing. Petitioner Kuhu Mohan Bhatnagar contended that people are being overcharged by private super speciality hospitals in the garb of on-going COVID-19 crisis, in the name of PPE kits, isolation charges, sanitation and hygiene charges, bio waste disposal charges and this has become an additional burden on patients in these challenging times when people are facing a financial crisis in view of the lockdown. She had sought direction to the Centre, represented through Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, and Delhi government to issue directions to the private hospitals not to charge the patients for PPE kits or other COVID-19 essentials or disposables.  The plea, filed through advocate N K Bhatnagar, had also sought to direct the governments to issue directions to the private hospitals to immediately stop overcharging the non-COVID-19 patients in the name of isolation charges and put a cap or upper limit on such charges. The woman narrated her ordeal saying she has experienced the sudden hike in hospital fees and procedural charges while she was pregnant and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dwarka. She said in view of the increased charges, she had to shift to a smaller hospital at the 11th hour where she delivered a child during the lockdown on May 15, after which she filed the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hc-allows-woman-to-give-representation-to-authorities-on-overcharging-by-private-hospitals-848315.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Man held for posting derogatory comments against ex-colleague at Delhi IT firm||A former employee of a Delhi-based IT company has been arrested for allegedly posting derogatory and objectionable comments on it's official website against a woman, who is a senior executive in the firm, police said on Thursday. Ansh Khanna, who is a resident of Shahdara, told police that he wanted to take revenge as he thought that the woman fired him. The matter was reported to police by the woman on May 24. "During investigation, IP address of the sender was obtained and the accused was arrested on Wednesday," Deputy Commissioner of Police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said. Khanna worked under the complainant in the sales department of the organisation, the DCP said. His mobile phone has been seized and further investigation is underway, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-posting-derogatory-comments-against-ex-colleague-at-delhi-it-firm-848320.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: AAP govt, MCDs have taken adequate steps for safety of safai karamchaaris, says Delhi HC||A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad also said that WHO guidelines are also being adhered to by the authorities. The observations by the bench, in its order of June 9, came after perusing the affidavits filed by Delhi government and the civic bodies with regard to distribution of the personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to the workers. The High Court had asked the Delhi government and the three municipal corporations to give details of the number of sanitation workers in their respective jurisdiction and the number of PPE kits provided to them on a day-to-day basis during COVID-19 pandemic.  It noted that according to the affidavits PPE kits are being provided on a daily basis to safai karamchaaris and the equipment is not reused. The bench also noted that an adequate number of surgical and N-95 masks and gloves are being provided to the workers and the bio-medical waste was being disposed of in accordance with the mandate of the pollution control board. The observations of the bench came while disposing of the separate pleas by social activist Harnam Singh and the All India Municipal Corporation Staff Union seeking direction to the authorities to provide personal protective gear to sanitation workers who are carrying out their work during the coronavirus pandemic. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for Singh, had contended that while the authorities claim to have distributed the PPE kits, the workers on the ground do not appear to have received them. The petitioners had also sought setting up of sanitising cubicles in each ward for disinfecting the sanitation workers after they complete their duties each day. On this aspect, the bench said that the Ministry of Health has issued an advisory which clearly recommends against spraying disinfectant on an individual or group. The high court said that the advisory states that spraying of chemical disinfectants is "physically and psychologically harmful for human beings". Therefore, the corporation's decision not to set up sanitising cubicles was "justified", the bench said and added that no further directions were necessary in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-aap-govt-mcds-have-taken-adequate-steps-for-safety-of-safai-karamchaaris-says-delhi-hc-848323.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||3 LeT terrorist associates held, Pakistan-sponsored narco-terror module busted: Jammu and Kashmir police||Police on Thursday claimed to have busted a Pakistan-sponsored narco-terror module by arresting three Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorist associates and confiscating 21 kg of heroin and Rs 1.34 crore in cash from their possession in the Handwara area of Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district, officials said here. "Acting on reliable information, the police in Handwara busted a narco-terror module sponsored by Pakistan and arrested three terrorist associates of the proscribed Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outift," an official said. The arrested persons were identified as Abdul Moomin Peer, Islam Ul Haq Peer and Syed Iftikhar Indrabi -- all residents of Handwara -- the officials said. The incriminating recoveries from the trio included 21 kg of high-quality heroin, valued at around Rs 100 crore in the international market, Rs 1.34 crore in cash and a cash-counting machine, they added. Other members of the module were also identified and efforts were on to arrest them, the officials said. "The module was in close contact with Pakistan-based terror handlers and involved in the drug trade. It was financially assisting active terrorists of the LeT. The recoveries have exposed the inter-connections between drug dealers and terrorists," an official said. A case under the relevant sections of law was registered at the Handwara police station, the officials said, adding that a special investigation team (SIT) was formed for an in-depth probe into links between militant outfits, radical elements, smugglers and other anti-national elements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-let-terrorist-associates-held-pakistan-sponsored-narco-terror-module-busted-jammu-and-kashmir-police-848329.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases rise to 3,922 in Indore, death toll reaches 163||Till Wednesday, there were 3,881 COVID-19 cases in the state's worst affected district. In the last 24 hours, 41 more people tested positive for the viral infection, raising the count of cases to 3,922, the official said.    Besides, two more persons - an 83-year-old man and a 51-year-old woman - died in different hospitals here in the last 10 days while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. With this, the death toll due to the epidemic in the district has reached 163, he said. Till now, 2,618 people have been discharged after recovery, he added. An analysis of the data showed the recovery rate in Indore was 66.75 per cent as on Thursday morning. The COVID-19 mortality rate in the district stood at 4.16 per cent. According to the data, the number of new COVID-19 patients has come down recently, but the death rate remains higher than the national average of 2.83 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-rise-to-3922-in-indore-death-toll-reaches-163-848335.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Wild elephant found dead; third in 3 days||One more wild elephant was found dead in the forest of Surguja division in Chhattisgarh on Thursday, taking their death toll to three in as many days, forest officials said. The latest fatality was reported from Rajpur forest range of Balrampur district, while two elephants, one of them a pregnant female, were found dead on June 9 and 10 in adjoining Pratappur forest range of Surajpur district, they said. "All the three dead jumbos were females and probably belonged to the same herd. The cause of their deaths also seems to be the same," Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey told PTI. "The post-mortem of the carcass of the third elephant is being done. However, prima facie the post-mortem reports of the first two pachyderms and symptoms of the third one suggest that these deaths are not natural and they died of toxicity," he said. "As per the preliminary information, this herd of pachyderms recently moved towards Pratappur forest from Rajpur, during which they rampaged some mud houses in a village. They might have overeaten mahua flowers or consumed urea (fertilizer) stocked by villagers in their houses that led to toxicity," he said. However, the exact cause of their deaths was yet to be ascertained, Pandey said. Divisional Forest Officer (Balrampur division) Pranay Mishra said that after getting information from locals about the carcass, the forest personnel rushed to the spot. "No injury mark was found on the carcass of the elephant, which seems to have died two-three days ago. The exact reason of the death will be known once we get the post- mortem report," he said. Mishra said the tusker belonged to a herd of 18 elephants that ransacked some mud houses in Karwa village before moving towards Pratappur on June 6-7. The forest personnel have launched a probe in the villages, from where the herd had crossed, to trace what they had consumed, he added. Meanwhile, forest officials have also collected samples from water bodies in the area to check if it was poisoned. On Wednesday, the officials had said that the pregnant elephant who was found dead on Tuesday had a cyst in her liver and some problem in the spleen that might have led to her death. Meanwhile, a Bilaspur-based wildlife activist demanded a high-level inquiry into the deaths as he suspected "foul play". "In November last year, eight people were arrested for killing a wild elephant and removing its tusks in Balrampur. Therefore, foul play cannot be ruled out in the deaths of the three elephants," Mansoor Khan told PTI. A high-level inquiry should be constituted to probe the incident so that truth will come out, he added. Notably, the thickly-forested northern Chhattisgarh, comprising Surguja, Korba, Raigarh, Jashpur and Koriya districts, are notorious for incidents of human-elephant conflict. The region has witnessed killings of several people and damages to houses and crops by rogue elephants in the last few years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-wild-elephant-found-dead-third-in-3-days-848336.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Helicopters land heavy equipment to expedite work of strategic road near India-China border||Helicopters have landed heavy road-building machinery in the tough Himalayan terrain of Uttarakhand’s Johar Valley to help speed up construction of the strategic Munsiyari-Bugdiyar-Milam road near the India-China border, an official said. After several failed attempts in 2019, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) recently succeeded in carrying heavy road-building equipment by helicopters to Laspa, raising hopes of the road’s faster completion, BRO Chief Engineer Bimal Goswami said. The absence of heavy stone cutting equipment at Laspa near the alignment site of the 65 km road had delayed its construction. The Munsiyari-Bogdiyar- Milam road, which is being constructed in the high Himalayan region of Johar Valley in the state’s Pithoragarh district, will be a link to the last posts on the Indo-China border. “After several unsuccessful attempts last year, we succeeded this month in landing helicopters carrying heavy machines to Laspa. We now hope that cutting work of the challenging stretch will be completed in the next three years, Goswami said. Cutting of hard rocks, which are standing straight on a 22 km portion of the road, will now become easy as heavy machines can be transported by helicopters to the spot. "Construction of the road was started in 2010 with an amount of Rs 325 crore sanctioned for the project," the BRO chief engineer said. He said the road is being constructed from both ends and except the 22 km-hard portions, cutting work has been completed on 40 km of the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/helicopters-land-heavy-equipment-to-expedite-work-of-strategic-road-near-india-china-border-848337.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||1 out of 3 believe COVID-19 is man-made; 8 out of 10 say they won’t shake hands: Survey||Almost one in every three persons, who were surveyed for a study, believe that the COVID-19 virus is man-made, contrary to scientific evidence. Also, one in every five identified job loss as the biggest problem during national lockdown and eight in every ten people say that they will not shake hands with others in the near future. The first round of 'Pulse of the Pandemic' report showed that conspiracy theories have gained momentum about the origin of the virus but people overwhelmingly reject superstitions and pseudo-science, as a sudden fear of infection, possible death, fear of loss of jobs among others increased receptivity of usable scientific information. However, the report by Anhad and the P M Bhargava Foundation said COVID-19 is not only a biological virus but becomes a societal virus as well, when the community acts to "stigmatise" sections of citizens or when the "othering" happens. "This pandemic resulted in communities, states and regions isolating 'them versus others’...Social distancing has been adopted with alacrity among a large section of Indian population – either due to their subconscious feelings of age-old untouchability or just the fear of death by virus," the report authored by well-known scientist Gauhar Raza, sociologists Surjit Singh and PVS Kumar and activist Leena Daburi stated. While a large number of people surveyed believe that people can recover from COVID-19, it said, when it comes to the question whether COVID-19 is natural or not, the opinion is divided as conspiracy theories have gained momentum. According to the report based on a survey done in May, 41.7 per cent of the 2,223 people who participated in the study said the virus is natural but a sizable chunk – 31.89 per cent believe it is man-made while 24.11 per cent did not have a clue from where it came from. Referring to United States President Donald Trump's assertions that Wuhan Institute of Virology was the origin of the virus, the report said it was quite evident that when powerful politicians "propagate a conspiracy theory" it not only gets wide publicity but a large section of common citizens also start believing it. At the same time, 59.8 per cent of the people did not believe that using cow dung, prayers, clapping, switching of lights and using chillies and lemons would help prevent the virus infection.  Only 2.2 per cent believe that using cow dung could prevent COVID-19 while 2.6 per cent feel switching off lights could be helpful, 3.5 per cent put their money on clapping and 7.7 per cent on using chillies and lemon. "However, it is disturbing to note that 24.11 per cent were all non-committal and pressed the 'don't know' button", the report said. On the question who are responsible for the spread of virus infection, 74.4 per cent said COVID-19 has been brought and spread by those who returned from abroad while 4.9 per cent blamed it on Tablighi Jamaat, 4.4 per cent blamed it on the rich and 0.3 per cent on the poor. "It is completely anti-science and against common rationality to blame any specific group of people for spreading the pandemic deliberately. Evidence shows that it is a natural occurrence and if any agency is to be blamed, then it is the policymakers who refused to listen to the scientific community, which had started ringing the alarm bells, in time," the report said. In India during the initial period, it said, a section of the media started blaming those who were allowed to enter from other countries through airports. "However, this debate soon shifted to blame the Muslims," it said. Asked about the biggest problem during the lockdown, 24 per cent said they did not face any problem while 30.8 per cent are of the view that restrictions on movement was the biggest problem followed by 21.8 per cent saying they lost their jobs and earnings. 16 per cent said procurement of groceries was a problem while 3.1 per cent said hunger and starvation was the biggest issue. According to the report, 84.8 per cent felt wearing face masks, washing hands, etc. must continue even after the lockdown, 64 per cent were afraid of COVID-19 infection while going out. "The crisis generated intense and sudden fear of infection, related morbidity and eventual death. There are also other fears that the crisis invoked, for example, fear of loss of jobs or food security, however, the most intense is fear of acquiring the infection,” it said. “This fear factor had increased receptivity of usable scientific information and this caused widespread behavioural changes. It were fear factors which motivated people to observe complete lockdown, social distancing, wearing masks, sanitising hands, body, clothes, shops, houses and even office spaces,” the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-out-of-3-believe-covid-19-is-man-made-8-out-of-10-say-they-won-t-shake-hands-survey-848365.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Congress has numbers, BJP can't win second seat in Rajasthan Rajya Sabha polls: Sachin Pilot||The Congress has the numbers and its both candidates will win the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls in the state, said Rajasthan Deputy CM Sachin Pilot while asserting that there are no chances of the BJP winning a second seat. His statement has come a day after the ruling Congress in Rajasthan alleged attempts by the BJP to topple its government in the state. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had accused the BJP of horse-trading on Wednesday night, alleging that some of the party MLAs were offered Rs 25 crore each. The party had also taken its MLAs and the Independents backing the state government to a Jaipur resort for a meeting on Wednesday ahead of the elections to three Rajya Sabha seats in the state on June 19. “I want to make it clear that the Congress Party has an adequate mandate, support of Independents and other parties. Both of our candidates will win the elections,” Pilot, who also the state Congress president, said. “Before elections, many kinds of talks surface but all are aware of ground realities and the numbers,” he said. The pilot said the party had earlier won the assembly bypolls and now its candidates will win the Rajya Sabha polls as well. “No one should doubt it and those who are spreading myths, be of any party or group, they are intentionally creating an atmosphere that there is a big struggle here. The party MLAs are united,” he said. On calling the Congress MLAs to a resort for the meeting, he said the party has the experience of 'incidents' happening in other states, like some MLAs resigned in Gujarat. “People are making attempts. But people in Rajasthan are united and sincere. We have a mandate. Even Independents and other parties are supporting us. There are no chances of the BJP’s second candidate's win,” he said. Meanwhile, state government's chief whip Mahesh Joshi also exuded confidence of winning two of the three seats. “We will not let the BJP's plan succeed; we will not allow horse-trading or corruption. The Congress MLAs are united,” said Joshi, who on Wednesday had lodged a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau against alleged attempts to poach party MLAs. Party leader Vivek Bansal too said the situation in the state is satisfying. He said 107 MLAs participated in the meeting held on Wednesday and another meeting has been called on Thursday evening where both Rajya Sabha candidates and AICC general secretary Avinash Pande will remain present. The Congress has nominated KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the Rajya Sabha elections scheduled for June 19 while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six those who defected to the party from the BSP last year. The party enjoys the support of 12 of the 13 Independent MLAs in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-has-numbers-bjp-cant-win-second-seat-in-rajasthan-rajya-sabha-polls-sachin-pilot-848415.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Need of hour that private hospitals with ICMR sanctioned labs be permitted to test for COVID-19: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said it was need of the hour that all private hospitals equipped with labs to test for COVID-19 and having ICMR sanction for the same be permitted to conduct the test for the coronavirus. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said Delhi is fast heading towards becoming corona capital of the country, "an epithet the city can well do without",  and it was need of the hour to allow private hospitals with labs to test for the virus without loss of any time. The high court noted that non-COVID patients, who are approaching private hospitals for admission to undergo emergent surgeries and other such procedures, are not admitted coronavirus test for which they are compelled go elsewhere. "It is most unfortunate that non-COVID patients are being made to wait to undergo test for COVID-19 at labs other than those which are situated within the premises of the hospitals, that are equipped and authorised to conduct the said test," the bench said. The high court directed that all the private hospitals that have been called upon to reserve 20 per cent beds for admitting COVID-19 patients, are equipped with labs to conduct coronavirus test and have sanction of ICMR to do so, "should proceed to conduct tests on symptomatic and asymptomatic persons, who seek admission in the hospital for undergoing surgeries and procedures of other nature as well". The order came on the application by advocate Sanjeev Sharma who contended that there have been several instances where non-COVID patients needing surgery or emergent procedures are required to undergo testing before that, but hospital concerned is unable to conduct the test as they are not permitted to do so by Delhi government. The application, filed through advocate Rakesh Malhotra, has also sought a direction to the Delhi government and all the hospitals and nursing homes permitted to treat COVID-19 cases to daily publish on their respective websites the status of vacancy of beds so that patients need not run from pillar to post for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-of-hour-that-private-hospitals-with-icmr-sanctioned-labs-be-permitted-to-test-for-covid-19-delhi-hc-848421.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi to launch auction for commercial coal mining next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on June 18 launch the auction of coal mines for commercial mining at an event here via video conferencing. The launch of the auction will be with the theme "Unleashing coal: New hopes for Aatmanirbhar Bharat", the coal ministry said in a statement. "We are launching first-ever commercial coal auctions in the country on 18th June. The event will be graced by PM @NarendraModi Ji. It is his vision & guidance to make #AtmaNirbharBharat in coal. I am proud that we are well on our way to achieving it," Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi said in a tweet. As India has recently embraced the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the coal and mining sector has started gearing up to make the country self-reliant in coal mining through structural reforms, the ministry said. The commercial coal mining auction is completely different from the earlier regime of restricted sectors, use and price. Now there are no such restrictions at all. The proposed auction has business-friendly terms and conditions, including reduced upfront amount, adjustment of upfront amount against royalty and liberal efficiency parameters to encourage flexibility to operationalise the coal mines. Besides, 100 per cent FDI through automatic route has been allowed and there are reasonable financial terms and revenue sharing model based on National Coal Index. The successful bidders will also have flexibility in coal production unlike the past and have provision for incentives for early production and coal gasification. Around 50 coal blocks are likely to be auctioned for commercial coal mining, a source had said earlier. The mines to be put up for auction would be in three categories -- small, medium and large. Some of the mines would come into production within a year of being auctioned, the source had added. The government had last month approved a methodology for commercial mining of coal on revenue sharing basis. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), chaired by the Prime Minister. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while announcing the stimulus package for the coronavirus-hit economy, had said coal mines would be auctioned to the private sector for commercial mining to end reliance on imports and improve local production. The methodology approved by CCEA provides that bid parameter will be revenue share, the government had said, adding that bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue payable to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-to-launch-auction-for-commercial-coal-mining-next-week-848423.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||India mobile handset industry can reach $100 billion in exports by 2025 says survey||India can achieve $100 billion in mobile phones and nearly $40 billion in component exports by 2025 if the country adopted three strategies -restart restore and resurgence, a new report on handset manufacturing,  released here on Thursday. In the strategy document titled "Mobile Manufacturing in a post-COVID-19 World" by handset making  industry body India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) and consultancy major EY, highlightedIndian industry’s roadmap to become a global supplier of mobile phones in a world where two countries - China and Vietnam - and five global MNCs dominate over 80% of the world’s export market. Nearly 198 countries import mobile phones, and till recently, only two countries -- China and Vietnam -- were among the world exporters.  India joined the ranks as a third with a modest US$3 billion exports in 2019-20. It now aims to target the number two spot. From 2 operating manufacturing units in 2014 the total count of new manufacturing units reached 268 in June 2018 as per a physical verification survey. "The mobile manufacturing and components sector is ready to lead India's post-COVID-19 exit strategy. Production has restarted. We hope to hit 100% production by August," Pankaj Mohindroo, Chairman, ICEA, told reporters in a video conference. To attract more mobile manufacturing companies, the government announced Rs 50000 crore worth scheme recently which includes production linked incentives. "The introduction of the incentive scheme will bring a resurgence in the manufacturing environment and create a competitive global ecosystem for India to capture the global market share of mobile phones, parts and accessories," said Bipin Sapra, Indirect Tax Partner Telecom sector, EY India. The report also suggested areas of improvement, such as the need to shift large-scale global value chains, reduce cost of inputs and the need to increase competitiveness by building a low-cost domestic ecosystem and seeking partnership with States to address India’s disabilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-mobile-handset-industry-can-reach-100-billion-in-exports-by-2025-says-survey-848427.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||SC dismisses PIL seeking ban on Coco Cola, Thumbs Up; slaps Rs 5 lakh fine on petitioner||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a PIL filed by a ‘social worker’ seeking ban on sale and use of Coca Cola and Thumbs up on the ground that these soft beverages are detrimental to health, saying the petition has been filed for extraneous reasons. The top court rejected the petition and imposed an exemplary cost of Rs five lakh on the petitioner and said his counsel has failed to disclose "why two specific brands in particular are chosen to be the target of the proceedings and what the source of his assertions." It said the amount would be deposited within one month with the apex court registry and disbursed to SCAORA (Supreme Court Advocates-on Record Association). A bench headed by Justices D Y Chandrachud said that petitioner, Umedsinh P Chavda, through his petition has invoked jurisdiction of the court under Article 32 of the Constitution, which appears to be abuse of the process of law. “The petitioner claims to be a 'social worker'. The affidavit in support of the petition states that the contents of the petition are true to the knowledge and belief of the petitioner. The petition has been filed without the petitioner having any technical knowledge on the subject. The source of his assertions has not been substantiated,” the bench, also comprising Justices Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi, said. The top court said that after hearing the counsel for petitioner, it has come to the conclusion that invocation of the jurisdiction under Article 32 is not a bona fide recourse to the jurisdiction in public interest litigation. “Consequently, besides dismissing the petition an order directing the imposition of exemplary costs is necessary. We accordingly dismiss the petition and impose costs quantified at Rs 5, 00,000 on the petitioner. The costs imposed shall be deposited in the Registry within one month and shall be disbursed to the Supreme Court Advocates-on Record Association (SCAORA),” the bench said. Besides seeking ban on sale and use of Coco Cola and Thumbs Up, the PIL filed by Chavda also sought issuing of notification by government apprising people at large not to drink and use it, as the same is detrimental to the cause of health. The PIL also sought direction to Centre to submit a complete analytical report and scientific approval by scientist in providing license of sale and use of liquid like Coco-Cola and Thumbs Up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-pil-seeking-ban-on-coco-cola-thumbs-up-slaps-rs-5-lakh-fine-on-petitioner-848447.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||PIL in Delhi HC to waive traffic challans issued to corona warriors||An association of doctors from the city has moved the Delhi High Court seeking a direction to the traffic police to waive the e-challans issued against "all corona warriors", including doctors, during first two phases of the COVID-19 lockdown. The Indian Medical Association, Dwarka in west Delhi, contended that during the first two phases of lockdown, all the traffic signals were not functioning or were on auto blinking mode and consequently, "the alleged traffic violations are without any justified ground and reason thereof". The association, which according to the plea is a district branch of Delhi Medical Association, stated that the e-challans were issued based on electronic surveillance alone. "The traffic police has engaged in discriminatory practices by targeting the essential service providers by penalizing them without any application of mind during the lockdown," said the petition filed through advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi. Apart from waiving the traffic challans, the petition also seeks formulation of comprehensive guidelines in respect of display of speed limit signboards. The petition has contended that there are roads in the national capital where within a 2km stretch, there would be several signboards indicating varying speed limits from 70 km per hour to 50 km per hour. On some roads, the signboards are not even clearly visible, it has alleged. The petition has also alleged that motorists are often also "victim of delayed intimation regarding the violation of traffic rules". "In this respect, it is submitted that if the traffic police could have mechanism to intimate the owner of the vehicles within 24 hours, so that the alleged violators may be cautious in future in respect of the traffic violation and they may not commit the same offences time and again of similar nature," the petition has said. It has sought a direction to traffic police for immediate intimation, preferably within 24 hours, via electronic mode about the violation as motorists usually get to know about it when e-challans are issued after a month or two.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-delhi-hc-to-waive-traffic-challans-issued-to-corona-warriors-848451.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi heading towards being 'corona capital' of India: Delhi HC on spike in COVID-19 cases||The national capital is fast heading towards becoming the "corona capital" of the country, observed the Delhi High Court while expressing concern over the spike in COVID-19 cases and directed that all private hospitals equipped with labs to test for coronavirus and having ICMR sanction be permitted to conduct the test. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad observed that "corona capital" was "an epithet the city can well do without" and said it was need of the hour that all private hospitals equipped with labs to test for COVID-19 be permitted to do so without losing any more time. According to latest official figures, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi is over 32,000 including 984 deaths. The number of active coronavirus patients in the city is over 19,000. The bench made the observation after it was told by the petitioner that several private hospitals, including Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, have been prevented from carrying out COVID-19 tests. The Delhi government, represented by its additional standing counsel Satyakam, opposed the submission, saying 23 private labs have been allowed to conduct the tests apart from 17 public sector labs.   The bench, thereafter, issued notice to the 23 private labs, mentioned by Delhi government in its affidavit, and asked them to file their replies clarifying whether they have been permitted to undertake tests for suspected COVID-19 patients and by which technique. "They shall also point out the difficulties, if any, faced by them on account of any bureaucratic red-tapeism," the bench said. It also noted in its order that non-COVID patients, who are approaching private hospitals for admission to undergo emergent surgeries and other such procedures, are not admitted without a coronavirus test for which they are compelled to go elsewhere. "It is most unfortunate that non-COVID patients are being made to wait to undergo test for COVID-19 at labs other than those which are situated within the premises of the hospitals, that are equipped and authorised to conduct the said test," the bench said. The high court directed that all the private hospitals that have been called upon to reserve 20 per cent beds for admitting COVID-19 patients, are equipped with labs to conduct coronavirus test and have sanction of ICMR to do so, "should proceed to conduct tests on symptomatic and asymptomatic persons, who seek admission in the hospital for undergoing surgeries and procedures of other nature as well". It also impleaded Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the matter so that details of private hospitals authorised by it to undertake COVID-19 tests can be furnished to the court on the next date, June 18.  The high court said that ICMR while filing its status report shall also indicate number of applications submitted by accredited labs in Delhi seeking permission to conduct COVID-19 test and the status of the same. The order came on the application by advocate Sanjeev Sharma who has contended there have been several instances where non-COVID patients needing surgery or emergent procedures are required to undergo testing before that, but hospital concerned is unable to conduct the test as they are not permitted to do so by Delhi government. The application, filed through advocate Rakesh Malhotra, has also sought a direction to the Delhi government and all the hospitals and nursing homes permitted to treat COVID-19 cases to daily publish on their respective websites the status of vacancy of beds so that patients need not run from pillar to post for the same. The application was filed in the main petition, by Malhotra, which had sought swift testing of COVID-19 cases and declaration of results within 48 hours. The high court had on May 4 disposed of the petition with a direction to the Delhi government to publish on their websites correct data of tests conducted, number of positive results and pending outcomes. The application has alleged that the high court's May 4 direction was not being complied with properly by the Delhi government||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-heading-towards-being-corona-capital-of-india-delhi-hc-on-spike-in-covid-19-cases-848460.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Congress rivalry to fore in Rajasthan Rajya Sabha polls||The elections for three Rajya Sabha seats in Rajasthan is turning out to be a battle of nerves. Congress is comfortably placed to ensure the victory of its two candidates – KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, but Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has accused the BJP of using “money power” to trigger cross-voting and de-stabilise his government. However, deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, Gehlot’s bete noire, asserted that the Congress was united and took potshots at “those trying to create smokescreen and confusion.” “Everyone knows that we have the required number. Those who are trying to create smokescreen and confusion – be it in any party – they would not succeed,” Pilot told reporters in Dausa after offering tributes to his father late Rajesh Pilot on his 20th death anniversary. A section of the Congress party believes that the apprehensions over horse-trading was part of rivalry within the party and posed no serious threat to the Gehlot government. Congress alone has 107 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly – five more than the 102 required to ensure victory of the two official nominees of the party. In addition, the ruling party enjoys support of 13 Independents and two legislators each of Bhartiya Tribal Party and CPI(M). It is the BJP that finds itself on a sticky wicket having queered the pitch by fielding two candidates – Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat – while having the strength to ensure the victory of only one. Congress’ chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala has been appointed as the election observer and has been camping in Jaipur since Wednesday to ensure smooth conduct of the election. Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia rubbished the chief minister’s remarks on “horse-trading” as “baseless”. “The manner in which Congress MLAs are taken to resorts gives an impression that the chief minister is worried and insecure,” Poonia said. Of the two Congress candidates, Venugopal is considered as a close confidant of Rahul Gandhi, while Dangi is close to the chief minister. A section of the Congress was unhappy at the party fielding an “outsider” from Rajasthan. In the Rajya Sabha by-poll last year, Congress had fielded former prime minister Manmohan Singh from Rajashtan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-rivalry-to-fore-in-rajasthan-rajya-sabha-polls-848464.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports highest single-day spike of coronavirus cases||COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the national capital with Thursday reporting the highest single-day spike of 1,877 cases while the death toll crossed the 1,000-mark with the addition of 101 more deaths. The number of people under treatment also crossed 20,000 mark. At present, there are 20,871 people under treatment, including 16,241 with mild symptoms or no symptoms at all in home isolation. With fresh cases, Delhi now has 34,687 cases out of which 14,843 were reported in June so far, which accounted for 42.79 per cent of the total cases. In May, the capital had 16,326 cases. Sixty-five of the 101 deaths were reported in the last couple of days while the rest were from earlier days. The toll has now touched 1,085. According to Thursday's bulletin, 486 people have been discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 12,731. So far, 2.71 lakh samples have been tested for virus infection, including 5,360 fresh samples. The Delhi government has raised the alarm bells as it projected that the capital would have 44,000 cases by mid-June and one lakh cases by June 30. It also projected that there would be 2.25 lakh cases by July 15 and 5.25 lakh cases by July-end.  While an expert panel had suggested that the capital may need 80,000 beds by July-end, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the number of beds needed would be around 1.50 lakh as people from outside Delhi are expected to come here for treatment. The Delhi government had reserved the hospitals for bonafide residents but Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had reversed the decision, saying it does not stand Constitutional scrutiny. Kejriwal has also said that he would hit the streets on Friday to examine public facilities like stadiums and banquet halls and assess whether they could be made make-shift hospitals. Delhi government is also of the view that the capital has entered the third stage of community transmission of virus infection but the Centre believes that is not the case. Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain has said that the source of infection of more than 50 per cent of COVID-19 patients here could not be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-coronavirus-cases-848470.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir govt forms task force for effective implementation of schemes under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday constituted a six-member task force for effective implementation of initiatives for the migrants and the destitute under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Principal Secretary, Housing & Urban Development Department, will act as the chairperson of the task force, according to an official order. The schemes to be implemented are affordable rental complex for urban poor under PMAY and PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, and gas cylinders will be provided free of cost for next 3 months, an official spokesman said. The other initiatives included ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 to poor senior citizens, poor widows and poor Divyang; relief to workers under building and construction workers welfare funds; crediting of 24 per cent of monthly wages into the PF accounts of wage earners below Rs 15,000 per month in businesses having less than 100 workers, for next three months; Non-refundable advance of 75 per cent of the amount to the workers registered under EPF; EPF support for business and workers for 3 more months, payment of 12 per cent of employer and 12 per cent employees contribution into EPF accounts of eligible establishments, he said. The terms of reference of the above task force will be to study each of the schemes, benefits & relaxations announced by the Government of India and finalise steps to be taken to implement each scheme, the spokesman said. The panel will meet at least once a week to review the progress and coordinate action between departments on the activities assigned; to submit fortnightly reports in a brief, summarised format for the perusal of Lieutenant Governor and Chief Secretary on the 1st and 15th of every month beginning from June 15, the spokesman said. The format for the purpose shall be circulated by planning, development & monitoring department by June 12, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-forms-task-force-for-effective-implementation-of-schemes-under-atmanirbhar-bharat-abhiyan-848488.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt allows restro-bars, clubs to sell stocked beer to liquor shops||The Delhi government on Thursday allowed the city's restro-bars, hotels, and clubs to sell their stock of beer expiring this month to liquor shops in a bid to minimise their financial losses, an official said. There are around 950 hotels, clubs and restro-bars in the national capital which have an excise license, however, they have not been allowed to open since March 25 when the first nationwide lockdown was announced. The liquor vends will continue to remain closed in the city till June 30. According to the Excise Act, the restro-bars, hotels, and clubs can only sell liquor to their customers, the official said, adding that it would be a one-time relaxation. “In wake of the extraordinary situation emerging out of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, the government has allowed these establishments to sell the stock of beer expiring on June 30 to liquor vends," the official told PTI. The decision was taken after the excise department got several requests to allow such establishments to sell their stock of beer lying unsold as it would expire soon due to the lockdown restrictions, the official said. "The move will minimise the financial losses of restro-bars, hotels and clubs as they have not been allowed to open for over two months. However, they cannot sell their stock of beer expiring after June 30," the official added. The shelf life of beer is around six months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-allows-restro-bars-clubs-to-sell-stocked-beer-to-liquor-shops-848492.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||SSB jawan succumbs to COVID-19; 15 deaths in CAPFs||A 36-year-old Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) official succumbed to coronavirus, taking the total number of fatalities in the force due to the pandemic to two, a senior official said on Thursday. This is the 15th COVID-19 death among the paramilitary force or the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs). The head constable rank official was under treatment for the last few months with a serious head injury at a hospital here. He passed away on Wednesday due to coronavirus infection, official said. The official also suffered a heart attack, he said. He was posted at the headquarters of the force in Delhi, officials said. The SSB has reported 106 COVID-19 cases till now, out of which 55 personnel, have recovered. Earlier, a 55-year-old head constable of the force had succumbed to the pandemic. The about 80,000 personnel strong force is primarily tasked to guard open Indian borders with Nepal and Bhutan. With the latest death, there have been 15 casualties among CAPFs like the Central Industrial Security Force (5), Central Reserve Police Force (4), Border Security Force (3) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (1). The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) also reported 36 new cases on Thursday that include 28 personnel from its unit based in Kashmir. Among the fresh cases is a chief medical officer of the force who has been admitted to an isolation facility in Delhi. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) also reported a fresh case of coronavirus infection. It has 17 active cases, while 194 personnel have recovered from the disease. As per data accessed by PTI, the five CAPFs and two other central forces- the National Security Guard and the National Disaster Response Force- have reported over 1,880 coronavirus cases. While over 1,220 troops have been cured or recovered, more than 645 are under treatment, the data said. The first case in these forces, functioning under the Union home ministry, was detected on March 28. These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations and disaster rescue and relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ssb-jawan-succumbs-to-covid-19-15-deaths-in-capfs-848496.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir coronavirus tally at 4,574 with 67 fresh cases; doctor, cops among those infected||A senior surgeon at a hospital here and two policemen were among the 67 people who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the infection tally in the union territory to 4,574, officials said. "Sixty-seven new positive cases of coronavirus were detected in the union territory on Thursday," an official said. According to officials, 24 of the fresh cases were from Jammu and 43 from the Kashmir region. The union territory has registered 52 deaths due to COVID-19 so far. The officials said Thursday's cases included 26 people who had returned to the union territory recently. "A senior surgeon at SKIMS Hospital at Soura and two Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel are among those infected," the official said. Contacts of the doctor, including his colleagues, have been identified and put under isolation, the official added. Anantnag district in south Kashmir recorded the highest number of cases at 13, followed by Jammu 11, the officials said. They said there were no fresh cases in six districts -- Shopian, Ramban, Kathua, Samba, Reasi and Kishtwar. With Thursday's fresh cases, the total number of infected persons in Jammu and Kashmir stood at 4,574.  “Of these, 3565 are in Kashmir, while 1,009 are in the Jammu region,” an official said. There are 2,702 active cases in the union territory -- 1,996 in Kashmir and 706 in Jammu -- while 1,820 patients have recovered, they said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-coronavirus-tally-at-4574-with-67-fresh-cases-doctor-cops-among-those-infected-848500.html
11-06-2020||North and Central||Body of soldier killed in unprovoked Pakistan shelling cremated in Gurdaspur||The mortal remains of Lance Naik Gurcharan Singh (29), who was killed in unprovoked shelling by Pakistan along the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu & Kashmir, were consigned to flames at his native village here with full military honours on Thursday. A civilian Namitullah Khan was also injured in the shelling on Wednesday night. Wrapped in the Tricolour, the body arrived at Harchowal village amid the chants of 'Gurcharan Singh amar rahe' and 'Indian Army Zindabad'. Gurcharan's father Salvinder Singh, himself a veteran, said that he was proud of his son for laying down his life for the country. Soldier's wife Ranjit Kaur, who is in Punjab Police, said she was proud of her husband and would send their son Agamjot Singh to serve in the Indian Army. He is survived by two children and wife. A large number of people including officials from the Army, police and district administration attended the funeral.  Balwinder Singh, Batala Sub Divisional Magistrate, laid wreath and paid tribute to the martyred solider on behalf of the Punjab government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-soldier-killed-in-unprovoked-pakistan-shelling-cremated-in-gurdaspur-848512.html
11-06-2020||Opinion||Are Indian states a little too united over labour laws?||By Shruti Rajagopalan While India is just beginning to confront the full economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, optimists see reasons to hope. Global manufacturers are looking to diversify supply chains and Indian leaders seem to be trying to attract their business. The recent decision by Uttar Pradesh — India’s biggest state, with a population the size of Brazil’s — and a few others to relax stifling labour regulations has revived hope that other states will soon follow, competing to draw investment and jobs regardless of what the central government does or doesn’t do. This has been a longstanding hope of Indian reformers — that rivalries between states will drive deregulation when politics prevent action in New Delhi. Unfortunately, it’s not how India works. India’s heavy-handed labor laws aren’t entirely the product of decades of socialist central governments; states themselves write many of those rules. Even on issues other than labor, state-level regulations in India are remarkably similar and uncompetitive. The real problem is that Indian federalism is centripetal: State leaders have historically looked to the national government for policy direction. They’ve done so for three very good reasons. The first, not surprisingly, has to do with money. Indian states have limited authority over their finances. Very few areas, such as property and alcohol, are exclusively taxed by states — and the recently enacted Goods and Services Tax has left them with even less control over their own revenue. The national government controls the purse strings and shares less than half of total tax revenues with states. Even when different political parties lead national and state governments, the central government can control the latter’s policy and budgetary allocations. Second, India’s history with socialist planning continues to cast a long shadow. Until very recently, India’s erstwhile Planning Commission largely dictated policy. Even in areas where the states had legislative authority, they sought to comply with the commission’s vision in order to maximize their share of revenue. Striking off on their own to attract foreign investment would risk their share of revenue — and, in any case, would be impossible without clearances from the central government .   Even now, a state such as Uttar Pradesh, a stronghold of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, feels such pressures. Initially, the state suspended almost all labor regulations through ordinance, pending new legislation. When BJP leaders in New Delhi expressed concern about the degree of deregulation, the state government hinted it would bring back some of the old rules, leaving the exact impact of its move uncertain. While that lack of clarity may pacify New Delhi, it’s likely to put off many investors . Finally, while in theory state courts could foster competition by approving different rules, in India, even the judiciary is centralized. The Supreme Court controls state high courts through its powers to overturn their decisions and to appoint and transfer judges. State high courts tend to be clones of one another. Without a greater degree of state or local judicial control, it is impossible to create the equivalent of, say, Delaware’s courts in India. Where states have attracted investments, it’s usually been due to superstar chief ministers, who can credibly remove regulatory roadblocks on a case-by-case basis. In Indian political-business circles, the shorthand for this phenomenon is called “single-window clearance,” where the support of the chief minister’s office is key to getting all business permits. Foreign investors have learned to rely on state leaders such as N. Chandrababu Naidu in Andhra Pradesh or the late Jayaram Jayalalithaa in Tamil Nadu, who were experts at getting environmental clearances from the central government, assembling large parcels of land, organizing electricity, brokering deals with trade unions, and eliminating regulatory and judicial roadblocks within the state. Such leaders have little incentive to push forward more wide-ranging deregulation because it would reduce their own power and, in some cases, their rents and bribes. The only permanent solution to this problem is to allow state governments more control over their finances. That should eventually translate into greater freedom over their own policies. While this is naturally difficult during an economic slump, two changes would make an immediate difference: first, increasing the states’ share of total revenue; and second, reducing the number of national welfare and subsidy programs in order to give states control over those resources. In the longer run, India needs to move towards greater fiscal federalism, with states raising and keeping a greater share of their revenues. Only when they no longer have to look to New Delhi for their financial survival will states really be free to compete with one another.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-indian-states-a-little-too-united-over-labour-laws-848191.html
11-06-2020||Opinion||Why BJP has blown the Bengal bugle early||With a virtual rally by Amit Shah, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has already kicked off the campaign for next year’s West Bengal Assembly elections. While addressing BJP workers through a virtual rally on June 9 –  directly telecast by most Bengali channels – Shah attacked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on all fronts, and remarked that her description of Shramik trains as ‘Corona Express’ would become her ‘exit route’. So virulent was the attack that six leaders of Trinamool Congress (TMC), including Amit Mitra (the state finance minister) and Abhishek Banerjee (MP and the CM’s nephew), immediately came out with sharp responses. The next day Mamata Banerjee stated: “I never called the migrant special trains Corona Express. It was the common man who gave that name.” (For the record, the CM had questioned the logic of running 'crammed trains' and asked whether the Centre was running Shramik trains or Corona Express trains.) The virtual rally by Shah was a clear sign that the BJP has started closing in on Bengal although it is still a year before elections. The timing appears strange at first sight:The state is suffering from the double whammy of COVID-19 and the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. And though Bengal is not suffering from the curse of the disease like Maharashtra, it is the seventh most affected state. The total number of cases are inching towards the five figure mark, with the number of newly-affected people per day hovering around 400. Also at least one crore people are still to recover from the aftershock of the disastrous cyclone that destroyed their homes and standing crops. So, the question is why has Shah chosen this time to blow the bugle, that too in the time of coronavirus, instead of the normal six months time the BJP generally allots  for Assembly election campaigns?  The answer is fairly obvious. Mamata Banerjee is at her most vulnerable at this point, firstly, because of coronavirus, and secondly, due to cyclone Amphan. Shah wants to magnify the people’s woes and not let them forget what is happening in the state. On the COVID-19 lockdown front, the debate on not bringing back migrant labourers quickly enough has affected the TMC base in Muslim-dominated Mada and Murshidabad districts. This may not help the BJP directly. But, if a sizable chunk of the Muslims shift away from TMC and vote for the Congress-Left combine or for Asaduddin Owaisi's party (which has so far not been able to make a mark in Bengal), TMC candidates may get defeated in some seats. That will bring down TMC’s numbers. And if BJP gets some of these seats, thanks to a division of Muslim votes (just as they won the Malda Uttar Lok Sabha constituency in 2019 by securing 37.61 per cent vote), it will be a windfall for them.   Moreover, the Unlock 1.0 phase has also provided a big opportunity to the Saffron party. The state government has opened its offices and declared the private sector open too. A large number of people are completely disenchanted with this decision, particularly due to the non-availability of transport in and around Kolkata. There is a long waiting time for buses which have to run according to social distancing and therefore with no standing passengers.  Under duress, some have started cycling down to offices. It has forced the state government to lift the ban on cycles in Kolkata, and to run government offices in two shifts. Lakhs of people come to Kolkata and Salt Lake-Rajarhat to attend office from a radius of 25-30 kilometres, if not more. These people are having to bear the brunt of the situation from the zone that sent TMC MPs to Parliament a year ago. The BJP will be eyeing these voters, primarily Hindu voters.  But the most severe blow was dealt by Cyclone Amphan that affected the lives of a large part of four South Bengal districts – North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and East Medinipur, each one a citadel of TMC. Again here, while some of the affected people are Muslims, many are Hindus who BJP will try to win over. Even in and around Kolkata, at various places people spent three to seven days (at a few places even more than 10 days) without electricity and water. One may remember after the Super cyclone of Odisha in 1999, the Congress was swept out of power for good. While the situation is not that bad in South Bengal, it is enough to give a jolt to the TMC. Amit Shah has also identified the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) as a major issue, but Mamata Banerjee could have fought it back with the backing of the state’s Muslims, who make up around 30 per cent of the population. But COVID-19 and Amphan have made her vulnerable, and Shah is not ready to let go of this opportunity to steal a march over her. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of books including, A Naxal Story. He is a deputy editor at the Bengali daily, Aajkal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the view of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-bjp-has-blown-the-bengal-bugle-early-848332.html
11-06-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: When fear and paranoia ruled||Coronavirus is at the global centre-stage and today is one of the most commonly used words worldwide. The volumes of information and misinformation on it have caused doubts and fears among the public. Facts and fears Coronavirus is highly contagious. It can enter the human body only through the mucosa, the membrane lining the inside of the nose, mouth and eyes. It cannot enter through the skin of the hands, etc. Coronavirus is contained in tiny droplets when an infected person sneezes, coughs or speaks loudly. If these droplets are inhaled by another person before they fall to the ground or onto door handles, etc., they enter the body through the mucosa of the nose and infect him. Hence the need for all to wear masks – an infected wearer’s mask prevents spread of infected droplets and an uninfected person’s mask prevents their inhalation. Droplets can remain on, say, a door handle for a short time. If such a surface is touched by hand, Coronavirus can get transferred to the skin of the hand/fingers, where it will be harmless, unless the hand/fingers touches the edges or inside of nose, mouth or eyes which have mucosa. All this is equally true of the common cold virus. Most Coronavirus-infected persons develop mild-to-moderate symptoms and recover without hospitalisation. Many remain asymptomatic. Thus, Coronavirus is not a big killer of humans. There are far bigger killers of humans, as shown by WHO and IHME (Washington). Neglecting those larger causes of deaths and focusing on Corona/COVID-19, fails the test of proportionality. In the absence of a cure for Covid-19 patients, or a vaccine for populations, the threat of Covid spread necessitated imposing physical distancing between people by lockdown. It was accompanied by government-initiated advice, instructions and orders to create awareness about Coronavirus and Covid. Constant media repetition of precautions to be taken has resulted in many people getting paranoid about touching anything, carrying hand-sanitizer bottles around with them, and using them or washing hands dozens of times every day. All this has created fear about contracting COVID almost amounting to paranoia, although only doctors and health workers on duty need to take such precautions. Unfortunately, governments were initially quite oblivious or uncaring of the fact that these measures are unaffordable, impractical and impossible for the vast majority rural and urban poor who live and work in congested places and/or have no easy access even to drinking water. The four-hour-notice lockdown severely impacted the lives and livelihoods of hundreds of millions of rural and urban Indians. It caused panic-purchase of supplies for subsistence. It resulted in unexpected, spontaneous exodus of millions of workers out of urban areas who, together with many more millions of urban and rural poor, were more fearful of hunger and starvation, than about Corona-related disease and death. Fear ruled. Migrant workers, urban slum dwellers, rural landless, etc. are undergoing the psychological trauma of uncertainty regarding the immediate future for themselves and families. This is accentuated by the physical trauma of hunger and exhaustion, and fear of experiencing demeaning and insulting police violence. Fear, again. The COVID fear has had social repercussions. People of some Bihar villages have refused entry to their own returning migrants, fearing that they bring COVID. Nurses living in paying guest accommodation and working in a hospital in Bengaluru, were forced to vacate by the owner, because he feared infection. Majority immunity It is certain that Coronavirus is here to stay, and we will learn to live with it like earlier generations have been living with so many other viruses and bacteria. Experts say that in coming months and years, the population majority will get infected by Coronavirus, and develop immunity to it, helped by an immunisation (vaccination) programme, i.e., COVID incidence among the population will be limited by “herd immunity”. In the meantime, COVID cure and vaccine will be developed. People therefore have little to fear if normal precautions are observed just as we do for common cold, and can resume work in accordance with governments’ regulations and directions. Disease, cure and fear Humans have begun to “cure” diseases ever since societies neglected the wisdom that the body itself does the “curing”, and the medicine-doctor combination only assists the natural curative/healing process. (Ayurveda recognises this). People have always searched for means to reduce or eliminate pain. Over millennia, this has extended to avoiding pain and prolonging life. Implicitly, the fear of death as an “unknown” exists in most societies. Today’s healthcare sector manages illness/disease or life-threatening trauma, and has little time for health and healthy living. Notwithstanding this approach to “health”, the present state of the public healthcare sector can only be rued. Multi-specialty corporate hospitals, linked with insurance, pharmaceutical, and other industries, are prohibitively expensive. Today, we fear contracting disease by going to a public hospital, and fear expensive treatment in a corporate hospital leading to economic ruin. Yet again, fear. Among humans, only societies which we label “primitive” understand death as an event in life. Even people who understand the inevitability of death, either fear death as an unknown, or without fearing death, fear the pain and suffering that can precede death. Either way, it’s about fear. Looking ahead Overcoming Corona-fear begins with acceptance that populations will develop herd immunity to Coronavirus and co-exist with it, as with other viruses and bacteria. Of course, available technology can minimise suffering, enhance cures and prevent Coronavirus spread, but should not divert attention and effort from other issues affecting social health. A healthy society in which “the mind is without fear” would link people-centric economics with social justice, and peace and harmony within and between societies, and all life on Earth. Inevitable disease and death would not be feared, but also not accepted when it is a result of injustice, inequality or malafides. Building a healthy society may appear far-fetched, but it is doable, even if time is running out and there is worldwide absence of requisite leadership. (The writer focuses on development and strategic issues, using cross-discipline study and systems thinking)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-when-fear-and-paranoia-ruled-848141.html
11-06-2020||Panorama||Pregnancy during COVID-19||Navigating pregnancy during the ongoing pandemic can be stressful and challenging. The spread of coronavirus has led to heightened fears among pregnant woman who are left wondering if they can continue with their pregnancy safely or if they or their babies maybe at risk of contracting the virus. Women who are looking to conceive are also unsure if it will be prudent to continue with their pregnancy plans. The good news is that, as per all the available data and research, mother-to-child transmission of coronavirus is highly unlikely. Pregnant women have not shown any higher risk of getting infected by the coronavirus. They can look forward to delivering a healthy baby unaffected by the virus, provided adequate precautions are taken. Till date, there has been no evidence of any adverse effect on pregnancies due to the pandemic, except some increase in the incidence of pre-term deliveries, fetal distress or premature rupture of the membrane. None of these is a cause of concern as they can be medically tackled. The biggest cause of anxiety has been laid to rest by experts, as there have been no cases of vertical transmission of the disease from the mother to the child. This means that even if a woman develops coronavirus during her pregnancy term, she will not pass it on to her child and can continue her pregnancy safely. The virus has not been found in the amniotic fluid, umbilical cord blood, or the nasopharyngeal swab of newborn babies. In fact, there is no evidence suggesting that the virus can cross the fetoplacental barrier. As a precaution, however, pregnant women should defer visits for ante-natal checkups unless advised by their doctor. For minor queries, they should use online help from their doctor, or telemedicine services. As a precaution, expecting mothers should adhere to regular COVID-19 do’s and don’ts, such as washing hands frequently with soap and water, avoiding contact of unwashed hands with eyes, nose, or mouth, and wearing a mask. Even though breast milk is totally safe if the lactating mother is COVID-19 positive, breastfeeding may not be the best option as the virus maybe transmitted to the baby through her respiratory droplets. COVID-positive lactating mother can still feed their babies expressed breast milk or formula milk (when advised) by asking a Covid-19 negative person to do so on their behalf. If, however, such a situation arises when a COVID-positive mother needs to feed the baby herself, she should wear a mask and avoid coughing or sneezing while breastfeeding. She must also wash hands before touching the baby, the breast pump, or milk bottles. Women looking to start a family are also at no greater risk of contracting coronavirus infection compared to any other individual. If a woman has conceived during these Covid-19 times, she should take precautions such as staying at home and avoiding travel and public transport. She should avoid contact with those running high temperature or anyone who has developed COVID-like symptoms. Follow social distancing and avoid social gatherings. Expectant women should maintain good hygiene. They should take a healthy, immunity-boosting diet including adequate quantities of fruits, green vegetables, high protein, and other foods recommended by their doctors. Expectant mothers infected with COVID-19 do not have any increased risk during delivery, compared to a non-COVID woman. While there is not much data about Covid-19 during early pregnancies, for late pregnancies, the Sion Hospital in Mumbai registered about 100 infected mothers delivering healthy babies. All such newborns tested negative for Covid-19 and their mothers have been doing well since. COVID-infected pregnant women should not stress themselves. They should just follow government advice and regulations such as calling the maternity unit in advance to inform them about their arrival and declaration of the disease to the doctors. Infected expectant mothers should self-isolate at an early stage and practice aggressive infection control, including wearing a mask. Monitoring fetal movements and uterine contraction should be done often to ensure that the child is doing well. COVID-19 positive pregnant patients have no need to panic as the recovery rate is well above 90%. (The writer is a Laparoscopic Surgeon and Fertility Specialist, Medical Director, Radhakrishna Multispecialty Hospital and IVF Center, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/pregnancy-during-covid-19-848142.html
11-06-2020||Right in the Middle||The leveller||Man seems to be overwhelmed by the formidable coronavirus.It sees neither caste, creed, community, religion, race, language, political leaning nor social status. The high and mighty have had to bear the brunt.  Suddenly, everyone has a lot of time at hand to take up all the neglected tasks. Parents are spending quality time with their children. With no help, people are taking to cleaning, cooking and, not to mention, bake. I baked my own birthday cake, something that hadn’t happened hitherto. There were a few initial glitches but under the tutelage of my mother, the carrot cinnamon cake tasted nice. I am now spreading my wings and am trying to make pav bhaji and pizzas, to mention my few culinary adventures. This set me thinking. Is this a purely bleak scenario? On the brighter side, noise pollution and crime rates have fallen. The air quality has improved. Birdlife has also seen a significant change. I get up in the morning to birds chirping. Earlier, I had to depend on the alarm on my mobile to wake me up from slumber. Now the incessant chirping wakes me up. I lie in bed savouring the moment. As I water the plants, hitherto unseen sparrows splash themselves in the watered flower beds. There are bright butterflies hovering over the flowers. A pair of squirrels have started running on our boundary wall, unfazed by the street dogs. At four in the evening, the koel begins cuckooing relentlessly. One day, after evening tea, I heard a nonstop cacophony which I thought warranted investigation. Maybe, I had left the tap open and water was spilling over. I went outside, only to discover that it was the birds who were having a whale of a time singing away to glory in the neighbourhood park across the road. Not to mention, the joy I found on sighting a tiny bird as long as my forefinger with a golden beak and yellow body. It was uncommonly beautiful. It perched itself on the branches of the hedge. It was there and then gone making me realise that God has made ‘all things bright and beautiful, all creatures great and small’ but we do not have the time ‘to stand and stare’. Time is so much at premium, that we do not cherish God’s creations present all around us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-leveller-848140.html
11-06-2020||Second Edit||Rajya Sabha choices: BJP does it better||The BJP national leadership’s decision to nominate two virtually unknown but long-standing party workers to contest the Rajya Sabha elections from Karnataka could turn out to be a masterstroke as it is bound to inspire ordinary party workers by kindling new hope that their hard work could be rewarded someday. On the other hand, Congress and JD(S), by their choice of two old warhorses, Mallikarjun Kharge and H D Deve Gowda, have once again proved that they are incapable of thinking beyond their current crop of leaders, spent forces as they are, and infusing new life into their parties. No wonder they are unable to inspire commitment in their rank and file. Both BJP candidates, Ashok Gasti from the backward Savitha community and Eranna Kadadi, a Lingayat, have risen from the ranks, having worked for the party for over three decades. The rejection of the list of candidates submitted by the state unit is seen as a snub to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, while signalling the growing influence of party national general secretary and RSS ideologue BL Santosh, who has emerged as the pointsman of the BJP central leadership in Karnataka. But that’s the party’s internal affair and power dynamic. Both Kharge, 77, and Gowda, 87, towering figures as they are in their own parties, lost the Lok Sabha elections last year. In short, they were rejected by the people. And, they are at the fag end of their extended political careers. While a case may be made that the Upper House would benefit from their experience, for the two political parties to persist with them rather than give the next generation of leaders a chance is political hara-kiri. By their choice of candidates, the two parties have demonstrated that political advancement is only for the entitled class while loyal and committed party workers will have to remain satisfied playing the role of ladders and crutches to their ‘leaders’ forever. The contrast in the message that goes out from the BJP to its workers and that from Congress and JD(S) to theirs is hard to miss.    The criticism that the BJP’s “novice” nominees will turn out be “yes men” is unfair to the two. After all, the same holds good for nearly all elected representatives, irrespective of the party. For that matter, BJP MPs from Karnataka have proved so meek that they have not mustered the courage to question the central leadership over the government’s failure to announce flood relief on time, the delay in release of GST compensation and reduction in the devolution of funds due to the state. A silver lining, this time, however, is that all the Rajya Sabha candidates hail from Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rajya-sabha-choices-bjp-does-it-better-848135.html
11-06-2020||South||One more person succumbs to COVID-19 in Kerala||With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths in Kerala reached 19, including a native of Mahe, which is part of Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-person-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-kerala-848197.html
11-06-2020||South||Get ready to learn new English spellings for Tamil Nadu cities||What is in a name? Well, there are a lot, at least to 1,018 cities, towns, and areas within cities in Tamil Nadu. As part of an initiative taken up in 2018 to change anglicised names of cities and towns to their original names in Tamil and altering their English spelling, the government has now released an order effecting changes.   Accordingly, Coimbatore, the industrial city known as Manchester of South India, is now Koyampuththoor, the port city of Tuticorin is Thooththukkudi and Vellore is now Veeloor. Ninety-six localities in Chennai, including Mylapore, Guindy, Saidapet, Ambattur, and Meenambakkam, have also undergone changes in the way their names are written in English. Mylapore is now Mayilaappoor, Guindy is Gindi, Saidapet is Saithaappettai, Ambattur is Ambaththoor, and Meenambakkam that houses the city’s airport has added an extra ‘a’ to be written as Meenambaakkam. The changes were made in April in the form of a Government Order and were released on June 10 by the government. The order says district collectors and a high-level committee headed by Tamil Development Minister ‘MaFoi’ K Pandiarajan looked into the issue and came up with new names or spellings. The municipal authorities in the state will now be tasked with the job of making changes in official documents. The order also became a major topic of discussion on social media, especially Twitter, with netizens wondering how they would remember these spellings while writing names of the cities. “The renaming of anglicised names into Tamil is another exercise in waste and an ill-timed move. If the Govt had wanted only Tamil names, it should have concentrated on removing use of Sanskrit words from Tamil names & literatures. That would have made Tamil richer and purer,” a woman who tweets via @TamizhRatsaschi wrote on Twitter. The renaming of anglicised names into Tamil is another exercise in waste and an ill timed move. If the Govt had wanted only Tamil moves, it should have concentrated on removing use of Sanskrit words from Tamil names & literatures. That would have made Tamil richer and purer. Political analyst Sumanth C Raman also said the move would not solve any problem. “Is this really important, especially in the middle of a pandemic??? How do people remember how many 'A' s each of these names have when they write them? And what problem does it really solve?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/get-ready-to-learn-new-english-spellings-for-tamil-nadu-cities-848232.html
11-06-2020||South||NGT issues notice to Centre, Telangana govt on plea alleging pollution by pharma companies||The National Green Tribunal has sought response from the Centre, Telanagana government and others on a plea alleging pollution by pharmaceutical companies in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district in the state. A bench comprising Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta issued notices to Union of India, state government, State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Divi's Laboratories Pvt Ltd, Srini Pharmaceuticals, Maruti Cottex Ltd and others while seeking their replies before August 21. The green panel also formed a committee to probe the matter "in order to get a true picture" and asked it to inspect the area in question and submit a factual and action taken report (ATR) in two months. The committee comprises a senior officer dealing with pharmaceutical matters from Regional Office, Chennai, Central Pollution Control Board, Chennai, state pollution control board, Director or a senior officer Deputed by Director, Drugs Control Administration and District Collector of Yadradri-Bhuvanagiri District. "The committee is also directed to consider the question of health hazards if any, caused on account of the functioning of the units by causing pollution by discharging the effluents or emission of gases if any, which is not in conformity with the standard provided and also suggest the remedial measures on that aspect as well," the bench said. The NGT also directed the committee to assess the environmental compensation if any violation found and whether any remedial measures have to be taken to rectify the degradation caused to soil or water. The tribunal's direction came on a plea filed by Kalushya Parikshana Samithi alleging pollution caused by the pharmaceutical companies situated in Yadadri at Bhuvanagiri district. According to the plea, filed through advocate Sravan Kumar, these pharma companies are not complying with the pollution laws. The plea claimed that the companies are not properly maintaining the Effluent Treatment Systems and sought setting aside of approvals granted to them for violating causing severe pollution in Choutuppal area of Yadadri Bhuvanagiri District.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ngt-issues-notice-to-centre-telangana-govt-on-plea-alleging-pollution-by-pharma-companies-848276.html
11-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Sabarimala temple to not reopen for devotees from June 14 as Kerala govt revokes decision||Last week, the state government decided to allow devotees to Sabarimala from June 14 by following safety measures against COVID-19 and strictly restricting the number of devotees through online booking. The temple was scheduled to be opened for devotees from June 14 to June 28 for the monthly pujas and annual festival, which was postponed once earlier. In view of the concerns raised by the tantri on Wednesday, Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday convened a meeting with the tantri and president of the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple. He said after the meeting that the government accepted the concerns raised by the tantri and hence, the decision to allow devotees from June 14 was put off. Fresh dates for allowing devotees will be decided later. He also added that there was no rift between the government or Devaswom Board and the tantri. He said that the earlier decision to allow devotees was taken after consultation with tantris. But the tantri expressed the fresh concerns in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases.  The tantri also said that there was no rift with the government. He pointed out that even as the government was taking safety measures and even insisting on a COVID-19 negative certificate from pilgrims from other states, the chances of COVID-19-infected persons from other states reaching the temple could not be ruled out. Hence, he suggested that the decision to allow devotees from June 14 should be reviewed. The BJP Kerala leadership has been protesting against the government's decision to reopen temples for devotees. They alleged that the government was eyeing at revenue from the temple. BJP also strongly backed the tantri's demand not to allow devotees from June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-sabarimala-temple-to-not-reopen-for-devotees-from-june-14-as-kerala-govt-revokes-decision-848279.html
11-06-2020||South||Veteran RSS pracharak R Venugopal passes away||Senior RSS pracharak and former working president of the BMS, R Venugopal, passed away at a private hospital here late on Wednesday due to age-related ailments, Sangh Parivar sources said. He was 96. Born in the famous Nilambur Royal family in north Kerala in 1925, Vengupal completed his higher studies from Government Victoria College, Palakkad, and Banaras Hindu University. He became RSS Pracharak in 1946 and was instrumental in the growth of several Sangh organisations like BMS, Sahakar Bharathi and Kesari magazine, the sources said. Venugopal, a follower of late RSS leader P Parameswaran, was also involved in the organisational activities of Bharathiya Janasangham in 1960s. He became the organisation secretary of Bharathiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) in 1967 and also was its working president. Venugopal also represented India in the International Labour Organisation (ILO) twice. The body was taken to Madhav Niwas, the RSS state headquarters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veteran-rss-pracharak-r-venugopal-passes-away-848280.html
11-06-2020||South||SC takes note of COVID-19 infection among children in shelter homes||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked all the state governments to spell out measures being undertaken to prevent infection of coronavirus among juveniles kept at the protection homes. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat also asked the Tamil Nadu government to explain how 35 out of 57 children got infected with the COVID-19 in a protection home at Royapuram, Chennai. The court directed the Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Tamil Nadu and secretary to Social Welfare Department to submit a report giving details of the reasons for the spread of COVID-19 in the said protection home.  "The status of the health of children in conflict with law in various protection homes in Tamil Nadu shall be given in the report which shall be submitted by 15.06.2020," the bench ordered. The court also pointed out that it had in a Suo Motu matter on April 3, 2020 dealt with all issues pertaining to children in conflict with law and issued several directions to the state governments for taking preventive measures to protect children from the spread of COVID-19. The court issued fresh questionnaire seeking response from all the state governments. It said the Juvenile Justices Committees of the High Courts should ensure that the state governments provide the information before June 30. On April 3, the court has directed the authorities to consider releasing on bail all those children, who were kept in observation homes on being found in conflict with the law, as COVID-19 was intensifying in the country. The court has also said that urgent measures need to be taken on priority to prevent the spread of the virus to Child Care Institutions (CCIs).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-takes-note-of-covid-19-infection-among-children-in-shelter-homes-848299.html
11-06-2020||South||Why can't Chennai alone be under coronavirus lockdown, Madras HC asks Tamil Nadu government||Observing that the COVID-19 situation in the city and its suburbs is alarming in view of rising cases, the Madras High Court on Thursday asked why can't complete lockdown be implemented for some time to contain the spread of the pandemic. Despite the steps taken by the Tamil Nadu government to contain COVID-19 spread, every day the number of cases is "steeply rising and the situation has become alarming" particularly in the metropolis and its outskirts, a bench of justices Vineet Kothari and R Suresh Kumar said. "Therefore, we want to know whether the government has devised any special scheme, which includes complete lockdown or curfew to contain the spread in Chennai and surrounding areas for sometime," the judges asked state government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan during the virtual court proceedings after concluding listed cases. The judges made it clear they raised the question about lockdown as citizens of the state and the city in the interest of public and were not initiating any public interest litigation (PIL) proceedings 'suo motu' (on its own). With nearly 26,000 cases, the metropolis accounts for over 70 percent of the state's tally and the rising number of deaths (326) too worried the court. Responding to the court's query, the pleader sought time till Friday for getting instructions from the government, if any.  However, he pointed to guidelines issued when the government extended the lockdown till June 30 in the state and announced various relaxations, including allowing public transport in other parts of the state. "No further decision has been taken. I will get instructions from the special officer J Radhakrishnan, who has been appointed to coordinate COVID-19 work in Chennai, and other officials on the latest development by tomorrow," the pleaded added. In the latest lockdown relaxations, the state government has allowed the functioning of shops, dine-in services in hotels and private sector offices with more workforce, but barred public transport buses and trains in the city and neighbouring three districts where the case load is high. The government has recently appointed a group of ministers to monitor containment activities in the city. Adjoining districts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur, where the city's suburbs fall, have also reported large number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-cant-chennai-alone-be-under-coronavirus-lockdown-madras-hc-asks-tamil-nadu-government-848352.html
11-06-2020||South||Maras HC directs Tamil Nadu doctor to move ICMR on drug for COVID-19||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed a doctor in Tamil Nadu to make a fresh representation to the Indian Council of Medical Research on his claim that a particular drug can be used to treat COVID-19 patients. Disposing of a petition by Dr Vasantha Kumar from Krishnagiri district, a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and R Suresh Kumar also directed concerned authorities to grant him an opportunity to present his case and pass appropriate orders, as expeditiously as possible. Vasantha Kumar in his petition submitted that he has authored an article on the use of 'beta-adrenergic blockers,' medications used for reducing blood pressure, in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. He further submitted that he had examined in detail the nature of coronavirus and its effects on the human body and the possible cure for it. He had requested a discussion on the subject for the benefit of public at large and sent a communique to the Union Health department and ICMR. In his article, he proposed that beta-adrenergic blockers may be beneficial in coronavirus patients with hypertension co morbidity, by regulation of blood pressure and decreasing SARS-CoV-2 cellular entry. In low doses, beta-adrenergic blockers may be beneficial in COVID-19 patients with normal blood pressure, as it may decrease the SARS- CoV-2 entry into the cell. The petitioner said as there was no response from the Journals to which he sent his articles, he proceeded to publish it online. Though he made representations to the ICMR to consider the importance of the concept proposed in his article and conduct clinical trial at the earliest, there was no response. When the plea came up before the bench through video conference, the doctor claimed that the drug would stop the symptoms and not allow it to develop into fever. Noting that the cost of the drug would be less than Rs 2 and the poor would benefit from it, the petitioner said as he has not received any response even from ICMR till date, he was constrained to approach the Court. He prayed for a direction from the Court to ICMR to consider the importance of the concept proposed in his article and to conduct a clinical trial. The bench disposed of the petition after recording the submissions of Additional Solicitor General G Rajagopalan appearing for the Centre and the counsel for ICMR that the representation of the petitioner would be considered in accordance with the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maras-hc-directs-tamil-nadu-doctor-to-move-icmr-on-drug-for-covid-19-848401.html
11-06-2020||South||Mettur Dam to be opened for cultivation of short-term crop on June 12||For the first time in over a decade, the sluice gates of the 86-year-old Stanley Reservoir in Mettur will be thrown open on June 12 (Friday), the customary date for the opening of the dam, for irrigation in the fertile Cauvery Delta region. In 2011, the dam, for the first time in the history of free India, was opened on June 6, almost a week ahead of the traditional date for opening. The last time the dam opened on June 12 was in 2008. Mettur dam is the lifeline of lakhs of farmers in the Delta region that is spread across Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, and parts of Pudukkottai districts. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is expected to throw open the sluice gates of the Stanley Reservoir, built in 1934 during the British regime, on Friday. Opening of the dam on June 12 is music to the ears of lakhs of farmers as they hope to cultivate kuruvai (short-term) crop in an area of about 5 lakh acre for the first time since 2011. The area shrunk to just over 1 lakh acres in the past few years due to non-release of Cauvery water in June -- only farmers who have borewell connection could cultivate the short-term crop. The task of opening the dam on June 12 could be achieved this year due to good rains in the state and in the catchment areas of Cauvery in Karnataka, from where the river begins its journey before it merges into the sea near Poompuhar in Tamil Nadu. The dam’s water level has been hovering around 100 feet – the maximum capacity is 120 feet – for the past six months, which according to farmers, is a good sign as they can get uninterrupted supply for cultivation of kuruvai (short-term crop). At 4 pm on Thursday, the dam’s water level stood at 101.70 feet and water storage at 67.089 tmcft. ‘Cauvery’ Dhanapalan, General Secretary of Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, told DH that cultivation of paddy in an area of 5 lakh acres would ensure production of 10 to 15 lakh tonnes of food grain. “Also, cultivation of kuruvai crop will ensure that people get employment even during the Covid-19 crisis, besides taking care of the food security in difficult times,” Dhanapalan said. ‘Mannargudi’ S Ranganathan, general secretary of Cauvery Delta Farmers Association, said release of water from Mettur Dam on June 12 is “rarest of the rare occasion” and expressed the hope that the South-West Monsoon’s behaviour in catchment areas would be favourable for farmers. “We are in a very good season and I am really happy that the dam is being opened on June 12 after a very long time. We just hope we get uninterrupted supply of water for irrigation till kuruvai is completed,” Ranganathan, one of the first to take the Cauvery river water sharing issue to the Supreme Court, told DH. Dhanapalan also said the government should ensure that the water released from Mettur reaches all tail-end areas in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, and Tiruvarur districts, which still remains a challenge. “The government has taken the right step of desilting lakes and water bodies, but the amount allotted is not sufficient. When all other industry has shut during the Covid-19 lockdown, it is only farmers who entered the field to ensure people continue to have food on their plate. Water should reach every tail-end area in the region and the government should ensure this,” Dhanapalan said. June 12 was set as the date for opening the sluice gates of Mettur dam decades ago, keeping in mind onset of South-West monsoon in Kerala on May 31 and a few days later in Karnataka. This would ensure that the sowing is over by the end of June and the short-term crop can be harvested in early October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mettur-dam-to-be-opened-for-cultivation-of-short-term-crop-on-june-12-848443.html
11-06-2020||South||83 new COVID-19 cases in Kerala; 62 persons recovered||While 83 more persons were tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala on Thursday, 62 persons recovered. One more person, a native of Kannur who recently returned from abroad, died on Wednesday evening after being tested COVID-19 positive. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that even as the state commenced antibody test over the last few days, no community spread was found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/83-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-62-persons-recovered-848466.html
11-06-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan alleges of planned moves against government||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleged of deliberate attack against the government over allowing devotees to temples. What would have been the reaction if the government did not allow temples and other worship centers to open even after the centre allowed worship centres to reopen for devotees, he asked. Indirectly referring to the row over Sabarimala women entry issue, he said that some sort of coordinated attack against the government that the state witnessed earlier was quite evident now also. Those who were now opposing the government decision to allow devotees would have protested if the government decided not to reopen temples. The state government decided to open worship centres as per centre's guidelines and holding discussions with religious leaders, said Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-alleges-of-planned-moves-against-government-848478.html
11-06-2020||South||Telangana's COVID-19 facility readied on war-footing waiting for bigger spike in cases to start services||A special COVID-19 hospital of 1500 beds, the Telangana government has “readied within three weeks” is lying unused of the purpose, over fifty days since its inauguration. The sports complex building turned into a hospital on a war footing had drawn comparisons with a hospital China has supposedly built in Wuhan in 10 days. However, the facility located in Hyderabad’s IT hub Gachibowli declared as open from 20 April has not treated even one COVID-19 patient till now. This is even as Telangana is reporting an alarming number of cases every day - 191 fresh cases on Wednesday. While the state has a total 4111 infected cases, 2138 are active. At the same time, doctors at the Gandhi Hospital, the nodal COVID-19 treatment hospital in Telangana, are complaining that they are overburdened by the case load. About 300 junior doctors are on protest, boycotting their duties since Tuesday night after an assault on one of them by a COVID-19 dead patient’s attendant. Besides 24x7 safety and security, the agitating doctors are demanding “a decentralized system of COVID-19 patient treatment.” “We are absolutely clueless as to why the government is not making use of the Gachibowli COVID-19 hospital. It would ease a lot of pressure as we are working continuously for over three months now, under stressful conditions,” a Gandhi junior doctor told DH. Moreover, complaints with videos on social media allege lack of adequate facilities like toilets in the “crowded” Gandhi Hospital. Health officials claimed that they have equipped the Gachibowli hospital with all amenities and even showcased the facility to the inter-ministerial central team on COVID-19 inspection in Telangana. Speaking to DH, state’s director of health Srinivasa Rao says that Gachibowli hospital would be used for COVID-19 treatment “when needed, when cases further surge.” “But situation in Telangana now is not like in Delhi or Mumbai. So, there is no such necessity. Our COVID-19 treatment, at present, is centered at Gandhi since we wanted an integrated approach. Distributing patients in different locations would pose logistical, monitoring etc., challenges,” Dr Rao said. While Dr Rao says that Gandhi has not more than 300 COVID-19 patients now, “since asymptomatic patients are being sent home,” junior doctors are contesting the figure. Citizens are questioning the state’s move of sending asymptomatic patients away instead of utilizing the Gachibowli COVID-19 hospital for speedier, observational recovery. A few doctors at this hospital are reportedly providing Out-Patient services for a trickle of non-COVID-19 patients, from the last few days. According to Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao, the “Centre for COVID-19” annexed to the Osmania General Hospital will continue services as the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, once the pandemic is over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telanganas-covid-19-facility-readied-on-war-footing-waiting-for-bigger-spike-in-cases-to-start-services-848483.html
11-06-2020||South||New guidelines for quarantine, containment zones in Kerala||Kerala has come out with new guidelines for COVID-19 related quarantine and redefined rules for declaring fresh containment zones as more people are expected to come to the state in the coming days. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, quoting experts, said the virus would not disappearsoon, hence it was difficult to predict when the intensity of its spread would decrease. So far, 2.19 lakh people have arrived in the state, of whom 38,871 (17.71 per cent) were from abroad and 1.80 lakh (82.29 per cent) fromother states and 63.63 per cent from the red zones. As 63.63 per cent of those returning to Kerala from other states are from the red zones, the quarantine guidelines are being revised as per the recommendation of an expert committee,he said. As per the new guidelines, those coming from abroad can go home after giving an affidavit, but they have to strictly follow the quarantine conditions failing which police would take legal action against the violators, he said. The local self-government institutions, police, COVID-19 care centre's nodal officer, district collector and other officials would be intimated about the decision and alerted before the person starts from the airport and the officials would follow up on whether the person has reached their respective home quarantine. The local self-government bodies should ensure that there are necessary facilities at home for quarantine,he said adding: Institutional quarantine was only for those who do not have such a facility at home. Paid quarantine is for those who opt to stay in hotels. The Chief Minister announced some changes also for the definition of the containment zones. The zone would be notified before midnight. In the panchayats, the containment zone may be declared at the ward-level and at the sub-ward level in the Corporation. They can be defined at the local-level based on the number of positive cases for people under quarantine, primary contacts and secondary contacts. Initially, a containment zone was declared for seven days which can be extended after review by the district Collector, Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-guidelines-for-quarantine-containment-zones-in-kerala-848497.html
11-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh government nod for 10,000 MW mega solar power project||The Andhra Pradesh cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal to set up a 10,000 megawatt (MW) mega solar power project to ensure uninterrupted 9-hour power supply to farmers during the daytime, besides establishing an Integrated Renewable Energy Project (IREP). In a statement, Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkataramaiah said as part of the IREP, 550 MW of wind power, 1200 MW of hydropower and 1000MW of solar power would be generated. Under the Green Energy Development Charge, the State government would be earning a revenue of Rs 32 crores, it said. Earlier during the TDP regime, the government had paid only Rs 2.5 lakh per acre for the project, but the current government has decided to award Rs 5 lakh per acre. Besides, the state cabinet has cleared the detailed project report (DPR) of the Ramayapatnam port project, which would be completed in five phases with an estimated budget of Rs 3,736 crore in the first phase of works. The cabinet also gave the green signal for the establishment of Andhra Pradesh State Directorate of Revenue Intelligence to monitor tax evasions by granting 55 posts. The Outsourcing Corporation would be strengthened to avoid middlemen in recruitments, the statement said. In addition to these, the cabinet also gave approval for filling up vacant posts in nursing colleges across the state, reinstating 'Sannidhi Golla' in Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams and setting up of Tribal engineering college under the Jawaharlal Nehru technological university Kakinada (JNTUK) at an estimated budget of Rs 153 crore. The government also approved for providing 385 acres of land to the greyhounds training campus in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-nod-for-10000-mw-mega-solar-power-project-848498.html
11-06-2020||South||Cauvery Authority asks Karnataka to release water to Tamil Nadu||The Cauvery  Water Management Authority has asked Karnataka to release June and July quota of water to Tamil Nadu.   The Authority under the chairmanship of Central Water Commission incharge Chairman R K Jain met through video conference. The panel asked Karnataka to release 9.19 tmc feet water in June and 31.23 tmc feet of water in July as per the quota fixed by the Supreme Court.  The meeting was attended by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala officials through video conference.  Generally, before monsoon starts, the panel meets to decide the quantum of water to be released by Karnataka to lower riparian state of Cauvery basin during monsoon.  However, the Authority has not taken up the Mekedatu Irrigation Project issue for discussion as demanded by Karnataka. Though Karnataka insisted for discussion, Tamil Nadu opposed it. Then chairman decided not to take up the matter for discussion, sources said.  Karnataka plans to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu in Kanakapura taluk to store excess water. However, Tamil Nadu opposed the project and damanded the Centre to scrap it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cauvery-authority-asks-karnataka-to-release-water-to-tamil-nadu-848507.html
11-06-2020||South||Now, 14-day quarantine for those who get tested for Covid-19 in Chennai||As this metropolis struggles with 27,398 Coronavirus patients, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Thursday announced that anyone who undergoes Covid-19 test irrespective of their result will be quarantined for 14 days along with family members. The announcement came as the city recorded 1,407 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the number to 27,398. The city has been reporting over 1,000 cases for the past few days even as the testing numbers are being increased by the Health Department. The latest move seems to be a desperate measure to control the spread of the virus even as demands grew for a complete lockdown within Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpattu for a few days at least. While announcing that the person whose swab samples are collected will be quarantined along with the family, GCC Commissioner G Prakash said those under quarantine can seek help from 6,000 workers who fan out across the city to help such people. Despite the increase in cases and doctors treating patients categorically coming out to say community transmission has begun in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami Over half of the 27,398 cases come from six zones that house some of the most over-populated areas in the city like Royapuram and Thiru. VI. Ka. Nagar. Though the cases are increasing, and testing being ramped up, officials rue non-cooperation from the public, who they say, refuse to wear masks in public and do not follow other precautions. The day also saw the state recording 1,875 new cases, 52 less than Wednesday’s figure, taking the tally in the state to 38,716. And, the government reported the biggest single-day spike in death by announcing that 23 people lost their lives in the past 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 349. However, the number of samples tested came down from Wednesday’s 17,676 to 16,829 on Thursday. Meanwhile, the state government decided to distribute cloth masks to all families that have ration cards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/now-14-day-quarantine-for-those-who-get-tested-for-covid-19-in-chennai-848510.html
11-06-2020||South||Jagan cabinet nods for CBI inquiry into alleged irregularities during Naidu regime||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has approved a cabinet sub-committee recommendation for a CBI probe into the irregularities in the AP Fibernet and other projects during the previous TDP regime. After the cabinet meeting on Thursday, I & PR minister Perni Venkatramaiah told reporters that the sub-committee which probed the alleged irregularities found a large number of anomalies driven by nepotism, in the AP Fibernet Project. "The project was allotted to unqualified people and companies, very close to the TDP leadership, and nearly Rs 200 crore of corruption has taken place in its execution. Even during the distribution of set top boxes, four companies were invited by the government to share the contract, but one firm was given the entire distribution work,” the minister said.   The AP Fibernet project, initiated under Chandrababu Naidu as the CM, was to lay the optical fiber grid in the state, covering villages.     “Similarly, in welfare schemes like Chandranna Sankranti Kanuka, Ramzan Tofa, and Christmas Kanuka, irregularities were found in the procurement of supplies and nearly Rs 150 crore of corruption was identified in the preliminary investigation. Purchases, including milk products, were made in an arbitrary manner.  On all these irregularities, the cabinet has decided for CBI enquiry for a thorough investigation,” Perni said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-cabinet-nods-for-cbi-inquiry-into-alleged-irregularities-during-naidu-regime-848545.html
11-06-2020||State||Karnataka HC directs govt to submit report on burning of 90 huts||The Karnataka High Court expressed concern over the burning of over 90 sheds of migrant workers at a slum near Kacharakanahalli and asked the government to explain why no action has been taken against the perpetrators. The court said the burning of the sheds was unfortunate and directed the government to give reasons for not initiating action against those responsible for the incident. A division bench led by Chief Justice Abhay S Oka was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation taken up based on a letter written by advocate Vaishali Hegde. "It is unfortunate that huts were burnt by taking advantage of the restrictions of lockdown. The government needs to take this matter seriously. Why no action has been initiated against the perpetrators even as more than 90 huts were burnt," the bench asked. The court directed the government to submit a report by June 24, explaining the reason for inaction. It also told the court to submit a report prepared by the Fire and Emergency Department. In addition, the court asked the government to clarify whether the land on which the huts stood was part of the lake and directed that the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) should be made a respondent in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-directs-govt-to-submit-report-on-burning-of-90-huts-848525.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||U-turn: Tests on dead with SARI to continue||In a U-turn, the state health department on Wednesday issued an order for continuing COVID-19 tests on the dead with a history of ILI and SARI.   The media on Tuesday had reported the department’s decision to stop testing the dead with history of ILI (influenza-like illness) or SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) symptoms for COVID-19, and about the effect it has on contact tracing and portrayal of false mortality rate in the state.  “Swabs will be taken within six hours of death for testing. If the test result comes positive for COVID-19, all close contacts will be tested as primary contacts. The state is committed to testing more and control transmission of COVID-19,” a statement from the health department said.  The department faced bitter criticism for its earlier decision with experts and Opposition party leaders slamming the state government. Leader of the Opposition and former chief minister Siddaramaiah said, “The government’s decision to stop testing the dead for COVID-19 raises several doubts. It cannot be ruled out that it was a deliberate attempt to hide the COVID-19 mortality rate in the state.” According to the statistics released by the state COVID-19 war room on Wednesday, about 65% of patients above 60 years who are COVID positive die if they have SARI. Hence, persons who are elderly or who have SARI must reach a designated COVID hospital at the earliest. So far, 30 people with SARI and six people with ILI have died in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/u-turn-tests-on-dead-with-sari-to-continue-848124.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka opens up agricultural land purchase for all||In a big policy move, the Cabinet on Thursday decided to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act that will allow anyone to own agricultural land.  The Cabinet also decided to tweak the law to increase the cap on how much agricultural land a person can own.   Thus far, non-agriculturists could not purchase agricultural property. Even those from an agricultural background could not purchase farm land if their annual non-agricultural income exceeded Rs 25 lakh. Also, only educational, religious institutions, companies, cooperative societies among other exceptions could purchase agricultural land.  The Cabinet has decided to repeal Sections 79 (a), (b), (c) and 80 from the Land Reforms Act, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters.  "There are many techies, for instance, who have earned well and are keen on investing in agriculture. On one hand, owing to the existing restrictions, many of those interested are unable to buy land. On the other hand, even agriculturists are unable to get the right price for their land. Repealing these sections will ensure a good price for land. It will also make the documentation process simpler," Madhuswamy explained.  The government will not promulgate an ordinance for this. An amendment Bill will be introduced in the next session of the legislature, he said.  The existing provisions worked against the interests of the public, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said. "These restrictions have only enabled people to harass buyers, ending up in litigation. In the last 45 years, about 83,171 cases have been registered for violation of provisions under Sections 79 (a) and (b). About 12,231 cases are still pending in court. Moreover, even in cases where the verdict was in favour of the government, we've not been able to recover more than 1% of the land," he said.  In addition, deputy commissioners can enable transfer of land to non-agriculturists based on certain specifications. This paved way for misuse and fraud, the government said. Now, even this provision will be repealed. "Anyone can buy land in Telangana. We want to create the same atmosphere here. This will also help investments," Madhuswamy said, adding that many Indian states had done away with such provisions.   He further pointed out that ever since Section 109 was inserted into the Act - it deals with investors or industries purchasing agricultural land directly from farmers - the other provisions had become ineffective anyway.   The Cabinet decided to amend Section 63 of the Act, to increase the ceiling on land holding from 10 units to 20 units for an individual without family or a family up to four people; and from 20 units to 40 units for large families above five people. One unit is 5.4 acres.  The Cabinet decision was based on the recommendations of a sub-committee headed by Ashoka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-opens-up-agricultural-land-purchase-for-all-848465.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Have symptoms? Get checked right away: Minister||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday lamented that people with COVID-19 symptoms were checking into hospitals too late for them to be given effective treatment.  “Effective treatment is possible only if people get treatment at an early stage,” Sudhakar, who is in-charge of Covid-19 in Bengaluru, told reporters. “Elderly people with symptoms, and those showing signs of influenza-like illness should visit fever clinics immediately.”  Of the total 581 COVID-19 positive cases reported in Bengaluru so far, 299 have been discharged, whereas 258 are active. “So far, 50% of the cases in the city have recovered and 97% of the remaining cases are asymptomatic. Only 3% cases are undergoing special treatment,” Sudhakar said.  As many as 800 teams will be formed under the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to conduct a door-to-door survey, Sudhakar said, urging citizens to cooperate for the survey.  The number of COVID-19 containment zones has increased to 113, but this was nothing to worry about, Sudhakar said. “Earlier, the entire ward or a 1-km radius around the infected person’s house was considered as a containment zone. Now, the definition of containment zone has been revised, confining it to the house of an infected person,” Sudhakar explained.  With non-COVID patients struggling to get treatment, Sudhakar said the government had decided to open up hospitals for them in a phased manner. “Initially, Bowring Hospital will be opened for treatment of non-COVID patients,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/have-symptoms-get-checked-right-away-minister-848524.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Cancel online classes up to PUC’||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah has advised the state government to cancel online classes up to PUC  and open schools only after October. Speaking to reporters here, he welcomed the cancellation of the online classes up to class 5. "Online class is not the proper way to educate students. I have been opposing online classes since the beginning,” he said. Siddaramaiah said, "The schools must be opened only after October and the government must take all precautionary measures before opening schools."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cancel-online-classes-up-to-puc-848526.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No grant-in-aid to education institutions in 2020-21||The state government will not provide grant-in-aid status to any of the education institutions for 2020-21 academic year. In an order issued the government said that, "Considering the financial crisis the state is undergoing it has decided not to give grant-in-aid facility to any of the education institutions in the state for 2020-21 academic year." Further, it has also mentioned that the institutions which have already got the status, are not allowed to fill any of the vacancy under the grant-in-aid until further notification from the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-grant-in-aid-to-education-institutions-in-2020-21-848530.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Comed-K entrance exam put off||The Comed-K Undergraduate Entrance Test (UGET)-2020, scheduled to be held on June 27, has been postponed to July 25. Considering that the Class 12 board exams will go on till the second week of July, the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (Comed-K) has decided to postpone the exams by a month.  Comed-K UGET is a gateway for admission to undergraduate engineering courses at private engineering colleges in Karnataka.  The consortium has also decided to extend the last date to submit applications and also to provide edit options for candidates to choose the centres nearest to them considering the COVID-19 pandemic. The new applications will be accepted from June 14 to 17. Those wish to edit and update their test centres can do the same from June 18 to June 21 said an official communication from Comed-K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/comed-k-entrance-exam-put-off-848533.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Release June, July quota of Cauvery water to TN, says Karnataka||The Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) has asked Karnataka to release June and July quota of water to Tamil Nadu. The CWMA meeting presided over by Central Water Commission in-charge Chairman R K Jain asked Karnataka to release 9.19 tmcft water in June and 31.23 tmcft in July to Tamil Nadu as per the quota fixed by the Supreme Court. The meeting was attended by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala officials through video conference. Normally, the panel meets before the onset of monsoon to decide the quantum of water to be released by Karnataka to the lower riparian state. The Authority did not take up the Mekedatu Irrigation Project issue for discussion. Karnataka insisted for discussion, but Tamil Nadu opposed it, sources said. Karnataka plans to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu in Kanakapura taluk to store excess water. However, Tamil Nadu has opposed it citing that the proposed reservoir would impound the uncontrolled intermediate flows between KRS, Kabini and Biligundlu as it would deprive the state (Tamil Nadu) of monthly flows for irrigation in the crucial months from June to September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/release-june-july-quota-of-cauvery-water-to-tn-says-karnataka-848534.html
11-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||RERA: Cabinet clears model sales pact||The Cabinet has finally passed the model sales agreement under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, after two years. The model sales agreement will ensure uniformity across all agreements. Beginning from car parking space to the down payment for a house and payment of damages, it will be a binding document for both the builders and buyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rera-cabinet-clears-model-sales-pact-848535.html
11-06-2020||West||One-fourth of India's coronavirus cases are from Mumbai||In what rings alarm bells,  the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) now accounts for one-fourth of the COVID-19 cases in India.  A comparative analysis of the cases in India with Mumbai and MMR reveals that 20 to 25 per cent of cases in India are from India's financial capital and its suburbs. In terms of geographical area, Mumbai comprises of two districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban, which is spread over 603 sq km. On the other hand, MMR comprises Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and parts of Palghar and Raigad districts, which is spread over 6,335 sq kms. This includes the satellite township of Navi Mumbai and Vasai-Virar,  one of the fastest growing urban conglomerate of the country,  Kalyan-Dombivli and Thane city.  "Cases are rising in Mumbai's suburbs. In the last fortnight, the jump has been pretty fast but within the projections," an official said, adding that the Centre and Maharashtra government has factored in a big spike in June-July. The government has opened up road traffic between the MMR districts to give a boost to economic activities  but this has led to crowd on roads.  The government has also requested the Centre and Railway minister to start suburban train services on Central Railway and Western Railway for people engaged on essential services. In Mumbai-MMR itself, more than 60 frontline workers like policemen, doctors, nurses, wardboys and civic staff had died in the last three months. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC),  one of the biggest civic bodies, whose budget is bigger than small states/UTs is facing the biggest challenge since its inception. The BMC has requested citizens not to panic if there is a COVID-19 positive report.  As per the experts, most of the patients with mild and moderate disease recover and many with serious disease also  recover. If there are mild symptoms or no symptoms and no comorbidity, patient can remain in home  isolation if facilities are available and can follow Government guidelines of home isolations,  the officials said.  If patient is not having facilities for home isolations, he or she can be admitted in CCC-2. "In Mumbai-MMR,  more than one lakh beds have been created for quarantine, isolation and treatment," officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-fourth-of-indias-coronavirus-cases-are-from-mumbai-848351.html
11-06-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Navy ship INS Shardul brings back 233 stranded Indians from Iran||Under the Indian Navy's 'Samudra Setu' operation, naval ship 'INS Shardul' on Thursday brought back 233 Indians to Gujarat from Iran, where they were stranded due to travel restrictions in view of the coronavirus -induced lockdown. The ship set sail from Bandar Abbas port of Iran on June 8 with these 233 Indians, mostly fishermen from Valsad district of the state, and arrived at Porbandar port on Thursday, said defence PRO for Gujarat, Puneet Chadha. "The ship is docked at Porbandar port and passengers are being deboarded. The local administration has made arrangements to send them to their respective native places," said Chadha. He said safety protocols, including pre-boarding health check-up and social distancing during the journey, were followed on the ship to stop the spread of coronavirus. He added that doctors and nutritionists along with life-saving equipment were kept on the naval ship to deal with any emergency during the journey. Earlier, naval ships 'Jalashwa' and 'Magar' had evacuated 2,874 Indians from the Maldives and Sri Lanka to ports of Kochi and Tuticorin under 'Samudra Setu' operation, launched to bring back Indians stranded abroad following the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-navy-ship-ins-shardul-brings-back-233-stranded-indians-from-iran-848367.html
11-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray urged to convene meeting to finalise names for Legislative Council||The Congress and NCP in Maharashtra have urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to hold a meeting of the three ruling parties at the earliest to finalise the names of 12 members for their nomination to the Legislative Council. The parties said that the names need to be finalised soon as they need to be recommended to Governor B S Koshyari for their nomination to the council. According to a source, Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat and state NCP chief Jayant Patil have recently requested the chief minister to convene a meeting to finalise the names. "However, no decision has been taken so far," the source said. Eight members of the Upper House of the state legislature retired on June 6, while two others are set to retire on June 15 and 16. Two NCP members, whose term also ended on June 6, had quit to join the BJP last year. However, the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is yet to take a decision on finalising the names for 12 Governor-appointed members of the council. A senior Congress leader said, "It has already been decided during the formation of the MVA government that each of the three parties will get four members each. But Shiv Sena is now asking for five seats, which we will not agree at any cost." The Congress leader expressed hope that the meeting to finalise the names of the members will be held soon although Thackeray is busy in handling the COVID-19 situation in the state and providing relief to the people from coastal parts that were affected by last week's cyclone 'Nisarga'. "Finalising the names of the governor appointees is very important. The cabinet needs to make recommendation to the governor soon," he said. Meanwhile, Congress ministers in the state held a meeting to discuss the probable candidates to be nominated to the council from the governor's quota. "The other issues discussed were development works in the constituecies of Congress MLAs, appointments to the state boards and corporations," a party minister said. The Congress ministers had also met on Wednesday to discuss the policy decisions of departments, held by the party ministers, being taken without taking them into confidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-urged-to-convene-meeting-to-finalise-names-for-legislative-council-848369.html
11-06-2020||West||15-year-old scoliosis patient in Mumbai fights back||Around two months ago, 15-year-old Aishwarya Gopalakrishnan was fighting for her life on the ventilator.  Her worsening spinal curvature due to advanced scoliosis had compressed her lungs causing extremely low oxygen saturation. After a week of being on respiratory support system, complex spinal correction surgery and prolonged recovery period, the teenager has jumped back on her feet, ready to resume her academic and social life.  “Her online classes started in May but she couldn’t attend due to prolonged hospitalisation and recovery. From the first week of June, she started attending the online classes with determination to excel in her academic front. She is also able to walk with support and getting back to the routine activities,” said Gopalakrishnan, her beaming father.  Aishwarya was suffering from Scoliosis—a gradually increasing curvature of the spine that most often occurs during the growth spurt just before puberty.  However, in her case, severity of the condition was causing curvature of the spine along with frequent bouts of breathlessness.  “She had studied intensely throughout the year to excelling in the Board X exams. In-spite of the breathlessness, she attempted all subject papers with pure grit and determination. But as soon as the exam was over, we rushed her to the hospital,” said her father, Gopalakrishnan.   Post thorough clinical evaluation, the team of paediatricians diagnosed that the gradual curvature of her spine was compressing the lungs, causing the breathlessness. If not attended immediately, the condition could have been fatal.  Dr. Mihir Bapat, Director & Senior Consultant, Nanavati Institute of Spine Surgery spearheaded the team that decided to perform a complex spinal correction. “Correcting the curvature of spine was the only option to decompress her lungs and permanently stabilise the breathing function. We at Nanavati Hospital were at the forefront at forming policies for COVID as well as Non-COVID emergency procedures, which made it possible for us to perform such as critical, emergency procedure amidst the pandemic,” said Dr Bapat.   All necessary infection control procedures were put in place for the patient, staff and surgical team prior to the surgery.  Post a successful surgery, Aishwarya was gradually weaned off the ventilator and could breathe normally. Within two weeks she was able to perform her routine activities.  Speaking about the successful procedure,  Manpreet Sohal, Director & Chief Operating Officer, explained how Nanavati Hospital has managed to perform several Non-COVID lifesaving procedures while treating high number of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/15-year-old-scoliosis-patient-in-mumbai-fights-back-848395.html
11-06-2020||West||Maharashtra has set up adequate COVID-19 treatment facilities: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said that the state government has succeeded in setting up adequate number of health care facilities for treatment of COVID-19 patients in a short span. He was speaking at the inauguration of a COVID care centre developed by Wipro Limited at the Hinjawadi IT Park in Pune. "During the initial stage of the COVID-19 outbreak, the health care infrastructure in the state was not adequate. But we have now succeeded in developing enough number of facilities," the chief minister said via video-conference. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said this state-of-the-art facility would benefit the people. "The government will also spend money on raising similar facilities in rural areas of the state," he said. Wipro Chairman Rishad Premji said, "We showed interest in developing this healthcare facility on humanitarian grounds and the government responded positively to our proposal," he added.  "We are trying to provide food and medicine to the needy across the country," he added. The state government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the company to provide treatment to coronavirus patients for a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-has-set-up-adequate-covid-19-treatment-facilities-cm-uddhav-thackeray-848412.html
11-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Dead bodies becoming a cause of concern for Mumbai||The bodies of COVID-19 patients are emerging as the biggest problem in Mumbai even as the Maharashtra government and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is battling the deadly pandemic.  In the last three months, multiple issues have surfaced - dead bodies lying in COVID-19 wards at LTMG Hospital at Sion, corridor of KEM Hospital at Parel,  accumulation of bodies in morgues, disappearance of bodies, cremation without consent, relatives refusing to claim body and long queues in cremation grounds. "Dead bodies if not managed properly could make the fight against COVID-19 very complex," a top Maharashtra government official said.  Reacting to reports of 12 unclaimed bodies at the KEM Hospital,  Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said there are 7 bodies in the hospital's morgue as relatives have not come forward,  we will speak to police and decide the future course," she said. It needs to be mentioned that Mumbai's civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had spoken to police chief Param Bir Singh and discussed the issue of unclaimed bodies. Meanwhile,  Maharashtra BJP vice president Kirit Somaiya has raised the issue of the long waiting time at city's crematoriums. "Cremation is taking 8 to 22 hours," Somaiya said, adding that he visited Marine Lines, Ghatkopar, Kandivali, Bhandup crematoriums. "The situation is same everywhere," he said. Stern action will be taken, says HM Days after the Jalgaon incident,  the Maharashtra government has assured stern action. An 80-year-old women,  who was COVID-19 positive and "missing" from the ward of Jalgaon civil hospital,  was found dead in the toilet of the hospital. "We've taken a serious note of the Jalgaon incident where a body was found in the toilet. Few have already been booked for this crime. Stern action is being taken against the people responsible for this inhuman act & an enquiry is also being conducted in the matter,  home minister Anil Deshmukh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-dead-bodies-becoming-a-cause-of-concern-for-mumbai-848426.html
11-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Centre asks Maharashtra govt to ensure availability of ICU in state||Amid rising coronavirus cases, the Centre on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government to strengthen the system of ICU, ventilators and testing labs in Maharashtra and ensuring the availability of ICU and ventilators to all forthcoming patients.  "Increase in number of containment zones needs immediate attention. Vulnerability mapping of densely populated areas should be done for effective containment strategy to be put in place. Also, rise in case fatality rate should be looked into along with tests done per million population," Union Health Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan told via video-conference, which among others, was attended by Maharashtra ministers Rajesh Tope (health) and Amit Deshmukh (medical education). According to a press statement,  Dr Harsh Vardhan highlighted the need for strengthening human resource for contact tracing; logistics enhancement like including ICU beds with ventilators, beds with facility available for oxygen supplementation etc; ensuring transport for healthcare workers; and strengthening Behaviour Change Communication (BCC) activities to reduce community resistance and counselling of high risk contacts. In addition, it is important for districts to ensure strict implementation of containment plan along with epidemiological investigation of cases for complete contact tracing and strict quarantine for the inflowing persons from the major affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-centre-asks-maharashtra-govt-to-ensure-availability-of-icu-in-state-848442.html
11-06-2020||West||Don't use schools as COVID-19 care centres: MNS||The local unit of the Raj Thackeray-led MNS on Thursday opposed the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC)'s move to take over educational institutes, especially schools, for use as COVID-19 care centres in the city. The TMC, since the last few days, has started taking over educational institutes, including colleges and schools, to convert them as COVID-19 care centres (CCCs) in view of the rising cases of coronavirus. MNS Thane and Palghar chief Avinash Jadhav warned the TMC against using educational institution premises as CCCs. He said once classes resume, students will be scared to sit in rooms earlier used to house coronavirus patients. "This will cause mental agony to students which should be avoided," Jadhav said. Jadhav sought to know the TMC is taking over schools and colleges when a number of marriage halls and hospitals are available in the city. "The government has reserved 80 per cent of the beds in private hospitals which the corporation can very well take over," the MNS leader said. The TMC has said they are converting educational institutes into CCCs to deal with the rising number of COVID- 19 cases in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-use-schools-as-covid-19-care-centres-mns-848446.html
11-06-2020||West||Quote from 1930s sparks angry exchange between Ramchandra Guha and Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani||A tweet by historian Ramchandra Guha quoting a British writer's comment in the 1930s that Gujarat was economically strong but "culturally backward" drew angry reactions from BJP leaders on Thursday. While Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said that Indians would not fall for "tricks" of dividing them, Guha said the outrage was unwarranted as he does not necessarily endorse the opinions of other persons whom he quotes. "Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province... . Bengal in contrast is economically backward but culturally advanced".Philip Spratt, writing in 1939. "Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province... Bengal in contrast is economically backward but culturally advanced", Philip Spratt, writing in 1939," Guha tweeted on Thursday morning. Taking offence, chief minister Rupani claimed that like the British in the past, some `elite' Indians now wanted to divide the country's people. "Earlier it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians. Indians won't fall for such tricks. Gujarat is great, Bengal is great...India is united, he tweeted. "Our cultural foundations are strong, our economic aspirations are high," Rupani added. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also joined in the war of words by tweeting. "In 1939, when Philip Spratt, from Britain, belonging to the Communist International wrote this...what was happening in Gujarat: Jamnagar...Maharaja Jam Saheb Digvijaysinhji Jadeja...saved 1000 Polish children," she said. She also posted a photograph of Polish refugees from Europe who were given shelter by the former Jamnagar royal during World War II. Responding to the backlash, Guha said they should reserve their praise or anger for the ghost of the person being quoted. "Statutory warning; when I post quotes by others found in the course of my research, I do so because I find them arresting in some way. I may (or may not) endorse, in part or in whole, what I am quoting. "Reserve your praise or your anger for the ghost of the person being quoted," the eminent historian said. "If the Gujarat Chief Minister is, at this moment in history, (a) so keenly following the tweets of a humdrum historian and (b) so easily confusing the historian with a dead writer being quoted, the State of Gujarat must indeed be in safe hands, Guha said in another tweet. "I thought it was only the Gujarat CM, but now it seems even the FM is obsessing about a humdrum historian's tweets. The economy is surely in safe hands," he said in another swipe. "I have been trying without success for thirty years to make the writer Philip Spratt better known; thank you to the Troll Army for accomplishing this in a day," Guha said in another tweet. The exchange of words between Guha and BJP leaders reverberated on Twitter, gathering tweets supporting or against Guha. Spratt, a British intellectual who was among founders of the Communist Party of India, was jailed in the Meerut Conspiracy Case along with many Indian communist leaders in 1929. Earlier, Guha, the writer of two-volume biography of Mahatma Gandhi, had been invited to appear as guest lecturer at Ahmedabad University, however, due to opposition by some right-wing activists he declined the invitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/quote-from-1930s-sparks-angry-exchange-between-ramchandra-guha-and-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-848449.html
11-06-2020||West||Anil Deshmukh inaugurates segway deployment on Mumbai promenades||Maharashtra's Home Minister Anil Deshmukh inaugurated the deployment of 50 segways at Mumbai's Marine Drive.   This deployment is seen as an augmentation of the police's safety and security preparedness. "While the deployment will begin with 10 segways at Worli, five at Nariman Point, we eventually plan to deploy these latest self-balancing electric scooters at Bandra, Juhu & Versova too,"  the Home Minister informed.  He said the Home Ministry is keen on modernisation of Maharashtra's police force and wants them to be equipped with technology on par with  global policing standards. The police personnel who man these segways will have public address system attached to their masks to communicate with people. "Apart from the safety and security in these times of the Corona pandemic they will also monitor social distancing." Drones will provide additional complimentary cover to the police possé on segways. He also condoled the death of 35 police personnel who were frontline warriors in the war on Corona. "No compensation can make up for what the loss of that life means to his family. We want to only offer a small token of the state's appreciation on behalf of the citizenry through the ex-gratia. We are also giving help to the police personnel who test positive and are creating specialised facilities for their Covid-care," he said.  In response to a question from mediapersons on the discovery of a dead body in Jalgaon he averred, "We've taken a serious note of this incident. Few have already been booked for this criminal offence. Stern action is being taken against the people responsible for this inhuman act and the local are pursuing an inquiry in the matter to get to the root of it and nab all those responsible."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-inaugurates-segway-deployment-on-mumbai-promenades-848485.html
11-06-2020||West||Coronavirus cases: Maharashtra inches closer to one lakh mark||As the COVID-19 challenge became bigger, Maharashtra moved towards the one-lakh mark of positive cases.  On Thursday,  the state recorded 152 deaths and 3,607 cases pushing the progressive total to 3,590 and 97,648, respectively.  So far,  46,078 patients have been treated and the number of active patients stand at 47,968. In the last 24 hours,  Mumbai reported 97 deaths and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region 119. The toll in Mumbai now stands at 1,954 and the total cases 54,085,  while in MMR (which include Mumbai) it stands at 2,457 and 73,242,  respectively.  If one goes by the death rate, Maharashtra's total patients would cross one-lakh on Friday or Saturday.  One of the positives is that, Maharashtra is heading towards a 50:50 ratio as far as active patients and those treated and discharged are concermed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-cases-maharashtra-inches-closer-to-one-lakh-mark-848487.html
11-06-2020||West||After Guha's controversial tweet, Gujarat CM says, "elites want to divide India"||Noted historian Ramchandra Guha once again landed himself into trouble after one of his posts on micro-blogging website "Twitter" snowballed into a major controversy. Guha tweeted a quote of a British author which read, "Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province.... Bengal, in contrast, is economically backward but culturally advanced". Philip Spratt, writing in 1939." The content prompted Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani to shoot back on Twitter where he wrote while tagging Guha's post, "Earlier it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians. Indians won’t fall for such tricks." Rupani's tweet adds, "Gujarat is great, Bengal is great...India is united. Our cultural foundations are strong, our economic aspirations are high." Soon after, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also tweeted, "In 1939, when Philip Spratt, from Britain, belonging to the Communist International wrote, (who ⁦⁦@Ram_Guha ⁩quotes) this was what was happening in Gujarat: Jamnagar...Maharaja Jam Saheb Digvijaysinhji Jadeja...saved 1000 Polish children #Culture ."  She had shared a link to a news report on how Jamnagar king had sheltered Polish children who had taken refuge from Germany during  World War-2. Spratt was a Britisher who came to India and is said to have assisted in building Communist movement in British India in the 1920s. In fact, Guha has described Spratt, in one of his tweets last year, that Spratt was "an Englishman who became an Indian, as well as a Communist who became a free-market liberal." Guha responded to Gujarat CM saying, "If the Gujarat Chief Minister is, at this moment in history, (a) so keenly following the tweets of a humdrum historian and (b) so easily confusing the historian with a dead writer being quoted, the State of Gujarat must indeed be in safe hands. " He also reacted to Sitharaman's tweet to say, "I thought it was only the Gujarat CM, but now it seems even the FM is obsessing about a humdrum historian's tweets. The economy is surely in safe hands." In his another tweet, the historian wrote, "I have been trying without success for thirty years to make the writer Philip Spratt better known; thank you to the Troll Army for accomplishing this in a day."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-guhas-controversial-tweet-gujarat-cm-says-elites-want-to-divide-india-848506.html
11-06-2020||West||Goa barman goes missing again after COVID-19 test positive||In an unusual case, a person registered as a missing person with the Delhi Police arrived in Goa recently, started working as a barman in Panaji's central market and when he tested positive on Thursday, has gone missing once again! Following his mysterious disappearance, the Corporation of the City of Panaji, the state capital civic corporation has now ordered the closure of the corporation's market, the biggest in the city, for four days, as a cautionary measure against the spread of infection. "A person running a bar in the Panaji market has tested positive. As soon as he was informed about his test status by the authorities, he has gone missing" Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar told reporters on Thursday. According to state Health Secretary Nila Mohanan, the person who has now gone missing is a resident of Delhi and may have arrived in Goa by one of the Shramik Special trains which were started by the central government to facilitate the travel of migrant workers. "We don't know who this person is. We know that he is registered as a missing person as per Delhi Police records and the police records across the country are linked for the national bureau of police records its a completely computerized system," Mohanan told reporters. Tracking the person down is proving to be a difficult task, the official said. "That person has given a very vague address and when we have inquired into it, we have not found the address to be a valid address," she also said, adding that the police were trying to track the missing person down by following his Sim card movements. Meanwhile, Mohanan also said that the state's tally of active COVID-19 cases had increased to 350 on Thursday, with the addition of 30 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-barman-goes-missing-again-after-covid-19-test-positive-848536.html
