12-06-2020||First Edit||We’re in Stage 3, let’s admit it||The Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) splitting hairs over the term ‘community transmission’ of the coronavirus will not stop the disease from spreading. On Thursday, ICMR head Dr Balram Bhargava asserted that India is “definitely not in community transmission” stage because the “prevalence is so low in our country, below 1%”. Truth is, however, that community transmission, or stage 3 in a pandemic, is said to be happening not based on numbers detected but when it is not possible to trace the source of infection. At this stage, in Delhi, Mumbai and elsewhere, there are many such cases. Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain has said that the source of 50% of the cases in the national capital is not known. The Union Health Ministry had itself some time ago stated that there was “limited community transmission” in some areas, but it is shying away from a full admission of it now. The Centre’s reluctance to accept the truth is perhaps because publicly admitting it will raise questions about the timing and efficacy of the lockdown ordered on March 24, when there were only 606 cases in the country, and opening up the economy when the number of cases is rising by over 10,000 a day. A recent statement issued by the Indian Public Health Association, Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine and Indian Association of Epidemiologists said that “community transmission is already well-established across large sections or sub-populations in the country.” A study by ICMR itself confirmed the trend of unchecked and untraced transmissions and found that infections could be 100-200 times more than the numbers reported from some areas in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. It also found that 15-20% of the population may have been exposed to the infection in some areas. As epidemiologists have said, there is no harm in accepting the truth now. The government can claim credit for slowing down the spread of the infection. Dealing with a pandemic requires a strategy that evolves and keeps pace with its spread. The strategy for fighting the disease is different in areas of community transmission. It calls for enhanced testing and identification of hidden cases which would otherwise spread the infection further and faster. Reverse quarantine measures, which are meant to protect senior citizens and others in the high-risk category, have to be strengthened. More separate COVID-19 hospitals and facilities like beds should be set up, as there will be a big increase in the number of cases. Other preparations will also need to be made, and governments will have to face challenges on many fronts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/we-re-in-stage-3-let-s-admit-it-848582.html
12-06-2020||First Edit||Sedition law must be scrapped||While sedition cases have been increasing, the conviction rate is low. That shows that in most cases, the police and the prosecution are unable to support the charge of sedition with evidence. This again points to the misuse of the law as merely a tool of harassment and strengthens the case for scrapping it. Many countries, including Britain, from where the sedition law was imported to India, have scrapped it. In a modern enlightened democracy, there is no need for such a law. The Law Commission has also questioned the need to retain the law in its present form. It may be difficult to prevent its misuse as long as it is on the statute book.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sedition-law-must-be-scrapped-848914.html
12-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||HDUDA expecting Rs 10 cr by e-auctioning 126 corner sites: Kalburgi||Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) is expecting to mop-up at least Rs 10 crore by e-auctioning its 126 corner sites in Sattur, Raynal and Lakamanhalli, said its Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi. Speaking to media persons at HDUDA office in Navanagar on Friday he said as per the directions of State government HDUDA is e-auctioning 843 plots, including the much sought after corner sites. In the first phase, HDUDA will be auctioning 126 corner site followed by another round of e-auctioning in next two months. He said there are 1,062 corner sites and 777 other vacant sites available with HDUDA that would be auctioned in later phases. He said so far HDUDA has developed 34 layouts in twin cities, of which it has handed over 29 to Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike. Of the total 14,863 plots that were created in these layouts, 14,020 have been distributed among beneficiaries. The remaining 843 plots will be put for e-auctioning, he said. Affordable houses Kalburgi said HDUDA has sent a proposal to State government for approval of 160 group houses in three locations of Gandhinagar, Lakamanhalli and Tadisinakoppa at an estimated cost of Rs 22.95 crore. “We are waiting for the government’s nod on modalities of payment and construction process, as this is for the first time in State that such a group housing scheme is being proposed,” he said and added that a 569 sq ft single bedroom house would cost Rs 12 lakh, while an 863 sq ft two-bedroom house would cost Rs 19.5 lakh. “There is a huge demand for plots in twin cities. However, there is limited availability of land,” he said and added that HDUDA is encouraging farmers to come forward for 50:50 joint venture for creating of layout, where the HDUDA would develop the land by providing 50% of the site created to the farmers. He said so far they have received 100 acres of land in Unkal, Tadsinakoppa and Itigatti. The demand is for 1000 acres in twin cities, he said. Unauthorised layout Kalburgi claimed that HDUDA has so far identified 57 unauthorised layout in twin cities, including 30 in Hubballi and 27 in Dharwad. “We have issued two notices to the owners of such illegal layouts. If they don’t rectify the layouts within the next two weeks, HDUDA will be forced to ‘demolish’ these layouts,” he said. HDUDA Commissioner Ningappa H Kummanavar, officers Vivek Karekar, M Rajshekar and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/hduda-expecting-rs-10-cr-by-e-auctioning-126-corner-sites-kalburgi-848810.html
12-06-2020||In Perspective||Don't miss the bus||The road-based transport system in India accounts for 85% of the total transport demand. This is in terms of total passenger-kilometre travelled including by air as well as water transport systems. The road transport sector contributes to about 8% of GDP. Within this, buses account for 85% of all the passenger demand by road transportation. Therefore, it wouldn’t be unwise to say that buses are the lifeline of the country. In fact, the 2016 National Sample Survey reported that buses were the preferred mode of transport by respondents in both urban and rural areas. In urban areas, the mode share of buses is as high as 46% depending on the city size and type. The growth of bus systems, however, is not proportionate to the growth in transport demand. While the growth in road passenger traffic is estimated to be around 15.4%, bus fleet is growing at a rate of 7%. Currently, 87% of all registered vehicles are privately owned, while buses form a meagre 0.74%. The demand-supply gap has led to the operation of overcrowded, uncomfortable and unsafe buses reducing their appeal to the masses, resulting in a shift toward travel by personal vehicles. The struggling bus transport sector has received a massive blow due to the Covid-19 crisis. It is estimated that the bus transport sector will lose around Rs 1.5 lakh crore in 2020 due to no and low-ridership amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the bus transport network needs support more than it ever did. However, before that let us look at the sector closely. Current state Indian bus-based public transport is provided through a mixed pattern of public and private ownership and service provision. As per government data, there are 18 lakh registered buses in the country, of which approximately 1.4 lakh are operated by state transport undertakings and 1.8 lakh are operated by private operators under a stage-carriage permit. The remaining buses are either operated under contract-carriage permits or as private service vehicles or do not have valid permits. The extent of the bus supply in India is anywhere between 0.5-1 bus per 1,000 population. State-owned buses specifically vary between 0.5 bus per 1,000 population in states like Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh to less than 0.1 bus per 1000 population in states like Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. Additionally, 22% of the operational fleets are overaged, leading to unsafe and uncomfortable buses. The disparity in service provision extends in urban areas as well. Around 65% of the urban bus fleet is concentrated in nine cities (population more than 40 lakh) even when they house only 25% of the urban population. There are also huge gaps in bus depots and terminals, integration of intelligent technologies and technical capacity within the private and public sector to operate an efficient bus system that meets the needs of the customers. These factors combined have caused a decline in bus ridership throughout the country and a poor image of bus transport. India’s bus-based public transport performs poorly when compared with bus systems of countries both in the developed and developing world. To compare, countries like Brazil, Thailand, China, Australia, United Kingdom and USA have between two to eight buses per 1000 population. Mexico is developing 38 Bus Rapid Transit Systems (BRTS) in its various cities as against 13 functional BRTS in various Indian cities. Cities like London, Seoul, Sao Paulo and Bogota have also prioritized investments in bus transport and witnessed an increase in bus ridership. The high levels of bus transport provision in these countries have been achieved through systematic policies, regulatory and institutional reforms and financial support enacted by the national and city governments to prioritize bus systems and boost their ridership. Investment needed Indian bus-based public transport has huge gaps in terms of bus fleet, depots and terminals required to operate buses. Additionally, bus operators have low cost recovery and lack capacity to plan and operate efficient bus systems. As per WRI India’s estimates, there is a need to procure up to 2.5 lakh new buses, with a requirement of approximately 2,500 new bus depots, and 1,200 new bus terminals to meet the public transportation demand by 2031. There is also a need to support the operations of these buses which will cover approximately 180 billion kilometres over their life cycle. Of this, 40 billion kilometres will be operated in the 53 cities which have a population of more than a million. Then there are costs of procuring intelligent technologies and building technical capacity and human resource to operate these buses. It is estimated that to build an efficient bus-based public transport by 2031, an investment of Rs 2.3 lakh crore is required. World over, countries are supporting buses in the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The US has earmarked $25 billion in emergency funding to public transport. Hong Kong is supporting taxi and minibus drivers and owners by reimbursing 100% of regular repair and maintenance costs and insurance premiums for six months. India has been investing in public transport infrastructure. About Rupees two lakh crores has already been invested and another Rupees three lakh crore of expenditure is in the pipeline for metro rail and rapid rail projects. However, it’s time to relook at the bus transport space. We need to remember that if cities are engines of growth then transport is the wheel of the engine and the bus is probably the most important ‘spoke’ of this wheel. (The writer is Director -- Integrated Transport, Sustainable Cities, World Resources Institute India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/dont-miss-the-bus-848580.html
12-06-2020||In Perspective||Racism, colourism are inveterate in human psyche||"If nationalism is measles of mankind, racism is plague of it."  The whole world is polarised into whites and blacks, just like it's divided into haves and have-nots. But before dwelling upon this universal issue of skin colour, it's imperative to understand the American psyche towards colour consciousness or prejudice. The US has always been clearly fractured into white and black ethnic groups. People of African origin are still not seamlessly embraced and interwoven into the predominant white ethnicity. Coloured (I'm deliberately eschewing the condescending term 'black') people in the US have always been looked down upon by the supremacist whites, who still believe that non-whites, specifically people of African origin, are Neanderthals and sub-humans belonging to subaltern societies. This misconception of fallacious genetic supremacy is so ingrained in the collective psyche of the American white people that even famed genetic biologists have fallen for it. According to Federal Law Studies of the US and Human Rights Commission's report submitted in 2011, in the last 75 years, different states in the US executed 73% convicts of African origin and only 14% of those executed for crimes were whites. The rest were brown-skinned or of Hispanic origin. Lynching of blacks is still prevalent in the US, if not rampant. Till the mid-50s, dark-skinned people could not sit with whites on buses in the US. The Afro-American novelist James Baldwin put it so succinctly in an interview to Playboy in 1966: “The existence of a black in America is further blackened by the blinding brightness of racial prejudice shown by the white Americans.” Much of the western world is subtly or blatantly scornful of people with dark and brown skins. The diluted form of rabid apartheid of South Africa is still palpable in the western world where even a legend of Sir Isaac Vivian Alexander Richards' stature had to experience racial jibes from white spectators. Richards' best pal Sir Ian Botham descanted upon the widespread racism and colour consciousness in his autobiography, ‘The King and I’. Botham called almost all whites “unconsciously racist” in the book. Yours truly had to hear racial taunts for his brown skin while pursuing his PhD degree at Oxford University, the Mecca of education and enlightenment!   Now, the question is, is this phenomenon limited only to the US? I'm afraid, this is a universal phenomenon. Much more than being racists, humans are basically colour conscious and the whole thing must be analysed from the perspective of colour rather than race. To encapsulate, colour precedes race and subsumes the latter. The whole world suffers from the aforementioned Caucasian Syndrome. The very name ‘Hindustan’ that the neo-Hindus are going ga-ga over, mistaking it for the land of Hindus, is actually a name given by the Persian-speaking Mughals to this country of “black people”! The word ‘Hindu’ in Persian connotes black: “Agar aan Turk-e-Shirazi badastayad dile-maara/ Bakhaal HINDUash Bakhsham Samarkand-o-Bukhara (I can give away cities like Samarkand and Bukhara in preference to the black – Hindu -- mole on your face), Hafiz Shirazi wrote in Persian. The white-skinned Mughals' disdain for the dark skin of the people of the sub-continent percolated down to the Indian psyche.  Aren't we all colour-conscious? We're and there's no getting away from the fact. Colour stereotypes still regulate our lives and collective thinking. This proclivity, nay prejudice, is so deep-seated in our consciousness that we don't even think of the import of the line often inscribed on a truck or bus: “Buri nazar wale, tera muh kaala.” It doesn't get us thinking because we take it for granted that the colour black is undesirable. It was inculcated in us by marauding civilizations coming from Central Asia and the Arab Peninsula.   The rampant and most exasperating advertisements of whiteness creams don't prick our conscience. Now, even men are going for whiteness cream, debunking the traditional aspiration for TDH: tall, dark and handsome. Even an Urdu poet like Kamal Amrohi wrote in his immortal nazm: “Kahin ek maasoom, naazuk-si ladki, bahut khoobsoorat magar saanwli-si”. Now, look at the words: “Bahut khoobsoorat, magar saanwli-si” (Very pretty, but darkish!). Here, a damsel's beauty comes with a caveat about her colour. Humans are partial to white complexion. British feminist Germaine Greer calls it humanity's colour blindness. Since humans are still ill-evolved, they fail to comprehend the discrete colour combinations, hues and shades making a mosaic of seamless humanity. The co-existence of separate value systems and ideas of survival as a homogeneous unit despite subtle natural and genetic differences is unintelligible to us. We all must imbibe the spirit of Sahir Ludhianavi's couplet: “Rang aur nasl, zaat aur mazhab/Jo bhi ho aadmi se kamtar hain (Whether colour, race, caste or creed/All are subservient to the individual human).  So long as we live in the quagmire of prejudices and presuppositions, our predilection for a certain shade of colour will remain intact. Before condemning white Americans for being racist and colour conscious, we all must ask ourselves: Aren't we all? We're all tarred with the same brush and need to introspect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/racism-colourism-are-inveterate-in-human-psyche-848920.html
12-06-2020||Kalaburagi||Death toll due to COVID-19 crosses two digits in Kalaburagi||The death toll due to COVID-19 has crossed two digits in Kalaburagi with two men of the district succumbing to the infection on Wednesday. However, their test results returned positive on Friday. With the deaths, the fatalities rose to 10 in the district. A 53-year-old male (P-6323), a resident of Kalaburagi district was diagnosed as SARI and was a known case of diabetes. He was admitted to the designated hospital on June 9 and breathed his last on June 10. Another male patient (P-6325) aged 48 also succumbed to COVID-19 on June 9. He was diagnosed as SARI and was a known case of hypertension and chronic kidney disease. He died on June 10. Thee district also recorded 20 fresh cases, taking the total tally to 816.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-crosses-two-digits-in-kalaburagi-848846.html
12-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Patients arguing with BIMS officials videos circulated||Videos of a section of patients admitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment of Covid-19 arguing with the officials are being circulated.Date of the recording of the videos was not available but was said to be of being recorded on Thursday by patients and circulated. In the video, patients are heard arguing with Director Dr Vinay Dastikopp that they were being treated by interns and demanding names of the staff treating them. Dr Dastikopp is heard saying that the patients admitted for treatment will be released after their swab samples collected test negative for Covid-19.  He refutes allegations that interns were collecting swab samples, but were only facilitating the process. Experts from ENT section collect swab samples. Doctors were treating them, but their names cannot be made known as per protocol. Dr Dastikopp allayed fears of patients that staff too could be COVID-19 positive. He informs them that the staff treating them are changed every seven days and any if show symptoms of COVID-19 are subjected to test. Health check-up of staff has been conducted and their names cannot be made known. Patients that also includes women are heard making allegations of interns treating them but could not identify them as they wear personnel protective equipment and masks.In second video patients are heard demanding to know the time period required to get their test reports and why reports of the samples collected for over a week were not being made known.  Questions about time required for discharge of asymptomatic patients too are heard in the video and same questions being repeated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/patients-arguing-with-bims-officials-videos-circulated-848549.html
12-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Amidst coronavirus pandemic, people unlock wild side||Three months of punishing lockdowns seems to have ignited the dormant wanderlust in people, who are increasingly escaping into the lap of nature in Karnataka to unwind. Testimony to the trend is coming from the bookings at the government-run Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR), which notched up a whopping Rs 2.5 crore revenue in just three days since the relaxation of lockdown rules on June 8. Tourists are flocking to Kabini, Bandipur, Nagarahole, K Gudi and Bhadra for a break. According to officials at the JLR, tourists are responding positively and returning after bookings, cancelled earlier due to lockdowns, were rescheduled. “There has been a considerable footfall of tourists in most of the properties, especially the ones near to the national parks and sanctuaries. We were apprehensive about the public’s response initially. But people have responded phenomenally,” said an official from JLR. Vijay Sharma (IFS), Managing Director, JLR, told DH that fresh bookings worth Rs 50 lakh were registered in the last two days after reopening the facilities. “Bookings worth Rs 2 crore made earlier as part of summer holidays had to be cancelled," explained Sharma. "But we reached out to people and eventually convinced them to reschedule the trips. In fact, people are more than willing to travel and visit many of our facilities with family and friends as seen in the last four days." Sharma said they have adhered to the standard operating procedure issued by the Centre, state and put in place every possible mechanism to ensure the safety of tourists. The onset of monsoon and steady rainfall in South-Interior Karnataka districts have also given a boost for eco-tourism activities at these facilities. The safari vehicles have been back in business with strict compliance of social distancing rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amidst-coronavirus-pandemic-people-unlock-wild-side-848554.html
12-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Panchayat officer abducted, forced to draw money from ATM||A panchayat development officer (PDO) from Nelamangala was allegedly abducted by four men, driven several miles and forced to withdraw money from an ATM, before being dumped at an industrial area after six hours. Harish G (29), a resident of Andrahalli, is a PDO with Nuggehalli gram panchayat in Hassan district. On Monday, Harish was at the bypass of Nelamangala, waiting for transport to go to his office. Around 9 am, an SUV driver pulled over and offered him a drop. When he got into the vehicle, there were already three persons in it along with the driver, Harish told police. After moving for some distance, they drew out machetes and threatened to kill him if he raised an alarm. Then they took away his laptop, a mobile phone and Rs 2,000. They then drove to Magadi, Kunigal and other places, and at one of the places they withdrew Rs 29,200 from his debit card. After a six hours drive, they dumped him at Avverahalli Industrial Area near Nelamangala, Harish said. The Nelamangala Town police have registered a case of kidnap and robbery, and are making efforts to nab the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panchayat-officer-abducted-forced-to-draw-money-from-atm-848576.html
12-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan reports its first COVID-19 death||Hassan district reported it's first COVID-19 death on Friday. Deputy Commissioner R Girish informed that a 60-year-old woman has died of COVID-19 on Friday. According to the DC, the woman was suffering from stroke and other illness. She was admitted to a private hospital for severe respiratory problems on June 10. Later she was shifted to the Covid hospital. Her blood and throat swab samples were taken on June 11. Her samples confirmed covid  positive on Friday. The woman passed away at 1.15 pm, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-reports-its-first-covid-19-death-848718.html
12-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Corona warriors attacked in Belagavi village||COVID-19 warriors, who visited an institutional quarantine facility at Maranhol village in Belagavi taluk for collecting swab samples, were assaulted by the inmates of the facility here on Friday. A total of 22 persons, including two children and women, who had returned from Maharashtra have been housed in the institutional quarantine facility at Maranhal. They were refusing to give their swab samples for tests as they did not have any of the COVID-19 symptoms. Tahsildar R K Kulkarni, who had visited the facility in the morning had asked them to give their swab samples for tests. He had informed them that those testing negative will be allowed to go home. After initial reluctance they had agreed to give their swab samples for tests. In the afternoon hours at around 3:30 pm when the ambulance arrived, Panchayat Development Officer Prashant Munavalli, Village Accountant Prashant Nesargi and Asha workers were readying the tables and chairs to collect the swab samples. Suspects attacked Munavalli, Nesargi and Asha workers. They even called people from the village, over phone, to assault them COVID-19 warriors. Munavalli said, they were working day and night for the safety of COVID-19 suspects and ensured they get nutritious food and medicine. We had made all efforts to convince them that they were quarantined for their own and of their family members sake. Without any provocation, suspects entered into verbal duel with the officials deployed and attacked them. They also tore shirt of Munavalli and Nesargi. Some women even attempted to attack Asha workers, he said. He said, complaint will be filed with Kakati police regarding the assault and were awaiting arrival of Tahsildar and other officials to the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/corona-warriors-attacked-in-belagavi-village-848840.html
12-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP govt wants to help corporates, capitalists: Siddaramaiah||The BJP government’s decision to allow anyone to own agricultural land is an attempt to help “corporate bodies, the rich and the big capitalists,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said Friday, adding that the Congress will fight this.  Siddaramaiah held talks with senior leaders including Mallikarjun Kharge, KR Ramesh Kumar, CM Ibrahim, Dinesh Gundu Rao, BL Shankar and Krishna Byre Gowda, among others to determine the party’s stand on the proposed amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act.  “The motive clearly looks like they want to help corporate bodies, the rich and the big capitalists get agricultural land,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “If laws have shortcomings, they should be amended from time to time. This is like cutting off the nose due to a cold, or the leg because it pains,” he said.  The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday decided to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act to remove restrictions on purchasing or owning agricultural land. The Cabinet also decided to tweak the law to increase the cap on how much agricultural land a person can own.  Till now, non-agriculturists were barred from buying agricultural property in the state. And those with agricultural background could purchase farm land only if their annual non-agricultural income did not exceed Rs 25 lakh. Apart from that, only educational, religious institutions, companies, cooperative societies among others could purchase agricultural land. “The policy of the governments under D Devaraj Urs in the state and Indira Gandhi at the Centre was that the one who tills the land should own it. The law even laid down who can and can’t be the owner of land. Now, the BJP government is saying those who are rich can own the land,” Siddaramaiah, a former chief minister, said.  “They are retrospectively repealing Sections 63, 79 (a), (b), (c) and 80 and are withdrawing cases that are pending before the court,” the Congress leader charged.  The move will lead to creation of land banks, which in turn will give rise to land mafia, Siddaramaiah said. “Then, real estate will come. Ultimately, those with small land holdings will lose out and become agricultural labourers,” he said.  The Congress has decided to fight “for the rights of farmers” and also hold wider consultation with stakeholders on the issue, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-govt-wants-to-help-corporates-capitalists-siddaramaiah-848856.html
12-06-2020||Main Article||Beyond smoke and mirrors||The COVID-19 pandemic, I dare say, was waiting to happen. It is a manifestation of the Tragedy of the Commons: Each acting in his own self-interest resulting in worse outcomes for the community. The irony in this process is that it is ideology-agnostic and happens regardless of whether it is the economics of the left, right or the centre, and is characterised by three features: maximizing my interest is the only personal ethic; the notion that maximizing my interest will lead to some greater good; so, I follow my own narrow self-interest. This tautological drive is universal, has defined our politics and economics, and how we relate to our community and society. This has been especially true with common property resources. The silver lining is that, the coronavirus has compelled a collective —principles of the commons—response of social distancing, self-quarantining, and lockdowns; for the greater good in the aggregate. In the future, when the ongoing pandemic is likened to a parable to draw an instructive ethical lesson, it will simply be that ‘greed is not good’. In one fell swoop, COVID-19 has proved Milton Friedman wrong: the world does not run on individuals pursuing their self-interests. On the contrary, it has put the spotlight on the imperative of cooperation and on long-existing structural problems, at its heart the widespread and deeply entrenched economic inequality. To paraphrase the enduring pathos of the ‘Sound of Silence’: “And in the naked light I saw; Ten thousand people, maybe more; People talking without speaking; People hearing without listening; People writing songs that voices never share; And no one dared; Disturb the sound of silence”. We must now dare to listen to people for whom living standards have stagnated or declined, live precarious lives one day at a time, and think their children will be worse off than they are. Multitudes in our cities and villages, with little hope and few aspirations, except for a slender slice of life lived in dignity and with a sense of belonging. These are people who played by the rules, while others did not; and those others have been rewarded. The apparatus of the state, appears to them, profoundly out of touch with their reality, and they themselves, prisoners to the impersonal forces of technology and the market. The spectacular failure of neoliberal—‘the rising tide lifts all boats’ —economic strategy, coalescing with the progressive evisceration of the social safety nets, has rendered the economic possibilities for the future vulnerable, for more people individually and collectively, than official statistics might bare. The portrait that recedes from the national eye, routinely and unconscionably, is of the deprivation and vulnerability of women, children, migrants, the physically and mentally challenged, and the old and the ailing, that is darker than we might at first suppose. The fragile foundations of India’s socio-economic structure must precipitate a serious rethink of our economics, and the political economy of development at work. This can scarcely be a top-down strategy, regardless of the far-sighted or short-sighted leaders that countries might elect and excessively rely on. Simply put, the distance between those who own and control resources and those who do not, is widening. The market as the primary driver of material progress is beginning to show systemic diminishing returns. It is not anymore, at the margin, improving the weal - wellbeing - or the wealth (as referred to in the present day) of the common person. But the rites of passage to a more equitable, just and humane society is not easy. What is easy and politically expedient is the development process as smoke and mirrors. “Ignorance, more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge,” Charles Darwin wrote far back in 1871. This is worth keeping in mind today, when we must deconstruct the idea of development, to understand the depth and breadth of the problem of socio-economic inequality, in India. We need rigorous data and analysis defined by first principles—that GDP is not the best metric - to measure the wellbeing of people. In this post-truth age, facts and science, not schemes and slogans will be necessary to ground truth, the real story of whether the progress we are making is inclusive. We need to truly invest in a new idealism - and transform human development into a positive-sum game that the common citizen can aspire to, take responsibility for, and be a part of. To do so, we need to bring ethics to the centre-stage of economic discourse, at least in so far as common property resources and the three basic rights - health, education, and livelihood - are concerned. We must renew and rejuvenate the commons: revenue and forest land, grazing grounds, open spaces, water bodies, forests and wooded areas; local libraries, workshops and artisan guilds; local markets, kirana shops and village bazaars; and community-based institutions in our villages and cities alike. The commons operate outside the market economy, and are the social rather than individual, local rather than global, repositories of community assets —physical, social, cultural. They often do the most important work for community sustenance and wellbeing. Without the common body of knowledge that farmers have; the vast and diverse knowledge network of local artisans, artistes and workers, and the unseen migrant workforce; India’s economy, indeed much of our society, will be diminished as would life itself. These are common property resources that are not of the state or market but of the local community of users that must self-govern the resource through institutions that it creates. Yet, the commons are invisible today. Economists disparage it as a romanticized view of community ownership, and extol private property rights. This fatal flaw in the economic discourse is central to inequality, making for a few billionaires but many the poorer. We must transform the Covid-19 crisis to opportunity, going back to basics. A cannibalising market diminishes the sense of community, and not everything should be for sale. We are capable of preventing the tragedy of the commons. Quite simply, the commons and the community must outweigh the market and the state. Only then will we break the sound of silence. Until such time, exhortations such as Atma Nirbhar Bharat or Swachh Bharat will remain, for the vast mass of ordinary citizens, smoke and mirrors. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/beyond-smoke-and-mirrors-848579.html
12-06-2020||Main Article||Lockdown: Online Classes - Let’s plan, not ban||In its wisdom, the state has recently banned all online teaching for classes 1-5. The state comes with honourable intentions. The arguments being made are on the grounds of equity, public health and learning. The equity argument is that online learning necessitates reliable access to digital devices, which not all children have. The health argument is about the ill-effects of screen time on young children’s eyes, and more importantly on their minds and behaviours. The third argument is that young children do not learn well online. They need physical, hands-on learning opportunity in a social setting. A fourth concern comes from parents, and teachers. Parents do not want to pay extra for poor imitations of physical classes. It is also hard to supervise children online, especially with more work at home. For teachers, it is tough in online classrooms to gauge the learning of distant and distracted children. All these arguments have merit. In a perfect world, we would want universal access to the internet, and for young children to be protected from damage to their eyes or minds. We would want them to be in caring, engaging classroom settings and learning well, too. Unfortunately, we were not in such a world before the pandemic and we are certainly not in such a world now. Through the 20 years of my deep engagement with Pratham, Akshara Foundation, Pratham Books and EkStep, which have together worked with tens of millions of young children, there has never been a time when physical proximity itself was considered dangerous for children. In the short term, we do not know when schools can reopen. In the long term, we do not know when the next pandemic or climate change related event would create the next disruption to the school system. Yet, data from around the world suggests that such events are more probable now than even 10 years ago. Together, we now need to think ahead and plan for an uncertain future. We must build a flexible and resilient learning infrastructure. We must help teachers, parents and learners to acquire new skills to keep children learning, no matter what. We need plans, not bans. For the state, bans are the easiest exercise of its authority. But it is a blunt, ineffective instrument. This ban will not prevent the elite from giving their children the best online resources the world can offer. It will not prevent any children from accessing too much screen entertainment. For months now, young children have had to limit their social interactions, especially in urban areas. They cannot go to school; meet their teachers or their friends. They cannot go into parks and playgrounds. Now, the state government has banned them from resuming their social interaction online, which was better than no interaction at all. Instead, the government could post guidelines on the size of the online class, the amount of screen time children should have, and the preferred methodologies for making the screen time engaging. Online classes need not count for academic grades; they could be voluntary, not mandatory. There are many possibilities for positive regulation. We cannot level down in the name of equality. We must level up. Perfection will not happen overnight. But the goal must be a progressive realisation of universal access. Let’s spread abundance, not scarcity. Governments are already improving access through television and radio. As they continue to expand broadband access, online teaching can also be re-imagined. One private school has broken up its online training into smaller, cohesive groups at the parents’ mutual convenience. States like Himachal Pradesh have tried to include those without connectivity by sending students weekly physical copies of online course material. In Jharkhand, government schoolteachers make house visits to demonstrate the use of digital links and content. This crisis can be a genuine opportunity. It is inevitable that we will need digital technologies to re-imagine learning beyond physical schooling. Instead of clamping down completely on online classes for young children, can we allow the flourishing of experimentation and innovation? That will enable the system to learn rapidly and deploy that knowledge equally quickly. Ironically, the Union government and many states, too, have embraced digital technology for education in a big way during the pandemic. Diksha, PM E-Vidya, Vidyadaan and Swayam Prabha are all innovative platforms that scale up the convergence between the education system and the community. Adoption has grown exponentially. With the heavy-handed ban, the Karnataka government may lose out on opportunities. There is a real danger of rapid and cumulative learning loss for young children after months of separation from their accustomed learning environment. With no proper plan to resume school routines, we must find other ways to keep children curious and learning. Online interactive sessions could be one element of this journey. I pray that my state government will have a rethink on the total ban on online learning. I hope it will see digital classrooms as a gateway into the future; as an opportunity to innovate and experiment; to keep what works for children; to discard what does not, and to try again and again. For the first time in my 20-year engagement with education, I truly believe that digital and other innovations allow us to finally equalise access to quality education for every single child. Let’s not close the window of opportunity to create a safe, creative online learning environment for young children in all schools, public or private. The future is digital, but the digital divide is deep, and we simply cannot let disadvantaged children fall further behind. (The writer is Co-founder and Director of EkStep Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/lockdown-online-classes-let-s-plan-not-ban-848917.html
12-06-2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Nine test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru||Nine persons, including a pregnant woman, tested positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru on Friday. With the new cases, the total positive cases increased to 115.  While seven patients have travel history to Maharashtra, the pregnant woman of K R Nagar, had traveled to K R Pet in Mandya district another patient is primary contact of the patient, who had travel history to Tamil Nadu. With the fresh cases, the number of active case increased to 19. According to Deputy Commissioner. all th seven persons returned from Maharashtra were under facility quarantine.  The DC said, containment zone is already declared around the affected household in K R Nagar town encompassing 140 houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/karnataka-nine-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-848823.html
12-06-2020||National||India rejects Pakistan PM Imran Khan's 'cash transfer' offer||The Government on Thursday rejected an offer made by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan to share with New Delhi his government’s cash-transfer programme to help people who lost jobs due to COVID-19 crisis.  “Acc (according to this report), 34% of households across India will not be able to survive for more than a week without add (additional) assistance. I am ready to offer help & (and) share our successful cash transfer prog (programme), lauded internationally for its reach & (and) transparency, with India,” Khan posted on Twitter, reacting to a report on The Express Tribune, a newspaper published in Pakistan.  India spurned the offer made by Pakistan Prime Minister.  “Pakistan is better known for making cash transfers to bank accounts outside the country rather than giving to its own people,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. “Clearly,” added the MEA spokesperson, “Imran Khan needs a new set of advisers and better information. We all know about Pakistan’s debt problem, which is almost 90% of its GDP, and how much they have pressed for debt restructuring.”   Srivastava said that it would also be better for Khan to remember that India had a stimulus package, which was as large as the annual GDP of Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-pakistan-pm-imran-khans-cash-transfer-offer-848556.html
12-06-2020||National||Stock limit on perishable food items only when retail price rises by 100% over year-ago rate, says Ram Vilas Paswan||Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said the government will impose the stock limit on perishable (horticulture) food items only if retail prices surge by 100 per cent, compared with the year-ago rate or an average price of the last five years. With the amendments in the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, he said the stock limit on non-perishable food items will be imposed if prices rise by 50 per cent. The Union Cabinet on June 3 approved amendments to the six-and-a-half-decade old Essential Commodities Act to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion. An ordinance was issued on June 5 to make these amendments effective. "Amended EC Act will make stock limits orders more transparent & accountable & it will be imposed only on increase of retail price by 100% (perishable) & 50% (non-perishable) foodstuffs compared with price immediately preceding 12 months or average retail price of last 5 years," Paswan tweeted.  With the amendment to the EC Act, commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes will be removed from the list of essential commodities, the government had said. The amendment in the EC Act provides for the regulation of food items only under exceptional circumstances like national calamities, famine with a surge in prices.  Processors and value chain participants will also be exempted from the stock limit, apart from traders and wholesalers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stock-limit-on-perishable-food-items-only-when-retail-price-rises-by-100-over-year-ago-rate-says-ram-vilas-paswan-848565.html
12-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 12, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-12-2020-edition-848592.html
12-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 12||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 3,09,271 as of June 12. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 8,886 6,096 345 22,562 6,334 487 6,516 79 385 156 3 40,698 367 12,616 365 1,724 10 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,47,195 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-12-848594.html
12-06-2020||National||Turn COVID-19 crisis into an oppostunity: PM Modi||Virtually addressing the annual plenary session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce in Kolkata from Delhi, the prime minister said that the COVID-19 crisis has further strengthened the country’s resolve to be self-reliant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/turn-covid-19-crisis-into-an-oppostunity-pm-modi-848597.html
12-06-2020||National||Himachal health 'scam': Court extends police custody of Punjab firm employee till Friday||A court here on Thursday extended by a day the police custody of the Punjab firm employee arrested in connection with a bribery case involving the director of health services in Himachal Pradesh. The court had earlier remanded him in police custody for five days till June 11. Director (Health Services) Ajay Kumar Gupta was arrested on May 20 over allegations of corruption in the purchase of health equipment. A 43-second audio recording had surfaced online, in which Gupta purportedly asked for a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from the arrested employee, Prithvi Singh. Even, state BJP president Rajeev Bindal had to resign from his post on ‘moral grounds’ as he was close to Singh, a liasioning officer of Dera Bassi-based firm Bio Aid in Punjab. Singh was arrested by the Himachal Pradesh State Vigilance Bureau on June 6. Extending his custody, Special Judge Arvind Malhotra directed the Vigilance Bureau to produce him in the court on Friday, when his bail petition is listed for hearing. On June 7 too, he had applied for bail but the petition was withdrawn at the last moment. Meanwhile, now suspended director Ajay Kumar Gupta's wife also moved an anticipatory bail application in the matter, which is listed for Friday in the same court, Vigilance Bureau SP Shalini Agnihotri said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himachal-health-scam-court-extends-police-custody-of-punjab-firm-employee-till-friday-848599.html
12-06-2020||National||U for 'Ugly', says alphabet book; 2 teachers suspended in Bengal||The West Bengal government on Thursday suspended two women teachers in East Burdwan district on the charge of teaching pre-primary students from an English alphabet book consisting of a portion derogatory to the people with a dark complexion. While presenting the alphabets with corresponding words and images, the book says U is for "Ugly". The illustration printed beside the letter is that of a boy with a dark complexion. "The book is not part of the textbooks referred by the education department. It was introduced by the school itself. We have zero-tolerance for acts which instill prejudices into the minds of students," Education Minister Partha Chatterjee told reporters here. He said the two teachers of a local municipality-run school have been placed under suspension with immediate effect on the basis of a preliminary investigation and stricter action would be taken against them later. Though the school is now closed because of the lockdown, the matter came to light when the father of a student of the school was teaching him with the help of that book. He informed other parents and the education department was apprised of the issue, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/u-for-ugly-says-alphabet-book-2-teachers-suspended-in-bengal-848604.html
12-06-2020||National||Fuel prices hiked for sixth straight day; Petrol to cost 57 paise more per litre, diesel 59 paise||Petrol price on Friday was hiked by 57 paise per litre and diesel by 59 paise a litre as oil companies adjusted retail rates - the sixth straight day of increase in rates since oil firms ended an 82-day hiatus of rate revision. This is the sixth consecutive daily increase in rates since oil companies on Sunday restarted revising prices in line with costs, after ending an 82-day hiatus. Over the past six days, the cumulative cost of petrol has gone up by Rs 3.31, while diesel by Rs 3.42.  Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 74.57 per litre from Rs 74, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 72.81 a litre from Rs 72.22, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. Petrol price hiked by 57 paise per litre, diesel by 59 paise; cost of petrol up by Rs 3.31 in six days, diesel by Rs 3.42 On Thursday, petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 60 paise per litre each. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-for-sixth-straight-day-petrol-to-cost-57-paise-more-per-litre-diesel-59-paise-848615.html
12-06-2020||National||Rajasthan: Over 3.57 lakh families to get free foodgrain for two months||Over 3.57 lakh needy families and destitute people who are not covered under the National Food Security Scheme will be provided free foodgrain for next two months in Rajasthan. The proposal for free distribution of foodgrain was approved by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday. Under the initiative, five kg of wheat will be provided per person every month. Each family will be given 10 kg of wheat and 2 kg of gram per month. The decision was taken after a survey of the families. The foodgrain will be provided through the public distribution system||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-over-357-lakh-families-to-get-free-foodgrain-for-two-months-848617.html
12-06-2020||National||BJP leader seeks to remove mass hysteria about COVID-19||BJP leader Utpal Parrikar has demanded serological testing of people in Goa to remove "mass hysteria" prevailing in the state about COVID-19. The son of former Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar on Thursday said such testing will help in knowing the real picture about the coronavirus situation in Goa, which has recorded more than 400 cases so far. Utpal Parrikar tweeted, Per ICMR 15-30 per cent people in various zones have developed antibodies and recovered. So the case of fatality is low. "We need serological testing in Goa to understand real picture and remove this mass hysteria prevalent in Goa due to ever-fleeting state SOPs and arbitrary decisions by local bodies. The state, which was declared a green zone on May 3, has seen a spike in the coronavirus cases. Serology (antibody) tests are largely used for surveillance among the community. They can be used on persons who have already been tested positive for the virus or even those who are asymptomatic and can reveal insights on immunity against the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-seeks-to-remove-mass-hysteria-about-covid-19-848634.html
12-06-2020||National||India records single-day spike of over 10,000 new COVID-19 cases for first time||India recorded over 10,000 new COVID-19 cases in a day for the first time, taking the tally to 2,97,535, while the death toll rose to 8,498 with a record single-day spike of 396 fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country has registered 10,956 new coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours till Friday 8 am. India on Thursday went past the United Kingdom in terms of coronavirus cases to become the fourth worst-hit country, according to the Worldometer.  The number of recoveries are more than the active novel coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day. The number of active cases stands at 1,41,842, while 1,47,194 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.     "Thus, around 49.47 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-single-day-spike-of-over-10000-new-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-848645.html
12-06-2020||National||'112' single emergency helpline activated in 5 Maharashtra cities||After a series of trials, the single emergency helpline number 112, which will connect people in distress with the police, has been made operational in five cities of Maharashtra, officials said on Friday. Citizens in distress can get immediate assistance from police in the state on dialling the helpline number '112' from their phones in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur and Pune, they said. In the next phase, emergency services like police (100), fire (101), medical (108) and assistance to women in distress (1090) will be integrated with the 112 helpline number across the state, an official said. The single emergency response number has been activated in five cities and this service will be rolled out in different parts of the state in the near future, he said. The work of connecting remaining cities of the state with this service is also going on, the official said. The call made on the number goes to the Emergency Response Centre and from there it is directed to police authorities to assist the citizen in distress, he explained.  In the future, other government agencies will also be integrated with the helpline number, the official said. The response time of the call is expected to be around eight minutes, he said, adding the quality of the service will be improved gradually. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had reviewed the progress of this most ambitious project in February, he said. As part of this project, the police department is purchasing 1,502 four-wheelers and 2,269 two-wheelers to respond to emergency calls in time, the official said. Similar to the United States and many other developed countries, India had launched the service of single emergency helpline number '112' in February 2019. Initially, 16 states and Union Territories had planned to roll out the service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/112-single-emergency-helpline-activated-in-5-maharashtra-cities-848657.html
12-06-2020||National||Maharashtra minister tests positive for COVID-19||A Maharashtra cabinet minister, who belongs to the NCP, has tested positive for COVID-19, sources said on Friday. The minister, who hails from the Marathwada region, had attended the cabinet meeting held at the state secretariat here earlier this week, the sources said. He is the third cabinet member in Maharashtra to test positive for the viral infection. "It came to light on late Thursday night that the minister has tested positive for the disease. He has been quarantined in Mumbai," the sources said. Apart from the minister, a few members of his personal staff, too, have tested positive for the disease and are being isolated, they said. Earlier, two cabinet ministers, Ashok Chavan (Congress) and Jitendra Awhad (NCP), had tested positive for the disease and recovered later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-848674.html
12-06-2020||National||No coercive action against pvt firms for non-payment of full wages during lockdown: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday directed that no coercive action should be taken till July last week against private companies, which have failed to pay full wages to their employees during the coronavirus-induced lockdown period. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said industries and employees need each other and they should sit together to arrive at a settlement on the issue of payment of wages. The bench asked the state governments to facilitate such settlement process and file its report with the labour commissioners concerned. It also asked the Centre to file an additional affidavit within four weeks with regard to the legality of Ministry of Home Affairs' March 29 circular which had mandated payment of full wages during the lockdown period. The bench posted the petitions filed by various companies against the March 29 circular, for further hearing in last week of July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-coercive-action-against-pvt-firms-for-non-payment-of-full-wages-during-lockdown-sc-848676.html
12-06-2020||National||Drones, contact tracing apps became more acceptable during COVID-19 than ever before: India at UN||India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Nagaraj Naidu, speaking at a virtual high-level debate on the ‘Impact of Rapid Technological Change on the Sustainable Development Goals and Targets’ here on Thursday, said that new technologies like drones and tracing apps became more acceptable during the COVID-19 pandemic than they were before. Referring to the Aarogya Setu mobile app, he told the high-level meeting that the expedited development of the contact tracing app and innovative Artificial Intelligence-based COVID-19 testing kits have enabled India’s efforts to handle the pandemic. The app was launched by the Indian government on April 2 to help people assess their risk of getting infected with coronavirus and alert authorities if they have come in close contact with an infected person. “However, we still have to deal with issues relating to cyber security, data privacy and the spread of misinformation,” Naidu said.  “New technologies offer incredible promise: from increasing the productivity of systems while lowering emissions and waste; to enhancing food security and efficiency of global supply chains, or breakthrough discoveries in areas like new medicines, or new materials,” he said. The envoy said that trust and acceptance issues will impact the adoption rates for new technologies. The Aarogya Setu app uses contact tracing to record details of people who may have come in contact with a coronavirus patient. The app, which is available in 12 languages and various platforms, has over 114 million users as on May 26, which is more than any other contact tracing app in the world. Naidu said that while technology is neutral, its deployment and access to its benefits are not. "We have to remember that once a new technology rolls over you, if you're not part of the steamroller, you are part of the flattened road,” he said, adding that the unique benefits and profound risks arising from the dramatic increase in computing power and interconnectivity in the digital age falls in the realm of the “known unknowns”. Addressing the high-level meeting, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said that digital technology is central to almost every aspect of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, from vaccine research to online learning models, e-commerce and tools that are enabling hundreds of millions of people to work and study from home. The UN chief stressed that at the same time, COVID-19 has provided dramatic evidence of the threats posed by the ungoverned use of digital technology, from exclusion and inequality, to surveillance, human rights abuses and cybercrime. “The pandemic has ushered in some of the most intrusive surveillance technologies we have ever seen, together with a significant increase in cynical ransomware attacks on hospitals and health care facilities. “Meanwhile, the danger of digital fragmentation is increasing, exacerbated by geopolitical divides, technological competition and polarization,” he said.     Naidu said at the meeting that across the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their 169 targets, it is suggested that 70 per cent of the targets could be achieved through application of digital technologies. He stressed that each industrial or technological revolution has had winners and losers. "We cannot afford the fourth industrial revolution to not be inclusive,” Naidu said. He highlighted efforts by India to deploy science and technology to improve lives of peoples - from green revolution in food security to remote sensing for disaster risk reduction and to nuclear energy for healthcare. India has also used Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to leapfrog and upscale financial inclusion by linking “people’s bank accounts, national identification numbers and mobile phone services”, he said, adding that India has close to 670 million internet users where the cost of 1 GB of data is just about 20 cents, compared to the global average of USD 9. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the coronavirus has infected over 73,00,000 people and killed than 4,16,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 2 million cases and more than 1,11,000 deaths. India’s tally stands at 2,97,535, while the death toll is 8,498, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The contagion, which originated in China's Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy, which was in a sluggish recovery even before the coronavirus outbreak, is now bound to suffer a "severe recession".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drones-contact-tracing-apps-became-more-acceptable-during-covid-19-than-ever-before-india-at-un-848680.html
12-06-2020||National||Opposition blames Goa govt's faulty SOP for COVID-19 spread||The Goa Forward Party chief Vijai Sardesai on Friday demanded the imposition of President's rule in Goa claiming that people have lost faith in the Pramod Sawant-led government. "People have no faith in the government's SOPs, which is why, you can see several local bodies imposing lockdowns in their areas," he said. Several villages including Keri, Morlem, Usgaon, Pale (in North Goa) and Canacona (South Goa) went for self- imposed lockdowns over fear of COVID-19 spread in rural areas. The President's Rule should be imposed in Goa, as people have lost faith in the government and also the chief minister has surrendered all his powers to bureaucrats, he said. Pointing out that the BJP-controlled Corporation of City of Panaji has also decided to shut down the market in the capital city, Sardesai said that even the party's own cadres have lost faith in the government. "This SOP is like a soup cooked by too many inefficient cooks," he said. Infections being detected in slum areas such as Chimbel (near Panaji) is worrisome, Sardesai claimed. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco said the government's new SOP has failed to solve problems faced by Goans who have been repatriated and claimed there were complaints of test reports being delayed. As per the new SOP, which has been in force since June 11, people travelling from foreign countries have to get tested for the infection upon their arrival in the state and wait in paid quarantine facilities till reports are out. While domestic travellers were allowed to go home without testing and advised home quarantine for 14 days, Goans arriving from foreign countries have to go through this tedious process, Lourenco said. The state government should first improve its testing facilities on priority so that the people get their reports on time, he said. Goa has reported 417 COVID-19 cases so far, of which 67 people have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-blames-goa-govts-faulty-sop-for-covid-19-spread-848682.html
12-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Discuss ticket price refund issue with airlines, Supreme Court tells Centre||A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said credit can be given to the passengers for future travel in a period of two years. Some airlines, for their part, contended nowhere in the world, airlines were refunding complete fare. "We would like to sit with the Civil Aviation Ministry and come up with a solution," they said.  To refund the money to customers, instead of the present practice of creating a credit shell, would ruin the airlines, which have zero revenue at present, they further said. The court asked the Centre to reply to the PIL filed by Pravasi Legal Cell in three weeks. The NGO said the Ministry of Civil Aviation's order issued on April 16 directing the airlines to refund only those tickets that were booked during the lockdown period and left out the vast majority of passengers who had booked tickets before the flights were banned, was like treating the equals unequally in violation of fundamental rights of citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-discuss-ticket-price-refund-issue-with-airlines-supreme-court-tells-centre-848688.html
12-06-2020||National||Fact-check: Erroneous graphic claims total lockdown returns from June 15||On June 9, Zee News shared a post on Facebook and wrote that the graphic circulating is fake. “A false news is being spread in the name of Zee News on social media. [Translated from सोशल मीडिया पर ZEE NEWS के नाम से एक झूठी खबर फैलाई जा रही है.] सोशल मीडिया पर ZEE NEWS के नाम से एक झूठी खबर फैलाई जा रही है.  Thus, a morphed Zee News graphic is viral on social media claiming that the Home Ministry had indicated that the country will be under complete lockdown from June 15. Had the government made any such announcement, it would have been covered by the media or an official declaration would have been made. The government-affiliated fact-check wing of PIB also tweeted that the news is false. [Update: The genuine Zee News screengrab in the comparison collage has been altered with the format that was used in the viral graphic.] (This article was first published on AltNews website and was reproduced here through special arrangement.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-erroneous-graphic-claims-total-lockdown-returns-from-june-15-848689.html
12-06-2020||National||COVID-19: In war, you don't make soldiers unhappy, says SC on non-payment of salaries to doctors||“In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy. Travel extra mile and channel some extra money to address their grievances,” the Supreme Court said on Friday taking serious note of non-payment of salary and lack of proper accommodation to doctors engaged in fight against COVID-19. The courts should not be involved in the issue of non-payment of salary to health care workers and government should settle the issue, it said. The top court was hearing a plea by a doctor, who alleged that front line healthcare workers engaged in fight against COVID-19 are not being paid salaries or their salaries are being cut or delayed.  The doctor also questioned the Centre’s new SOP making their 14-day quarantine non-mandatory. “In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy. Travel extra mile and channel some extra money to address grievances. Country cannot afford to have dissatisfied soldiers in this war which is being fought against Corona,” said a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and MR Shah. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that if there are better suggestions coming forward, they can be accommodated. The bench said that there are reports coming that many areas doctors are not being paid. “We saw report that doctors went on strike. In Delhi, some doctors have not been paid for past three months. These are concerns that should have been taken care off. It should not require court intervention." The bench further said, “You (Centre) need to do more. Must make sure their concerns are addressed”. The bench posted the matter for further hearing next week. On June 4, the Centre had told the top court that a “large number” of make-shift hospitals will have to be built in the near future to accommodate the constant rise in the number of newly infected people. The Centre also contended that though hospitals are responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities, the final responsibility lies with the health care workers to protect themselves from COVID-19.  It further said mandatory quarantine for 14 days after the duty of healthcare workers of 7/14 days is “not justified and warranted”. “It is most respectfully submitted that number of cases of COVID-19 are constantly increasing and at some point of time in near future, apart from existing hospitals, large number of temporary make-shift hospitals will have to be created in order to accommodate COVID-19 patients requiring admission, medical care and treatment,” the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in an affidavit. The affidavit was filed on a plea by Arushi Jain who questioned the Centre's new Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) of May 15 for front line COVID-19 healthcare workers by which it ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for them. The ministry in its reply affidavit had said healthcare workers (HCW) are properly protected by Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) in workplace settings and carry no additional risk to their families or children. It had said grievances raised by the petitioner alleging infirmities in the May 15 guidelines of the health ministry are completely presumptuous, vacuous, ill-founded and sans any empirical or medical evidence. Justifying its advisory and SOPs, the health ministry said it is a step in the right direction and that the guidelines emphasise the role of taking adequate preventive measures by all health care workers in the hospital setting against the likelihood of contracting infection at their work place. On April 8, the apex court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the "first line of defence of the country" in the battle against COVID-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate PPEs are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-in-war-you-dont-make-soldiers-unhappy-says-sc-on-non-payment-of-salaries-to-doctors-848690.html
12-06-2020||National||Fact-check: Did Ramachandra Guha insult Gujaratis, Bengalis with his tweet?||A tweet by historian Ramachandra Guha has caused quite a stir on social media. It carries an excerpt from British writer and former communist Philip Spratt’s writings from 1939. “Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province…Bengal, in contrast, is economically backward but culturally advanced,” reads the excerpt. "Gujarat, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province... . Bengal in contrast is economically backward but culturally advanced".Philip Spratt, writing in 1939. Many individuals accused the historian of promoting misinformation. OpIndia published an article declaring Guha “got history wrong” because OpIndia, which wishes to establish itself as a fact-checking organisation, was unable to trace the excerpt quoted in the tweet. OpIndia further attempted to dismiss Guha’s tweet by mentioning that Gujarat came into existence as a state in 1960. This was an attempt to claim that the word ‘Gujarat’ could not have been used before 1960. The same was highlighted by several others. Former BJP MP Paresh Rawal accused Guha of distorting history. Chief Minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani responded to Guha’s tweet saying, “Earlier it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians.” Earlier it was the British who tried to divide and rule. Now it is a group of elites who want to divide Indians. Indians won’t fall for such tricks. Gujarat is great, Bengal is great...India is united. Guha’s tweet also drew fall from Congress. This is an ill informed statement From Kutch to Vapi & from Shyamlaji to Dwarka,Gujarat’s culture is built on striking diversity but united through indomitable entrepreneurial spirit Two separate claims were raised by those who accused Ram Guha of circulating misinformation — 1. No such excerpt was penned by Philip Spratt in 1939. 2. Philip Spratt could not have made a reference to Gujarat in 1939 since it came to existence as a state only in 1960.    On page 2 of the book, Spratt wrote, “Gujarat accordingly, though economically advanced, is culturally a backward province.” He further wrote that the Kathiawad region was entirely medieval. On page 32, he compared Bengal with Gujarat and wrote that the former is “economically backward but culturally advanced.” Present-day Gujarat was part of the Bombay Presidency under British colonial rule when the book was released.  Seeing that the quote even irked politicians holding office, Guha tweeted, “Reserve your praise or your anger for the ghost of the person being quoted.” Statutory warning; when I post quotes by others found in the course of my research, I do so because I find them arresting in some way. I may (or may not) endorse, in part or in whole, what I am quoting. Reserve your praise or your anger for the ghost of the person being quoted. 2. Gujarat was referred by its state name before it came into existence in 1960.   The Indian National Congress also had a Gujarat committee which was formed in 1920 and Patel was its first president. The letter below can be found on archive.org.  Therefore, Ram Guha, who was accused of promoting misinformation, was ironically targetted with misinformation. Those offended by his tweet either claimed that he has falsely quoted Philip Spratt or directed their anger at him instead of the original author.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-ramachandra-guha-insult-gujaratis-bengalis-with-his-tweet-848699.html
12-06-2020||National||18 more test positive for COVID-19 in Tripura, total tally 916||At least 18 more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tripura, raising the total tally in the state to 916, officials said on Friday. Of the 18 fresh cases recorded on Thursday, 14 are from Sepahijala, and one each from Tripura West, Gomati, Tripura South and Dhalai districts, they said. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, in a tweet late on Thursday, said, "Out of 1430 samples tested for COVID19, 18 people found positive. All of them have travel history." Taking into account the fresh cases, the number of active coronavirus patients in the state rose to 630. Altogether 39 people were discharged on Thursday from a COVID-19 care centre set up at Bhagat Singh Youth Hostel here, following their recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tripura-total-tally-916-848703.html
12-06-2020||National||Kerala IT sector fears over one lakh job loss; Govt moots work near home options||As the Kerala IT sector may face more than one lakh job loss, the state government has mooted options of a work-sharing bench and work near home options. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who held discussions with representatives of the IT sector on Thursday (June 11), said that the state IT/ITES sector was suffering around Rs. 4,500 crore loss due to COVID-19 and experts estimated loss of over 26,000 direct jobs and over 80,000 indirect jobs. The state mooted work from bench option in which techies found unskilled may be shifted to a skill bank and the government would provide skill enhancement programmes. Their service would be utilised by other companies or for government projects also while in the skill bank. Later the parent company may reabsorb them when suitable projects arise, said the Chief Minister. Government sources clarified that the employees would continue to be in the rolls of the parent company even while on the bench, but with reduced pay. In view of technical issues like poor internet connectivity being faced many in working from home, work near home units for people to work would be set up.  The chief minister also said that three-month rent waiver for 10,000 square feet space was offered to companies in government IT parks and pending payments of government projects would be released soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-it-sector-fears-over-one-lakh-job-loss-govt-moots-work-near-home-options-848708.html
12-06-2020||National||Retired Justice Hosbet Suresh dies at 91 in Mumbai||Eminent jurist and activist Justice (Retd) Hosbet Suresh passed away in Mumbai on Friday. Justice Suresh, a former judge of the Bombay High Court, was a champion of human rights and civil liberties. He was 91. Justice Suresh was born on July 20, 1929, in Hosabettu in Surathkal in Karnataka. He completed BA from Mangalore University and MA from Visvesvaraya Technological University in Belgaum. From Bombay University, he completed LLM. Initially, he practised in the Bombay City Civil Court (BCCC) while he was a part-time professor at the Government Law College.He then became a government pleader at the BCCC and later a judge there. He resigned from the BCCC and started practising in the Bombay High Court (BHC)  where he was designated a senior advocate. Later he was appointed as a judge in the Bombay High Court. He retired in 1991. After retirement, apart from being a trustee of Lawyers Collective, he was very active on issues of abuse of human rights. The cases he took up included investigating and reporting on eviction of slum dwellers, Gujarat riots of 2002, right to food and human rights abuses in Kashmir. "He will always be remembered as a strong advocate and defender of human rights and guide to all of us. We pay respects to him for his unstinting support for human rights," the Lawyers Collective said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retired-justice-hosbet-suresh-dies-at-91-in-mumbai-848709.html
12-06-2020||National||BSF chief to review security along Indo-Pak border in Kutch||Director-General of the Border Security Force S S Deswal is on a two-day visit to Gujarat's Kutch district to review the security scenario along the international border, an official said on Friday. This is Deswal's first visit to Kutch, which shares a border with Pakistan, after assuming the charge as BSF DG this March, a release here stated. Following his arrival in Bhuj on Thursday, the BSF chief chaired a high-level meeting with senior officials, including BSF inspector general G S Malik, Kutch-West superintendent of police Saurabh Tolumbia and officials of Bhuj Army station. Deswal also interacted with BSF jawans on board a patrol boat in the creek area. The BSF chief will visit the international border on Friday to review the security scenario, the release added. Notably, the international border passes through the Sir Creek area, a highly sensitive zone, where the BSF had nabbed Pakistani fishermen and seized abandoned boats in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-chief-to-review-security-along-indo-pak-border-in-kutch-848711.html
12-06-2020||National||Mumbai now has a flood warning system||The southwest monsoon often leads to problems in India's financial capital of Mumbai like water-logging coupled with disruption of road and rail traffic but now the megapolis have a flood forecast system. IFLOWS-Mumbai is developed as a state of art Integrated flood warning system for Mumbai was commissioned by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and science and technology minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. The Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, Government of Maharashtra approached the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) to develop an integrated flood warning system. The  MoES initiated the development of IFLOWS-Mumbai in July,  2019 using the in-house expertise available within the Ministry of Earth Sciences in close coordination with Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. IFLOWS-Mumbai is developed as a state of art Integrated Flood Warning system for Mumbai to enhance the resilience of the city of Mumbai by providing early warning for flooding specially during high rainfall events and cyclones. I-FLOWS is built on a modular structure and comprises of seven modules, namely Data Assimilation, Flood, Inundation, Vulnerability, Risk, Dissemination Module and Decision Support System.  The system incorporates weather models from National Centre for medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF), India Meteorological Department (IMD), field data from the rain gauge network stations setup by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) and IMD, thematic layers on land use, infrastructure etc provided by MCGM. Based on inputs from weather models, hydrologic models are used to transform rainfall into runoff and provides inflow inputs into the river systems. Hydraulic models are used to solve equations of fluid motion to replicate the movement of water to assess flooding in the study area.   Since, Mumbai is an island city with its connectivity to sea, hydrodynamic models and storm surge model are used to calculate the tide and storm surge impacts on the city. The system has provisions to capture the urban drainage within the city and predict the areas of flooding, which will be incorporated in the final system. The data on river bathymetry was collected in all rivers namely Mithi, Dahisar, Oshiwara, Poisar, Ulhas, lakes and creeks by NCCR in association with MCGM and IMD, Mumbai. The land topography, land use, infrastructure, population etc., was provided by MCGM and it was integrated into a Decision Support System to accurately estimate flood levels at ward level using thematic layers in GIS. A web GIS based decision supports system is build to calculate the vulnerability and risk of elements exposed to flood. "Extreme precipitation events are on the rise in India driven by warming temperatures and changes in the monsoon due to climate change. Mumbai has been experiencing floods with increased periodicity and recent flood in 29 August 2017, brought the city to a standstill.  The flood during 26th July 2005, is probably etched in the memory of every Mumbai citizen, when the city received a rainfall of 94cm, a 100 year high in a span of 24 hours paralyzing the city completely. As a preparedness for floods before they occur, people to be warned so that they can be prepared in advance for flooding conditions," a press statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-now-has-a-flood-warning-system-848714.html
12-06-2020||National||HC asks North DMC to pay its resident doctors' salary||The Delhi High Court Friday directed North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North-DMC) to pay by June 19 the salary for March to the resident doctors in its six hospitals, including Kasturba Gandhi and Hindu Rao. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also asked the Delhi government to release funds to North DMC so that it can pay the April salary of the resident doctors of its hospitals by June 24. The bench also issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government, North DMC and various doctors' association seeking their stand on the PIL initiated by the high court on its own. The detailed order is awaited in the matter which is listed for further hearing on July 8. Delhi government was represented by Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel Satyakam, while the Centre was represented by its standing counsel Anil Soni. Satyakam and Soni said the amount to be paid, each month, to the resident doctors of the six North DMC hospitals comes to around Rs 8 crore. The high court on Thursday initiated the PIL based on news reports that doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital have threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year. The news reports also stated that recently doctors of North MCD-run Hindu Rao hospital had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over non-payment of their salaries for last three months. The court took suo motu notice of the news reports and initiated the PIL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-north-dmc-to-pay-its-resident-doctors-salary-848716.html
12-06-2020||National||How Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala govt managed to resist another political ploy over Sabarimala?||The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala, which had once burnt its fingers over the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, has now managed to wriggle out without much damages from a fresh political ploy over the temple. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was often known for his adamant stands, be it on Sabarimala women entry issue or the recent conduct of SSLC examinations amid COVID-19 spike, has however shed the adamant stand on allowing devotees to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Considering the demand of the temple tantri, the government revoked its decision to open the hill shrine for devotees from this Sunday. The government could even make Sabarimala tantri Mahesh Mohanaru openly say that there was no rift with the government. Even as the BJP is claiming that it was their political victory as they were opposing the reopening of worship centres amid COVID-19, the Pinarayi Vijayan government indeed managed to nip in the bud, during another attempt to corner it over Sabarimala temple issue, that too when the local body elections are expected within a few months and Assembly elections in a year. Veteran political commentator B R P Bhaskar said that what was going on these days was not a democratic decision-making process, but succumbing to interests of all religions. It is obviously aimed at electoral advantages. The BJP's present victory claims over revoking the decision to reopen Sabarimala is quite weak as the state government decided to allow worship centres to reopen on the basis of a directive of the BJP government at the Centre. Moreover, the demand for reopening worship centres was there for certain quarters and the government even held talks with religious heads.  The CPM-led left front in Kerala had felt the heat over Sabarimala women entry issue. Its adamant stand to enforce the SC order in 2018 allowing women in 10-50 age group to enter the shrine of Lord Ayyappa, believed to be a celibate, had not gone down well with the faithful. The BJP and Congress managed to cash on it and the left front got defeated in 19 out of 20 Lok Sabha seats in Kerala in the subsequent polls. Hence there is no surprise if the left-front will keep off from any further steps that hurt religious sentiments, especially on the eve of polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-pinarayi-vijayan-led-kerala-govt-managed-to-resist-another-political-ploy-over-sabarimala-848717.html
12-06-2020||National||Govt extends delivery period of all capital acquisition contracts in view of COVID-19||The Defence Ministry on Friday extended by four months the delivery period for all military equipment and hardware under capital acquisition contracts with Indian vendors in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. The decision has been taken due to supply chain disruptions arising out of measures put in place by the government to contain spread of the pandemic, they said. "The Ministry of Defence has extended the delivery period for all existing capital acquisition contracts with Indian vendors by four months," a spokesperson in the ministry said. In case of foreign vendors, the official said they can approach the Defence Ministry, which may consider cases on the basis of the situation prevailing in their respective countries. The ministry issued an order saying the extension of delivery period of equipment and hardware will be applicable for the period between March 25 and July 24. According to the order, no separate contract or specific amendments will be required for implementation of the new provision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-delivery-period-of-all-capital-acquisition-contracts-in-view-of-covid-19-848719.html
12-06-2020||National||SC asks Tamil Nadu to explain how guidelines followed on sale of liquor||The Supreme Court on Friday said it was open for the Tamil Nadu government to decide upon distribution and sale of liquor, including on online sale and home delivery. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah gave three weeks to the state-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) to file an affidavit. The court also asked the Tamil Nadu government to explain the steps taken out for sale of liquor, while maintaining social distancing, as it extended its stay on the Madras High Court's order for online sale and home delivery. The court gave three weeks to the state-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) to file an affidavit. The court orally rejected a contention that the Madras High Court should be allowed to consider the writ petitions against open sale as senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, appearing for TASMAC, opposed it. During the hearing, the bench said it was not for the court to decide how liquor was to be sold. The state counsel maintained that it can't be directed for online sale and home deliveries of liquor. They said guidelines have been issued to maintain social distancing at shops. On May 15, in a relief to Tamil Nadu government, the court had stayed the Madras HC orders that directed for only online sale and home delivery of liquor due to overcrowding seen at vends. The TASMAC shops were re-opened on May 7, 2020 after a 44-day shutdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-tamil-nadu-to-explain-how-guidelines-followed-on-sale-of-liquor-848722.html
12-06-2020||National||ILO seeks response from trade unions on wages, job loss during COVID-19 lockdown||The ILO has sent a 21-point questionnaire seeking details of bipartite and tripartite social dialogue mechanisms in these countries, including India, and have asked the trade unions about wages payments, job loss and working hours among others. It has asked whether the tripartite mechanism engaged in issues like layoffs and wages and if not, what were the main reasons for the lack of social dialogue in responding to the COVID-19 crisis? Ten CTUs -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- had last month approached the ILO against the Narendra Modi government as several states went ahead with suspending labour laws in the pretext of COVID-19 crisis and some even went to the extent of increasing working hours from universally accepted eight-hour duty to 12 hours by bypassing the rules on overtime wages. ILO's Freedom of Association Branch chief Karen Curtis had said that Director General Guy Ryder had immediately intervened in the matter expressing his "deep concern" and appealed to PM Modi to "send a clear message to central and state governments to uphold the country's international commitments and encourage engagement in effective social dialogue". In its letter to trade unions seeking their response on the tripartite mechanism, the ILO said the purpose of the exercise is to obtain information on any activities undertaken by these mechanisms to respond to the COVID-19 crisis, assist to identify gaps for focused short, medium and long-term interventions to build the resilience of these mechanisms so that they can be more effective in responding to future crises. "The information obtained from the questionnaire will allow the initial development of a single repository of data on the bipartite and tripartite social dialogue mechanisms in South Asia, and their roles in responding to the COVID-19 crisis. It is also intended to enable the identification of needs for further technical support to these mechanisms, and their constituents, in a more targeted and structured way, with the objective of building more resilient social dialogue mechanisms for the future," the ILO said. The trade unions have accused the Modi government of undermining the tripartite mechanism, which involves the government, employers and trade unions. Trade union leaders said they will highlight the problems in the mechanism. "The process is aimed at analysing the tripartite mechanism in Asian countries. They will analyse it and the main context is India. The ILO will try to compare the tripartite situation in India with neighbouring countries," CITU National Secretary Amitava Guha told DH. The questions posed by the ILO included "what is the representation on each of these key bipartite and tripartite social dialogue mechanisms (i.e. a number of representatives per constituency)? How many women are represented in each of these mechanisms? Are any of these mechanisms bipartite-plus or tripartite-plus? Which of these mechanisms are currently active/operational, dormant/non-functional, or not sure of their status?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ilo-seeks-response-from-trade-unions-on-wages-job-loss-during-covid-19-lockdown-848723.html
12-06-2020||National||SC allows TN to devise method on selling of liquor through online or physical sale mode||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed Tamil Nadu government to devise methods to sell liquor online or through physical sales saying it is not for the court to lay down norms, as how the liquor is to be sold. The top court agreed with the contention of state government’s firm, Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC), which sells alcoholic beverages in the state, that it cannot be instructed to sell liquor only through online and home deliveries. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah asked TASMAC to file affidavit within three weeks about the mechanism of sale of liquor in shops. On May 15, the top court had paved the way for reopening of state-owned liquor vends in Tamil Nadu by staying a Madras High Court order which had ordered their closure for the time being on the ground that there was violation of guidelines, such as social distancing, meant to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. It had stayed the May 8 order of the High Court after taking note of the appeal of state government’s firm. The TASMAC had contended that the High Court should not have imposed its own conditions for sale of liquor by entering into the state’s domain of policy making. It had argued that it was state's prerogative to decide how to conduct sale of liquor and contended that High Court cannot decide the mode of selling. The Tamil Nadu government on May 8 had moved the top court challenging the High Court order saying that the closure of such shops would lead to "grave losses" in state’s revenue and complete halt in commercial activities. The High Court had ordered closure of liquor outlets noting that there were huge crowds and no social distancing was being maintained by tipplers. It, however, had allowed doorstep delivery of booze through online mode. The state government firm, in its appeal, termed the High Court order a case of "judicial overreach" and said online sale and home delivery of alcohol were not possible in the entire state. "It is pertinent that online modes of effective liquor sales are not even available in the vast majority of state at present and can only be implemented after following the due procedures under law," TASMAC said in the appeal. "It is pertinent that in the state of Tamil Nadu all liquor retail is owned and operated by TASMAC thus the net effect of the High Court's order is complete and indefinite standstill of the sale of liquor in the state leading to grave losses to the state's revenue and commercial activity in the state," the plea said. TASMAC said that there was as many as 10 PILs pending in the High Court on the issue and it has "reasons to believe that the entire batch of writ Petitions if not some have been filed by vested private interest, so as to make enormous commercial gains, from the unfortunate situation." The state government firm referred to the apex court's observation in which it had asked states to consider non-direct contact or online sales and home delivery of liquor during the lockdown period to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.   Some of the petitioners, on whose plea the HC ordered closure of liquor vends in the state, has also moved the apex court by filing caveat to ensure that they be also heard if the top court passes any order on the plea of TASMAC. The high court order restraining sale of liquor off the counters was passed on a petition filed by advocate G Rajesh, besides a plaint from the actor Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM). The High Court had said there was total violation of its interim order, when it declined to stay a government order allowing resumption of sale of liquor through outlets. After a dry spell of 43 days due to the COVID-19 lockdown since late March, liquor sales resumed at TASMAC outlets in Tamil Nadu, except state capital Chennai, on May 7. Heavy rush was witnessed at most places with people standing in serpentine queues even as the move to allow sale of liquor came in for flak from opposition parties and others, who raised apprehensions that it would lead to further spread of the novel coronavirus, which as of May 8 has affected over 6,000 people in the state. Tamil Nadu had decided to open retail liquor outlets, citing relaxation of lockdown norms by the central government. Tipplers in border districts of the state were also making a beeline to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka where liquor sales resumed on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-tn-to-devise-method-on-selling-of-liquor-through-online-or-physical-sale-mode-848726.html
12-06-2020||National||SC expresses concern on lack of salaries and facilities for doctors||The Supreme Court on Friday (June 12) expressed its serious concern over reports that doctors and other medical staff were not being paid salaries and given separate stay facilities in Delhi, Hyderabad, and other places, saying "you can't have dissatisfied soldiers at the time of war". A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said and asked the Union government to "do more and go the extra mile to protect Corona warriors". "It is kind of a war. You do not keep soldiers unhappy during the war," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court was hearing a plea by a doctor, Arushi Jain, who sought a direction to the Centre to ensure separate accommodation, among others, for doctors, medical staff, on COVID-19 frontline.  "When they go home, they expose their families to greater risk. The panacea is worse than the disease," senior advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for Jain, said. He sought a specific direction to the government so that the family members of doctors were not put in danger. He contended that the criteria for quarantine issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare were not enough and exposed the doctors and their families to greater risk. Vishwanathan also pointed out that government doctors were subjected to wage deductions and private doctors were not being given proper salaries. "The kind of violence they are going through is the additional menace," he said.  The court asked Mehta to address these concerns. Mehta, for his part, said, "We already have five-star hotels being used for accommodations for doctors treating Covid-19 patients." The bench asked Vishwanathan to give his suggestions to Mehta and put the matter for consideration next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-concern-on-lack-of-salaries-and-facilities-for-doctors-848728.html
12-06-2020||National||Challenges India, US face are from authoritarian nations like China, Russia: Ex-US diplomat||India and the United States can work together not to fight an "authoritarian" China but to make it observe the rule of law, former US diplomat and Harvard professor Nicholas Burns said on Friday in a conversation with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. "I think that India and the US can be working together. Not as you say not to fight China, but to make it observe the rule of law as we try to live together in this world," he told Gandhi as part of the series of interactions by the Congress leader. Gandhi said the Indo-US partnership works because being tolerant was in their DNA, but that level of tolerance, which was seen before, is not being seen now in both the countries. "We're supposed to accept new ideas. We're supposed to be open, but the surprising thing is that DNA, that open DNA, is sort of disappearing. I mean, I say this with sadness that I don't see that level of tolerance that I used to see. I don't see it in the United States and I don't see it in India," Gandhi observed. His remarks came in the wake of countrywide protests in the US over the death of African-American George Floyd in police custody. The Indo-US relationship, which used to be a partnership earlier, now seems to have become "very transactional" and "episodic", the former Congress chief said. "A relationship that used to be very broad -- education, defence, healthcare, multiple fronts -- has sort of focused down mainly on defence," Gandhi said. Burns, the former US under-secretary of State and the chief negotiator of the India-US nuclear deal under the Bush administration, said not just the governments of the US and India, but their societies were very closely intertwined and that is a great strength. "If you think that one of the challenges we face is the coming power of authoritarian countries. I mentioned two before, China and Russia. We never want to fight, we don't want war but we want to preserve our way of life and we want to preserve our positions in the world," he said. Burns asserted that this is the reason the relationship between India and the US is important. The US and Indian governments should combine forces to promote human freedom, democracy and rule of people in the world, he said and called for encouraging movement of people and exchanges between the two countries. "I think that is a powerful idea that Indians and Americans can bring together to the rest of the world. Again, you know, we are not looking for a conflict with China, but we are waging, in a way, a battle of ideas with China," Burns said. During the conversation, Gandhi also hit out at the divisions prevailing in both the countries, saying they weaken nations. "When you divide African Americans, Mexicans and other people in the United States, so you divide Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs in India, you're weakening the structure of the country. But then the same people who weaken the structure of the country say tt they are the nationalists,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/challenges-india-us-face-are-from-authoritarian-nations-like-china-russia-ex-us-diplomat-848738.html
12-06-2020||National||China's clout on the rise globally, but lacks sophistication, ex-US diplomat tells Rahul Gandhi||China’s influence in world affairs is growing in the times of COVID-19 outbreak, but it lacks the sophistication and openness of democracies such as India and the US, former American diplomat Nicholas Burns told Rahul Gandhi. Burns, who played a key role in negotiating the India-US civil nuclear deal, also rued the absence of a global response to the COVID-19 pandemic, mainly due to the “unilateralist” approach of US President Donald Trump. “You know, this crisis was made for the G20. It was made for Prime Minister Modi and President Xi Jinping and Donald Trump to be working together…. It hasn’t happened,” the former US diplomat said in a conversation with the former Congress President. Rahul concurred with Burns and added that the friction between Germany, Italy and the UK had accelerated the COVID-19 crisis. “Mainly because Donald Trump doesn't really believe in international cooperation. He's a unilateralist. He wants America to go it alone in the world...I hope when the next crisis comes, we will do better to work together in a more effective way,” Burns, a career diplomat who also led negotiations on the Iran nuclear program, said. He added that China had a “fearful” leadership trying to increase their power and strengthen the grip over their own citizens. “Look what's happening in Xinxiang and the Uighurs and in Hong Kong ... I worry the Chinese system is not going to be flexible enough to accommodate the desires of the Chinese people for human freedom and liberty,” Burns said. Bringing in the Indian perspective, Rahul said the India-US partnership worked because tolerance was embedded in the DNA of the respective countries, which has been missing in current times. “We were supposed to accept new ideas. We were supposed to be open, but the surprising thing is that DNA, that open DNA, is sort of disappearing. I mean, I say this with sadness that I don't see that level of tolerance that I used to see. I don't see it in the United States and I don't see it in India,” the former Congress President said referring to the death of George Floyd in police custody in the US. Rahul noted that the India-US relationship, which used to be a partnership earlier, now seemed to have become “very transactional”, “episodic” and focused mainly on defence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-clout-on-the-rise-globally-but-lacks-sophistication-ex-us-diplomat-tells-rahul-gandhi-848750.html
12-06-2020||National||Election Commission to use upgraded EVMs for Bihar polls||The Election Commission (EC) is likely to use upgraded model of electronic voting machines (EVMs) for the ensuing Assembly polls in Bihar. This model, also called M3 version of the EVM, is tamper-proof and would become inoperative if tinkered with. The Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) in Bihar, HR Srinivasa, has asked the District Magistrates to procure such EVMs from other States in the next 10 days. The move is significant in the sense that the EC had to face huge flak during Lok Sabha elections when charges of EVM manipulation flew thick and fast after the NDA swept Bihar, winning 39 out of 40 Lok Sabha seats. While those who lost, charged the EC with tampering the EVMs on large-scale, others cited the huge margins of defeat of prominent candidates to buttress their point of EVM manipulation. The Opposition had cited how the CPI candidate and young firebrand student leader Kanhaiya Kumar lost to BJP’s Giriraj Singh in Begusarai with a margin of over four lakh votes, that too when Giriraj was initially reluctant to contest from the seat. “Such one-sided result gave rise to suspicion of EVM tampering,” said an Opposition party legislator, citing how the RJD, the largest party in the Assembly, could not win even a single Lok Sabha seat in 2019. However, no concrete proof of such charges was ever submitted by the Opposition to the poll panel. The EVMs then used were M2, compared to the M3, which will be used in Bihar for the first time.   “The upgraded model of EVMs (M3), which will be used for Bihar Assembly elections, is a third generation EVM and will become inoperative as soon as it is tampered with,” said a senior official, refusing to be identified. “All the DMs have been instructed to procure the third generation EVMs in the next two weeks and get the physical verification of 72,000 polling booths done,” said the official. “Bihar, with a population of around 12 crore, has approximately 7.2 crore voters for the 243 Assembly constituencies. In view of maintaining social distance during polling, there is a proposal to increase polling booths too, so that instead of 1000 voters per booth, there could be maximum 700 or 800 voters in a booth,” said the official, and hastened to add, “the voters’ list too needs to be revised and updated soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-to-use-upgraded-evms-for-bihar-polls-848752.html
12-06-2020||National||Plea in SC challenges validity of law prohibiting claims to places of worship||Months after the Ayodhya verdict, an organisation of Hindu priests have approached the Supreme Court, challenging validity of a 1991 law, which prohibited filing of a suit to reclaim a place of worship or seek a change in its character from what prevailed on August 15, 1947. Lucknow-based Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh contended that Section 4 of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 violated Article 14, 15, 25, 26 and 29(1) of the Constitution and the principles of secularism. "Parliament by the provision has created a cut off date with retrospective effect to implement the Act, since August 15, 1947 declaring that the character of a place of worship as was on that date shall be maintained," their plea, filed by advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, said. The law also stated that no suit or any proceeding would lie in any court including High Court in respect of any dispute against encroachment of religious properties made by unsocial elements or by law breakers at any point of time before August 15, 1947 and such proceeding shall stand abated. The petitioner, among others, contended Parliament cannot restrain Hindu devotees to get back their religious places of worship through judicial process and cannot make any law which takes away or abridges the vested religious right of devotees and cannot make any law with retrospective effect. The petition assumed significance as there have been demands to resume litigation on Kashi-Mathura, related to temples of Lord Shiva and Lord Krishna respectively, in Uttar Pradesh. Notably, the Ayodhya dispute was excluded from the ambit of 1991 law due to pendency of the dispute before the cut off date of August 15, 1947. The top court's five-judge bench had on November 9, 2019 unanimously ruled in favour of Hindus by allowing building of a Ram temple at Ayodhya, recognising it as the birth place of Lord Ram. The petitioner claimed that the 1991 law deprived the right of Hindu Community under Article 26 of the Constitution from maintaining and  managing the religious properties belonging to a deity usurped by members of other community. It also took away the remedy of Hindus to take back the places of worship and property attached thereto through court which originally belonged to a deity, and worship was being continuously performed by devotees in number of ways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-challenges-validity-of-law-prohibiting-claims-to-places-of-worship-848756.html
12-06-2020||National||7 states demand 63 Shramik Special trains from Railways; 32 to depart from Kerala, 23 to head to West Bengal||Seven state governments have listed their demand for a total of 63 Shramik Special trains from the railways, days after the Railway Board chairman wrote to the chief secretaries to give their "residual demand" for such trains to ferry migrant workers back home. Of the total, a maximum of 32 trains will depart from Kerala while the destinations of most trains will be West Bengal (23), the railways said. Apart from Kerala, Tamil Nadu demanded 10 Shramik Special trains, followed by Jammu and Kashmir (9), Karnataka (6), Andhra Pradesh (3), West Bengal (2) and Gujarat (1). The Uttar Pradesh government is yet to give its requirement of trains, the railways said. The Railway Board chairman had written letters to the states on May 29, June 3 and June 9 on the subject and emphasised that "the railways will provide the desired number of Shramik Special trains within 24 hours of the request". P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-states-demand-63-shramik-special-trains-from-railways-32-to-depart-from-kerala-23-to-head-to-west-bengal-848759.html
12-06-2020||National||Delhi daily COVID-19 cases crosses 2,000-mark, Health Minister says no lockdown||Delhi on Friday recorded 2,137 COVID-19 cases, the biggest spike for a single day, taking the total number of cases to over 36,000 even as city's Health Minister Satyender Jain said lockdown will not be re-imposed in the city. As the numbers rose, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal asked officials to ensure strict compliance of restrictions in containment areas and ramp up bed capacity and medical resources to handle the situation. According to the medical bulletin released on late Friday night, 71 deaths have been added to the toll, taking the total to 1,214. There are 22,212 people still under treatment, including 17,261 in home isolation. It said 667 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours, with the total number of recoveries rising to 13,398. The total number of cases is now at 36,824 and out of this 41.16% or 16,980 of the total cases were reported in June alone. The data also showed that with increase in number of testings, the number of cases also increased. While on June 10, 5,047 samples were tested out of which 1,501 tested positive, the number increased on June 11 to 1877 cases when 5,360 samples were tested. As per Friday's bulletin, there were 5,947 cases, the number crossed 2,000-mark. However, the Delhi government did not appear to re-imposing lockdown in the wake of rising cases, amid speculation about the authorities planning to do so. Jain's assertion that there has been no discussion on imposing lockdown in the capital came amid the state and the Centre differing on announcing the city entering the third stage of community transmission of COVID-19. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been among the first to say that one has to learn to live with the virus and one cannot continue with it for long, as it would have a negative impact on the economy. To a question on the mis-match between the official COVID-19 toll and the figures provided by the three municipal corporations, Jain asked why they were not sharing details like names, age and medical reports with the state government. "There are COVID-19 positive deaths, there are suspected COVID-19 deaths. All are cremated or buried as per COVID-19 protocol and marked so. The municipalities should provide us with details, including medical reports," he said. On Thursday, North Delhi Municipal Corporation Standing Committee Chairperson Jai Kishan said the three municipalities (North, East and South Delhi) had facilitated funerals of 2,098 COVID-19 positive people and over 200 suspected COVID-19 people between March and June 10. As on June 11, the official toll, however, stood at 1,085. As the number of cases crossed 35,000-mark, the Lieutenant Governor held a meeting to review the strategies for containment zones management in Delhi with Kejriwal, Jain, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and other senior officials. Baijal has said the objective is to break the chain of transmission and reduce mortality due to COVID-19. He directed officials to ramp up bed capacity and medical resources so that surge in cases does not overwhelm the healthcare system.   Meanwhile, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal held a meeting to review the strategies for containment zones management in Delhi with Kejriwal, Jain, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and other senior officials. He asked officials to ensure strict compliance of restrictions in containment areas and ramp up bed capacity and medical resources to handle the situation. The LG also asked all District Magistrates and Deputy Commissioners of Police to focus on proper delineation, strict perimeter control and active house to house surveillance with special focus on high risk population. He also urged field functionaries to ensure mobility restrictions, social distancing measures, hygienic practices, quarantine of contacts, risk communication and awareness among public on preventive and public health measures to contain COVID-19 and its further spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-daily-covid-19-cases-crosses-2000-mark-health-minister-says-no-lockdown-848761.html
12-06-2020||National||Railway plans to generate work for migrants under MGNREGS||With large number of migrant workers returning their home states, the Indian Railways is planning to generate jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) by engaging them in railway works. The railways aims to engage workers for constructing station approaching roads, foot over bridges, cleaning station areas, yards, building boundary walls and other activities, said a railway official. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, who held a meeting with top officials of zonal railways couple days back, asked them to prepare a roadmap to provide jobs under MGNREGS in railways. He also asked zonal railway officials to prepare list of workers for engage in railways in co-ordination with deputy commissioners. Though railways generallly hires skilled workers through private contractors, a senior official in national transporter said that the railways plans to directly engage workers for unskilled works. Since large number of migrant workers returning to their home states and seeking jobs under the MGNREGS, the railways can engage them for works, said the official. Some of the places including Allahabad, Udaipur, Warangal and Maduri, the railways earlier engaged workers under the MGNREGS scheme. The demand for jobs under the scheme is so high that in May this year total 417.7 million days of work generated against 339 million days same period last year. Over 58 lakh migrants returned home in Shramik Special trains and another 20 lakh returning in other mode of transportation. The demand for jobs highest in Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh says government data. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while annoucing Rs 20 lakh crore package to revive economy, enhanced the allocation to MGNERGS by Rs 40,000 crore which over and above Rs 61,500 announced in 2020-21 budget. With this, the total allocation for the scheme will be Rs 1,01,500 crore and the governmed aimed to generate 300 crore mandays of jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-plans-to-generate-work-for-migrants-under-mgnregs-848765.html
12-06-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh govt gets women employees to sell liquor||Desperate to shore up its extremely precarious financial condition, Madhya Pradesh government is forced to sell liquor through its excise and police department personnel including women as liquor contractors have surrendered their licences, citing huge loss in the business. The state government earns nearly Rs 10,000 crore revenue per year from liquor shop auctions. However, owing to the corona-induced lockdown and economic meltdown, there has been precipitous fall in the revenue. The revenue generation is unlikely to improve anytime soon, given the liquor contactors’ defiance of the government’s conditions. The Congress has raised strong objection to the government deploying women personnel at liquor shops, saying chief minister Shivraj Singh has no qualm in insulting dignity of the woman in his pursuit for earning revenue. Protesting sale of liquor by women, Congress workers led by MLA Arif Masood distributed milk packets to the customers at liquor shops in Lalghati locality of Bhopal on Friday. Former chief minister and MPCC president Kamal Nath tore into the chief minister for the government’s move, recalling that when Shivraj Singh was in the opposition he would wax eloquence on threat to mothers and sisters from liquor and would join dharna with them. “Now you have placed mothers and sisters on liquor shops. Can there be a more shameful double standard”? Since June 8, the excise department has taken over nearly 70% of the liquor shops in the state following surrender of licenses by the contractors. The Madhya Pradesh government was coercing the contractors to sell liquor in the existing licensing terms as it agreed to reopen vends after 79 days of lockdown in the state. However, nearly two-third contractors refused the government term, citing huge loss to their business during the lockdown. They demanded 25 percent cut in the excise revenue levied by the government on license. The government rejected the demand. The contractors moved the MP high court which directed them to either surrender their license to enable the government to invite fresh bids or accept the existing licensing conditions. The contractors surrendered licenses forcing the government to take over liquor shops and deploy excise and police department employees including women for selling liquor from the surrendered shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-govt-gets-women-employees-to-sell-liquor-848769.html
12-06-2020||National||25 more labour ministry officials test positive for COVID-19: Source||As many as 25 officials of the Ministry of Labour and Employment tested positive for COVID-19 this week, taking the number of infected employees in the ministry to 36, according to a source. Some family members of the officials have also tested positive for coronavirus infection, the source said. "As many as 25 officials in the labour ministry tested positive for COVID-19. Earlier 11 persons in the ministry were tested positive," the source said. As many as six infected persons are from personal staff of Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar. The officials in the ministry are being tested for COVID-19 after two of its employees found positive last week, which led to the closure of Shram Shakti Bhawan that houses the ministry for two days to June 5 for sanitisation. The number of infected persons in the ministry increased to 11 by Sunday. The source also said that the top brass of the ministry is making a case for sealing the building for thorough sanitisation again and home quarantining the staff working in the ministries housed in the building. Though Shram Shakti Bhawan was sealed on June 4 and 5, the Ministry of Power had called its staff on June 5 for some work, the source said. Therefore, it was decided not to open the building on June 8. However, some officials of the labour ministry visited the office on June 8 also. The building remained open for officials thereafter. Among the 11 officials found infected earlier, there was a joint secretary, a steno, a principal private secretary, a private secretary, six multi-task assistants and a driver in the Ministry of Labour and Employment. The closure of the building for two days was part of standard operating procedure for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. Under the SOP, if two or more employees are found COVID-19 positive then the entire building housing any ministry or department is sealed for sanitisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-more-labour-ministry-officials-test-positive-for-covid-19-source-848773.html
12-06-2020||National||Doubling time of coronavirus cases in India improves to 17.4 days: Health ministry||The doubling time of coronavirus cases in India has improved to 17.4 days currently from 15.4 days a couple of weeks ago, the Union health ministry said on Friday, even as the country for the first time recorded over 10,000 new instances of the infection in a day. At the time the lockdown was imposed on March 25, the doubling rate of COVID-19 cases was 3.4 days, it said. Amid a spurt in cases, the cabinet secretary held a meeting chief secretaries, health and urban development secretaries of all states through a video link and they were asked to also pay special attention to the emerging epicentres of COVID-19 cases and undertake stringent containment measures to check the contagion, the ministry said. With 10,956 new coronavirus infections in 24 hours till Friday 8 am, India's COVID-19 caseload reached 2,97,535 while the death toll rose to 8,498 with a record single-day spike of 396 fatalities, according to the Health Ministry data. "The doubling rate/time continues to improve and has increased from 3.4 days at the beginning of lockdown to 17.4 days currently," the ministry said. During the meeting with the cabinet secretary, the states were advised to focus on containment, testing and tracing, upgrading health infrastructure, clinical management and community engagement for effective management of COVID-19.   Undertaking active house-to-house surveillance in containment zones was also stressed upon citing it was critical for early identification of cases. The states were requested to expedite upgradation of hospital infrastructure to manage COVID-19 cases as per projections while ensuring sufficient logistics, and trained human resources. Timely referrals, based on symptoms and improving clinical practices with the help of Centres of Excellence in collaboration with AIIMS, Delhi, was also stressed at the meeting.  States were requested to undertake extensive community outreach to encourage social distancing and promotion of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in the community at all times, the health ministry said. Apart from improvement in the doubling rate, it said the recovery rate of patients has also become better. "Recovery rate of COVID positive cases continues to increase and is currently stands at 49.47 per cent," the ministry said. A total of 1,47,194 people have recovered while 1,41,842 patients are under active medical supervision. In the 24 hour period till 8 am, a total of 6,166 patients have been cured of COVID-19, it said.  According to Worldometer, a website that records confirmed cases of infection and deaths globally, India on Thursday went past the United Kingdom to become the fourth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indian Council of Medical Research has ramped up testing capacity for detecting the novel coronavirus and a total of 877 laboratories -- 637 government and 240 private -- are presently operational in the country.  According to the apex health research body, 53,63,445 samples have been tested so far, with 1,50,305 of them in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubling-time-of-coronavirus-cases-in-india-improves-to-174-days-health-ministry-848792.html
12-06-2020||National||SC for meeting between Airlines and Centre for resolving plea on refund of tickets||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Centre to hold talks with Airlines and respond to a plea for refund of tickets cancelled due to the lockdown, clamped in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said credit can be given to the passengers for future travel in a period of two years. Some Airlines, for their part,  contended nowhere in the world airlines were refunding complete fare. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing SpiceJet, said they were hit by 60 billion dollars globally due to pandemic. 49% of the flying cost was fixed while the revenue was zero in this period, he said. "We would like to sit with the civil aviation ministry and come up with a solution," he said. To refund the money to customers, instead of the present practice of creating a credit shell, would ruin the Airlines which have zero revenue at present, he further added. The court asked the Centre to reply to the PIL filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell in three weeks. The NGO said the Ministry of Civil Aviation's order issued on April 16 directing the airlines to refund only those tickets that were booked during the lockdown period and left out the vast majority of passengers who had booked tickets before the flights were banned, was like treating the equals unequally in violation of fundamental rights of citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-meeting-between-airlines-and-centre-for-resolving-plea-on-refund-of-tickets-848793.html
12-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom June 12, 2020: Petrol prices up for the 6th straight day, SC raps Centre and state govts for mishandling bodies||In today's episode, Supreme Court comes down heavily on the Delhi government over the state of hospitals in the capital, Karnataka minister on surge in COVID-19 cases and hike in petrol and diesel prices.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-june-12-2020-petrol-prices-up-for-the-6th-straight-day-sc-raps-centre-and-state-govts-for-mishandling-bodies-848794.html
12-06-2020||National||40 COVID-19 patients who jumped quarantine booked in Chennai||As many as 40 persons, who were tested positive for COVID-19 and advised home isolation due to their asymptomatic nature, have been booked for jumping quarantine and stepping out of their residences in this metropolis. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G Prakash said these people were booked after complaints emerged that they were violating the quarantine rules and stepping out of their houses. He also warned that people who jump quarantine along with their contacts would be shifted to COVID care centres if they violate rules laid out by the government. All 40 were confirmed COVID-19 patients and were advised home quarantine since they were asymptomatic. They were sent home due to the new discharge policy that allows symptomatic people to home quarantine. These violators have been booked under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, officials said. The violations took place in 14 of the total 15 zones in the city, including the areas where prevalence of the virus is much. The violations have been made public after the GCC on Thursday announced that anyone who undergoes a COVID-19 test in the city will be asked to quarantine for 14 days along with their family members irrespective of the test result. The move evoked criticism as many pointed out that compulsory quarantine of people testing for COVID-19 would instil fear among people and would only discourage even symptomatic people from approaching the testing centres.   Meanwhile, GCC partnered with Portea Medical to provide home isolation services for Coronavirus positive patients. The company said Portea Medical has been helping the GCC in managing patients that are home isolated. “These patients are monitored remotely through a comprehensive tracking system involving government doctors and experts from Portea for the entire mandated isolation period of 14 days,” the company said in a statement. Under the initiative, about 2500 COVID-19 patients have been on-boarded for home isolation services and 50 have been transferred to hospitals after initial screening. More than 2500 e-consultations have been provided and about 1200 patients have been discharged after treatment. The patients do not have to pay any fee for the service, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-covid-19-patients-who-jumped-quarantine-booked-in-chennai-848796.html
12-06-2020||National||Kerala serial killing accused allegedly trying to influence witness son||A woman accused of murdering six family members and relatives, including her husband, in Kerala was allegedly trying to influence key witnesses, including her son, by misusing phone at Kozhikode district prison where she is now held. Jolly Joseph, was accused of the serial killing, at Koodathayi in Kozhikode was allegedly misusing phone to contact his son Remo, who is a key witness in the case. However, prison authorities said that Jolly was only given the facility being given to other prisoners and there were no instructions that she should not be allowed to contact son. IG North zone Ashok Yadav sent a report to the prison department alleging that Jolly was misusing the phone. Remo also reportedly told police that Jolly was calling him repeatedly, despite asking her not to call. She was also suspected to be contacting some other witnesses. The prison superintendent said in a statement that no additional privilege was given to Jolly in using phone. All calls she made were also recorded on the registers. Since relatives could not visit prisoners during lockdown, extra talk time were given to all inmates. Jolly was already charge-sheeted by the police in all the six murders that took place between 2002 and 2016. Mother-in-law Annama, father-in-law Tom Thomas, husband Roy Thomas, Annama's brother Mathew, Jolly's present husband Shaju's one year old daughter Alphine and Shaju's wife Sily were murdered. A desire to have happy living and inheriting family wealth were said to be her motives. The trial will begin in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-serial-killing-accused-allegedly-trying-to-influence-witness-son-848797.html
12-06-2020||National||No re-imposition of lockdown in Maharashtra, but refrain from crowding: CM Uddhav||Amid rumors that lockdown may be reimposed in wake of shocking visuals of crowding, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday (June 12) came out with a vehement denial. "The lockdown has not been reimposed," Thackeray tweeted. The chief minister has appealed to the people to refrain from crowding. "Please follow the government's instructions and take necessary precautions to stay safe and take care," he added.Thackeray's son and state protocol minister Aditya Thackeray described the reports of the reimposition of lockdown as fake news. "Please do not give into fake news about the lockdown. As of now, Mission Begin Again is in motion," he tweeted.  He said the chief minister has appealed to all citizens to ensure social distancing, so as to not get even close to a lockdown. "Safety of citizens is and will be the only parameter," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-re-imposition-of-lockdown-in-maharashtra-but-refrain-from-crowding-cm-uddhav-848798.html
12-06-2020||National||Opposition corners Yogi Adityanath over attacks on 'dalits' in UP||Killing of a 'dalit' youth allegedly over entry into a temple, molestation of 'dalit' teens and burning of houses of the community members in different parts of Uttar Pradesh put the state government in a corner as the opposition parties accused it of failing to ensure their safety. A 17-year old 'dalit' youth was shot dead in Amroha district in the state, about 400 kilometres from here, a few days back by a member of the upper caste after the former allegedly entered a temple. The local police, however, claimed that the youth, identified as Vikas Jatav, a resident of Domkheda village in the district, had been killed following a dispute over payment of the debt. The family members of the deceased said that he was killed over entry into a temple.  In another incident, several 'dalit' teens were allegedly molested at Sikanderpur Aima village in UP's Azamgarh district, about 300 kilometres from here, by members of a particular community. The reports said that the culprits had been harassing the girls for the past several days and had also attacked their families when they protested.  Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed the police to slap the National Security Act (NSA) on the accused persons allegedly involved in molesting the teens. Over a dozen people have been arrested so far in this connection. In another incident members of a particular community allegedly attacked and set ablaze dozens of hutments of the 'dalits' over a petty issue. Thirty-four people have been arrested in this regard and NSA was also slapped on the accused persons.  ''This government has failed to ensure the safety of the dalits,'' said a senior Congress leader. BSP supremo Mayawati also asked the UP government to take stern action against the offenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-corners-yogi-adityanath-over-attacks-on-dalits-in-up-848800.html
12-06-2020||National||One Indian killed, 2 injured as Nepalese Armed Police Force opens fire||A 22-year-old man was killed and two others injured on Friday when Nepal's Armed Police Force (APF) opened fire following an altercation at the border along Bihar's Sitamarhi district even as India described the incident as an "avoidable altercation". The incident which took place at around 8:40 AM came at a time India and Nepal were locked in a confrontation after the latter re-drew its map including localities under the control of New Delhi. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) Director General Kumar Rajesh Chandra said the incident started with Lagan Yadav and his family members from Janki Nagar village going to meet their daughter-in-law who is a Nepali citizen at the border village on their side. The SSB guards the 1,741 km-long Indo-Nepal border. The incident took place inside Nepalese territory, he said adding Lagan Yadav is in Nepal's custody. Chandra said the APF has told them that they objected to it, as Nepal was under COVID-19 lockdown till June 14 and wanted them to go back, which resulted in a verbal altercation. The APF claimed that the family called their villagers over mobile phone and a crowd had gathered, he said. However, it went out of control and the APF personnel opened 15 rounds of fire, including ten in the air. Three persons Uday Thakur (24) and Vinesh Ram (18) who were hit on their things and Vikesh Yadav (22), who suffered bullet injuries on his chest. "Yadav succumbed to his injuries. This was an avoidable altercation. This is a completely local altercation. Our nearest border post, that is about 1.5 km from the incident site, is keeping an eye on the matter," Chandra said, adding he has submitted a report to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). APF Additional Inspector General of Police Narayan Babu Thapa told PTI in Kathmandu that the incident occurred when a group of 25-30 Indian nationals were trying to enter Nepal and they attacked the Nepalese security personnel at Narayanpur area of Parsa Rural Municipality in Sarlahi district in southern Nepal. "They even snatched weapons from one of our security men. After firing ten rounds of bullets in the air, our personnel had to open fire for self-defence in which one person was killed and two others were injured," he said adding the incident took place some 75 metres inside the Nepalese territory from the no-man's land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-indian-killed-2-injured-as-nepalese-armed-police-force-opens-fire-848802.html
12-06-2020||National||Kisan Sabha, CITU, Agri workers union join hands against Modi govt||Workers, farmers and agricultural workers will join hands for a two-month long campaign culminating in a "militant" protest on 'Quit India Day' on August 9 against Narendra Modi government's "anti-worker and anti-farmer" policies that perpetuated further distress during Covid-19. The CPI(M)-affiliated All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and All India Agriculture Workers Union (AIAWU) chalked out the campaign that involves writing letters to President Ram Nath Kovind from across the country, local level campaign in June and July, protest at village level on July 23 and a massive countrywide "militant mobilisation" on August 9, which is observed as Quit India Day. "Instead of taking effective measures to contain the pandemic, the BJP government is aggressively trying to centralise entire governance through authoritarian measures and fascistic intent. At the same time RSS led forces are communalising even the Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdown has created a situation of reverse migration, acute unemployment, deepening absolute poverty and total lack of health facilities, particularly in the countryside," a joint statement said. AIKS General Secretary Hannan Mollah said a serious situation has emerged in the country and the farmers and workers, who are the "real wealth creators of the country" are facing hardships due to the lopsided policies of the Modi government. "Modi is destroying farmer-centric agriculture by replacing it with corporate agriculture. The country has been put on mortgage. We saw the government going ahead with three ordinances related to the farm sector. Farmers will be forced to become slaves of corporates. We have decided on a joint struggle," Mollah told a joint digital press conference. CITU General Secretary Tapan Sen accused the government of declaring a "war against wealth creators" and in the name of reforms and revival, the economy is actually pushed into a decline and adding to the wealth and fortunes of a handful of Indian and foreign corporates. "The government has unlocked the economy. But it is still imposing a lock on people's activities under the guise of lockdown. Trade unions as well as farmers and agricultural workers have decided that we cannot accept this. We have to defy, resist and combat," he said. AIAWU General Secretary B Venkat said discontent of the people against the government is growing, which is reflected in their participation in the independent and joint calls against the policies of the government. Both AIKS and AIAWU have announced their support for the July 3 joint trade unions' protest against suspension of labour laws. During their campaign, the three unions will demand free universal healthcare for all, 10 kg free food grains per person per month to all for six months, Rs 7,500 per month for all non tax- paying families for next six months, 200 days work under MNREGA with Rs 600 wages per day or unemployment allowance, extending rural employment guarantee scheme to urban areas and withdrawal of ordinances and executive orders on essential commodities, farm trade,  Electricity Act and labour laws.  In the joint statement, the unions said they took serious note of the "aggressive measures to complete the neoliberal process taking advantage of the lockdown", a paradigm shift in agricultural economy, "finishing off" peasant agriculture to benefit the "landlord-corporate clique" through ordinances, endangering food security and "near total elimination" of the public sector, liberalised FDI is crucial and strategic sectors among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kisan-sabha-citu-agri-workers-union-join-hands-against-modi-govt-848803.html
12-06-2020||National||SC directs for settlement between employers and employees on order to make full salary during lockdown||The Supreme Court on Friday (June 12) directed for settlement between the employers and the employees' organisations on Ministry of Home Affairs' order to pay full salary during 50 days of the lockdown, saying no industry can survive without labourers and workers. "Efforts should be made to sort out the differences and disputes between the workers and the employers...such steps may restore congenial work atmosphere," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said. If the issue is not settled, then the labour authorities should be approached, the bench said. The court said the employers whose factories continued to work, though not in full capacity, may also enter into talks. "The lockdown measures had an equally adverse effect on the employers as well as on employees. It had serious consequences on both of them," the bench said. The court noted that some of the industries and establishments may bear the financial burden of payment of wages, while some of them may not be.  "A balance has to be struck between these two competing claims. The workers and employees although were ready to work but due to closure of industries could not work and suffered. For the smooth running of industries with the participation of the workforce, it is essential that a via media be found out," the bench said. Passing a set of directions, the court extended operation of its order that no coercive action should be taken against the factory owners, MSMEs and companies during this period of talks and mediation. The court directed the States to facilitate the process of settlement and mediation. The court asked the Centre to file a comprehensive response to a batch of petitions filed by Ficus Pax Private Ltd and others, challenging the validity of the March 29 order for full payment of salary issued under the Disaster Management Act, and put the matter for consideration in the last week of July. Notably, the March 29 order for payment of wages without any deduction was revoked on May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-for-settlement-between-employers-and-employees-on-order-to-make-full-salary-during-lockdown-848806.html
12-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: No night curfew for truck, bus movement, says MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday asked states not to obstruct the movement of trucks, buses and persons travelling to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and flights during the COVID-19 night curfew. The night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am is "primarily intended" to prevent congregation of people and to ensure social distancing, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter to states and union territories. He said the restriction does not apply to loading and unloading of goods, buses carrying people and trucks and goods carriers plying on state and national highways and persons travelling to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and flights. The MHA's fresh clarification came as there were reports that some states and union territories were restricting movement of people and vehicles plying on highways between 9 pm and 5 am. This is 'hindering their smooth passage', Bhalla said in his letter. "States and union territories are advised not to prevent such movement. Necessary instructions to this effect may be issued to the district and local authorities," he said.  While night curfew was between 7 pm to 7 AM till May 31, the government had relaxed it from June 1 when Unlock 1.0 was unveiled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-no-night-curfew-for-truck-bus-movement-says-mha-848813.html
12-06-2020||National||Moratorium must not result in higher interest on loans, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said a meeting should be held between officers of Ministry of Finance and the RBI within three days to settle the issue of charging interest on interest accrued to a loan during the period of moratorium. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and M R Shah said that the loan repayment moratorium should not lead to a higher interest rate being charged.  "If interest payment has been deferred for three months, banks should not add that amount to the payable money and charge interest on interest," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said a meeting would be held between Finance Ministry and RBI this weekend. He sought time for taking instructions. "We are doing the balancing. Our concern in these proceedings is only whether the interest that has been deferred for three months will be added to charges payable later and whether there will be interest on the interest," the bench said.  Meanwhile, the SBI and Indian Banks Association also approached the court seeking hearing in a PIL filed by Gajendra Sharma.  They said all the banks were of the view that interest can't be waived off for a period of six months. The court put the matter for consideration on Wednesday, June 17.  Earlier, the RBI has told the court that its decisions granting a moratorium on loan repayment was only to "defer the payment obligations and it cannot be construed to be a waiver". Circulars were issued on March 27, April 17, and May 23 by the RBI for an initial three-month moratorium period on loan repayment which now stood extended till August 31. The measure was announced as a relief to the people after the nationwide lockdown was imposed since March 25 to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moratorium-must-not-result-in-higher-interest-on-loans-says-supreme-court-848825.html
12-06-2020||National||Upgrade hospitals to handle more COVID-19 cases, ensure healthcare staff, Centre asks states||Centre has asked state governments to expedite upgradation of hospital infrastructure, ensure availability of medical equipment, trained manpower to manage COVID-19 cases as the SARS CoV-2 infection continued to spread across the country. The Centre’s directives came at a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba with top state officials even as India’s COVID-19 count neared the three-lakh mark on Friday. Gauba asked the state governments to pay special attention to the emerging epicentres of the disease and undertake stringent containment measures to check the spread of virus. The total confirmed cases of COVID-19 increased by 10,965 to touch 2,97,535 on Friday which included 8,498 fatalities, the health ministry said. India has a total of 1,41,842 patients under medical supervision, while 1,47,194 persons have been discharged from hospitals or COVID care facilities. According to a separate DH COVID-19 Tracker, India had 2,98,148 cases as of 7:00 p.m. on Friday. The Cabinet Secretary also advised state officers to carry out active house-to-house surveillance through special teams in containment zones for early identification of cases. “They were requested to expedite up-gradation of hospital infrastructure so as to manage the cases as per projections besides ensuring sufficient logistics such as pulse oximeters, and trained human resources including doctors, staff nurses, non-clinical staff,” a senior official said. Gauba also underscored the importance of preventive measures for vulnerable population and timely referrals base on symptoms and improving clinical practices. On the testing front, India had tested 53.63 lakh samples for COVID-19 through its network of 877 laboratories – 637 state-run and 240 private institutions. On Thursday, 1.50 lakh samples were tested through this network of laboratories. Maharashtra inched towards the grim milestone of one lakh-mark with 97,648 cases on Friday. Tamil Nadu registered a record hike in its daily coronavirus tally with 1,875 new cases reported as on Friday morning. At 38,716, Tamil Nadu recorded the highest number COVID-19 patients after Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upgrade-hospitals-to-handle-more-covid-19-cases-ensure-healthcare-staff-centre-asks-states-848826.html
12-06-2020||National||Tamil Nadu COVID-19 tally crosses 40,000; 1,982 fresh cases recorded on Friday||Tamil Nadu on Friday recorded its biggest single-day spike by reporting 1,982 fresh Coronavirus cases, taking the tally beyond the 40,000-mark. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the state stood at 40,698 including 22,047 discharges and 367 deaths, most of them from the state capital of Chennai. The state reported 18 deaths – 10 from government hospitals and eight from private institutions – on Friday alone. Of the 18 deaths, only one person had no co-morbidities, while the remaining 17 had one or multiple health condition at the time of their admission into hospitals. Chennai recorded 1,479 cases on Friday, while its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Kancipuram, and Tiruvallur reported 128, 26, and 92 cases respectively. The state’s caseload has been mounting for the past few weeks even as the government says it is ramping up testing. On Friday, Tamil Nadu tested 18,231 samples, its highest so far, even as the total number of samples tested so far went up to 6,73,906, the highest in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-covid-19-tally-crosses-40000-1982-fresh-cases-recorded-on-friday-848827.html
12-06-2020||National||Visit public places only when urgent: Mamata Banerjee||At a time when her government is facing flak from the Opposition for allegedly being unable to enforce the norms of social distancing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday (June 12) urged people to avoid overcrowding buses and visit public places only when it is urgent. “I'd urge you all to avoid overcrowding on buses, request the private sector to operate from home as much as possible & allow relaxation in reporting time. We've ensured no one's marked late in Govt offices. Visit public places only when urgent, always wear masks & stay safe!” tweeted Banerjee. Lauding the efforts of relief workers, police and medical fraternity Banerjee urged the public to maintain social distancing and ensure proper nutrition for themselves. “On GoWB's behalf, I'd like to thank all the relief workers, police & medical fraternity & civil society org, who've been at the forefront tackling the crises. However, we still need to be careful. Please follow social distancing norms & take strict care of your nutrition,” tweeted Banerjee.  She hailed the spirit of Bengal’s people in facing the twin challenges of COVID-19 and cyclone Amphan. “It speaks volumes about the culture & indomitable spirit of the people of Bengal, how we’ve been dealing with the aftermath of the twin crises of a natural disaster & a global pandemic. Bengal will definitely emerge stronger & united out of this,” tweeted Banerjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/visit-public-places-only-when-urgent-mamata-banerjee-848828.html
12-06-2020||National||Central Railways launches Captain Arjun to fight COVID-19||Adding yet another innovation, the Indian Railways has launched robotic 'Captain Arjun' to fight the spread of COVID-19. It has started functioning on the Central Railway. The Railway Protection Force, Pune  launched Captain Arjun to screen passengers while they board trains and keep a watch on anti-social elements. Captain Arjun is equipped with a motion sensor, one PTZ camera (Pan, Tilt, Zoom Camera) and one Dome Camera. The Cameras use Artificial Intelligence algorithms to track suspicious activity and antisocial activity, have an inbuilt siren, motion activated spotlight H-264 Processor, there is also an in-built internal storage for recording in case there is a network failure. Captain Arjun does thermal screening and records the temperature in a digital display panel with a response time of 0.5 seconds and if temperature is higher than reference range, it sounds an abnormal automatic alarm with a counting capacity of 999.  Captain Arjun has adopted a two-way communication mode, voice and video and also speaks in local language. It is housed with speakers to spread awareness messages on COVID-19. Captain Arjun also has a sensor-based sanitizer and mask dispenser and can move. The robot has a floor sanitisation facility with good battery backup. It has rugged wheels which support all kinds of surfaces. The brainchild behind this innovation of Captain Arjun, Alok Bohra DIG/RPF, Central Railway said "The high infection rates among multiple segments of people across the world have hampered efforts to tackle COVID-19 pandemic that prompted us to consider robotic screening. Captain ARJUN can be deployed for multiple uses and it is an effective element in station access control and will augment the station security plan". The success of this Artificial Intelligence enabled Robotic Captain Arjun will give enough protective cover to the passengers while undergoing the screening with no manual encounters at the same time its surveillance feature will prove to be a great deterrent to any unusual occurrences and will ensure security in the railway premises.  Captain Arjun was launched online by Arun Kumar, Director General, RPF, Railway Board in the presence of Sanjeev Mittal, General Manager, Central Railway, Atul Pathak, Principal Chief Security Commissioner, Renu Sharma, Divisional Railway Manager, Pune, Alok Bohra, Chief Security Commissioner and Shri Arun Tripathi, Divisional Security Commandant, Pune Division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railways-launches-captain-arjun-to-fight-covid-19-848835.html
12-06-2020||National||India's bridge, China's bunker block road to detente on LAC||A bridge constructed by India and a bunker built by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China, recently, have come in the way of the efforts to defuse tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh.  As the stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese PLA continued along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had another meeting with the top military brass on Friday and reviewed the situation. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the chiefs of the Indian Army, Air Force and Navy – Gen M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K Singh Bhadauria and Admiral Karambir Singh – attended the meeting with the Defence Minister. He was briefed about the follow-ups to the June 6 meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA. The divisional commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies had another round of meeting on Friday, in order to work out a way to implement the consensus reached at the June 6 meeting of their seniors. However, what made it difficult to fully resolve the stand-off is the Chinese PLA’s refusal to withdraw troops from “Finger 4” on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake and demolish the bunker and the moat-like structure it built to deny Indian Army soldiers access to an area they regularly patrolled before the stand-off started. New Delhi also rejected the Beijing’s demand to stop construction of a bridge over a rivulet. The bridge is being constructed on one of the roads India is building to its forward positions along the disputed boundary with China. The new roads will be linked with the 255-kilometer-long strategic road the Border Roads Organization of India already constructed from Darbuk via Shyok to its Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) military base. A source in New Delhi stated that the location of the bridge was not close to the LAC and the area where it is being built undisputedly belongs to India. India conveyed to China during engagements between diplomats and military officials that it was well within its sovereign rights to build infrastructure in its territory and it would keep doing so. The Corps Commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies are likely to meet again in the coming days. The senior diplomats of the two nations had a video-conference on June 5 and they may again hold another virtual meet soon, sources in New Delhi said.  Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, led the delegation from India in the meeting with the Chinese PLA officials at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on June 6. The Chinese PLA delegation was led by its commander in charge of the South Xinjiang Military Region, Maj Gen Liu Lin. The meeting was followed by another between Major General Abhijeet Bapat of the 3 Infantry Division of the Indian Army and his counterpart in the PLA on Wednesday and Friday. The PLA thinned out its troops from at least four stand-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between India and China – over the past few days. But it did not withdraw its soldiers, who transgressed the LAC into the territory of India on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake. It also maintained additional troops it deployed on its side of the LAC after the stand-off started following a scuffle between the soldiers of the two sides on May 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-bridge-chinas-bunker-block-road-to-detente-on-lac-848837.html
12-06-2020||National||COVID-19 cases cross 1-lakh mark in Maharashtra||The total COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the one-lakh mark on Friday. The total progressive positive cases in the worst-affected Indian state now stands at 1,01,141 and deaths at 3,717. The total active cases stand at 49,616 - while 47,796 have been treated. The total tests conducted by the state also crossed the six-lakh mark. So far, 6,24,977 tests have been conducted of which 1,01,141 have tested positive. Meanwhile, the death toll in Mumbai metropolitan region crossed the 2,500 mark and stood at 2,563 of which 2,044 are in Mumbai, the financial capital of India and the COVID-19 hotspot. The total positive cases in the MMR is 75,658 of which 55,451 are in Mumbai. The first two COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra were reported from Pune when a couple with travel history to Dubai tested positive. They have been treated and back home. The first death was reported on 17 March when a 64-year-old man, with travel history to Dubai, that he hid initially, died in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-cross-1-lakh-mark-in-maharashtra-848838.html
12-06-2020||National||Healthcare workers not getting insurance coverage; NHRC steps in||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday sought reports from the Ministry of Finance and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) following reports about healthcare professionals being denied or demanded high premiums to buy mediclaim policies. Taking suo motu cognizance of a media report, it said denial of insurance claims by the companies to the COVID-19 warriors would "definitely bring down their morale and its result will adversely affect" the general public at the end. Considering the issue as a case of violation of human rights, the NHRC thought its intervention is "necessary" in the matter as the sufferers would be "poor citizens who are already under trauma of the COVID-19 virus due to lack of medical facilities". "As COVID-19 cases continue to rise and the government offers little clarity on insurance cover for private healthcare professionals doing non-COVID work, and there is a scramble to find the right policy," it said. The NHRC has asked the IRDA Chairman and the Secretary in the Ministry of Finance's Department of Financial Services (Insurance Division) to submit their reports within four weeks. Quoting a media report, the NHRC said Association of Medical Consultants' (AMC) Dr Sudhir Naik has claimed that no insurance company wanted to cover the COVID-warriors. He was also quoted as saying that the authorities have been forcing them to keep the clinics open, but the staffers are apprehensive about working. "Several nursing home owners have been scouting for a group cover, but with little success. The companies have refused to extend even the fixed benefit covers. Here the beneficiary is paid a lump sum on testing positive. The sum assured can vary from Rs 20,000 to Rs 2 lakh, and annual premium is relatively low," the NHRC said quoting the report. It also quoted the Indian Medical Association (IMA) as saying that a company which earlier agreed to extend a fixed benefit cover of up to Rs 2 lakh to its members, pulled out of the deal after COVID-19 cases began to rise in the state. "The IMA has reportedly stated that the company has returned the premium paid by around 150 doctors who had already signed the documents," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-workers-not-getting-insurance-coverage-nhrc-steps-in-848849.html
12-06-2020||National||COVID-19: National data masks the variation at the state-level||The national-level coronavirus data masks unique state-specific epidemic trends that would require the Centre’s broad COVID-19 management strategies to be finely tailored to the needs of specific states, experts have advised. Across states, the test positive rate shows varying trends. In some states it has fallen to low levels (Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Odisha); in some it is high but falling (Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal) and in some other it is high and stable or rising.  The last category includes Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu.  One of the consequences of such variations could be different peak levels in different states, argued a team of researchers from the University of Massachusetts and University of Michigan, USA. If the states attain disease peaks at different points of time, then devising a national strategy on the basis of India's pandemic peak doesn't have much significance. "Focusing on national trends is misleading and not of much use for policy making because the spread, severity and impact of the pandemic varies a lot across states," Deepankar Basu, lead author of the paper from the University of Massachusetts told DH. According to the observed data, Punjab may have already seen its first peak whereas Kerala may witness a second peak as there are few  recent cases after the initial strong control. "It is more or less clear now that states will see peak infections at different times. Hence, resources (testing capacity, additional quarantining facilities, or additional ICU beds) should be mobilised and shifted across states to match the severity," he added. In their study, the researchers noted several possibilities that could arise from varying transmission dynamics in the states. One possibility is that the states which saw the early wave of the pandemic (Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu) will see early peaks.  A second option that could not be ruled out is a case in which the states where case counts are the maximum now will see late peaks, because the severity of the outbreak in these states will make it that much more difficult to contain the spread.   Because of the migration, it is also possible that Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal where the migrants are traveling to, will see later peaks. "Given the spatial and temporal pattern of the spread of the pandemic, it is extremely important to prioritise the policies," they said in the paper, which is not peer reviewed yet but has been put out in the public domain for others to examine the findings. Resource mobilisation, the researchers argued, could happen in such a way to address a group of states falling in a particular category. While problems of one set of states were addressed, a second group can be put on high alert. However, it was difficult to precisely say which states would see early and which one would see late peaks due to the limitations in computer modelling studies, they acknowledged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-national-data-masks-the-variation-at-the-state-level-848855.html
12-06-2020||National||BJP seeks probe into purchase of body bags by BMC||Amid the big spike in Mumbai, the BJP on Friday demanded a probe into the purchase of body bags by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body of Mumbai had decided to purchase body bags a piece priced at Rs 6,719. However, the BMC has scrapped the order. "We want investigation of body bags scam.The BMC ordered body bags priced Rs 6,719 per piece. The market price is not more than Rs 200 to Rs 600," state BJP vice president Kirit Somaiya demanded.  "The BMC informed me that the scam has been cancelled. Who is responsible for this scam? It should be investigated. People deserve to know," the former Mumbai MP demanded. BJP leader Vivekananda Gupta demanded an explanation form Shiv Sena leader and state's tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-seeks-probe-into-purchase-of-body-bags-by-bmc-848859.html
12-06-2020||National||More categories of foreigners can now fly into India||India on Friday relaxed visa rules further to allow minor foreign nationals whose one of the parents is an Indian national or an OCI (Overseas Citizens of India) card holder and foreign nationals married to Indian citizens among others to fly into the country. As part of the new relaxations, foreign nationals who are single parents of minor children holding Indian passports or OCI cards and students who are foreign nationals with at least one of their parents is an Indian citizen or OCI card holder are also allowed to enter the country. Dependent family members of foreign diplomats and service passport holding staff accredited to foreign missions, consular offices and international organisations in India could also now travel into the country. Foreign nationals will have to obtain a fresh visa of appropriate category from Indian Missions abroad, the order said. Those holding a valid long term multiple entry visa will have to get their visa re-validated. None will be allowed to travel to India on electronic visas obtained earlier. Earlier on May 22, India had allowed minor children born to Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards and OCI cardholders who wish to come to India on account of family emergencies like death in family were allowed to travel to India. Similarly, couples where one spouse is an OCI cardholder and the other is an Indian national and they have a permanent residence in India as well as university students who are OCI cardholders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India were also allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-categories-of-foreigners-can-now-fly-into-india-848860.html
12-06-2020||National||India to tread cautiously over firing by Nepalese police||Even as the firing by Nepal’s armed police personnel on citizens of India on Friday came at a time when relations between the two neighbouring countries were already under stress over territorial dispute, New Delhi is likely to tread cautiously and react with restraint. The incident took place at a time when Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s Government in Kathmandu ratcheted up Nepal’s dispute with India over Kalapani, Lipulekh Pass and Limpiyadhura areas – ostensibly after being prodded by China. The ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) also resorted to a campaign against India to take advantage of the territorial dispute. New Delhi suspects that the campaign was also orchestrated by China which has since long been trying to elbow out India to spread its geo-political influence over Nepal. Sources told the DH that New Delhi had decided against immediately lodge a public protest against the firing by the Nepalese Armed Forces Police on the citizens of India, because it was keen to make it sure that China could not take an advantage of the worsening relations between the two South Asian neighbours. The Sashashtra Seema Bal (SSB) chief Rajesh Chandra described the incident as a “local issue” – ostensibly to signal that New Delhi has no intention to immediately link it with the territorial row. A squabble within the ruling NCP opened a new opportunity for Beijing not only to expand, but also to put on display its influence in the political circles in Kathmandu. Though the rift between the party’s two chairpersons – Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and legendary Maoist leader Pushpa Kamal Dahal a.k.a Prachanda – came to the fore last month, China’s envoy to Nepal, Hou Yanqi, had a series of meetings with both the leaders as well as other key politicians in the ruling dispensation to avert a flashpoint. If Oli could continue in the office of the Prime Minister in Kathmandu, it was largely due to the truce brokered by China’s envoy to Nepal between him and Prachanda. Just a few days after surviving the bid to remove him from the office of Prime Minister, Oli ratcheted up the border dispute with India. The lower house of the Nepalese Parliament on Tuesday unanimously approved a proposal to take up a Bill to amend the country’s Constitution in order to endorse the new maps his government had issued showing territories claimed by India as part of Nepal. The new map of Nepal published by the Nepalese Government on May 20 included Lipulekh Pass, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura – the areas New Delhi claims to be part of the territory of India. Oli’s cabinet had on May 19 decided to publish the new political and administrative map of Nepal, in order to re-assert its claim on the disputed areas. The move was in response to construction of a strategic road by India from Dharchula in its Uttarakhand State to Lipulekh Pass near its disputed boundary with China. Oli’s Government alleged that the road built by India passed through the territory of Nepal. India rejected Nepal’s allegation and dismissed its “unilateral move” to publish the new maps, calling it “unjustified cartographic assertion”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-tread-cautiously-over-firing-by-nepalese-police-848864.html
12-06-2020||National||COVID-19: 90% fall in public transport ridership, says Urban Affairs Ministry||The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on Friday said that there is steep drop in public transport ridership volumes by 90% in the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Ministry in its advisory to states on steps to be taken to provide effective transport system said that re-establishing the earlier level of ridership in public transport is a big challenge for cities, as people may be looking for more options especially personal modes that allow for safer travel in the post lockdown scenario. "Due to the social distancing norms being practiced, (Metro/Bus Rapid Transport) capacities would be utilised at 25 to 50 percent of pre-corona virus levels. Such dramatic and dynamic changes in demand and supply will require complementing these public transport systems with alternative modes of transit,” said Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra in its advisory sent to states on public transport system. To avoid resurgence of car and other private vehicle usage, many cities around the world have encouraged e-ticketing, digital payments and reallocating street space for cycling and pedestrians through street closures, creating Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) priority zones, pop-up bike lanes & sidewalks, providing parking and charging equipments and financing options to make cycling more accessible, the advisory said. The Ministry suggested the states to adopt three-pronged strategy in a phased manner: Short (within 6 months), Medium (within 1 year) and Long term (1-3 years). Encourage & Revive Non-Motorised Transport (NMT)-As most of the urban trips are clocked in under five kilometres, NMT offers perfect opportunity to implement in this COVID -19 crisis as it requires low cost, less human resource, easy & quick to implement, scalable and environment friendly. Recommencing public transport with greater confidence of Commuters-Public transport is the backbone in urban areas especially for the low/middle income commuters, Durga Shankar Mishra in his advisory to states said. Various studies conducted by Urban affairs Ministry shows that about 16-57% of urban commuters are pedestrian and about 30-40% of commuter use bicycles in the country depending on the size of the city. With a 60% reduction in air pollution since the epidemic, Mishra added that other countries have used this moment to avoid a resurgence of car usage by harnessing technology, creating Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) zones, and financing options for bicycles, the advisory said. Considering this as an opportunity, elevating the priority of these modes in this testing times gives travellers another private vehicle alternative, which is clean, safe, secured particularly, if it is integrated with other modes and affordable for all. This area is one of the thrust areas of National Urban Transport, he said. India has 700 kms of operational metro rail in 18 major cities and a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) network of roughly 450 km in 11 cities that carry 10 million passengers daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-90-fall-in-public-transport-ridership-says-urban-affairs-ministry-848866.html
12-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to hold meetings with CMs on COVID-19 amid mounting cases||With cases of COVID-19 mounting in Unlock 1.0 and metro cities like Mumbai and Delhi sitting on a powder keg of the pandemic spread, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be holding interaction with Chief Ministers in two batches on June 16 and June 17 to discuss the strategy ahead. The meeting comes at a time when the total number of cases have crossed 3 lakh mark and Centre has asked the state governments to pay special attention to the emerging epicentres of the disease and take tough measures in containment zones. Modi will be holding interactions with Chief Ministers of Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Goa, Manipur, Nagaland, Ladakh, Puducherry, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman Diu, Sikkim and Lakshadweep on Tuesday. But it is the second round of meeting on Wednesday that is more important when Modi will hold interactions with states with high loads of virus like Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana and Odisha. The rising number of cases has raised concerns and questions on the entire exit plan after the 68-days nationwide lockdown, which came to an end on May 31. Announcing substantial easing and opening up, the government preferred to call the Lock down 5.0 from June 1 to June 30 as Unlock 1.0, which had an inbuilt graded exit plan under which malls, temples and transport services were substantially opened up alone with eateries and salons. There is a buzz that the government may revisit its stand and announce another lockdown with stricture measures but all depend on feedback from states as since the third lockdown, the decision making has been shifted to states and then further down to the districts and municipal corporations. Despite the Centre permitting substantial openings in Unlock 1.0, some states have taken their own decisions. Uttarakhand on Friday decided to impose lockdown in the state on Saturdays and Sundays in the wake of rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Madhya Pradesh has imposed weekend lockdown on Sunday. Delhi and Tamil Nadu have voiced reservations against another lockdown. Punjab has favoured a partial lockdown, On Friday there was also a petition in Delhi High Court seeking extension of lockdown in Delhi but the court refused to entertain the plea saying it is for the Centre and states to decide and the court will not be taking a call on such policy issues. On Friday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held confabulations with senior officials of different states on COVID-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-hold-meetings-with-cms-on-covid-19-amid-mounting-cases-848879.html
12-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 tally nears 3 lakh; Centre asks states to focus on stringent containment measures||The nationwide COVID-19 tally neared the 3-lakh mark on Friday with a record number of over 10,000 new cases getting detected across states and union territories. The government stressed on the need for stringent containment measures to check the pandemic with the last one lakh cases emerging in just ten days. The Centre has asked states and UTs to pay special attention on emerging epicentres of cases and to focus on containment, testing and tracing, upgrading health infrastructure, clinical management and community engagement for effective management of COVID-19, the Union Health Ministry said. Sources said Prime Minister Narendra Modi may hold a fresh round of consultation with chief ministers next week in the backdrop of the rising number of cases in the country. While the first case of the novel coronavirus infection was detected in India on January 30, it took more than 100 days to reach the one-lakh mark on May 18, but the 2-lakh mark was breached only about a fortnight later on June 2. India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the COVID-pandemic 19 after the US, Brazil and Russia. While the US has reported more than 20 lakh confirmed cases so far, the tally for Brazil is over 8 lakh and for Russia more than 5 lakh. Globally, more than 4 lakh have lost their lives and over 75 lakh have tested positive for COVID-19 since its emergence in China last December. However, nearly 36 lakh have recovered too. In India, more than 1.47 lakh COVID-19 patients have recovered so far, while there are nearly 1.42 lakh active cases at present, according to the health ministry. In its morning 8 AM update, the ministry said the total number of confirmed cases has reached 2,978,535 and the death toll has mounted to 8,498, after record numbers of 10,956 cases and 396 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. However, a PTI tally of figures announced by states and UTs till 9.40 PM showed the overall case count having risen to 2,98,382  and the toll to 8,743. It also showed a higher number of recoveries at more than 1.52 lakh. The ministry said the doubling time of coronavirus cases in India has improved to 17.4 days, from 3.4 days when the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. A phased withdrawal of all lockdown restrictions began on June 1, except for in containment zones. The Delhi High Court said the central government's decision of phased reopening of lockdown was not taken in haste and it was done to ensure a proper balance between containing the pandemic and making it certain that people are not forced to starvation. The Supreme Court, in the meantime, said the situation was "grim" at hospitals in Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Gujarat, as it took note of reports about "horrific scenes" at the national capital's COVID-19 dedicated LNJP hospital. The court said the duty of the Delhi government does not end by informing citizens that it has arranged 5,814 beds in government hospitals and 9,535 beds in private hospitals. It said the situation in Delhi is "horrendous, horrific and pathetic". Raising questions over poor patients' care, disposal of dead bodies and lesser number of COVID testing, the apex court said, "All these facts, which have been brought to the notice of the court by the media reports, clearly indicate a very sorry state of affairs of the patients of COVID-19 in the Government hospitals in the NCT of Delhi as well as in other states." It directed chief secretaries of Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Gujarat to take "remedial action" to ensure proper management of patients at hospitals. Separately in an order on a PIL, the top court took serious note of non-payment of salary to doctors treating COVID-19 patients and said the country cannot afford to have "dissatisfied soldiers" in the war against the pandemic. "In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy. Travel an extra mile and channel some extra money to address their grievances. Country cannot afford to have dissatisfied soldiers in this war which is being fought against Corona," the court said. The Delhi High Court also directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to pay by June 19 the salary for March to resident doctors in its six hospitals. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal, in the meantime, constituted a high-level expert committee, which includes Indian Council of Medical Research Director-General Balram Bhargava, to suggest effective steps to deal with the outbreak in the city. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, saw its own tally cross the 1-lakh mark after 3,493 new cases were reported to take its total to 1,01,141, while its death toll rose to 3,717. The state also reported a large number of recoveries. As many as 126 cancer patients, who had tested COVID-19 positive, have also recovered in Mumbai itself. In Tamil Nadu, another badly hit state, the tally saw a record one-day jump of 1,982 cases to cross the 40,000-mark, while the toll reached 367. Gujarat reported 495 new cases and 31 more fatalities, taking its case count to 22,562 and the death toll to 1,416. Uttar Pradesh reported 20 more COVID-19 deaths and 528 fresh cases, the biggest single-day spike so far for the state. This took the state's death toll to 365 and the case count to 12,616. However, more than 7,600 people have recovered already, giving a recovery rate of over 60 per cent. West Bengal breached the 10,000-mark with its highest single-day spike of 476 cases, while nine more fatalities were reported to take the toll to 451. New cases were also reported from Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Goa, Chhatisgharh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Nagaland, Mizoram, Manipur, Sikkim, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh, among other states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-nears-3-lakh-centre-asks-states-to-focus-on-stringent-containment-measures-848900.html
12-06-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah returns to centre stage for the BJP, so does Rahul Gandhi for the Congress||COVID-19 has seen a big bang re-emergence of two arch-rivals, Rahul Gandhi and Amit Shah, both former presidents of their respective parties, Congress and BJP, and both of whom had a subdued public presence for some time. Shah had a flamboyant start as Home Minister in Modi 2.0 since May last year, with massive decisions like the passage of triple talaq bill in July 2019, which entitled a divorced Muslim woman to seek subsistence allowance from her husband; the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and its division into three UTs in August 2019 with the removal of Article 370 and Article 35A; and the passing of the Citizenship Amendment Act to grant citizenship to non-Muslim minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan in December 2019. The CAA, however, kicked off nationwide protests, with students lending support to it in many cities, which the government could not contain effectively, somewhat roiling and soiling Shah’s performance slate. As the dark icing on the already spoilt cake came in end-February, National Security Adviser Aji Doval had to be brought into action to manage the situation during the Delhi riots. Though Shah later said it was he himself who had sent Doval on the mission, the impression gathered was that Shah, who had led an incendiary campaign during Delhi polls, could no longer control what he had set off. Suddenly, any mention of CAA and NRC went missing from Shah’s speeches in March, and by April, he was even out of the public glare. Even as it was the Home Ministry, which was primarily concerned with implementing the COVID-19 lockdown, it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was the face of the government, addressing the nation multiple times and holding consultations with the chief ministers. It was after more than two months after the lockdown was announced that Shah had a virtual meeting with chief ministers on May 28 to discuss their views on extending or relaxing the lockdown. With the COVID-19 strategy now becoming a tool of competitive politics and the Opposition repeatedly questioning the government on it, Shah’s political skills were once again needed for the party, which faces two elections within one year (Bihar in October 2020 and West Bengal in May 2021). The former BJP chief is back in action to counter the Opposition. It is he who launched the BJP attack on Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee over the state’s response to COVID-19 and accused her of putting up impediments to the smooth movement of migrants back home to the state. Shah addressed virtual rallies in Bihar on June 7, Odisha on June 8 and Bengal on June 9, tearing into the Oppositionfor blaming the Centre for the migrant crisis. In a return to a familiar Modi-Shah line, he asked what the non-BJP parties that ruled the nation for 70 years had done for Eastern Indian states, from where come the most migrant workers. BJP believes Shah has been able to change the narrative back in BJP’s favour. Clearly, Shah is back in command in the BJP as Modi’s No. 2. Similarly, the pandemic period has also seen the rise in the stock of Rahul Gandhi within Congress. After having quit as party president after the 2019 Lok Sabha poll debacle, Rahul was maintaining a low profile, repeatedly shunning requests from party leaders to return as party chief. In fact, from the very beginning of the COVID-19 crisis, Rahul has been aggressively trying to put the central government on the mat, questioning its strategy to contain the pandemic, questioning the timing of its actions and the logic of its decisions. As early as on February 12, more than a month before the lockdown was imposed suddenly, Rahul had urged the Centre to put in place measures to combat the imminent pandemic. On April 16, he raised the issue of millions of migrants on the roads across the country, drawing the BJP’s ire.   Later, the party and its youth wing sought to reinforce Rahul Gandhi’s 2019 Lok Sabha poll promise of NYAY – a minimum income guarantee scheme -- by demanding that the Centre implement it for at least six months for the poor and migrant workers who were battling a crisis of life and livelihood. He was ably assisted by his mother Sonia Gandhi and sister Priyanka Gandhi. While Sonia was quick to seize the opportunity over the migrant workers’ anger, announcing that her party would pay the train fares for all migrants, Priyanka made a politically potent move of arranging 1,000 buses to ferry migrants stuck in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh where she is nurturing the party for the 2022 Assembly polls. However, it was Rahul who remained the face of the Congress against the government on COVID-19, holding interactions with a number of eminent thinkers on social and economic issues, includingthe likes of Raghuram Rajan, Abhijeet Banerjee and Thomas Piketty, all of whom batted for an economic package and relief for the poor at a time when the Modi government did not seem to care about either issue. Rahul also held discussions with globally renowned public health experts Professor Ashish Jha of Harvard Global Health Institute and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Gieseckein in the last week of May and with industrialist Rajiv Bajaj on June 4. When the government tweaked its COVID-19 strategy in the third week of May, deciding to involve the states in a bigger way, Congress pointed out that Rahul Gandhi had been saying since May 8 that the  COVID-19 strategy had to be decentralised and left to chief ministers, district magistrates and collectors to take decisions. The build-up for Rahul within the party is happening amid a strong buzz that he will stage a comeback with a very prominent role in party affairs during the AICC plenary slated for the end of the year as Sonia has made it clear she will not continue as party president for long and there is no question of Priyanka taking Rahul’s place either.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-returns-to-centre-stage-for-the-bjp-so-does-rahul-gandhi-for-the-congress-848585.html
12-06-2020||National Politics||Election Commission to use upgraded, tamper-proof EVMs for Bihar Assembly polls||The Election Commission (EC) is likely to use an upgraded model of electronic voting machines (EVMs) that is tamper-proof for the ensuing Assembly polls in Bihar. This model, also called M3 version of the EVM, automatically becomes inoperative if tinkered with. The Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) in Bihar, H R Srinivasa, has asked the District Magistrates (DMs) to procure such EVMs from other states in the next 10 days. The move is significant as the EC drew flak during Lok Sabha elections 2019 as charges of EVM manipulation flew thick and fast after the NDA swept Bihar, winning 39 out of 40 Lok Sabha seats. While those who lost, charged the EC with tampering the EVMs on large-scale, others cited the huge margins of the defeat of prominent candidates to buttress their point of EVM manipulation. The Opposition had cited how the CPI candidate and young firebrand student leader Kanhaiya Kumar lost to BJP’s Giriraj Singh in Begusarai with a margin of over four lakh votes, that too when Giriraj was initially himself not inclined to contest from the seat. “Such one-sided result gave rise to suspicion of EVM tampering,” said an Opposition party legislator, citing how the RJD, the largest party in the Assembly, could not win even a single Lok Sabha seat in 2019. However, no concrete proof of such charges was ever submitted by the Opposition to the poll panel. The EVMs then used were M2, compared to the M3, which will be used in Bihar for the first time.   “The upgraded model of EVMs (M3), which will be used for Bihar Assembly elections, is a third-generation EVM and will become inoperative as soon as it is tampered with,” said a senior official, refusing to be identified. “All the DMs have been instructed to procure the third generation EVMs in the next two weeks and get the physical verification of 72,000 polling booths done,” said the official. “Bihar, with a population of around 12 crore, has approximately 7.2 crore voters for the 243 Assembly constituencies. In view of maintaining social distance during polling, there is a proposal to increase polling booths too, so that instead of 1,000 voters per booth, there could be maximum 700 or 800 voters in a booth,” said the official, and hastened to add, “the voters’ list too needs to be revised and updated soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/election-commission-to-use-upgraded-tamper-proof-evms-for-bihar-assembly-polls-848686.html
12-06-2020||National Politics||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s multipronged strategy to counter BJP in 2021 Assembly poll||Union Home Minister Amit Shah may have sounded the poll bugle in West Bengal at his virtual rally on Wednesday. But Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been one step ahead of BJP in this regard. Much before Shah’s decision to bring up the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as a poll issue for the 2021 Assembly elections in Bengal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo had instructed her party leaders to go all out in responding to BJP’s actions and allegations. TMC Secretary General and Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said that the BJP was resorting to “spreading false information” regarding the state government’s performance in dealing with the pandemic and the cyclone. “We will leave no stones unturned to foil BJP’s smear campaign against the chief minister,” said Chatterjee. Unlike BJP, which has gone to town with Shah’s virtual rally in Bengal, the feisty TMC supremo has been preparing her party for a social media battle with BJP albeit without the saffron party’s pomp and splendour.  Adopting two-pronged strategy, Banerjee has instructed TMC’s social media cell to highlight the development work by her government and asked the media cell to counter “fake news” spread by the BJP. Learning from the bitter experience of BJP targeting alleged corrupt practices of TMC leaders such as taking “cut money” (bribe to access government schemes), Banerjee has warned her party workers that anyone resorting to irregularities while distributing relief material in cyclone-affected areas will be shown the door. TMC has realised that taking on a resurgent BJP in the 2021 Assembly elections will test its organisation and hence, has decided to set up a state-wide youth network of 1.25 lakh members for not only boosting its grassroots level connection but also to function as a parallel organisation during elections. Apart from seeking feedback from the people on the availability and quality of government services and the party workers will convey it to the local administration for appropriate action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-s-multipronged-strategy-to-counter-bjp-in-2021-assembly-poll-848706.html
12-06-2020||National Politics||DNA of openness and tolerance that India, US were known for has disappeared: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the DNA of openness and tolerance that India and the US were known for has "disappeared", and those creating divisions and weakening their country are now claiming to be nationalists. He also attacked the current dispensation saying an "atmosphere of fear" is prevailing in India with a "unilateral, episodic" leadership at the helm, which is proving to be "destructive". The former Congress chief was in conversation with former US diplomat and now Harvard professor Nicholas Burns, as part of a series of dialogues initiated by him to address the challenges the world is facing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Gandhi said the Indo-US partnership works because the two countries have tolerant systems, but that level of tolerance, which was seen before, is not being seen now in both the countries. "Our DNA is supposed to be tolerant. We're supposed to accept new ideas. We're supposed to be open, but the surprising thing is that DNA, that open DNA, is sort of disappeared. I mean, I say this with sadness that I don't see that level of tolerance that I used to see. I don't see it in the United States and I don't see it in India," Gandhi observed. His comments come in the wake of countrywide protests in the US over the death of African-American George Floyd in police custody.  Gandhi has also been critical of the Narendra Modi government and has often accused the prime minister of being "dictatorial" and one who does not hear the views of the opposition. Gandhi noted that the most important battle from India's perspective as well as that of the US, "is to actually bring back our countries to where they used to be. Which is sort of where we embrace our cultures, where we embrace our past, where we embrace our people. And, where we sort of give a healing touch as opposed to this sort of aggressive politics that we are stuck in." Talking about the "atmosphere of fear" prevailing in India, Gandhi said, "You take unilateral decisions, you do the biggest lockdown in the world, most rigorous lockdown in the world and then you have millions of manual labourers walking thousands of kilometers back home." "So it is this unilateral, episodic type of leadership, where you just come in and do something and go away. It's very destructive. But it's the flavour of the time, that's the unfortunate thing. It's everywhere. And we are fighting it," he said. The Indo-US relationship, which used to be a partnership earlier, now seems to have become "very transactional" and "episodic", the former Congress chief said, adding that it is focussed on defence ties now. "A relationship that used to be very broad -- education, defence, healthcare, multiple fronts -- has sort of focused down mainly on defence," Gandhi said. During the conversation, Gandhi also hit out at the divisions prevailing in both the countries, saying they weaken the nations. "When you divide African Americans, Mexicans and other people in the United States, so you divide Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs in India, you're weakening the structure of the country. But then the same people who weaken the structure of the country say they are the nationalists," he said. On Burns asking about his views on the ongoing "battle of ideas" with China, Gandhi said, "I see cooperative competition without ever going into violence. And yes, they have a different world view. Yes, they have an authoritarian world view. Yes, we have a democratic world view and I'm pretty confident that the democratic world view will do well." "But in order to achieve that, that has to start from inside our countries. We can't have an authoritarian perspective internally and then make that argument. That argument has to be made from the foundation of democracy, within the country itself, within our countries. And that's where I see the problem," he noted. On being asked about the challenge being faced by political parties the world over, Gandhi said he is hopeful of coming out of it as he understands the DNA of the country, which cannot be changed. "Yes, we are going through a bad patch. Covid is a horrible time, but I do see new ideas emerging after Covid, new ways. I can already see people cooperating much more than they were before. Now they realise that actually there are advantages to being unified. There are advantages to helping each other," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dna-of-openness-and-tolerance-that-india-us-were-known-for-has-disappeared-rahul-gandhi-848746.html
12-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi has parallel information system in place on China: BJP's dig at Congress leader||The BJP on Friday shared an old tweet of Rahul Gandhi on his meeting with the then Chinese envoy to take a swipe at the Congress leader over his call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to share in public details of the ongoing border row with China. "Rahul Gandhi is asking the Prime Minister to share in public facts about sensitive China border issues. I think Mr. Gandhi has a parallel information system in place. Did he not meet the Chinese envoy during the Doklam crisis? Denied it initially but accepted it after public outcry," BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said. Prasad shared a July, 2017 tweet of Gandhi in which he said that he had met the Chinese envoy, the Bhutanese ambassador and Congress leaders from the Northeast as it was his job to be informed on critical issues. The meeting had come during the Doklam row. The Congress had first denied that any such meeting had happened before acknowledging it as the BJP targeted the opposition party. Gandhi has questioned the government over a standoff between India and China at the border in eastern Ladakh amid troops build-up on both sides. The present situation is turning out to be the biggest military standoff after the 2017 Doklam episode. India has said that the border dispute would be resolved through talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-has-parallel-information-system-in-place-on-china-bjps-dig-at-congress-leader-848777.html
12-06-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha polls: Congress alleges BJP framing its MLA to prevent him from voting||After suffering major setbacks in the form of back-to-back resignations by eight of its MLAs ahead of Rajya Sabha polls to be held on June 19 for four seats, the Gujarat Congress on Friday alleged that state police is trying to frame its senior MLA allegedly in a false case in order to stop him from voting to benefit ruling BJP candidate. BJP has denied the allegations. State Congress president Amit Chavda said that an FIR was registered in Una, Gir-Somnath district, in connection with a clash between two groups. He said that police summoned its local MLA Punja Vansh twice this month and grilled him for hours despite the FIR not having his name as suspect or describing his role in the clash. The police called him again on June 11 but he requested the police to give him time till the polls are over but the police insisted to appear before it. "It seems that the police have hatched a plan to arrest Punjabhai Vansh, a popular, honest and Koli community leader, to prevent him from voting. Punjabhai is not any other leader who should be harassed by the police in such a manner. He has been elected by the people six times and serving the public for more than three decades," Chavda said in a press conference while alleging that the BJP is "using every trick to somehow win the polls." The BJP shot back at Congress to say that the allegations are baseless. Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja said that police had called Punjabhai on 9th June and allowed him to leave after questioning was over. Jadeja also said that the case relates to an attack on his party's ex MLA C K Rathod on May 28 by several anti-social elements. Punjabhai was called by the police in this case and there was no question of police framing him at the instance of the government. He also claimed that Congress MLAs are resigning due to infighting and BJP has nothing to do with it as is being alleged by Congress. As a matter of fact, for the past three occasions Congress has been witnessing its MLAs resigning with announcement of Rajya Sabha poll dates. This time eight of the MLAs have resigned which has left the Congress on the brink of losing one of the two seats, which the party could have easily won had it kept the MLAs together. Chavda has alleged that MLAs have been bought over by the BJP. The developments forced the Congress to keep its 65 remaining MLAs in three groups who are staying separately in resorts in south Gujarat, Saurashtra region and some in Rajasthan. For the past couple of days, MLAs in Saurashtra and south Gujarat have started meeting party workers and supporters in the assembly constituencies which were vacated by the party MLAs to benefit BJP candidates. For four Rajya Sabha seats, Congress has fielded its national spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil and former Gujarat Congress chief and ex union minister Bharatsinh Solanki. While BJP has fielded advocate Abhay Bharadwaj, tribal leader Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin who had switched over to BJP from Congress in 2012. Congress has 65 MLAs as on Friday and needs four votes or MLAs to win the two seats while BJP has 103 MLAs. The votes of two MLAs from Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), one MLA of National Congress Party and one independent MLA Jignesh Mevani are crucial. Congress is assured of getting Mevani's vote but there is still uncertainty if BTP and NCP will support it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-polls-congress-alleges-bjp-framing-its-mla-to-prevent-him-from-voting-848801.html
12-06-2020||National Politics||Congress puts up show of unity in Rajasthan ahead of Rajya Sabha polls||With MLAs secured in a resort, Congress on Friday (June 12) put up a show of unity with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot exuding confidence of winning the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections and accusing the BJP of indulging in “horse-trading”. Congress leaders accused the BJP of fielding a fourth candidate in the Rajya Sabha polls only to trigger defections in the ruling party ranks. “However, BJP continues conspiring to break up the governments even during the coronavirus period. Not a single vote in Rajasthan will go into their kitty and both our candidates will win,” Gehlot told reporters in Jaipur. Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who has been appointed election observer for the Rajya Sabha elections, accused the BJP of “denigrating democracy” by “stealing the mandate” by engineering defections. Congress has fielded AICC General Secretary (Organisation) KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, while BJP has named Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat as its candidates for the Rajya Sabha polls. “If a thief comes to your home with the intention to steal, will you not take adequate safeguards,” Surjewala said to questions on the reason for keeping MLAs in the resort. Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia hit back at the chief minister accusing him of staging a “political drama” by levelling baseless allegations.  “I have been observing him since the last few days, he has been speaking as a man who has become mentally unstable and says whatever comes to his mind. His statements reflect the despair,” Poonia said. In Delhi, Congress leaders submitted a memorandum to the Election Commission accusing the BJP of misusing official machinery to harass Congress MLAs in Gujarat, including Punjabbhai Vansh for cross-voting in Rajya Sabha polls in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-puts-up-show-of-unity-in-rajasthan-ahead-of-rajya-sabha-polls-848851.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Govt praises India's effort against containing COVID-19||India is doing "pretty well" in its fight against the COVID-19 and will "win this war", the Centre said on Thursday, asserting that though the country adopted the same principles that China did to contain coronavirus spread, its experience was different as the disease came through travel and affected multiple points. At a media briefing, Chairman of Empowered Group One and NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul said China was the first one to experience the COVID-19 outbreak and it was localised in one particular province, later expanding to few other cities. Asked what India did not do and China did right in restricting the number of cases, Paul said the principles that China adopted were exactly the same that India had adopted in terms of containment, social distancing and other non pharmacological measures. "But, remember once the disease went out of China, the entire world was to face this pandemic in a very different way because it came through travel, it came to multiple points in every nation including ours," Paul said. "It does take a while for the whole process to be mobilized and it got seeded in a large population across the world. But the principles are essentially the same — that is discipline on the part of the people, strategy of containment which we have been highlighting, which is at the core of our approach and because of which we do have a limited disease, in a limited number of cities and limited number of containment zones," he said. The principles that the world is following is based on the experience gained in SARS and MERS epidemics, he said. "I don't think the approach is different, all nations are grappling with balancing priorities of maintaining reasonable life balance with how much suppression you can ensure on the spread of the disease and I think India is doing pretty well," Paul said. Virus has the nature of travelling very rapidly and it catches every susceptible person if it can, but India will not allow the will of the virus to run across this country, he asserted. "The nation has demonstrated that this can be contained, this can be lessened, this can be suppressed and together the nation will win this war," Paul asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-praises-indias-effort-against-containing-covid-19-848567.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Nearly 70% beds vacant in COVID-19 hospitals run by Delhi govt, private facilities almost full||As per the latest information shared on the Delhi Corona app on Thursday afternoon, more than 3,000 beds are lying vacant in these five dedicated COVID-19 hospitals that have a total capacity of 4,344 beds. However, almost all beds at several big private hospitals are shown to be occupied. Families of many COVID-19 patients, confirmed or suspected, have alleged in the past few weeks that they have been denied admission at many facilities or have not been able to get a bed for their kin. Medical and public health experts feel it may be because of the image associated with government hospitals, related to infrastructure and hygiene conditions, and perhaps shortage of staff. According to the latest data available on Delhi Corona app on Thursday afternoon, a total of 9,444 beds are available in private facilities and hospitals run by the central and Delhi governments. Out of these, 4,371 are vacant. The app shows that beds are available at Delhi government-run hospitals dedicated for COVID-19 treatment such as LNJP Hospital (1,219), GTB Hospital (1,314), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital or RGSSH (242). However, almost all beds at several big private hospitals are shown to be occupied. At LNJP Hospital, there are a total of 2,000 beds, out of these 781 are occupied. GTB Hospital has total 1,500 beds, only 186 of which are occupied. Even at RGSSH, 258 of the 500 beds are occupied. Beds are available at other dedicated COVID-19 facilities in the national capital too, according to the app. Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital has 94 unoccupied beds out of a total 176 and Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital has 145 vacant beds out of a total 168. This makes a total of 4,344 COVID-19 beds at these five dedicated Delhi government hospitals, out of which 3,014 or 69.38 per cent are vacant. A senior doctor at the RGSSH said, "We are only admitting very serious COVID-19 patients in the hospital. Those with mild symptoms, or asymptomatic ones, are either being home quarantined or being sent to COVID Care Centres. Our beds are on stand-by also to accommodate serious patients in case there is a sudden rush." Delhi Heath Minster Satyendar Jain had recently said that some private hospitals could have been denying admission, but the Delhi government-run hospitals have not denied beds to any needy COVID-19 patient. He had also said that main private hospitals are almost full to their capacity in terms of number of COVID-19 beds. According to the app, at prominent private hospitals like Indraprastha Apollo, Max Hospital in Shalimar Bagh, Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh, BL Kapur Hospital are fully occupied. Max Hospital in Saket has a total of 200 beds for COVID-19 patients, and only one is vacant. On June 9, the Delhi government had directed 22 private hospitals in the national capital to dedicate a total of 2,015 extra beds for treatment of coronavirus patients, revising its earlier allocation limit of 20 per cent. Lawyer and public heath activist Ashok Agarwal said infrastructure and hygiene are two main factors, and people still want to "avoid government facilities". "I know of cases, where people were willing to be on waiting list of private hospitals but did not go to a government hospital, even though beds were available," he said. Even those who went to a government hospital for COVID-19 treatment, complained of "dirty toilets, and these being used by multiple patients", Agarwal said. "Also, as the cases erupted successively over the months, many people got scared and were in two minds to go to a government hospital, as admitted patients were making allegations in videos and on social media about lack of proper services. Besides, there is shortage of medical staff at various facilities, and each patient needs to be attended to," he argued. Delhi government hospitals and private facilities were directed to prominently display information about the availability of beds on a flex board at their main gates. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday ordered Delhi hospitals to display the availability of COVID and non-COVID beds, charges for rooms or beds along with contact details on a LED board outside the hospital. Max Hospital sources said they were already displaying the status of beds on LED screens near their reception area even before the government order. A spokesperson from Fortis Hospital said, "We are in the process of arranging to put up the displays as per the prescribed format." Delhi recorded 1,501 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 32,000, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 984, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-70-beds-vacant-in-covid-19-hospitals-run-by-delhi-govt-private-facilities-almost-full-848610.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||NHRC inspects COVID-19-dedicated LNJP Hospital||A team of the National Humans Rights Commission, led by its member Jyotika Kalra, visited the LNJP Hospital on Thursday for an on-spot inspection of the facility in the wake of allegations of mismanagement in handling the COVID-19 situation in the city. The hospital is a dedicated COVID-19 facility under the Delhi government. The Commission on Wednesday had sent notices to the Health Ministry and the Delhi government over the coronavirus pandemic situation in the national capital and asked them to submit a report in 10 days on healthcare facilities and related issues.  The idea of the NHRC's visit is to help hospital administration to "plug loopholes in their functioning and not just find faults", Kalra was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the NHRC. A detailed report will be prepared and submitted to the Commission shortly, the statement added. However, the Commission would "continue to keep a check on the facilities" of the LNJP Hospital and may also visit some hospitals in the national capital under the Union Health Ministry, she said. The five-member NHRC team also comprised an assistant registrar (law), one DSP, one inspector and a doctor on the panel of the Commission. The team interacted with the hospital administration, doctors, staff and some attendants of the patients there. They also visited the emergency department and the ward having beds for COVID-19 patients, a senior official of the NHRC said. "The team was informed that no serious patient was denied admission and as such only those patients are being admitted whose condition is serious, and others having minor symptoms are being advised home-quarantine," the statement said. The hospital administration claimed that they were being sent referred patients by various doctors in the city, without any proper protocol, the statement said. On the delay in shifting of bodies, the hospital administration informed that only due to problems in lifts on some occasions, there might have been some delay but mostly the bodies are shifted immediately, it said.  The patients are being allowed to carry mobile phones and there is no such restriction. Home food is also being allowed. Additionally, the hospital canteen has been providing breakfast, lunch and dinner as per schedule, hospitals authorities were quoted as saying in the statement. A senior official at the LNJP Hospital said, the team arrived at the facility around 3:30 PM and left at about 6:30 PM. LNJP's Medical Director Dr Suresh Kumar and and a senior doctor from the emergency department accompanied the team during the inspection, the official said. Sources said, the visit was scheduled to happen but a date had not been mentioned earlier. "What a private channel aired on television is not the right picture of the situation at the hospital, but deliberately only certain parts have been shown to show us in bad light," a source said. Meanwhile, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, when asked by reporters about the video aired by the channel, said, "Such videos are motivated, and break the morale of the healthcare workers". "What is being shown, a dead body in a ward, is not the right way. It only sensationalises the situation. Why the sacrifices made by our doctors over the last three months are not shown," he said.  The team found that several beds were lying vacant. However, the hospital administration said this is as part of requirement in coming days, even additional equipment like dialysis machines and ventilators have been kept ready for any exigencies, the NHRC statement said. About 23 per cent doctors and para-medical staff have been kept ready aside for deployment on a need basis, it said. The NHRC member observed that at the hospital's entry gate, proper and visible notice boards giving directions to the patients and their attendants were required, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-inspects-covid-19-dedicated-lnjp-hospital-848623.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan CM, Congress MLAs stay overnight at resort to thwart 'poaching bid'||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and nearly 100 Congress and independent MLAs stayed overnight at a resort on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, amid allegations that the BJP was trying to poach ruling party legislators ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls. The MLAs held discussions on Thursday for the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls. Party sources said the MLAs have been asked to stay at the resort amid poaching threat. Chief Minister Gehlot, who on Wednesday alleged poaching attempts on the Congress legislators, is looking after the arrangements at the resort. "Eight-ten MLAs returned last night for personal and health reasons and they will come back today. Rest of the MLAs, around 100, stayed in the resort last night," Rajasthan government chief whip Mahesh Joshi said on Friday. A meeting of Congress Rajya Sabha candidates KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi with the MLAs will be held on Friday at the resort in the presence of other senior party leaders. For three Rajya Sabha seats from Rajasthan, the Congress has fielded two candidates, while BJP's two candidates have filed nominations. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including six those who defected to the party from the BSP last year. The party enjoys the support of 12 of the 13 Independent MLAs in the state. The BJP has 72 MLAs and enjoys the support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs. The Congress has more than enough majority for the victory of both of its candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-congress-mlas-stay-overnight-at-resort-to-thwart-poaching-bid-848655.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||97-year-old Agra man recovers from COVID-19, DM hails him as 'ray of hope'||The 1923-born man (name withheld) was discharged on Wednesday from a private hospital. He is one of the oldest COVID-19 patients in the country to recover successfully. Agra District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh, speaking to PTI over phone, hailed it as a "matter of pride" for the historic city. "Our team was keeping an eye on his condition daily, and the day his coronavirus test came negative after recovering, we felt so delighted. We hear of people trying to take their lives sometimes when they contract COVID-19, but not this 97-year-old man. His recovery has come as a ray of hope," he said. He also tweeted on Thursday about his recovery, saying, it will lend hope, especially to people of the older age, and wrote, "Salute to #CoronaWarrior". The man was admitted on April 29 to Nayati Hospital, a level-2 hospital for COVID-19 care in Agra, sources said. He has hypertension, and he initially needed a bit of oxygen supply but recovered fine, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/97-year-old-agra-man-recovers-from-covid-19-dm-hails-him-as-ray-of-hope-848659.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||SC directs for settlement between employers and staff on full salary payment during COVID-19 lockdown||The Supreme Court on Friday directed for mutual settlement between the employers and the employees on Ministry of Home Affairs' order to pay full salary during 54 days of the lockdown, saying no industry can survive without labourers and workers. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said if the issue is not settled, then the labour authorities should be approached. The court said the employers whose factories continued to work, though not in full capacity, may also enter into talks. Passing a set of directions, the court continued its order that no coercive action should be taken against the factory owners, MSMEs and companies during this period of talks and mediation. The court directed the states to initiate the process of settlement. It said the court's order must be circulated through Labour Commissioner for facilitating settlement process. The court asked the Centre to file an additional affidavit and put the matter for consideration in July. Notably, the March 29 order for payment of wages without any deduction was revoked on May 17. During the hearing, the court had suggested finding a middle ground to protect the interest of crores of contractual workers and employees as well as a group of companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-directs-for-settlement-between-employers-and-staff-on-full-salary-payment-during-covid-19-lockdown-848660.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: HC, lower courts heard over 18 K cases via video conference||The submission was made by the high court registry before a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad. While the Delhi High Court heard 3,787 cases via video conferencing, the subordinate courts heard 14,482 cases till June 9. During the same period, the subordinate courts also heard 23,339 matters through physical hearing, the high court noted while hearing a plea seeking that all kinds of matters be heard via video conferencing during the restricted judicial functioning. The bench also observed that though the procedure of video conferencing adopted during the lockdown was new to the judges and lawyers and each day threw up a new challenge, the high court and subordinate courts have risen to the occasion. The observation came after the petitioner-lawyer could connect to the proceedings only after two attempts, and said he was yet to get comfortable with the process. During the hearing, the high court registry also informed the bench that around 30 administrative orders have been issued during the lockdown period to streamline hearing of matters. In view of the submissions made, the petitioner, S B Tripathi, sought to withdraw the petition, the court noted and said, "the petition is accordingly disposed of".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-hc-lower-courts-heard-over-18-k-cases-via-video-conference-848681.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Militant arrested in J&K's Shopian||Security forces on Friday arrested a militant during a search operation in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said. Acting on specific intelligence input about the presence of militants in Asthan Mohalla area of Shopian in South Kashmir, security forces launched a cordon and search operation there early this morning, defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said. He said during the search operation, one militant was apprehended. A pistol, two magazines and 12 rounds were recovered from his possession, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-arrested-in-jks-shopian-848684.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court asks Centre, RBI to hold meet on waiver of interest during moratorium||The Supreme Court on Friday said a meeting should be held between the officers of the Ministry of Finance and the RBI within three days to settle the issue of charging interest on interest accrued to a loan during the period of moratorium. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said that the loan repayment moratorium should not lead to a higher interest rate being charged. "If interest payment has been deferred for three months, banks should not add that amount to the payable money and charge interest on interest," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said a meeting would be held between the Finance Ministry and RBI this weekend. "We are doing the balancing. Our concern in these proceedings is only whether the interest that has been deferred for three months will be added to charges payable later and whether there will be interest on the interest," the bench said.  Meanwhile, the SBI also approached the court seeking hearing in a PIL filed by Gajendra Sharma. It contended that all the banks were of the view that interest can't be waived off for a period of six months. The court put the matter for consideration on Wednesday. Earlier, the RBI had told the court that its decision granting a moratorium on loan repayment was only to "defer the payment obligations and it cannot be construed to be a waiver".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-centre-rbi-to-hold-meet-on-waiver-of-interest-during-moratorium-848691.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 patients being treated worse than animals: Supreme Court||Taking up a suo motu matter, a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan, pulled up the Delhi government also for reducing the number of COVID-19 tests in the national capital.  "It is a very sorry state of affairs in Delhi and its hospitals, which are not even able to give due care and concern to the dead bodies," the bench said, citing news reports. The court issued a notice to Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal governments saying the situation was grim over there. It said that states should do more tests to let people know their health status. The court had on Thursday registered the suo motu case as "In Re: The proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and the dignified handling of dead bodies in hospitals etc". Former Law Minister and Congress leader Ashwini Kumar shot off a letter alleging patients were being ill-treated and the dead bodies were mishandled. "Things have gone bad in Delhi," the bench said, pointing out that the number of daily tests has been reduced from 7,000 to 5,000 in Delhi, whereas it was being increased everywhere else. "There should be infrastructure, there need to be beds, patients are not being looked after, this is a deplorable state of affairs," the bench added. “Please see the deplorable conditions of people in hospitals, dead bodies are lying in the ward - we are concerned about the living too," the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah, said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the Ministry of Home Affairs had already issued guidelines on dignified handling of the dead bodies.  The court noted the horrific scenes from Delhi as shown in news reports, where patients have been left in pathetic conditions and dead bodies were lying in the lobby, waiting area, and in wards in Delhi's hospitals. The court also pointed out that reports also indicated that patients, suffering from COVID-19 were running from pillar to post to get admission in hospital whereas various beds in government hospitals were lying vacant. It put the matter for further consideration on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patients-being-treated-worse-than-animals-supreme-court-848696.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||COVID 19: HC refuses to pass direction to ensure no overcharging by private hospitals||The Delhi High Court Friday refused to pass any direction to the Delhi government to ensure no private hospital which has been declared as COVID-19 hospital, charges the patients exorbitantly or deny treatment due to paucity of funds. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said though the issue raised in the plea is good, it cannot pass any general directions in the public interest litigation, which would be difficult to implement. “At this stage, we are not inclined to issue any directions” the bench said during the hearing via video conferencing.  The court disposed of the petition filed by social activist and advocate Amit Sahni who referred to May 24 circular of the Delhi government regarding payment for treatment issued by a private hospital. The bench said in case of overcharging, an aggrieved party may approach the court with a specific prayer against such hospital and general directions cannot be passed in a PIL. The court asked Sahni to approach the Delhi government with the grievance raised in the petition. The plea has modification of the May 24 circular issued by the Delhi government which stated “these private hospitals shall bill the COVID-19 patients as per their respective schedule of charges. However, the billing for non-COVID-19 patients admitted on the extra beds shall not be more than 50 per cent of the lower economy category of concerned hospital as per earlier practice during upsurge of cases of vector borne disease.” The petition has said considering the increase in COVID-19 cases, the state government has declared various hospitals as COVID-19 hospitals and by its June 3 order, the authorities declared three private hospitals as Covid Hospitals – Mool Chand Khairati Lal Hospital, Saroj Super Specialty Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. These hospitals are obliged to provide 10 per cent IPD and 25 per cent OPD services to patients belonging to the economically weaker section (EWS). The petitioner has highlighted that he has come across a circular issued by one of these private Covid -19 hospital, which has fixed 3 lakhs as a minimum bill for COVID-19 patients and that patient will be admitted only after advance of Rs 4 lakhs in 2 bedded / 3 bedded category and Rs 5 Lakhs in single room and Rs 8 Lakhs in ICU.  “The State being a welfare state has to ensure that private hospitals do not charge patients exorbitantly and also to ensure that those who require immediate medical attention/intensive care, are not denied admission due to paucity of funds,” the PIL has said. The plea has said it has not impleaded COVID-19 hospitals as party to the petition since the directions sought are against the government to ensure justice with its citizens during the crisis of pandemic. “The respondents (Delhi government) are duty bound to ensure that the private hospitals do not overcharge public particularly when the government hospitals do not have sufficient infrastructure to accommodate all patients suffering from COVID-19,” it has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hc-refuses-to-pass-direction-to-ensure-no-overcharging-by-private-hospitals-848698.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||From June 1, Gurgaon sees 6-fold increase in deaths, cases rise over 3.5 times||Gurgaon in Haryana, one of the worst-hit districts in the country by the coronavirus pandemic, has recorded a six-fold increase in deaths, while the cases have gone up more than three-and-a-half times between May 31 and June 11, data showed on Friday. Of the nearly 6,000 total cases in Haryana, Gurgaon alone accounts for more than 45 per cent and 19 out of the total 64 COVID-19 related deaths in the state. The two other worst-hit districts are — Faridabad and Sonipat, which, like Gurgaon, fall in the National Capital Region next to Delhi. Together, these three districts account for more than 4,000 cases and 46 of the 64 deaths as on June 11. By May 31, Gurgaon had three deaths and 774 COVID-19 cases (487 active). But by June 11, the numbers rose to 19 fatalities and 2,737 cases (1,760 active). Gurgaon reported six deaths on a single day on June 11, the health department data showed. Between May 31 and June 11, Haryana as a whole recorded a three-fold increase in coronavirus deaths and cases, from 20 to 64 and 2,091 to 5,968 respectively. The COVID-19 positive rate went up from 1.84 per cent to 3.80 per cent during the period and the fatality rate increased from 0.96 per cent to 1.07 per cent. The rate of doubling of cases accelerated from 9 to 7 days, and the recovery rate dropped to 37.87 per cent from 50.12 per cent, according to the data. In Faridabad, the total cases rose from 367 and eight fatalities on May 31 to 929 cases and 22 deaths by June 11. In Sonipat, the total cases rose from 199 and one death on May 31 to 502 and five deaths by June 11. Gurgaon's Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav said a majority of the 19 patients who died in the district either had co-morbid conditions or were aged above 60 years. "The patients either had co-morbid conditions including cardiac issues, diabetes, other severe ailments or were above 60 years of age,” Dr Yadav told PTI over the phone. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajiv Arora too said most of the patients who died across the state had severe co-morbid conditions. Yadav, who was the CMO of the adjoining Nuh district, joined as CMO Gurgaon replacing Dr J S Punia, who amid rising cases in the “millennium city”, was transferred to Nuh. Yadav, credited with controlling spread of the pandemic to a large extent in Nuh, which has a total over 100 cases with no fatality, said his immediate priority was to have results of samples processed within 36 hours which at present was 4-5 days in Gurgaon. When results are available in a shorter span of time, it helps in quickly tracing the patient's contact and taking remedial measures, Yadav said. Arora, when asked about the sudden rise in cases, especially in Gurgaon and Faridabad, said on Thursday, “we are alive and alert”. Asked if Gurgaon was heading towards community transmission, he said the district's population was nearly 2 million and going by the number of active cases, that wasn't the case. He said more than 75 lakh people live in the four districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, and there are around 2,600 active cases in these areas, which is why this cannot be called community spread. Increasing sampling, better contact-tracing, tracking those with travel history and house-to-house search by health workers, especially among the vulnerable sections of society, were some of the measures which the health department was taking, Arora said. As cases continued to mount from the NCR districts, Health Minister Anil Vij recently said he was concerned at the rate at which infections were spreading in areas adjoining the national capital. He cited movement of people from Delhi into these districts of Haryana as the reason behind the surge in cases. Vij, who is also the home minister, had imposed stricter restrictions on inter-state borders, especially in the districts that share borders with Delhi, including Gurgaon. For the time being, shopping malls and places of worship have not been reopened for the public in Gurgaon and Faridabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-june-1-gurgaon-sees-6-fold-increase-in-deaths-cases-rise-over-35-times-848770.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan Army violates ceasefire in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district||Pakistani troops on Friday shelled mortars along the Line of Control in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he said. "On June 12, in the morning hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Rampur sector of district Baramulla by firing mortars and other weapons," the defence spokesperson said. There was no report of casualty till last reports came in, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-violates-ceasefire-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-district-848774.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||BJP is trying to topple my government: CM Ashok Gehlot||Accusing the BJP again of trying to topple his government, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said a complaint has been filed with state’s Special Operation Group for investigation into the matter. Gehlot, however, refused to disclose names of those behind the toppling bids allegedly involving transfer of money for horse trading. "A complaint has been lodged with the SOG so that investigation about those who are involved in this organised crime of money transfer could be conducted,” Gehot said at a press conference at a hotel on Delhi highway. He said what happened in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh is known to all, and now it is being tried here in Rajasthan. “If the BJP leaders are making calls to the Congress and independent MLAs, what should we call this?” he asked. Asked about Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s statement that he received no complaint regarding horse trading, Gehlot asserted that he is the chief minister and if something comes to his notice, it must have come from a source. “How can we disclose this?” he asked. The ruling party’s Chief whip Mahesh Joshi has already filed a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau seeking action against those allegedly trying to topple the state government. On Wednesday, Gehlot had stated that a huge amount of cash had been transferred to Jaipur and attempts were being made to play a game of poaching MLAs akin to that in MP. The chief minister had rued that the BJP's central leadership was engaged in sabotage activities amid the corona crisis. “They toppled the government in Madhya Pradesh and are now making conspiracy in Rajasthan. They have been exposed among the public,” he said. The chief minister said two persons -- Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah -- were taking all decisions which is not a good tradition in a democracy. He said the democracy was being murdered in the country and the government had put all its force to topple the government in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-is-trying-to-topple-my-government-cm-ashok-gehlot-848776.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||J Radhakrishnan brought back as Tamil Nadu Health Secretary amid soaring COVID-19 cases||Amid surging COVID-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday shunted out Health Secretary Beela Rajesh and brought back her predecessor J Radhakrishnan, who had a long stint helming the department and hands-on experience in tackling crisis situations. A 1997 batch IAS officer, Rajesh, who had become the face of the health department through her daily media briefings on COVID-19, has been transferred to the Commercial Taxes and Registration Department, a Government Order said. Radhakrishnan, presently Principal Secretary and Commissioner of Revenue Administration, has been posted as Principal Secretary to Health and Family Welfare Department, the order said. The transfer of the top health official comes against the backdrop of the state recording 1,500 plus fresh virus cases on a daily basis from Sunday. Tamil Nadu's tally of positive cases and toll stood at 38,716 and 349 respectively as on Thursday and Chennai's infection count alone was 27,398 while its share of deaths 279. "It is a challenging task. With the cooperation of the people, all government departments, and multi-disciplinary teams, we will work to overcome the crisis," Radhakrishnan told PTI when asked about him assuming the office of health secretary again. A medical doctor, 50-year old Rajesh had been leading the health department in the COVID-19 battle since January when the state started screening arriving international passengers and lauded for her poise while handling a volley of questions from the media. Incidentally, Radhakrishnan, a 1992 batch IAS officer, was on May 1 appointed as Special Nodal Officer for Greater Chennai Corporation to coordinate coronavirus related issues with the civic body chief. The 53-year old officer, a veterinary doctor (MVSc) was the Health Secretary from September 2012 till February 2019 when Rajesh had succeeded him. He was the district collector of Nagapattinam when the coastal region was ravaged by the tsunami in 2004 and he was credited with for the swift relief and rehabilitation works. In his capacity as head of the health department, Radhakrishnan was among top state officials who had a tab on the treatment of Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016 at the Apollo Hospitals here till her demise in December that year. "He (Radhakrishnan) will continue to hold the post of Principal Secretary and Commissioner of Revenue Administration in full additional charge until further orders," the G.O said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/j-radhakrishnan-brought-back-as-tamil-nadu-health-secretary-amid-soaring-covid-19-cases-848779.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Centre’s decision to reopen activities was not taken in haste, says Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Friday said the Central government’s decision of phased reopening of lockdown was not taken in haste and it was done to ensure a proper balance between containing the spread of COVID 19 pandemic and making it certain that people are not forced to starvation. The high court’s order came while dismissing with a cost of Rs 20,000 a PIL by a law student challenging the May 30 order of the Centre by which lockdown was extended in containment zones and reopening of activities was done in a phased manner outside containment zones. The petition was “completely misconceived” and has been filed only to “gain publicity,” said the 23-page judgement of the high court which held that nothing has been shown by the petitioner as to how the May 30 order was so arbitrary or is based on such irrelevant consideration that it deserves to be struck down as being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the government is expected to remain cognisant of the situation and evaluate it closely and if it is found that the rate of infection is going up, they can always review their decision and impose curbs, depending upon the situation. The high court said a series of orders have been passed by the government starting from March this year to tackle the situation and decisions have been taken to ensure minimum hardship to people and several economic packages have been announced to regenerate the economy. “This court can also take judicial notice of the fact that world over, the trend is now to reduce the restrictions which were imposed due to lockdown and to return to normal life. In order to ensure a proper balance between containing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and at the same time make certain that people are not forced to starvation the government has issued the impugned order. “The re-opening has been directed in a phased manner and is not a decision that appears to have been taken in haste. The government is expected to remain cognisant of the situation and evaluate it closely. If it is found that the rate of infection is going up, they can always review their decision and impose curbs, depending upon the situation,” the bench said. It noted that the lockdown has resulted in loss of jobs for several lakhs of people and scores of people were forced to walk considerable distance and stand in long queues at food distribution centers just to have two square meals a day. It said several people have gone hungry and were not able to get one meal and many were left shelterless and several lakhs of migrant labour had to walk on foot and go back to their native places. “The economic situation of the country has taken a terrible hit due to the lockdown. In fact, many analysts have opined that the lockdown has caused more human suffering than COVID-19 itself. Economists have forecasted that Indian economy will shrink as a result of the steps taken to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Indian economy virtually came to a standstill during nationwide lockdown. “Production in the country came to a grinding halt during the lockdown period. Construction activities in the country have stopped. People have become unemployed which raises grave concerns regarding the law and order situation in the country,” the high court said. The bench said Arjun Aggarwal, a fifth year law student, filed the petition without looking at the position in law. He challenged the guidelines on the ground that phased reopening will result in rampant spread of COVID-19 in the country and it has been done only keeping in mind economic considerations while endangering its citizens to the extent of succumbing to a contagious disease in the absence of any proven medical cure for it. The plea claimed there was no need or justification for reopening the prohibited activities. The bench said in its order that during the hearing, it had informed the petitioner’s counsel that the court was not inclined to entertain the petition as it found the plea was an abuse of the process of the law. “We had also warned the counsel that if he presses the petition, we would be constrained to dismiss it with costs. We cautioned the counsel only because the petitioner is a law student. Despite that, counsel for the petitioner upon taking instructions from the petitioner, continued to address arguments, wasting valuable judicial time. “We deprecate this conduct of the petitioner. He has not cared to read the judgments relating to public interest litigations and the limits on the Court while exercising its power of judicial review on policy matters,” the bench said. While dismissing the plea, it directed the petitioner to deposit the cost of Rs 20,000 in the Delhi High Court Bar Association Lawyers' Security and Welfare Fund within two weeks. The bench said the courts cannot act as an appellate authority examining the correctness, suitability and appropriateness of the policy. “...nor are courts advisors to the executive in matters of policy which the executive is entitled to formulate. The courts cannot interfere with the policy either on the ground that it is erroneous or on the ground that a better or a wiser alternative is available. The illegality of the policy and not the wisdom and soundness of the policy is the subject matter of judicial review,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-centre-s-decision-to-reopen-activities-was-not-taken-in-haste-says-delhi-high-court-848783.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||BJP wins Arunachal Pradesh Rajya Sabha seat||BJP nominee Nabam Rebia won the lone Rajya Sabha seat in Arunachal Pradesh on Friday in the absence of any contestants, an official of the state election office said. Rebia was declared winner after the time for withdrawal of nominations ended on Friday as there was no other candidate in the fray, Joint Chief Electoral Officer D J Bhattacharjee said. The veteran politician was the only candidate to file his papers for the election. He had filed his nomination on Monday and it was found valid after scrutiny on June 10, Bhattacharjee said. Mukut Mithi of the Congress is the incumbent Rajya Sabha MP from the northeast state. His tenure will end on June 23. Rebia, who represented the state in the Rajya Sabha for two consecutive terms from 1996 to 2002 and again from 2002 to 2008 as a Congress member, had also served the state as an Assembly speaker and a cabinet minister. The Election Commission had on June 2 issued notification for holding election to the lone Rajya Sabha seat in Arunachal Pradesh along with other states. The 60-member Arunachal Pradesh assembly has 41 BJP MLAs, seven of the JD(U), four each of the Congress and National Peoples Party (NPP), one of Peoples Party of Arunachal one and three Independents. The JD(U) and the NPP are supporting the Pema Khandu-led BJP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-wins-arunachal-pradesh-rajya-sabha-seat-848812.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slams UP govt, says its 'no testing is equal to no corona' policy a criminal act||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over coronavirus testing, saying its policy of 'no testing is equal to no corona' is to keep people in the dark. She also tagged a media report on Twitter which claimed that an FIR has been lodged against a former IAS officer who tweeted alleging that the UP chief secretary scolded district magistrates carrying out a large number if COVID-19 tests in their areas. "Protection from corona = maximum testing. This is in public interest. The 'no testing = no corona' policy is to keep the public in the dark and is a criminal act," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. If any former officer has raised these questions, then the UP government should answer it and not file a case against him, the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP East said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-slams-up-govt-says-its-no-testing-is-equal-to-no-corona-policy-a-criminal-act-848842.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Shivraj Singh Chouhan's `statement' about Nath govt's fall gives Congress issue||The leak of a video of Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan purportedly saying that Central leadership of the BJP decided to topple the Kamal Nath government has given the Congress an issue before Assembly by-elections. After the controversy broke out over Chouhan's speech, the BJP denied that it engineered the Nath government's fall. However, in a cryptic tweet in Hindi on Thursday, Chouhan said, "Destruction of sinners is a virtuous act. That is what our religion says." Some 30 Congress workers, including the party's Indore unit chief, were arrested on Friday for trying to stage a demonstration over Chouhan's speech. By-elections are due for 24 seats in Madhya Pradesh after the death of two sitting MLAs and resignations of 22 MLAs from Jyotiraditya Scindia's camp including minister Tulsi Silawat which led to the Congress government's fall in March. The Election Commission is yet to announce the polls. Chouhan, in a speech in Indore, purportedly said that "Central leaders decided that the government should fall otherwise it will lead to the ruin (of the state). And you tell me, without Jyotiraditya Scindia and and Tulsi (Silawat) Bhai, would it have fallen? There was no other way." MP Congress spokesmen Bhupendra Gupta said the party would not sit quiet. "We are going to protest and tell people across the state that the BJP has pulled down the Congress government using every possible means," he said. But state BJP chief spokesperson Deepak Vijayawargiya claimed that the video was "distorted" and added that Congress was creating a din as it knew it was staring at defeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-singh-chouhans-statement-about-nath-govts-fall-gives-congress-issue-848845.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Youth found hanging at quarantine centre in Uttarakhand, suicide suspected||A 19-year-old youth was found hanging in his room at a quarantine centre here in Balawala area on Friday, SP (City) Shweta Choubey said. The youth had returned from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh on June 5 and was in institutional quarantine in Balawala since then, she said, adding that it is suspected that he committed suicide. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot, the police officer said. The matter came to light on Friday morning when other inmates at the quarantine centre informed the police that the room occupied by the youth was bolted from inside for a long time. When police personnel broke into the room they found him hanging. His body has been sent for a post mortem, Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-found-hanging-at-quarantine-centre-in-uttarakhand-suicide-suspected-848854.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi LG forms high-level panel to suggest measures to tackle COVID-19 outbreak in city||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Friday constituted a high-level committee, which includes Indian Council of Medical Research Director-General Balram Bhargava, to suggest effective steps to deal with COVID-19 outbreak in the national capital, sources said. Baijal is the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The six-member panel also includes two members of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, they said. The move came two days after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and both the leaders discussed the COVID-19 situation in Delhi. With 34,867 COVID-19 cases so far, Delhi is in dire straits with the city recording 1,877 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike yet. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said that it's a "war-like situation" and the city government will try every means available to get more doctors and medical staff to meet the ever-increasing requirement. "The high-level panel will advise the DDMA on various aspects of COVID-19 management, including integration of measures being taken by various agencies for effective mitigation. It would also help in formulating a practical approach to effectively deal with the COVID-19 crisis," the source said. Kejriwal had recently claimed that Delhi would need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31 if people from other states start coming to the national capital for treatment. Another panel constituted by the lieutenant governor has suggested using Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium and JLN Stadium as makeshift COVID-19 facility to deal with the surge in number of cases. The panel has also suggested using Thyagaraj Indoor Stadium and Dhyanchand National Stadium for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lg-forms-high-level-panel-to-suggest-measures-to-tackle-covid-19-outbreak-in-city-848863.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Andhra Pradesh bans govt officers,employees from travelling outside state||The Andhra Pradesh government issued orders on Friday prohibiting its officers and employees from travelling outside the state as part of measures to prevent community spread of COVID-19. In an order, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney also directed the officers and employees, other than field-level functionaries, to minimize their movement even within the state and not leave the headquarters without written permission from the head of the department. So far, over six employees in the AP government Secretariat here have tested positive for coronavirus in the last ten days. Most of the employees come from Hyderabad while some officers also travel regularly to Hyderabad and New Delhi as their families are located in those cities. "As part of preventive measures for community spread of COVID-19, proactive tests have been conducted for employees especially those attending office from outside the state. Test results of some of the employees are turning positive. It is the duty of the employee/officer to protect themselves and help in preventing further spread of the disease in the offices," the Chief Secretary said. She said officers and staff residing in containment zones should not come to the office and, instead, work from home till the respective containment zone is de-notified. Also, those suffering from major ailments like high blood pressure, diabetes, coronary heart disease, chronic kidney disease, besides pregnant women have been asked to work from home. Installation of Aarogya Setu app has been made mandatory for all government officers and staff. "Despite taking preventive measures, if the test result of an employee is positive or if the employee is found to be suffering from symptoms of COVID-19, the employee should be shifted to COVID hospital as per the advice of doctors. The designated public health authority will conduct a risk assessment and necessary action for contact tracing, management of contacts, disinfection and closure of workplace and other preventive measures will be taken as per the Standard Operating Procedure," Sawhney said in the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/andhra-pradesh-bans-govt-officersemployees-from-travelling-outside-state-848868.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||To reduce pollution in Yamuna, Delhi government to provide free sewer connections||The Delhi government on Friday said it will provide free household sewer connections to ensure that no untreated sewage flows into stormwater drains. Untreated sewage is one of the main reasons behind the high pollution level in the Yamuna in Delhi. Industrial pollution makes up for 10-20 percent of its pollution load. The Delhi Jal Board has also decided to provide treated wastewater to government agencies free of cost. Earlier, they would purchase it from sewage treatment plants at Rs 7 per liter.   These decisions were taken at a meeting of the Delhi Jal Board chaired by Water Minister Satyendar Jain. The water utility said the decision to provide free sewer connections will improve capacity utilization of STPs. "It will improve hygiene and sanitation in such colonies and directly impact the water quality of the Yamuna," the DJB said in a statement. "To promote utilisation of this treated water and to conserve precious potable and groundwater, the DJB has decided to waive the charges on treated water," the statement said. At present, the STPs in Delhi treat 500 million gallons of wastewater per day, of which only 90 MGD is reused for various purposes. The DJB also approved a plan to rejuvenate 24 more water bodies in the national capital. This is besides 36 other water bodies for which contracts have already been awarded to start work on the ground. "This will not only reduce load on the local sewerage network but also ensure ground water recharge happens throughout the year. Currently these water bodies are either dry or contaminated with sewage creating health hazardous conditions for local residents along with causing ground contamination," the DJB said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-reduce-pollution-in-yamuna-delhi-government-to-provide-free-sewer-connections-848875.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM announces Bal Shramik Vidya Yojana on Child Labour Prohibition Day||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath launched ‘Bal Shramik Vidya Yojana’ on the occasion of the International Child Labour Prohibition Day on Friday. Under the scheme, the government will give monthly financial assistance of Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,200 to selected boys and girls, respectively. If these children pass classes 8, 9 and 10, they will be given an additional amount of Rs 6,000 for clearing each standard. Speaking on the occasion, Adityanath noted that the scheme is meant to help those children who have been forced to work to support their families. "Workers give their blood and sweat in the foundation of every development activity and their welfare is our duty,” a press release quoted him as saying. The chief minister said schemes like Ujjwala, Ujala, Pradhan Mantri Awas and Ayushman Bharat primarily cater to these sections. A total of 2,000 children from 57 districts of the state will benefit from the first phase of the 'Bal Shram Vidya Yojana'. “Our Atal residential schools will also be ready to provide quality education to children of workers from the next academic session,” Adityanath said. The families of these children will also get the benefits of all the schemes of the central and state government, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-announces-bal-shramik-vidya-yojana-on-child-labour-prohibition-day-848878.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Urdu poet Gulzar Dehlvi dies days after recovering from COVID-19||Veteran Urdu poet Anand Mohan Zutshi 'Gulzar' Dehlvi passed away on Friday afternoon, five days after he recovered from COVID-19. He died at his Noida home, and was a month shy of turning 94. "His corona test came negative on June 7 and we brought him home. Today he had lunch and at around 2.30pm he passed away," his son Anoop Zutshi told PTI. "He was quite old, and the infection had left him very weak. So doctors are thinking it was possible a cardiac arrest," he added. A freedom fighter and a premier 'inquilabi' poet, Dehlvi was admitted to a private hospital on June 1 after testing positive for coronavirus. Born in old Delhi's Gali Kashmeerian in 1926, he was also the editor of 'Science ki Duniya', the first Urdu science magazine published by the Government of India in 1975. Remembering her fond memories of Dehlvi, historian-writer Rana Safvi recalled seeing the poet at most 'mushairas' in Delhi. "I cannot express how big a loss it is. We used to see him at every 'mushaira' in Delhi. It's a big loss to Delhi and the world of poetry," Safvi said. She also took to Twitter to express her condolences. "Sad to hear about Gulzar Dehlvi saheb's demise. He was the quintessential Dilli waala. May he rest in peace," she tweeted. According to Delhi-based poet and lawyer Saif Mahmood, Dehlvi was "the presiding bard of Delhi", following in the footsteps of iconic poets like Mirza Ghalib, and Mir Taqi Mir. His death is the "end of an era", he said. "No one knew the nooks and crannies of Mir and Ghalib's Delhi like him. Gulzar saheb claimed that his father, Allama Pandit Tribhuvan Nath Zutshi 'Zaar Dehlvi', was a disciple of the renowned poet Daagh Dehlvi," he said, while reminiscing his meeting with Dehlvi three years back. The poet had recited a still unpublished 'sher' (couplet) then, Mahmood said, which seems more relevant now in the aftermath of his demise. "Mere baad aane waalon, meri baat yaad rakhna/ mere naqsh-e-pa se behtar, koi raasta nahin hai". (Those who come after, remember what I say/ there’s no better way than to follow my footprints). "He was a true exemplar of not just the Urdu language but also of the Urdu culture. In fact he was a living and breathing form of Urdu tehzeeb," Mahmood said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/urdu-poet-gulzar-dehlvi-dies-days-after-recovering-from-covid-19-848882.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records 20 more COVID-19 deaths, biggest single-day spike of 528 cases||Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 20 more coronavirus deaths and 528 fresh cases, the biggest single-day spike so far, officials said. The death toll in the state now is 365 with the coronavirus tally reaching 12,616. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 7,609 of the total infected have recovered. The state has 4,642 active COVID-19 cases. The recovery rate in the state is over 60 per cent, he said. On Friday, the maximum three deaths were reported from Kanpur Nagar, two each form Agra, Meerut, Ghaziabad and Prayagraj, one each in Gautam Budhnagar, Firozabad, Moradabad, Varanasi, Basti, Hapur, Mathura, Maharajganj and Baghpat, a health department bulletin said. The maximum positive cases 76 were reported from Gautam Budhnagar followed by 32 from Kanpur, 31 from Bulandshahr, 30 from Mathura, 27 from Ghaziabad, 24 from Bijnor, 23 from Jaunpur, 22 from Firozabad among others, the bulletin said. A total of 15,607 samples were tested in UP on Thursday, which is so far the highest in a day, Prasad said, adding that altogether 4,19,994 tests have been done in the state. Prasad said all 75 districts in the state have the coronavirus testing facilities now. The principal secretary said patients who are opting for treatment early are recovering well, while those who are trying to hide or reaching hospitals late are facing complications in the treatment. He appealed to patients who have recovered to spread awareness about the dreaded diseases among people. "We would like to use corona winners for creating awareness in the society," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-20-more-covid-19-deaths-biggest-single-day-spike-of-528-cases-848901.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan coronavirus count: 7 more die, 230 test positive, fatalities till date 272, infections 12,068||Seven persons died of COVID-19 and 230 more tested positive for the diseases in Rajasthan on Friday, taking the total number of fatalities to 272 and infected cases in the state to 12,068. Two deaths were reported from Jaipur while Ajmer, Sirohi, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh and Jodhpur reported one death each on Friday, said an official bulletin on COVID-19 situation in the state. Meanwhile, as per the bulletin, 230 patients tested positive for the coronavirus infection on Friday. Maximum of new cases, 47, were reported from Sirohi while Alwar reported 32 cases, Jaipur and Jodhpur 29 cases each, Sikar 24 and Ajmer, Dholpur and Jhunjhunu 10 cases each, the bulletin revealed. Seven cases were reported from Ganganagar while Sawaimadhopur, Jhalawar and Kota reported three cases each; Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Tonk and Udaipur reported 2 cases each and Barmer, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Dausa, Karauli and Rajsamand reported one case each. Five patients from other states also tested positive for CPOVID--19. A total of 9,011 COVID-19 patients have recovered and 8,607 have been discharged till date. There are now 2,785 active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-coronavirus-count-7-more-die-230-test-positive-fatalities-till-date-272-infections-12068-848902.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||156 new COVID-19 patients in Jammu and Kashmir; total number of cases reaches 4,730||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 156 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking to 4,730 the total number of people infected with coronavirus in the union territory, officials said. They said "156 new positive cases of coronavirus were detected in the union territory on Friday," adding that 88 of these cases are from Jammu and 68 from the Kashmir region. Friday's cases include 80 people who recently returned to the union territory, the officials said. Shopian district in south Kashmir had the highest number of cases at 38 followed by Kathua which had 26. There were no fresh cases in three districts -- Bandipora, Ganderbal and Udhampur, they said With these fresh cases, there are 4,730 total infected people in Jammu and Kashmir. "Of these, 3,633 are in Kashmir while 1,097 are in the Jammu region,” the officials said. There are 2,591 active cases in the union territory – 1,853 in Kashmir and 738 in Jammu -- while 2,086 patients have recovered, they said. The UT has witnessed 53 COVID-19 related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/156-new-covid-19-patients-in-jammu-and-kashmir-total-number-of-cases-reaches-4730-848903.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||2019 Gujarat Rajya Sabha polls: SC to decide on Election Commission's power to hold separate elections to fill casual vacancies||The Supreme Court on Friday said it would like to give an authoritative pronouncement on the issue of Election Commission’s power on the issuance of separate notifications for holding by-polls for casual vacancies in Rajya Sabha. The top court was hearing a batch of petitions including one of Congress leader Gaurav Pandya who has challenged the election of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to Rajya Sabha. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy adjourned the hearing on a batch of pleas related to last year Rajya Sabha by-poll on two seats from Gujarat by four weeks. “I think there should be one authoritative pronouncement on the issue,” the CJI said adding that there are several questions of law in a batch of petitions related to EC’s power in holding regular and casual elections to fill vacancies in Rajya Sabha. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Satpal Jain appeared for Jaishankar and the other BJP candidate who had won the election for Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. Jain said that during the brief hearing, the CJI observed that there is no authoritative judgement of the Supreme Court as to whether the election to more than one vacancy should be held separately or jointly, therefore "we need to give an authoritative decision on this issue".   Jaishankar has already filed caveat through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi in the top court seeking to be heard before the court decides any plea filed against the Gujarat High Court order of February 4. The high court had dismissed the plea of Congress leader Gaurav Pandya, who had challenged Jaishankar's election to the Rajya Sabha. It had also dismissed two other petitions filed by Congress leaders Chandrikaben Chudasama and Pareshkumar Dhanani against the election of BJP candidate Jugalji Thakore. Chandrikaben Chudasama and Pareshkumar Dhanani have also moved the apex court against High Court order dismissing their election petitions against Thakore. Both Jaishankar and Thakore were elected to Rajya Sabha on July 5 last year in bypolls held on seats vacated by Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani. Jaishankar and Thakore had defeated Congress candidates Pandya and Chudasama respectively in the bypolls. The Congress leaders had moved the high court, challenging the election on the ground that the Election Commission's notifications, treating the two vacant seats to be of different categories and requiring by-polls to be held separately, were "illegal and in violation of provisions of the Constitution, the Representation of People (RP) Act, 1951 and the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961". The high court had dismissed the petitions saying the petitioners failed to disclose the cause of action under the provisions of the RP Act relating to the grounds for declaring an election void. It had also said the petitioners failed to point out any provision of the Constitution or the RP Act requiring the EC to hold a single by-election for filling up all casual vacancies. "The non-compliance of provisions of the Constitution or provisions of the said (RP) Act constituting the cause of action has to be specifically pleaded, and the interpretation of the petitioner of a particular provision of Constitution or of the Act in a particular manner cannot be termed as the non-compliance of such provision for the purpose of challenging the election," the high court had said. Jaishankar and Thakore had contended before the high court that the EC broke no rules by holding separate elections for two seats and it has been a consistent practice by the poll panel since 2009 to issue separate notifications for holding by-polls for casual vacancies in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2019-gujarat-rajya-sabha-polls-sc-to-decide-on-election-commissions-power-to-hold-separate-elections-to-fill-casual-vacancies-848905.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh's COVID-19 tally mounts to 10,443 with 202 new cases||The coronavirus case count in Madhya Pradesh grew to 10,443 on Friday with 202 new patients being detected, 70 of them in Bhopal, the health department said. Nine COVID-19 patients died during this period, taking the number of fatalities to 440 in the state, it said. Since the lockdown restrictions were eased on May 31, the number of patients has grown by 2,354. Ninety people have died during this period. Since Thursday, Bhopal reported 70 cases, followed by 50 in Indore, which is one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the country. Three deaths were reported in Bhopal, two in Ujjain, one each in Indore, Burhanpur, Dhar and Rajgarh. No new coronavirus case was reported in 27 districts since Thursday evening. While cases have been reported from 51 of the total 52 districts so far, five of them did not have any active cases as on Friday, the department said in its bulletin. The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district in the state, rose by 50 to 3,972 and death toll to 164. The Madhya Pradesh capital has so far reported 2,082 COVID-19 patients, of whom 69 died. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases: 10,443, active cases: 2,802, new cases: 202, death toll: 440, recovered: 7,201, people tested so far: 2,41,461.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradeshs-covid-19-tally-mounts-to-10443-with-202-new-cases-848909.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi COVID-19 situation: BJP, Congress thank SC for showing mirror to AAP govt over shortcomings||The opposition BJP and the Congress in Delhi on Friday thanked the Supreme Court for "showing the mirror" to the AAP government over its "shortcomings" in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. The apex court on Friday termed as "horrific" the state of affairs in Delhi hospitals with bodies being stacked next to COVID-19 patients, and sought responses from the Centre and different states taking suo motu (on its own) cognisance on the treatment being meted out to patients and the handling of the bodies. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah also questioned Delhi government for conducting fewer COVID tests and asked why testing had gone down from 7,000 to 5,000 a day. Reacting to it, the Delhi government said it accepts the observations of the Supreme Court and the city government will ensure the best possible treatment to each COVID-19 patient. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Supreme Court has reprimanded the Delhi government for the "poor" treatment of coronavirus patients and for not handling the dead bodies with dignity. "I would like to thank the Supreme Court that they took suo motu cognizance regarding the health of the people of Delhi. Being a responsible opposition, the Delhi BJP always conveyed shortcomings of healthcare and suggestions for improvement to the Delhi government but it was given a political colour," Gupta said. The Delhi BJP president said even the Supreme Court considered that the Delhi government reduced corona testing and the bodies of COVID-19 victims were not properly taken care of in the hospitals. The BJP had asked the Delhi government to increase the testing of coronavirus suspected patients, present the correct figures of affected people and increase the number of beds, but it was busy in "politics and rhetoric", Gupta charged. "This direction by the Supreme Court has shown the mirror to the Kejriwal government, which has been taking retrograde steps regarding the testing for corona patients. "Instead of expanding the testing base in the capital to assess the exact position of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Delhi government has been shrinking the test facilities," Kumar said. The Delhi Congress president has also written a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding that free of cost coronavirus tests be made the right of every citizen in Delhi. The Delhi government said the Supreme Court is the apex court of India and it accepts its observations with the utmost respect and with absolute sincerity. "The Delhi government is determined to provide health care for all and to ensure best possible treatment to each COVID-19 patient. But, if there are any gaps that still remain and is brought to our notice, we will act on them sincerely and immediately," it said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-19-situation-bjp-congress-thank-sc-for-showing-mirror-to-aap-govt-over-shortcomings-848910.html
12-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Accept Supreme Court observations, trying our best to augment health infra, says Delhi govt||The Delhi government on Friday said it accepts with utmost respect and sincerity the Supreme Court's observations and pointed out that it was trying its best to set up better infrastructure and provide quality healthcare to all COVID-19 patients in the city. The Delhi government's remarks came after the apex court on Friday lashed out at the city government, terming as "horrific" the state of affairs in Delhi hospitals with bodies being stacked next to COVID-19 patients. "We accept Supreme Court's observations with utmost respect and with absolute sincerity. The Delhi government is determined to provide health care for all and to ensure best possible treatment to each COVID-19 patient," the government said in a statement. If there are any gaps that still remain and are brought to its notice, the Delhi government will act on them sincerely and immediately, it said. "This is an extraordinary situation and the Delhi government is trying its best from the very first day to set up better infrastructure and to provide quality healthcare to all COVID-19 patients," the statement said.  The court questioned Delhi government for conducting fewer COVID tests and sought to know why testing went down from 7,000 to 5,000 a day. Referring to the court's observation regarding the LNJP hospital, the Delhi government said it is the biggest COVID-19 hospital in Delhi and right now around 2,000 beds are operational there for the coronavirus patients.  "Many critical patients from the Central government and the private hospitals in Delhi are being referred to the LNJP hospital for better medication. So far, over 2100 patients from LNJP hospital have successfully recovered from COVID-19 infection and returned to their homes," it said. A team of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) visited the LNJP hospital on Thursday and expressed satisfaction after scrutinising facilities at the hospital, Delhi government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-accept-supreme-court-observations-trying-our-best-to-augment-health-infra-says-delhi-govt-848922.html
12-06-2020||Opinion||Has COVID-19 revealed the true measure of Arvind Kejriwal administrative capabilities?||His government’s ‘mohalla’ clinics marked a milepost in India’s health care policy management because these facilities were spread over the national capital, with higher numbers in the under-serviced slums and low-end housing settlements, and afforded accessible and quality medical services. Arvind Kejriwal and his Aam Admi Party (AAP) cruised to a second victory in the Delhi elections this year on the back of the ‘mohalla’ clinics. The success of the project, coupled with a novel and refreshing approach to primary school education, gave hope to those who yearned for a government that would treat these sectors with the seriousness they merited and pull them out of obsolete policies and practices.  The ‘mohalla’—translated as area—clinics are three-tiered and offer primary, secondary and tertiary services through the dispensaries, multi-speciality poly-clinics and super-speciality hospitals. Nobody complained of doctors and paramedics gone AWOL and the unavailability of medicines. The consensus was Kejriwal had done a bang-up job on health.  Understandably, like the other chief ministers, he wanted to re-energise Delhi’s economy. He made a production of the re-opening of the liquor vends and the “record” revenues they notched up in a short span. If that was Kejriwal’s notion of bringing the economy on the rails, he had another thing coming. Delhi’s citizens, suffocated by the lockdown, spilled out in huge numbers on the streets and gave a go by to the prescribed protocol of hygiene and sanitation.  The chief minister’s constant stress on “normalising” the state of affairs had ramifications that spun out of control. The number of those infected as well as the casualties multiplied. On the last count, Delhi reported 34,687 cases with 12,731 recoveries and 1,085 deaths, coming third after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu in terms of the total number of cases. Virtually, no testing takes place, following a Delhi government directive to ICMR-certified path labs to stop doing it. When hospitals protested their inability to admit patients without testing, the Delhi government bickered. It apparently targeted a well-known private hospital and two major ones under the Centre’s jurisdiction. It seemed as though after reaching a truce of sorts with the Centre, following his victory, Kejriwal was back to being petulant and belligerent by turn. Compounding his plight was the perception that he was at fault although objectively speaking, the Centre couldn’t shirk its responsibility given the division of powers in Delhi that often binds a chief minister’s hands.  The last straw was an executive order from the Delhi government that restricted admission in the hospitals only to the residents of the national capital. Whatever its flaws, Delhi was never known to be xenophobic. The communal fault line often surfaced and manifested itself in the form of the violent assaults on Muslims January-February 2020 in the aftermath of the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. But the national capital was never known to shut its doors against those who came from afar to seek work and start small businesses.  The jingoistic overtones in Kejriwal’s decision were unmistakable. Delhi’s demography transmuted with the arrival of the people from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal to the extent that the “migrants” crystallised into a distinct voting group that was courted by the parties before an election. Kejriwal is a major recipient of the goodwill and support of the “migrants” after the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost their votes. His detractors pointed out that he is from Haryana and a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, while his close political aides including Manish Sisodia, the Deputy Chief Minister, are from Uttar Pradesh. Obviously, their geographical provenance did not matter to those who had voted them to power until Kejriwal highlighted a divide between the Delhiites and the “outsiders”.  Anil Baijal, the Delhi Lt-Governor, rescinded the order. Sisodia reacted strongly, saying the L-G would be culpable for the COVID-19-related deaths and for a while, it looked like the battle of yore was set to be fought again.  Clearly, Kejriwal learnt the hard way that the BJP-helmed Centre with Narendra Modi and Amit Shah in commanding positions was not to be trifled with. This was not a David Goliath combat. He quelled an incipient dispute, signalling peace with the L-G and calling on the home minister.  As the virus ravages Delhi, has Kejriwal given up on his social sector legacy to become a run-of-the-mill politician? Looks like. (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi based political analyst and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/has-covid-19-revealed-the-true-measure-of-arvind-kejriwal-administrative-capabilities-848665.html
12-06-2020||Panorama||An eye-opener for caring and sharing||Indian philosophy, replete with scriptures and sermons of enlightened sadhus, seers and intellectuals, had been a fountain of values for life and living in their simplistic versions of need rather than greed. Inherent in it was the spirit of unity amidst diversity and service above self. For instance, the illustrious sage, Swami Vivekananda, when called upon to address an international assembly of religious heads in Chicago, began his lecture by the forewords, ‘brothers and sisters’. It seems this very sentiment of universal brotherhood had struck the cord of the audience. In brief, our legacy is rich in kindness, empathy and compassion towards fellow human beings, regardless of nationality. Now let us turn to the deadly pandemic COVID-19 that has threatened the lives of millions of people around the world. The stark reality is that nations --physical boundaries, languages, skin colours and religions apart --are inextricably interconnected and interdependent in the modern era. Technological innovations coupled with rapid communication and transport systems have diminished the distance between countries. However, the ethos of ‘live and let live’ has shown increasing disparity between the ‘haves’ and ‘have nots’. It is unfortunate that the borders of countries have not become bridges of bondage. The transnational and unprecedented devastating effect of COVID-19 has clearly shown that certain biological and environmental disasters are no more local or regional or national. They could be more disastrous pandemic than endemic. In such an eventuality, countries across the world-small or big-need to come closer, join hands and use available knowhow and tools to mitigate the problem. Two world wars and umpteen number of natural calamities do not seem to have had a profound impact on human behaviour, temperament, attitudes and approaches to life and living. There is connectivity but not collectivity. The economic power is devoid of spiritual flavour. For example, the unbridled efforts for expansion of civilization have led to irreparable degradation of our environment resulting in climatic change and loss of precious biodiversity. Tampering with the delicate balance of nature will result, sooner or later, in unpredictable consequences, be it the emergence of coronavirus in China or some other disease from elsewhere else in the world. What kind of lesson do we need to learn the outbreak of COVID-19? There could be different approaches for abatement. For example, discovering effective prophylactic and therapeutic drugs and vaccines is the one that is helpful to fix the problem. But the most vital and long-lasting one is the collective and coordinated efforts to curb the malady. This requires international participation and cooperation both in terms of scientific vigour and financial prowess. Any remedial measures should be shared among all nations without narrow economic aberrations like patenting and intellectual property rights. It is indeed a great benevolent pleasure to share knowledge and resources for the care and wellbeing of fellow human beings. Our world needs more cooperation and less confrontation, more compassion and less exploitation. Certainly, there cannot be a better mantra than caring and sharing (not mere praying) for a healthy and peaceful global community. Kalidasa (4th – 5th century CE), a great Indian Sanskrit poet – dramatist, once observed, “trees laden with fruits bend so that people can access them and clouds laden with water bring rains”. It is time that nations, especially the rich, pool their resources of men and materials to tackle the challenges of healthcare in a spirit of caring and sharing. In such an event, we will have a better world to live in harmony. It is of utmost importance that we learn good lessons from wars as well as global catastrophes. (The writer is a former Vice-Chancellor of University of Mysore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/an-eye-opener-for-caring-and-sharing-848584.html
12-06-2020||Right in the Middle||In the heart of Manhattan||I had just finished my time at ‘The New York Film Academy’ studying cinematography and moved back to my acting school ‘The Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute’ in Manhattan, New York. Things were going perfectly, according to plan, when halfway through my semester the COVID-19 crisis capsized Manhattan. When I became aware of the extent of the spread, I decided to take a drastic decision and self-isolate myself long before any official lockdown was announced. This happened soon after that the lockdown was announced in India and before I knew what I was stuck and couldn’t fly back home. I was under self-quarantine for three months not even stepping out for groceries. The situation resembled a post-apocalyptic horror film. In the middle of the April, all I heard was the sound of the ambulance siren blaring outside my window. It became common. It went on for about two weeks until one morning everything just stopped. There was nothing but silence. One could literally hear a pin drop in the city that never sleeps. It struck me at that moment how much had changed and how what was considered just another normal day in the past, now had become a luxury. One thing that I learned from my time under quarantine is that I’ve become a pretty good cook. Like the old adage goes, ‘necessity is the mother of invention.’ I can now say I’m somewhat of an expert when it comes to cooking Italian and traditional South Indian dishes and I’m pretty sure I will win a Michelin star one day for my famous ‘butter chicken’; a dish that a friend of mine thought me how to make. I must also mention how special my birthday was this year even in isolation. A very dear friend of mine took the initiative and got in touch with all my friends and family and made a heart touching video with all of them wishing me and talking about old memories. I felt at home even though I was halfway across the world all alone. Now that I’m safely back in the warmth of my home, all I can do is look back and reminisce. I have discovered so much about myself and how far one can truly grow when they are faced with a crisis. I can go on talking about the quarantine for days but I’ll save the detailed story to tell around a warm fireplace someday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/in-the-heart-of-manhattan-848583.html
12-06-2020||Second Edit||Ban not solution, present alternatives||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education’s decision on Wednesday to ban online classes for children from Kindergarten to Class 5, and extended to Class 7 on Thursday, has evoked mixed responses. The decision, which has come on the recommendation of a NIMHANS report drawing attention to the harm that online classes could have on children, has been welcomed by some parents. Some among them were worried that their children were spending too much time staring at a digital screen. Others were concerned over having to buy tablets and laptops for them and having to sit with them during the online classes. Others have pointed out that this is deepening the divide between the haves and have-nots. Many children do not have access to laptops or tablets or the internet. Will they not lag behind in a system based on technology? On the other side of the divide are those who believe that online classes are something better than nothing. At a time when schools remain shut, children are able to continue learning through this medium. Online class are providing children with some interaction with the outside world and bringing a bit of routine and discipline into their lives. All these arguments have merits. What they all highlight is the fact there are a diversity of needs, capabilities and concerns that educational methods will need to cater to and respond to. While this is true at all times and should have always provided the foundation of our education system, its salience is particularly relevant to the current pandemic situation and the restrictions it has inflicted on our lives. By imposing a ban on online education for children, the government has listened only to the voices of its opponents. What about the issues raised by those who see it as a workable solution to tide over a crisis? The blanket ban amounts to throwing the baby out with the bathwater. Online classes are a temporary solution. Can we not think of ways to address its shortcomings? Let’s admit it: this is a wicked problem, there is no one solution to it. A ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach is notthe best one to take in dealing with it. It is not enough for the government to just ban online classes, it must throw up alternatives and options for schools, parents andstudents to pick up from. Decisions, however, are best left to individual schools. School authorities could decide in consultation with parents. Parents must consult the children themselves while counselling them on the issues involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ban-not-solution-present-alternatives-848581.html
12-06-2020||Second Edit||Reach out to Kathmandu now||The government’s highhandedness has eroded public goodwill for India in Nepal. Now by refusing to talk to Kathmandu, it is damaging India’s long-term interests in the strategic Himalayas. At a time when Sino-Indian relations are tense, New Delhi needs Nepal on its side. It must reach out to Kathmandu now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/reach-out-to-kathmandu-now-848915.html
12-06-2020||South||Kerala announces slew of proposals to revive Rs 4,500 crore-loss hit IT sector||The Kerala government on Thursday announced a slew of proposals to revive the IT sector which has suffered "approximately Rs 4,500 crore" loss in this financial year due to the COVID-19 situation. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state government will consider reliefs including waiver of rent under certain conditions, avoiding an annual increase in rent and other relaxations to the IT companies. "The IT sector in Kerala has suffered approximately Rs 4,500 crore loss due to COVID-19 situation, during the first three months of this financial year. The state planning board has calculated that at least 80,000 jobs indirectly connected to the IT sector and 26,000 jobs directly in this sector will be affected," Vijayan said. He said the state government will also consider the plight of employees while trying to revive the troubled companies. "We need to avoid job losses without putting pressure on the companies.In this regard, the state government has decided to provide relief from rent for three months to companies under certain conditions. The state government will also consider avoiding annual increase in the rent. The state government will also release any pending payment to the IT companies," he said. The state government will also discuss with the banks to provide loans to struggling companies. However, the companies must follow strict health protocol when employees return to the office. They should also consider implementing work from home facilities to the employees,Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-announces-slew-of-proposals-to-revive-rs-4500-crore-loss-hit-it-sector-848572.html
12-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh ACB arrests former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu over multi-crore scam||Andhra Pradesh Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrests former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu for alleged multi-crore scam in procuring medicines, surgical equipment for ESI hospitals when he was the labour minister in previous TDP regime. ACB officials confirmed arrests of the minister and a few officials. Earlier, when the Jaganmohan Reddy government ordered a vigilance enquiry, the minister denied any fraud saying they went by the central guidelines. The scam amount is about Rs 150 crore in the procurement of Rs 988 crore during 2014-19, ACB officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-acb-arrests-former-minister-kinjarapu-atchannaidu-over-multi-crore-scam-848642.html
12-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Health Secretary transferred amidst COVID-19 pandemic||Dr Beela Rajesh's transfer in the middle of a pandemic has raised eyebrows even though it was widely expected for some time now. The face of the Tamil Nadu's COVID-19 fight, she earned praise for her deft handling of the crisis and the media initially. As the cases began to rise exponentially in the recent weeks, Dr Rajesh came under severe criticism along with Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar that the state was clueless on containing the virus. Besides, the Health Department also drew flak for not increasing the tests even as positive cases continue to mount. At last count on Thursday, the number of positive cases stood at 38,716 including 17,659 discharges and 349 deaths. Chennai is the biggest coronavirus hotspot in the state with 27,398 cases.    Dr Rajesh was appointed as Health Secretary in February 2019 after Radhakrishnan was moved to the Transport Department. She is now transferred as Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration Department. This is the second transfer in the Health Department in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic. S Nagarajan, an upright officer, was transferred out of Tamil Nadu Health Systems on June 1 and ironically, the then Health Secretary was blamed for the transfer.   Who is Dr J Radhakrishnan? Radhakrishnan, who was hand-picked by the then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa as Health Secretary in September 2012, is considered a disaster mitigation expert for his splendid work during the 2004 tsunami as the Nagapattinam district collector. He was at the helm during the 2015 Chennai floods and was at the forefront of the state’s efforts to contain the outbreak of Dengue in 2017. A seasoned bureaucrat, Radhakrishnan, 1992-batch IAS officer, was Health Secretary for over six years from September 2012 to February 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-health-secretary-transferred-amidst-covid-19-pandemic-848673.html
12-06-2020||South||COVID-19 claims life of one more in Puducherry, toll touches three||Rao said six new cases were admitted on Thursday either to the State government run medical college hospital or JIPMER raising the total active pandemic stricken cases to 84 in the Union Territory. Of the 84 active cases, 79 are under treatment in Puducherry while Mahe had four cases. Total patients discharged after recovery so far were 76 and cumulative number of COVID-19 cases were 163. The Health Minister said majority of the infection was as a result of contact tracing. Rao said that the Department of Health in association with Police, Revenue and other allied departments had been putting in maximum work to ensure that the spread was contained. Reiterating that people should download the 'Arogya Setu' mobile app as a preventive measure, Secretary to Health Prashanth Kumar Panda said, "Puducherry has one of the best hospitals and other infrastructural facilities. But the cooperation from the public is of utmost importance to flatten the covid curve in the Union Territory." Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar, who was also present, said the six new cases admitted to the hospitals were from semi urban and rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-claims-life-of-one-more-in-puducherry-toll-touches-three-848734.html
12-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: No total lockdown in Chennai as of now, Tamil Nadu govt tells High Court||There was no plan as of now to bring Chennai or any other place in Tamil Nadu under complete lockdown to check COVID-19 spread but stringent steps were being taken in containment areas with a high number of cases, the state government informed the Madras High Court on Friday. The submission was made before a bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and R Suresh Kumar in response to its query on Thursday whether complete lockdown can be implemented in the metropolis and its suburbs for some time as these areas have been reporting a high number of new COVID-19 cases in the past several days. Despite the steps taken by the government to contain COVID-19 spread, every day the number of cases is "steeply rising and the situation has become alarming" particularly in the metropolis and its outskirts, the bench had said. "Therefore, we want to know whether the government has devised any special scheme, which includes complete lockdown or curfew to contain the spread in Chennai and surrounding areas for some time," the judges had asked during the virtual court proceedings after concluding listed cases on Thursday. Appearing for the state, Additional Advocate General S R Rajagopal on Friday told the bench that the virus cases in Chennai and its suburbs were indeed increasing. "But we are taking stringent steps to contain the spread. There is no proposal to implement 100 per cent lockdown as of now. we are restricting the movement of people in streets where cases are high in numbers," he said. When the bench asked about reports that people from Chennai would not be allowed to travel to other districts and that the issuance of e-passes had been stopped, Rajagopal answered in the negative. E-passes were being issued by the concerned district collectors and the reports were incorrect, he added. As of Thursday, Tamil Nadu had 38,716 COVID-19 cases with Chennai alone accounting for 27,398 while the state-wide toll due to the disease stood at 349. The state has been reporting 1,500 plus new cases every day since Sunday with a majority of the infections coming from Chennai and its adjoining districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-no-total-lockdown-in-chennai-as-of-now-tamil-nadu-govt-tells-high-court-848757.html
12-06-2020||South||Temple employee tests positive for COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh; devotees barred for two days||An employee of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) attached to the ancient Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple here tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, prompting the authorities to stop the entry of devotees for two days. This is the first COVID-19 case in TTD which also manages the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at nearby Tirumala, a temple official told PTI. It has about 7,000 permanent employees besides over 12,000 outsourced staff. Temples in the state reopened after the COVID-19 lockdown only on Monday. The daily rituals at the shrine would be performed, as usual, he said. After completely sanitising the shrine and other offices located in the temple complex, devotees would be allowed for worship from Sunday, the official said All the contacts of the coronavirus-infected employee have been identified and are being tested, he said. The infected staff was working with TTD's health department attached to the shrine, he said. However, the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala here which opened on Thursday after 80 days due to the COVID-19 lockdown was functioning normally with a ceiling of 7,000 devotees daily, observing strict COVID-19 measures, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temple-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-andhra-pradesh-devotees-barred-for-two-days-848787.html
12-06-2020||South||One dies, 78 more fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala; Guruvayur temple being closed||While one more person died of COVID in Kerala and 78 more were tested positive on Friday, Kerala government decided to close the Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple for devotees again. Kerala devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said that devotees would not be allowed at the temple from Saturday. Thrissur district, where the temple is situated, has been witnessing a spike in COVID cases over the last couple of days and the number of active cases now reached 165. Even as the temple was reopened for devotees from Tuesday, the number of devotees was very low. Though the government earlier decided to open Sabarimala Ayyapa temple for devotees from Sunday, it was also put off after the temple tantri cited chances for COVID spread through devotes. A 71-year old man hailing from Kannur district, who died on Thursday after returning from Mumbai recently, was tested COVID positive, taking the total COVID deaths in the state to 20, including a Puducherry native. Among the 78 fresh cases, 36 came from abroad, 31 from other states and ten got infected through local contact. With 32 persons under treatment recovering, the number of active cases now stands at 1,303.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-dies-78-more-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-kerala-guruvayur-temple-being-closed-848815.html
12-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Mettur dam opened for irrigation; Water to be released for 90 days||The sluice gates of the 86-year-old Stanley Reservoir in Mettur was thrown open on Friday for irrigation in the fertile Cauvery Delta Region. This is for the first time since 2011 that water from the dam is being released in the month of June to enable farmers cultivate kuruvai (short-term crop) in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, and parts of Pudukkottai districts. Water from Mettur is traditionally released on June 12 for irrigation, but the state has not been able to keep up the date since 2012 due to non-availability of enough water in the dam. The last time the dam opened in the month of June was in 2011. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami opened the sluice gates of the Stanley Reservoir at a simple function in Mettur on Friday morning. He announced that 100 tmcft of water will be released for farmers over a period of 90 days for cultivation of crops. “Kuruvai cultivation needs 128 tmcft of water and 100 tmcft will be released from Mettur dam, while the remaining will be met through rain water and ground water by farmers,” Palaniswami said, adding that over 5.22 lakh acres of land will utilise water released from the dam. The dam’s water level has been hovering around 100 feet – the maximum capacity is 120 feet – for the past 300 days, the Chief Minister said. At 6 pm on Friday, the dam’s water level stood at 101.73 feet and water storage at 67.102 tmcft. The state expects the level to increase due to rains in catchment areas of River Cauvery in Karnataka. The water is expected to reach Grand Anaicut in Thanjavur district in the next few days. Water for irrigation from the Grand Anaicut will be released from June 16, officials said. ‘Cauvery’ Dhanapalan, General Secretary of Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, told DH that cultivation of paddy in an area of 5 lakh acres would ensure production of 10 to 15 lakh tonnes of food grain. June 12 was set as the date for opening the sluice gates of Mettur dam decades ago, keeping in mind onset of South-West monsoon in Kerala on May 31 and a few days later in Karnataka. This would ensure that the sowing is over by the end of June and the short-term crop can be harvested in early October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-mettur-dam-opened-for-irrigation-water-to-be-released-for-90-days-848817.html
12-06-2020||South||Former minister arrested by AP-ACB for alleged role in medical equipment procurement scam||The Andhra Pradesh Anti-Corruption Bureau has arrested former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu for his alleged role in a multi-crore scam in procurement of medicines, surgical equipment for use in the ESI hospitals.  The scam took place when he was the labour and employment minister during the previous Chandrababu Naidu regime. According to ACB joint director Ravi Kumar, the swindled amount is about Rs 150 crore out of a total procurement allocation of Rs 988 crore between 2014 and 2019. ACB officials said the arrest of the prominent TDP leader took place at 7:30 am on Friday from his residence in Nimmada village of Srikakulam district. Former ESI director CK Ramesh Kumar and another senior official of the Employees State Insurance Corporation were also arrested in Tirupati and Rajahmundry, respectively. Three more officials werealso taken into custody. “The fraud was mainly in procurement of medicines, lab kits, surgical items and furniture. Purchases, based on fake quotations at 50 to 130 percent above the market rates, were made from companies selected on nomination basis instead of e-tender process,” Kumar told reporters. TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu described the arrest as Jaganmohan Reddy government’s retribution on Kinjarapu “as he is fighting against the administration on behalf of the backward classes and those denied justice.” Before the ACB presser, Naidu described the arrest as a kidnap. “What happened to Atchannaidu? The government has got him kidnapped with 100 policemen, in a very unlawful manner,” Naidu tweeted. దీనికి సీయం జగన్‌, హోంమంత్రి, డీజీపీ సమాధానం చెప్పాలి. ఈ దుర్మార్గానికి, ఉన్మాద చర్యలకు నిరసనగా బడుగుబహీనవర్గాలవారు, మేధావులు, ప్రజలు రాష్ట్రవ్యాప్తంగా జోతిరావుఫూలే, అంబేద్కర్‌ విగ్రహాలకు వినతిపత్రాలు సమర్పించి తమ నిరసనను తెలియజేయవలసిందిగా విజ్ఞప్తి చేస్తున్నాను.(3/3) One of these companies - Tele Health Services Private Limited, was reportedly given the contract based on Kinjarapu’s letter. Earlier a vigilance department probe into the alleged anomalies had also recognized large scale irregularities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-minister-arrested-by-ap-acb-for-alleged-role-in-medical-equipment-procurement-scam-848829.html
12-06-2020||South||Tirupati Govindaraja Swamy temple closed after employee tests COVID-19 positive||The Govindaraja Swamy temple in Tirupati was closed on Friday as one TTD employee discharging duties there has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. This is the first COVID-19 positive case among the personnel of TTD, the trust that administers the Lord Venkateswara temple. The famous temple of Govindaraja Swamy, revered by the devotees as the elder brother of Lord Venkateswara is located close to the Tirupati railway station and is one of the most popular shrines visited after the main temple uphill in Tirumala.    The temple would remain closed for darshan on Saturday too. However, the Kainkaryams (rituals) inside the temple will take place in Ekantam (solitude), Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams officials said. The temple’s adjoining official buildings were also closed as the sanitation department employee had visited them as part of his duties. All premises are being sanitized.   “The employee was confirmed as positive when he went for a regular health check-up. We are identifying people who would have come in contact with the said employee for carrying out necessary COVID-19 tests,” officials said. The temple, a prominent landmark in Tirupati was reopened to the public from Monday, along with the Tiruchanur Padmavati temple, Srinivasa Mangapuram, Appalayagunta, and Kapilatheertham, with stringent anti-COVID-19 measures. 250 devotees, being allowed for darshan per hour, are required to wear masks and use sanitizers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-govindaraja-swamy-temple-closed-after-employee-tests-covid-19-positive-848834.html
12-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh transferred amid COVID-19 pandemic||Ending days of speculation, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh was on Friday shunted out of the key post and replaced with seasoned bureaucrat J Radhakrishnan. The transfer of a key official in the middle of a pandemic raised many eyebrows, though it was widely expected for some time now. Radhakrishnan, who was Health Secretary for over six years and was transferred in February 2019, makes a comeback to the Health Department after a gap of 16 months. He faces huge challenges as the state continues to report an exponential increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Ramping up testing numbers, strict enforcement of rules, and coordination among several departments are some of the key things that need the senior IAS officer’s attention. He is currently over-seeing the COVID-19 efforts in Chennai as Special Nodal Officer. Sources in the government told DH that Dr Beela Rajesh’s transfer was expected for some time as the top brass of the government, including Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and Chief Secretary K Shanmugam, was not happy with the Health Department’s handling of the crisis, especially in the state capital of Chennai. They added that the outgoing Health Secretary faced complaints of “poor coordination” with other departments that were also involved in the COVIDd-19 mitigation efforts and those leading the fight in districts.    During the initial months, Dr. Beela Rajesh was the face of the state’s fight against Coronavirus and was even praised for her deft handling of the crisis and the media when Health Minister C Vijayabaskar was side lined by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. However, the bureaucrat came under attack along with the Minister as cases began to increase. It is a different story altogether that the Minister made a comeback and he is now leading the government’s efforts.   At last count on Friday, the number of positive cases stood at 40,698 including 22,047 discharges and 367 deaths. Chennai is the biggest hotspot in the state with 28,924 cases. Dr. Beela Rajesh’s transfer also came days after the Tamil Nadu government was accused of “under-reporting” Covid-19 deaths, especially in Chennai.  The issue attained importance after reports emerged of a mismatch between the numbers announced by the Health Department and those recorded in the death registry of the Greater Chennai Corporation. This is the second transfer in the Health Department in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. S Nagarajan, an upright officer, was transferred out of Tamil Nadu Health Systems on June 1. Ironically, the outgoing Health Secretary was blamed for the transfer.  Radhakrishnan, who was hand-picked by the then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa as Health Secretary in September 2012, is considered a disaster mitigation expert for his splendid work during the 2004 Tsunami as the Nagapattinam district collector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-health-secretary-dr-beela-rajesh-transferred-amid-covid-19-pandemic-848841.html
12-06-2020||South||Rs 151 Cr 'misappropriated' in insurance medical services during 2014-19: Andhra Pradesh vigilance dept||In what has now come to be known as the 'ESI Scam' unearthed by the Andhra Pradesh vigilance department, Rs 151 crore was allegedly misappropriated in the Insurance Medical Services between 2014 and 2019 when the Telugu Desam Party was in power in the state. The state Vigilance and Enforcement Department conducted an inquiry and unearthed facts in the case and the Anti-Corruption Bureau followed it up with a further investigation, leading to the arrest of the then Labour Minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu and five other officials of the IMS on Friday. When it unearthed the 'scam' in February, the Vigilance said three Directors of Insurance Medical Services were the "kingpins of the procurement scam in theESI, where gross irregularities were committed in the purchase of drugs, medicines, lab kits, surgical items and furniture between 2014-15 and 2018-19, causing a loss of over Rs 151 crore to the state exchequer." The ACB took the investigation further, on the recommendation of the Vigilance and Enforcement Department, and arrested the former minister and others today. Along with Atchannaidu, former Directors of Insurance Medical Services B Ravi Kumar and G Vijay Kumar were arrested in Tirupati and Rajamahendravaram respectively. A retired joint director V Janardhan was arrested in Kadapa while superintendent M K Chakravarthy (currently under suspension) and senior assistant E Ramesh Babu were arrested in Vijayawada. Of the total Rs 975.79 crore worth of purchases made during the period, the three DIMS, along with other staff, violated all procedures and guidelines of the government and ESIC and caused "huge wrongful loss to the exchequer," a Vigilance report prepared by Director General K V Rajendranath Reddy has said. B Ravi Kumar, C K Ramesh Kumar (retired) and G Vijaya Kumar were the three directors of Insurance Medical Services during the five-year period of TDP and were found guilty of the large-scale irregularities, it said. While the total budget allocation for the purchase of drugs and medicines during their tenure was Rs 293.51 crore, they made purchases worth Rs 698.36 crore, an excess of Rs 404.86 crore, in violation of procedural guidelines, it said. Of this, Rs 51 crore was found to be paid in excess as the drugs were purchased from non-rate contract firms, in clear violation of guidelines, the report said. An excess of Rs 85.32 crore was paid to three private firms on purchase of laboratory kits and another Rs 10.43 crore on surgical items. "The Directors purchased furniture worth Rs 6.62 crore without calling for open tenders and, when compared randomly with the market prices, the purchases were made at 70 per cent excess than market prices. This caused a loss of Rs 4.63 crore to the government," the Vigilance report noted. The overall loss from all such purchases was thus calculated at Rs 151.40 crore from 2014-15 to 2018-19. When the scam came to light in February this year, Atchannaidu, who is currently deputy leader of the Telugu Desam Legislature Party, denied any wrongdoing and said he merely implemented the directives of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "In 2016, the Prime Minister convened a meeting of ESIC and wanted the states to introduce telehealth services and the Centre wrote a letter to all states in December 2016 on the same. We had decided to implement that and I asked our officials to follow the Telangana model and issued a note," Atchannaidu had said in a video message from his village in Srikakulam district. Maintaining that all relevant records were available and could be verified, the former minister then said he was ready to face any inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-151-cr-misappropriated-in-insurance-medical-services-during-2014-19-andhra-pradesh-vigilance-dept-848873.html
12-06-2020||South||Junior doctors at Telangana's COVID-19 Gandhi Hospital end strike; To agitate again if demands not met||The agitating junior doctors at Hyderabad's Gandhi hospital have resumed duties on Friday following assurances from the health minister Etela Rajender on providing security and easing work pressure. Over 300 junior doctors were on protest at Telangana’s nodal COVID-19 hospital from Tuesday night after a patient’s attendants attacked one of them, learning about their kin's death. Gandhi doctors were attacked by COVID-19 patients/relatives earlier too. “Keeping public health in consideration especially in view of the pandemic and trusting the minister's reassuring words, we have decided to conditionally call off the strike and resumed duties with immediate effect,” a statement from the GH Junior’s Doctors Association said. “As discussed with the minister, a JUDA committee will be formed to follow up with the minister regularly (through video conference) for the next 15 days on updates of our demands. We are hopeful that the health minister shall ensure our demands are met so that we are not forced to boycott duties again after 15 days and agitate again,” the GH-JUDA declaration said. According to the GH-JUDA, minister Etela has assured them on: 1. Recruitment of doctors, nurses, patient care providers and sanitation workers to fill the shortage and have 30 percent personnel in reserve. 2. Recruitment of a Special Protection Force as per earlier government decisions for all the government medical colleges/hospitals. 3. Adequate provision of PPEs, the quality as chosen by JUDA before placing the order. 4. Resuming non-COVID-19 services at GH, after consulting the cabinet. 5. Decentralized management of SARI and symptomatic Covid-19 positive cases and adequate provisions for treatment of cases in respective district hospitals and all private medical colleges. Meanwhile, the fresh cases in Telangana are adding in alarming numbers continuously from the last several days – especially in Hyderabad. On Thursday, 208 new cases were recorded (175 from Hyderabad) taking the total infections to 4320. Total COVID-19 deceased are 165, till now, in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/junior-doctors-at-telanganas-covid-19-gandhi-hospital-end-strike-to-agitate-again-if-demands-not-met-848874.html
12-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Police stop BJP leaders from going to Telangana CM's office||BJP leaders in Telangana were on Friday stopped from proceeding to the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's office-cum-residence in view of the lockdown due to coronavirus spread, police said. The leaders included MLA Raja Singh, MLC N Ramachander Rao and former state unit president K Laxman. The party had called for 'Chalo Pragati Bhavan' (march to the camp office-cum-official residence) to discuss the COVID-19 situation with the chief minister. Singh and Laxman were told at their residences that activities like political gatherings were not allowed during the lockdown, and that action would be taken if they did, the police said. Ramachander Rao was taken into preventive custody, they said. Talking to reporters, Rao, president of the BJPs city unit, said he, along with Singh andLaxman, had sought an appointment with the Chief Minister for Friday but did not get a confirmation. The BJP leader hit out at the state government for allegedly not conducting enough COVID-19 tests and not decentralizing treatment of positive cases in the state-run Gandhi hospital which, he said, had poor facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-police-stop-bjp-leaders-from-going-to-telangana-cms-office-848897.html
12-06-2020||South||In a first in Kerala, Apheresis procedure used to administer plasma to COVID-19 patient||Upgradation of infrastructure at a Government Medical College Hospital near here came in handy to administer plasma to a COVID-19 patient from a donor cured of coronavirus by using apheresis procedure for the first time in Kerala, authorities said on Friday. Medical equipment that carries out the apheresis procedure was installed at the GMCH at nearby Thrissur last month and the technique was used for the first time in Kerala to administer plasma to a 51-year old man, they said. The procedure, which has been completed successfully would help save the patient, they expressed confidence. "This is the first instance of use of such a life- saving remedy in the state," Health authorities said here in a statement. The apheresis procedure was carried out by GMC's technologists working with the departments of medicine, transfusion medicine and anaesthesia. Under the procedure, blood of the donor, Davis Antony was passed through the device which separated plasma and let that component alone into the bloodstream of the patient intravenously and sent the other blood constituents again into the blood system of the donor. The donor was cured of COVID-19. The procedure began on Thursday night and was completed early today, they said adding the critically ill virus afflicted man continued to be in the hospital for treatment. "We appreciate the gesture and hope that more such volunteers will approach us to donate plasma in the nations fight against COVID-19, Dr M A Andrews, principal, GMC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-a-first-in-kerala-apheresis-procedure-used-to-administer-plasma-to-covid-19-patient-848918.html
12-06-2020||State||Sedition case: Inspector suspended for not filing charge-sheet||Inspector General of Police (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas has issued orders on Friday, suspending Hubballi Rural Police Station Inspector Jackson D’Souza on charges of dereliction of duty. Jackson is charged with not filing a charge-sheet even after 90 days of registering an FIR, in the sedition case involving three Kashmiri students, who had reportedly raised pro-Pakistan and Azadi slogans at the hostel of KLES Institute of Technology in Hubballi. Non-filing of charge-sheet resulted in the three students -- Ameer Wani, Basit Safi, and Talib Majid -- getting a conditional bail from the second JMFC Court in Hubballi and released from the Hindalga Jail in Belagavi on June 10. They had spent more than 110 days in jail after being charged under Section 124 (A) of Indian Penal Code. The three were booked under IPC 124(A), 153 A(J), 153 J(C), and 505 (2) to be read with section 34 of IPC. Speaking to DH over the phone, Raghavendra Suhas said action has been initiated against the inspector for dereliction of duty. It is mandatory for all the investigating officers to file charge-sheet within 90 days of filing FIR. As the officer did not file the charge-sheet he has been suspended, he said.  Case background A video of these three Kashmiri students, who received Union government’s scholarship, raising pro-Pakistan slogans had gone viral on social media networking site following which KLES Institute of Technology Principal Basavaraj Anami filed a complaint with Gokul Road police station on February 15. Later, the case was shifted to Hubballi Rural Police Station as the hostel comes under its jurisdiction. During their first appearance in the court, the students were attacked by members of right-wing organisation, following which the students were shifted from Hubballi sub-jail to Hindalga Jail in Belagavi. Their repeated appeals for bail was earlier rejected by the court. However, on June 10, the JMFC Court granted them conditional bail (the students cannot leave Hubballi rural police jurisdiction, and with payment of Rs one lakh personal bond each), after the police failed to file a charge-sheet in the stipulated time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sedition-case-inspector-suspended-for-not-filing-charge-sheet-848843.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Confusion as state govt speaks in two voices on online classes||The state government on Thursday issued contradictory statements on the issue of holding online classes, revealing, once more, the glaring lack of coordination within the Cabinet. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said the Cabinet had decided to extend the ban on online classes till Class 7, only to be refuted by Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, who said this was still under discussion. The diverging statements came a day after Kumar announced that schools should stop online classes for children studying in kindergarten till Class 5.  Briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting, Madhuswamy said his Cabinet colleagues felt the ban had to be extended till Class 7 as accessing the internet and availability of infrastructure was a huge challenge for students in rural areas. “We have decided (the ban) should be extended till Class 7,” the Law Minister said. However, Suresh Kumar sparked confusion among the public when he contradicted Madhuswamy, tweeting that the issue was discussed in the Cabinet, but no decision had been taken. “The government has decided to ban all online classes from LKG, UKG and up to Class 5. To extend this up to Class 7 standard is only a suggestion from some Cabinet ministers as expressed in an informal discussion and not a decision,” Kumar said.  Speaking to reporters later, Kumar clarified that the education department’s announcement on Wednesday held true and no further decision was taken. “A committee of experts constituted by the department will give its recommendations. We will take a call after that,” he said.  This was the second consecutive Cabinet briefing by Madhuswamy that got mired in confusion. On May 28, Madhuswamy said the Cabinet decided to “restrict” air travel from five states. Later, he clarified that it was not a “ban”, but a “request” to the Civil Aviation Ministry to reduce the number of flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/confusion-as-state-govt-speaks-in-two-voices-on-online-classes-848555.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Surge in COVID-19 cases likely in Karnataka after August 15: Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Friday said experts have indicated a surge in coronavirus cases in the state after August 15 and the government was taking all precautionary measures in that direction. Speaking to reporters in Ballari, Sudhakar said, "About 97 percent of over 3,000 active cases in the state are asymptomatic. Experts after studying the developments in other countries and states have said that there will be a surge in infections after August 15."  He said the government was taking all precautionary measures in that direction. As of June 11 evening, cumulatively 6,245 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 72 deaths and 2,976 discharges, the health department's bulletin said. It said, out of 3,195 active cases, 3,185 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 10 are in ICU. Meanwhile, in a tweet pointing out that nearly 60 per cent of the COVID cases in the country are from 10 cities, Sudhakar said, despite being the fourth most populous city in the country Bengaluru has been successful in containing its spread.  "Nearly 60% of total COVID-19 cases in India are found in 10 cities. Despite being 4th most populous, Bengaluru has been successful in containing spread of virus. I urge people to keep up the fight, continue vigil & together with #CoronaWarriors we can defeat the virus," Sudhakar tweeted. Bengaluru that does not figure in the list of 10 cities shared by the Minister has reported 581 coronavirus cases till last evening, out of which 258 are active.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/surge-in-covid-19-cases-likely-in-karnataka-after-august-15-minister-k-sudhakar-848707.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||ICCR to release music video ‘Life Again’ this weekend||Life Again. A Mysuru-based musician has conceptualised and composed music for a video, in view of instilling confidence among the people, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Twenty global musicians, from various coronavirus-affected countries, are part of the music video. Incidentally, Wang Ying from Wuhan in China has played erhu. “I invited musicians from both India and abroad to be part of the initiative. They proved that this is a time, only for social distancing, not emotional distancing. When seer Ganapathi Sachchidananda Swami of Avadhoota Datta Peetham learned about the initiative, he offered to pen the lyrics. He also recited his creation for the video. The seer himself is a great musician, a connoisseur, and patron of music,” said Mysore Manjunath, a renowned violinist. “By the time the video was ready, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), under Union government, offered to release it online, on its platforms. The video will be released by ICCR on Saturday (June 13) evening,” he said. Ends with positive note “This is a unique international collaboration of eminent musicians, produced by Alter Ego Frames and edited at Laya Digi Studios. Pravin D Rao has compiled and arranged. It is in Raga Charukeshi. The song portrays emotions of all — agony, distress, and suffering and ends with a positive note. Thus it is named 'Life Again’,” said Manjunath of Mysore Brothers duo fame. His elder brother Mysore Nagaraj is also a part of the initiative. “The pandemic has affected the whole world. The world has come together, like never before, to fight against the pandemic. The pandemic has provided some productive moments for all — to ponder over life, for introspection, and to plan for life beyond the pandemic. The lockdown has provided an opportunity for exploring one’s strengths and to be creative,” said Manjunath. Beauty of music “Concerts and music festivals have been cancelled around the world, to check the spread of the virus. While the industry is coming to terms with the challenging times ahead, the role of music in bringing the communities together has been more powerful. This is a unique and special music video, aptly using the power of music to bring communities across the globe together. Music is the ultimate unifier and universal language. This is an amazing collaboration of internationally acclaimed and celebrated musicians from different genres, asserting the beauty of music and its positivity,” he said. “It is a nice combination of the tone of different musical instruments, adding special texture to the song. All musicians have played and done the recording at their respective place, Manjunath added. Musicians The musicians featured in the music video are: Mysore Manjunath, Mysuru, violin; Ned Mcgowan, Netherlands, flute; Giulianno Moderally, Italy, guitar; Mark Wood, New York, viper electric violin; Helen Wilson, London, piano; Soheyl Tafaghodi, Iran, kamanchen; Wang Ying, China, erhu; Akram Abdulfatrah, Israel, violin; Tejendra Majumdar, Kolkata, sarod; Luigi Corda, France, double bass; Ronu Majumdar, Mumbai, bhansuri; Julliane Southwel, Oregon, violin; and Laura Kaye, USA, vocal; Mysore Nagaraj, Mysuru, violin; Varija Shri, Bengaluru, vocal; B C Manjunath, Bengaluru, mridanga; Ravishankar Upadhyay, New Delhi, pakawaz; Guruprasanna, Bengaluru, khanjira; Karthik, Chennai, ghatam; and Pramath Kiran, Uttara Kannada, creative percussion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/iccr-to-release-music-video-life-again-this-weekend-848737.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka withdraws exemptions to factories on work hours||Karnataka has withdrawn its notification allowing factories to make their employees work for ten hours in a day, and sixty hours in a week.  The May 22 notification had attracted severe criticism from trade unions that accused the government of “aggravating” the exploitation of workers in factories during the COVID-19 pandemic. Back then, however, the government defended the move saying it would boost productivity that had taken a hit due to the lockdown.  According to the Karnataka Employers Association (KEA), a writ petition was filed in the High Court of Karnataka challenging the notification as "illegal, arbitrary and in violation of Section 5 of the Factories Act” that permits exemption from any provision only in case of ‘public emergencies’. On June 11, the High Court had observed that it may have to quash the notification unless the state government clarified what was the ‘Public Emergency’ involved to enhance the working hours. "The High Court had further observed that the Government should make a submission on 12th June 2020 on this behalf," the KEA said.  But the government withdrew the notification on June 11 itself.  In its May 22 notification, the state government had cited emergency provisions of the exempt factories for a three-month period. This was in line with what Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan had done, but even these states have withdrawn the exemptions since.  “...having examined the provisions further, the Government of Karnataka now intends to withdraw the said notification," the government said in the June 11 notification, rolling back exemptions to factories from complying with Sections 51 and 54 of the Factories Act that deal with limited working hours to 48 hours per week and nine hours per day, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-withdraws-exemptions-to-factories-on-work-hours-848767.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Udupi, Yadgir among emerging districts of concern for COVID-19 in country||The Central government has identified Karnataka's Udupi and Yadgir among the "emerging districts of concern" for COVID-19 in the country. Confirming the development, a top official of the state health department said, "they (centre) had reviewed these two districts a few days back...there was a sudden spurt of cases due to Maharashtra returnees turning positive." Sources said union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, during a recent video conference with state chief secretaries and health secretaries, had shared his thoughts on the issue. According to the information shared, districts with more than 400 cases, half of which was reported post-May 18 lockdown relaxation, have been identified as "emerging districts of concern." They are concentrated in the seven states/union territories of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana. "Udupi and Yadgir from Karnataka, along with Gurugram in Haryana and Kolhapur in Maharashtra have 90 per cent of the cases recorded after May 18," they said. As on June 11 evening, Udupi had a total of 969 positive cases, out of which 619 are active, while 735 positive cases have been reported in Yadgir, out of which 626 are active. The two districts had reported a total of only 11 cases each as on May 18. While Udupi till last evening had seen 349 discharges, it was 108 in Yadgir. Both districts have reported one COVID related fatality so far. As of June 11 evening, cumulatively 6,245 COVID-19 positive cases were confirmed in the state, which included 72 deaths and 2,976 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-udupi-yadgir-among-emerging-districts-of-concern-for-covid-19-in-country-848782.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||I’ll oppose farm lands being used for realty: Agriculture Minister B C Patil||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil sounded cautiously optimistic on the government’s decision to free up agricultural land holdings by allowing even non-agriculturalists to own farm lands.  The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday decided to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act to remove restrictions on purchasing or owning agricultural land. The Cabinet also decided to tweak the law to increase the cap on how much agricultural land a person can own.   “My department gave its concurrence to this decision saying the land so purchased should be used for activities that support agriculture,” Patil told reporters Friday. “But if the land ends up getting used for real estate, then I’m opposed to it.” Patil was responding to questions on the decision to remove restrictions on farm land purchase having evoked mixed responses, with some expressing concern that it favoured the realty sector more than farmers. “It was discussed in the Cabinet that some conditions have to be there. The revenue department will come out with guidelines soon,” Patil said.  The minister pointed out that Karnataka was the only Indian state that had restrictions on purchasing agricultural land. “We should also think about progress,” he said. “I expect agro-based industries to come up on these lands. The reason we suffered so much during COVID-19 pandemic was because we didn’t have enough food processing units and cold storages,” he said.  “I don’t think anybody will take up real estate in villages,” Patil said, allaying such fears. “There are agricultural graduates and youngsters who are interested in agriculture, but they couldn’t pursue this because they couldn’t buy land,” he said, adding that the government’s decision will benefit some 4,000 students who graduate from the state’s agricultural universities every year. “We can’t give all of them jobs. They can take up agriculture.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-ll-oppose-farm-lands-being-used-for-realty-agriculture-minister-b-c-patil-848805.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Deve Gowda, Mallikarjun Kharge elected unanimously to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka||All four Rajya Sabha election candidates from Karnataka, including former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, were elected unanimously to the upper house of the Parliament on Friday. Gowda of the JD(S), Congress’ Mallikarjun Kharge, BJP’s Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti were declared as “duly elected” by the Karnataka Legislative Assembly Secretary MK Vishalakshi, the returning officer for the biennial elections to the Rajya Sabha. June 12 was the last date for candidates to withdraw their nominations and elections were scheduled on June 19 to fill up four vacancies. Since there were only four candidates in the fray, an election was not necessary. Gowda, Kharge, Kadadi and Gasti will fill up the seats that will be vacated by D Kupendra Reddy of the JD(S), BJP’s Prabhakar Kore, Congress’ BK Hariprasad and MV Rajeev Gowda whose term ends June 25. Kharge, Kadadi and Gasti are debutants in the Rajya Sabha, whereas Gowda was a member of the upper house of the Parliament for a brief period when he was the prime minister in 1996.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-deve-gowda-mallikarjun-kharge-elected-unanimously-to-rajya-sabha-from-karnataka-848832.html
12-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 464 discharges, 271 new coronavirus cases||Karnataka on Friday reported 464 discharges, its highest, as the state confirmed 271 new cases of COVID-19 and seven related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 6,516 and the death toll to 79. In a significant development, the day also saw the total number of discharges overtaking the number of active cases in the state. As of June 12 evening, cumulatively 6,516 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 79 deaths and 3,440 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 2,995 active cases, 2,976 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 19 are in ICU. The seven deaths include four from Bengaluru, two from Kalaburagi and one from Hassan. Those from Bengaluru are three women aged 61, 65 and 49 and a 52-year old man. Among the dead from Kalaburagi are two men aged 53 and 48 while a 60-year old man from Hassan also succumbed to the virus. Out of 271 new cases, 92 are returnees from other states, majority of them from neighbouring Maharashtra.  While 14 are those who returned from other countries. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Ballari accounted for 97 cases, followed by Bengaluru urban 36, Udupi 22, Kalaburagi 20, Dharwad 19, Dakshina Kannada 17, Bidar 10, nine each from Hassan and Mysuru, Tumakuru 7, Shivamogga 6, four each from Raichur and Uttara Kannada, three each from Chitradurga and Ramanagara, Mandya 2, and one each from Belagavi, Vijayapura and Kolar. Udupi district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 991 infections, followed by Kalaburagi (816) and Yadgir (735). Among discharges also Udupi tops the list with a total of 474, followed by Kalaburagi (345) and Bengaluru urban (299). A total of 4,26,341 samples have been tested so far, with 9,835 on Friday alone. So far 4,11,244 samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 9,139 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-464-discharges-271-new-coronavirus-cases-848865.html
12-06-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Medical staff at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences hospital shifted to training center on campus||The Health Department staff, deputed for duty at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for collection of swab samples and to conduct tests, are now being accommodated in the premises of the training centre inside the campus which has all facilities. They were earlier accommodated in hotels in the city.   Earlier, after working for a week in the hospital, the staff had to remain in the quarantine facility for another 14 days before returning home. Now those showing symptoms are tested and all, including himself, were working from home, informed Director Dr Vinay Dastikopp. Dr Dastikopp told DH that the staff had to vacate hotels as per the guidelines and have been accommodated in the training centre on the campus that has accommodation facilities. Food has been made available by Belagavi City Corporation. Regarding the section of patients alleging that they were not given nutritious food, he said the Deputy Commissioner has deputed Food Safety Inspector, who has been monitoring the food that is made available. "We are not allowing food from outside, barring fruits and mineral water for pregnant women, admitted in the COVID-19 ward. Those demanding outside food were making such allegations. Health and food safety was our responsibility, hence instead of cooperation they have resorted to allegations,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/medical-staff-at-belagavi-institute-of-medical-sciences-hospital-shifted-to-training-center-on-campus-848743.html
12-06-2020||West||Maharashtra govt trying to hide extent of COVID-19 outbreak, says BJP MP||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Dr Bhagwat Karad on Friday alleged that the Maharashtra government was trying to hide the real extent of COVID-19 spread in Aurangabad by reducing the amount of testing done in the district. Speaking about the viral outbreak in Aurangabad, the Rajya Sabha MP claimed that the testing capacity in the district was not being utilised to the fullest. "Earlier, when one person tested positive, at least 80 to 90 suspects were examined. This strategy had helped control coronavirus cases in Aurangabad," he said. However, now although the district has adequate testing facilities, they were not being utilised to their full capacity, he alleged. The state government was trying to hide the actual figure of COVID-19 cases by reducing coronavirus testing in Aurangabad, Karad claimed. Moreover, the BJP leader alleged that the quarantine facilities in the district were also underutilised.  "If the administration claims that 7,000 to 9,000 people can be quarantined at facilities in the district, then why are close contacts of positive patients placed in home quarantine?" he said. If asymptomatic and suspects are tested aggressively and quarantined at facilities, the situation can be brought under control, he said. Meanwhile, former minister and BJP MLA from Aurangabad Atul Save said hospitals in the city should be acquired for treating COVID-19 patients. Save further claimed that salaries offered to doctors in Aurangabad during the present health crisis was far less than those paid to their counterparts in Mumbai. Salaries for medical professionals should be equal throughout the state and only then new doctors will be willing to work during the pandemic, he said. As on Friday morning, Aurangabad has recorded 2,524 COVID-19 cases, of which 1,363 patients have recovered and 128 have succumbed to the infection, a district official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-trying-to-hide-extent-of-covid-19-outbreak-says-bjp-mp-848637.html
12-06-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Dhananjay Munde tests positive for virus||Maharashtra Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde has tested positive for coronavirus but he is asymptomatic and his condition is stable, Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope disclosed on Friday. Munde, a Nationalist Congress Party leader, had attended a state cabinet meeting earlier this week and taken part in the NCP's foundation day event two days ago here. He is a third minister in Maharashtra to contract the virus. Jitendra Awhad (NCP) and Ashok Chavan (Congress) had tested positive earlier; both recovered from the infection. Asked whether others who had attended the cabinet meeting and the NCP event will be tested, Tope said social distancing was observed on both the occasions. If anyone has suspicion (of having caught infection) or develops symptoms, he or she should be tested as per the Indian Council of Medical Research's guidelines, Tope said. "It is true he (Munde) has tested positive. He is stable. He is asymptomatic, but there is a minor problem of breathlessness," the health minister told reporters. "We are admitting him to Breach Candy Hospital (in South Mumbai). He is a fighter. He will be active in eight to ten days," Tope said. Munde's private staff including the cook, drivers and personal assistant contracted coronavirus before him, he said. "He was there at the cabinet meeting and NCP foundation day ceremony. But we observed social distancing during the meeting as instructed by Dada (Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar)," Tope said. Munde was not a high-risk contact, he said. "High-risk contacts are ones with whom you stay throughout the day and not during an hour-long meeting," he said. The NCP's foundation day event lasted only five minutes, Tope said, as only state NCP chief Jayant Patil made a short speech. "Only five NCP leaders were present for the flag hoisting. Social distancing was strictly observed," he added. "Testing can be conducted if any person develops symptoms. No question of conducting tests if there are no symptoms," Tope said. The minister urged people to take all precautions including social distancing at public places and workplaces "till a vaccine becomes available".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-dhananjay-munde-tests-positive-for-virus-848780.html
12-06-2020||West||Mumbai: 126 cancer patients recover from COVID-19 infection||As many as 126 cancer patients, who had tested COVID-19 positive, and were undergoing treatment at the city-based National Sport Complex of India (NSCI), have recovered from the infection and discharged till Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. They were part of over 175 cancer patients, who were undergoing treatment at the facility in Worli. Currently, 52 cancer patients and their four relatives are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the NSCI dome in Worli, while 126 cancer patients and 10 relatives have been discharged after they recovered from the infection, the civic body said. The COVID-19 cancer patients admitted to the NSCI dome were suffering from various types of cancer like gastric, urologic and that of blood, head, neck and breast, it added. These COVID-19 positive cancer patients included a 2- year-old child and a 77-year-old woman, while most others were over 50 years old, it said. "Cancer patients from various parts of the country were being treated at this facility," the release said, adding that one such patient from Bangladesh was also admitted there. As per the experience in the western world, cancer patients have a greater risk of death when affected by coronavirus, the BMC said. Therefore, as per government regulations, cancer patients also suffering from COVID-19 cannot be kept in usual isolation facility called 'corona care centres'. Hence, the Mumbai civic body came to the rescue of Tata Memorial Center and offered their facility in the NSCI stadium, it added. The city's first jumbo isolation facility at the NSCI dome has admitted nearly 1,000 COVID-19 patients since it opened on March 21, the civic body said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-126-cancer-patients-recover-from-covid-19-infection-848857.html
12-06-2020||West||Goa's active COVID-19 cases tally reaches 394; govt adds another containment zone||Goa witnessed a spike in COVID-19-related cases on Friday with 46 cases reported through the day, even as the state administration also declared a second containment zone in Ghodemal village in North Goa's Sattari sub district. According to the state Health Ministry statistics, the state currently has 394 active COVID-19 cases. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said, that the decision to declare a second containment zone in Ghodemal, was taken after the village and nearby areas witnessed a sudden surge in COVID-19 cases over the last few days. "After a thorough discussion with Secretary Health, we have instructed the (North Goa) Collector to declare Ghodemal as a containment zone along with Kasarwada and Deulwada as buffer zones in the locality have increased beyond 14," the Health Minister said. "We are taking all necessary precautions to ensure daily supplies aren't disrupted and all the health protocols are followed so that cases in these areas are under control," he added.According to state Health Ministry officials, a majority of the COVID-19 cases in Ghodemol and nearby areas involve Health department workers, who were posted at the ministry's Vasco urban health centre and were working in the state's first containment zone at Mangor hill, which lies in the jurisdiction of the same urban health centre. "Most of the cases in Ghodemal and nearby areas involve health department workers who had been working in the Mangor hill area and had returned home. Some of their family members have also tested positive now," a Health Ministry official said. While initially, a bulk of Goa's COVID-19 cases were limited to the Mangor hill cluster, which contains around 2,000 houses, the surge on Friday has a bigger geographical footprint in several sub districts across the state, including Tiswadi, Ponda, etc. The state government is also considering declaration of Chimbel, a slum area near Panaji, as a containment zone, after a sudden spike of cases in its vicinity too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-active-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-394-govt-adds-another-containment-zone-848858.html
12-06-2020||West||Gujarat's COVID-19 count up by 495 to 22,562; deaths 1,416||The number of coronavirus positive patients in Gujarat jumped to 22,562 as the state reported 495 cases in the last 24 hours, the health department said on Friday. During the same period, as many as 31 COVID-19 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll due to the virus to 1,416, it said in a statement. As many as 392 people recovered and were given discharge from different hospitals in the state, taking the total to 15,501. The health department said that as many as 243 patients recovered in Ahmedabad district alone, followed by 54 in Surat, 40 in Gandhinagar and 32 in Vadodara. Patients also recovered in some other districts, including Banaskantha, Mehsana, Panchmahal, Bhavnagar and Anand. Of the total 495 new cases that emerged in the state in the last 24 hours, 327 were from Ahmedabad district alone. Other districts where significant number of cases were reported are Surat (77), Vadodara (37), Gandhinagar (21), Mehsana (seven) and five each in Gandhinagar and Rajkot. Surat' tally of positive cases reached 2,444, while Vadodara is at the third spot in Gujarat with 1,471 cases, it said. Of the total 31, who succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours, as many as 22 died in different hospitals of Ahmedabad, three in Surat, two in Gandhinagar, one each in Arvalli, Patan and Bharuch district. One of the deceased was from other state, it said. Gujarat has conducted 2,78,137 tests, of which 5,645 cases are still active. Among these, 68 are on ventilator while 5,577 are stable. Out of around 2.12 lakh people currently quarantined in the state, as many as 2.06 lakh are home quarantined, while 6,192 are kept in different facilities across the state. Gujarat's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 22,562, new cases: 495, deaths: 1,:416, discharged: 15,501, active cases: 5,645 and people tested so far: 2,78,137.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-count-up-by-495-to-22562-deaths-1416-848907.html
