13-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Former MLA protests over conducting SSLC exams amidst COVID-19 outbreak||Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha chief and former MLA Vatal Nagaraj on Saturday staged a dharna, by beating 'jagate', at Chennamma Circle in Hubballi against conducting SSLC exams amidst novel coronavirus outbreak.  "Since lockdown was announced, I have toured all districts, and 80% of parents are against examinations. How will the government give protection to nearly 15 lakh people including SSLC students, teachers and parents concerned with the examinations? What are the required arrangements made?" he asked.  The government should cancel its decision to conduct SSLC examinations and pass all students, on the model of Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and other states. Lockdown was announced when COVID-19 cases were less, and now a "market-like situation" is allowed when cases are increasing, he charged. He further said that online education is also not suitable for Indian students, especially those in rural areas, and it is expensive also. "We are not the USA and England, and most of parents and children are not ready for online education. The syllabus can be increased in the next academic year, as the safety of life is most important now," Vatal added. Vatal and his supporters also raised slogans, seeking cancellation of examinations in all schools and colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/former-mla-protests-over-conducting-sslc-exams-amidst-covid-19-outbreak-849115.html
13-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi group starts initiative to help coronavirus lockdown-hit economy||To encourage people to purchase goods and create demand as a possible solution to revive Indian economy which is in crisis due to COVID-19 situation, a group of individuals in Hubballi have come forward to start a small initiative to promote people to spend that by creating awareness through social media. "Due to lockdown and COVID-19 situation and slowdown before that, crores of people have lost jobs while business is experiencing serious loss. Economy can be revived if sufficient demand is created in the market, which will help all. Therefore, we urge people who want to spend after sometime to spend now itself, so that the economy can do well and GDP can increase even during this crisis. To promote that, we have launched 'Spend India' campaign, and started a Facebook page which has already got many responses on the first day itself," said Arya Hallikeri, a mechanical engineer graduate. We are focusing on those who can spend, but want to keep money for future use. We also ask them to follow government guidelines like wearing mask, using sanitiser, and maintaining social distancing. They will also upload their purchasing photograph on the Facebook page. On ourselves, we also spend whatever we can do, he added. Team & plan Along with Arya Hallikeri, artist Sudhanva Deshpande, lawyer Rahul Desai, organic farmer Makarand, bank manager Shrivatsa, retired government employee K T Desai, and others are also in the group which has started social media campaign with 'Spend India, Employ India, Help India' theme. They are also planning to get the help of influential people on social media, and local celebrities to promote this campaign, so that more people can spend by purchasing goods, construct houses, hiring vehicles, using repair workers, holding tours, and other economic activities. "It should be a people's movement, and there is no intention of profit for us in this. Not just social media, we have plans to publicise through pamphlets and meeting people also. It is our small effort to join hands with the government in handling the economic situation, including boosting manufacturing sector. Even small purchases will help," says K T Desai. "We are meeting startups also, and are focusing on both big and small business firms," Sudhanva Deshpande added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-group-starts-initiative-to-help-coronavirus-lockdown-hit-economy-849234.html
13-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Checking distance edu by varsities on excuses: experts||The decision of the state government to limit distance education courses to only those offered by Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) has come as a boon to the university that was in the news for all the wrong reasons, a few ago. However, the government should issue guidelines to check continuation of distance education by other state universities, under various excuses, opine experts. Former chairman of state-owned Mysuru Paints and Varnish Limited (MPVL) H A Venkatesh said, “It has taken so many years, to fulfill the objective behind the establishment of KSOU under Karnataka State Open University Act, 1992, on June 6, 1996.” “The University Grants Commission (UGC) had withdrawn the recognition of KSOU due to technical reasons in June 2015, with effect from the academic year 2013-14. Finally, in mid-2018, KSOU’s courses started getting recognition gradually. This brought cheers among the students who had enrolled with KSOU. However, students who had enrolled with private institutions that had entered into MoUs with KSOU, were left disappointed,” said Venkatesh, who was both Senate and Syndicate member of University of Mysore (UoM). “As per the guidelines of 2017, for open and distant learning (ODL), of the UGC, conventional universities started courses under distance education. ICC and CE was bifurcated from the UoM and KSOU was established by an Act of the state government, for the exclusive purpose of providing distance education for those who cannot pursue higher education in regular colleges and universities. If all universities offer distance education, the value of the certificates issued by KSOU will be reduced. Besides, enrolment in KSOU will be affected and quality of education will be affected,” said a retired professor, who wished to remain anonymous. “Regular universities should concentrate on their regular courses and enhance their quality, for the welfare of students. On the pretext of helping already enrolled students, who might be in second or third year, to complete the course, regular universities may seek to continue the mode of education. However, if such universities transfer their students to KSOU, with immediate effect, they can stop their distance education mode. The government can issue an order to this effect,” said Venkatesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/checking-distance-edu-by-varsities-on-excuses-experts-849238.html
13-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Bandipur likely to get wildlife rescue centre||If everything goes as per the plan, Bandipur Tiger Reserve will have a wild animals rescue centre. The authorities of the Tiger Reserve, led by Conservator of Forests and Field Director Bandipur Tiger Reserve T Balachandra, have prepared a proposal that will be submitted to the state government on Monday. A majority of the rescued animals are shifted to Mysuru Zoo, after administering treatment at Chamundi Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre, maintained by Mysuru Zoo. The director said, "As a majority of the animals are sent to the zoo, there is a space issue and it is also risky to transport the animals to Mysuru. The rescue centre in the forest region is a boon both for animals as well as Forest department."    The authorities have planned to develop the centre on 100 acres of land in the forest. The Forest department rescues animals which are injured either in man-animal conflict or due to other reasons, such as age factor. These animals can be treated at the centre. Later, the recovered animals can be left into the forest. “We have prepared a comprehensive plan. The centre will have several benefits and it is a boon for the wildlife as it locates in the forest. Aged animals can spend their last days in the forest,” says the director. According to Forest department officials, the zoo charges Rs 7.5 lakh for each tiger for an year. The Forest department rescues several animals every year. Rescue of leopards is common in the region. The Forest department officials have rescued two tigers and an elephant in the last two years. In addition, the officials have rescued many other species of wildlife.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bandipur-likely-to-get-wildlife-rescue-centre-849240.html
13-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress contenders for MLC poll meet Siddaramaiah||The contest for nominations for the Legislative Council polls scheduled later this month has heated up, with several Congress leaders turning up at CLP leader Siddaramaiah's house, on Saturday. While some of the incumbent MLCs have demanded another opportunity, a few other senior leaders have sought recognition for their work over the years. On Saturday morning, former minister M R Seetharam and MLC Abdul Jabbar, were among the leaders, who met Siddaramaiah.  Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Seetharam said that he had sought ticket from the party. "I have been with the party for the last 35 years. For the last two years, I have not been appointed to any posts. I am loyal to the party and there is no question of quitting the party," he said.  While incumbents H M Revanna, Ivan D Souza, Naseer Ahmed and M C Venugopal are also said to be keen another term, former MP V S Ugrappa and former minister Rani Sathish are said to be among the other contenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-contenders-for-mlc-poll-meet-siddaramaiah-849256.html
13-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Loyalty, patience ensured nomination, says Kadadi||Eranna Kadadi was one of the two dark horses picked by the BJP for the Rajya Sabha. In conversation with Akram Mohammed, he spoke about his political career and how Belagavi politics will not affect him - the party worker. You were involved with the party for more than three decades before your nomination to Rajya Sabha. What role did you serve in the span of time? I first joined the BJP in 1988 and have served in various roles, including being the Belagavi Rural BJP president. I was Belagavi Zilla Panchayat president in 2010, and also headed the ZP presidents and vice presidents’ federation, among others.  You are now nominated to Rajya Sabha, which was as much as surprise for you as everyone else? Loyalty to the party, seniority and patience are the factors, I think. Everyone (in the party leadership) had an eye on people like us. Senior leaders such as Union minister Piyush Goyal, Bhupendra Yadav and others were acquainted with us due to our proximity to party workers of the region, especially when they served as election in-charges for Karnataka. Belagavi is a politically-volatile district. BJP had two-three RS hopefuls in the district, but you got picked.  There are no differences. Although few leaders might have different opinions on various issues, I don’t belong to any faction. I’m a common candidate for these leaders. I am identified only with the party. Have you received support from these popular and influential BJP leaders in the district? 100%. They have blessed us during the nomination and I’m in regular touch with them. I spoke to all senior leaders such as Ramesh and Umesh Katti, Union minister Suresh Angadi and sought their guidance. Both you and Gasti were not in good terms with CM B S Yediyurappa in the past. Your election has brought the spotlight back again on a faction, which is opposed to the CM, but backed by central leadership. Before the BJP even existed in Belagavi and before Yediyurappa was identified as a leader, I was with him. Unfortunately, he left the party temporarily. Convinced that his leadership was required for the state, I requested him to stay back in the party. As I said before, I am not for or against anyone. It’s not necessary to think that I’m opposed to Yediyurappa as I’m not such a tall leader, but an ordinary worker. What are your priorities now that you are elected? I’m currently studying what responsibilities, powers and limitations Rajya Sabha members have. My role is restricted to (working with) MLAs, which leaves me with a lot of time to study the demands of the state and work towards ensuring that they are fulfilled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/loyalty-patience-ensured-nomination-says-kadadi-849260.html
13-06-2020||National||India, Tanzania discuss bolstering ties further||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Tanzania President John Pombe Joseph Magufuli on Friday reviewed the bilateral relations between the two countries and discussed possibilities of further accelerating the ties.  They expressed satisfaction at the growing development partnership, educational linkages, trade and investment flows between India and Tanzania, and discussed possibilities of further accelerating these trends.  During their telephonic conversation, Modi recalled his July 2016 visit to Dar-es-Salaam and stressed on the importance that India attaches to its traditionally friendly ties with Tanzania, an official statement said. The prime minister reiterated India's commitment to partnering Tanzania in its development journey, as per the aspirations and needs of the Tanzanian government and people.   Modi thanked President Magufuli for the assistance provided by the Tanzanian authorities in evacuation of Indian citizens from the country in the wake of COVID-19.  Modi conveyed his best wishes to President Magufuli and the people of Tanzania for the presidential and parliamentary elections there later this year. "Had a good talk with President @MagufuliJP on all aspects of our friendly relations with Tanzania. Also thanked him for taking care of Indian community in Tanzania during the COVID-19 crisis," Modi later tweeted. India is committed to remain a reliable partner for Tanzania's development journey, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tanzania-discuss-bolstering-ties-further-848958.html
13-06-2020||National||HC grants bail to nine Tablighi members from central Asia||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday granted bail to nine members of Tablighi Jamat hailing from Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan who were staying in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra. The nine were arrested on April 29 for allegedly violating their visa conditions and lockdown prohibitory orders. Their lawyers Firdos Mirza and Mir Naan Ali told the court that the group arrived in Gadchiroli in the first week of March from Delhi. As lockdown for containing coronavirus came into force, they had no option but to stay on in the district, the lawyers argued. The state government opposed the bail plea, saying the investigation in the case was not yet over. Justice Manish Pitale, however, noted that bail could be granted with certain conditions. The court granted them bail on a surety of Rs 20,000 and directed them to stay in Chandrapur and report to the concerned police station regularly. A gathering of Tablighi Jamat in Delhi in March turned out to be a major coronavirus hotspot, following which police in various states tracked down those who had attended it and put them in quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-bail-to-nine-tablighi-members-from-central-asia-848969.html
13-06-2020||National||NHA starts empanelling ICMR-registered labs||The National Health Authority, the apex body which implements the national health insurance scheme, has started empanelling ICMR-registered laboratories directly, officials said. The step comes after the body included testing and treatment for COVID-19 in its packages for Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The National Health Authority (NHA) on Friday released guidelines on the process of empanelment, according to which, the primary eligibility criteria for laboratory empanelment is “ICMR registration” and it will be applicable for all private laboratories. The agency had been empanelling only hospitals till now under the Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB -PMJAY) and whatever services were required for providing care to patients, were provided by hospitals either in-house or through outsourcing. Citizens eligible under the health insurance scheme are availing free-of-cost testing through private labs and treatment for COVID-19 in empanelled hospitals since April. With the advent of COVID-19 pandemic, a need was felt to expand the testing capacity for the benefit of AB PM-JAY beneficiaries, hence, the packages for COVID-19 testing were notified by NHA, officials said. "However, private laboratories urged the NHA that they want to get directly empanelled with the body so that there is no delay in bill payments,” an official said. "Following requests from the industry, it was decided to start empanelling the ICMR registered labs directly. So far one such lab has been empanelled while 13 others have applied and awaiting nod," he said. According to the guidelines, the NHA shall be approving the empanelment of laboratories in those states which are not implementing AB-PMJAY at present namely, Telangana, West Bengal, Delhi and Odisha. Modules for empanelment of the labs have been developed and at present, NHA has decided to empanel only the ICMR registered labs, as only they are authorised to conduct COVID-19 tests, the guidelines said. Considering the ground situation and to minimise the time for processing applications, states and Union territories may request for empanelment with minimum details and documents, they said. To speed up the process of empanelment, the approval may be given by CEO, NHA or officer authorised by CEO, after verification of ICMR registration of the lab. “In case CEO, SHA has approved the empanelment, the process of scrutiny at the district level may be done post facto as per the instructions of state health authority (SHA),” they said. After the empanelment request by a laboratory is filed, the application shall be scrutinised by NHA within four days. If the application is rejected, the laboratory will be intimated of the reasons based on which it was not accepted and the lab can approach the Grievance Redressal Mechanism for remedy. In case the laboratory chooses to withdraw from the health insurance scheme, it will only be permitted to re-enter/ get re-empanelled under AB-PMJAY after a period of six months. If a laboratory is blacklisted for a defined period due to fraud/abuse, after following due process, it can be permitted to re-apply after cessation of the blacklisting period or revocation of the blacklisting order, whichever is earlier, the guidelines added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nha-starts-empanelling-icmr-registered-labs-848973.html
13-06-2020||National||India, Lao PDR highlight need for global cooperation in post-COVID world||India and the Lao PDR on Friday agreed on the need for international cooperation to prepare for a post-COVID world.  During their telephonic conversation on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Lao People's Democratic Republic counterpart Thongloun Sisoulith also exchanged views on the health and economic challenges posed by the pandemic. An official statement said that Modi commended the effective measures taken by the government to contain the spread of the pandemic in Lao PDR.   "Both leaders agreed on the need for international cooperation, and for sharing of best-practices and experiences, in order to prepare for the post-COVID world," the statement said.   PM Modi highlighted India's historic and cultural links with the Lao PDR and expressed satisfaction at being involved in the restoration of the World Heritage Site at Vat Phou. PM Thongloun Sisoulith thanked Modi for India's support for Lao PDR's development programmes, in capacity-building and for scholarships.  The prime minister reiterated India's commitment to continue its development partnership with the Lao PDR, a valued partner in India's extended neighbourhood, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lao-pdr-highlight-need-for-global-cooperation-in-post-covid-world-848980.html
13-06-2020||National||Man arrested for robbing pilot in Delhi tests COVID-19 positive, about 10 cops quarantined||One of the five men arrested recently for allegedly robbing and assaulting a private airline pilot on the IIT flyover in southwest Delhi has tested positive for COVID-19, police said on Friday. Around 10 police personnel who came in contact with the accused during the investigation have been quarantined, they said. The man was arrested along with his two associates on June 9. Two days later, two more accused were arrested.  The man who has tested positive for COVID-19 has been admitted to AIIMS. When he was in police custody, he fell sick and started vomiting. He was immediately rushed to the hospital where doctors suggested endoscopy. His COVID-19 test was also conducted. The report came Thursday as positive for COVID-19, a senior police officer said.  The robbing incident happened in the intervening night of June 2 and 3 when the pilot was on his way to Indira Gandhi International Airport in his office cab from Faridabad. The men on two-wheelers intercepted the vehicle on the IIT flyover and took his wallet which contained Rs 10,000 and other essential documents. They robbed the pilot at gunpoint and attacked him with a knife when he resisted, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-arrested-for-robbing-pilot-in-delhi-tests-covid-19-positive-about-10-cops-quarantined-848987.html
13-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 13, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-13-2020-edition-848992.html
13-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 13||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 3,21,077 as of June 13.       States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 9,248 State Positive CasesDeaths Andaman and Nicobar Islands380 Arunachal Pradesh870 Assam3,7188 Bihar6,28936 Chandigarh3485 Chhattisgarh1,5126 Dadar and Nagar Haveli280 Daman and Diu60 Goa5230 Gujarat23,0791,449 Haryana6,47978 Himachal Pradesh4947 Jharkhand1,7118 Karnataka6,82481 Kerala2,40719 Lakshadweep00 Madhya Pradesh10,641447 Maharashtra 1,04,5683880 Manipur4490 Meghalaya441 Mizoram1070 Nagaland1630 Delhi38,9581271 Puducherry1763 Punjab3,06365 Rajasthan12,401282 Sikkim580 Tamil Nadu42,687397 Telangana4,737182 Tripura1,0011 Uttar Pradesh13,118385 Uttarakhand1,78523 West Bengal10,698463 Odisha3,72310 Andhra Pradesh5,85885 Jammu and Kashmir4,87855 Ladakh4371 Cases being reassigned to states7984  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,54,330 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-13-848993.html
13-06-2020||National||Not a single vote will go in BJP's kitty: Rajasthan govt||With MLAs secured in a resort, Congress on Friday (June 12) put up a show of unity with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot exuding confidence of winning the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections and accusing the BJP of indulging in “horse-trading”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-a-single-vote-will-go-in-bjps-kitty-rajasthan-govt-848999.html
13-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Effect: Cess on petrol and diesel increased by Rs 1 in MP||The Madhya Pradesh government on Friday raised the cess on petrol and diesel by Rs 1 to make up for decline in revenue collection due to coronavirus outbreak, an official release said. As per an order of the Commercial Tax Department, the rise will come into effect from June 13. A cess of Rs 3.50 and Rs 2 was being charged on petrol and diesel, respectively, in Madhya Pradesh.  With the hike, cess on petrol will be Rs 4.50 and that on diesel will be Rs 3 per litre. It is estimated that the increase in cess will bring additional revenue of Rs 200 crore from petrol sale and Rs 370 crore from diesel sale annually for the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-effect-cess-on-petrol-and-diesel-increased-by-rs-1-in-mp-849030.html
13-06-2020||National||MHADA flats racket busted in Mumbai; one held||The Mumbai police's crime branch arrested a 42-year-old man and claimed to have busted a racket that cheated people with the promise of selling MHADA flats at rates lower than the market price, police said on Saturday. The scam came to light after a Tilaknagar resident approached the crime branch's property cell with a complaint that he has cheated of Rs 12 lakh with a promise of a flat in a Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) building in the suburbs, an official said. An offence of cheating was registered at Tilaknagar police station, following which Sachin Dhuri, a resident of Lower Parel in central Mumbai, was arrested on Thursday, he said. Further probe revealed that several others were involved in the racket along with Dhuri, who created fake documents of flats and cheated people, he said. Many others have come forward with similar complaints against the accused, the official said. The police were now verifying the authenticity of documents used by the accused and role of others, including MHADA officials, in the racket, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mhada-flats-racket-busted-in-mumbai-one-held-849033.html
13-06-2020||National||Worst daily COVID-19 spike: 11,458 fresh cases push total to 3,08,993; death toll rises by 386||India's COVID-19 tally breached the three-lakh mark on Saturday with a record single-day spike of 11,458 infections, while the death toll rose to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities, the Union Health Ministry said. With a COVID-19 caseload of 3,08,993, India is now the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic, according to the Worldometer, a coronavirus statistics website. Active cases stand at 1,45,779, while 1,54,329 people have recovered and one patient has migrated. "Thus, around 49.9 per cent patients have recovered so far," a ministry official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.  Of the 386 new deaths reported by the ministry in its data updated at 8am, 129 were in Delhi, 127 in Maharashtra, 30 in Gujarat, 20 in Uttar Pradesh, 18 in Tamil Nadu, 9 each in West Bengal, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh, 7 each in Karnataka and Rajasthan, 6 each in Haryana and Uttarakhand, 4 in Punjab, 2 in Assam, 1 each in Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir and Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worst-daily-covid-19-spike-11458-fresh-cases-push-total-to-308993-death-toll-rises-by-386-849036.html
13-06-2020||National||With Bihar polls under COVID-19 shadow, JD(U) to use social media in a big way||Reconciled to the possibility of assembly elections in Bihar being held amid restrictions in place because of the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United) has asked its rank and file to ramp up its social media presence with a special focus on first-time voters. Creating WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages, which could serve as an interface between the party and the masses, figured among the commandments received by JD(U) foot soldiers from Kumar during the six-day "virtual sammelan" that ended on Friday. Seated at his official residence here and flanked by trusted aides, Kumar picked the brains of the party's grassroots workers spread across all 38 districts of Bihar during the six-day-long exercise. In his introductory remarks on Friday, Sanjay Kumar Jha, who is a national general secretary of the party besides a member of the state cabinet, said, "more than 70 per cent of men and women, aged between 18 and 24 years, are known to be very active on WhatsApp and Facebook". "This online presence must be tapped into. These youngsters are most likely not aware of the conditions that prevailed in Bihar when Nitish Kumar took over. "A few decades ago, when we were students ourselves, the Magadh region always remained in news because of massacres which have become a thing of the past," he said. Compare that with the situation today when students from Jehanabad and Aurangabad districts are figuring among toppers in examinations conducted by the state secondary education board, Jha said.  "Lives of girls have been transformed because of schemes like free bicycles and uniforms. The youngsters would be able to appreciate it better in the light of how bad things were earlier," he added. The contrast between "good governance" brought in by Kumar and the "jungle raj" that preceded it has been a recurring theme of the pep talks that the chief minister and his cohorts delivered to the party foot soldiers since Sunday last. Party posters with evocative captions like "bhay banaam bharosa" (terror versus trust) and Kumar's own repeated assertion - "those who have attained voting age only recently must have been very young in 2005 and they need to be told what we had inherited"- give ample indication that the ruling party intends to harp on the failures of the once-mighty RJD. Besides, the party will highlight the achievements that mark the period since it has been in power. The strategy, in which the JD(U) is firmly backed by the BJP for which the tone was set by Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his maiden "virtual rally" last Sunday, which has met with expected indignation from the RJD headed by Lalu Prasad. Tejashwi Yadav, who is Prasad's younger son and the chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections, routinely poses the question "did the JD(U) and Nitish Kumar not know about corruption cases against my father and criminal cases against members of my party when he aligned with us". Notably, Yadav was Kumar's deputy until the latter abruptly walked out of the Grand Alliance that comprised JD (U), RJD and Congress in July 2017 and returned to the NDA which he had quit in 2013. A seasoned politician, who is aiming for a record fourth consecutive term as chief minister, Kumar is all too aware of a pitfall of coming down very heavily on the opposition party. The slogan seeks to underscore the 15 years during which Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi held the chief minister's post between themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-bihar-polls-under-covid-19-shadow-jdu-to-use-social-media-in-a-big-way-849038.html
13-06-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic showed equal opportunity remains distant dream: HC||A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice A A Sayed also said that going by the current situation of the economy and health care, "one can hardly think of a fair society in the near future". It said that the COVID-19 crisis and the lockdown have hit the Indian economy and shown how "pitiable" the condition of migrant workers in the country was. The bench passed a verdict on Friday evening over a bunch of Public Interest Litigations (PILs) filed by several individuals and institutions seeking various reliefs for COVID and non-COVID patients, and frontline workers in Maharashtra. While issuing a slew of directions, the bench directed the Maharashtra government to consider increasing its healthcare budget and expenditure. It also said that the state must give priority to emergencies while admitting patients. "The COVID-19 pandemic has revealed that despite our constitutional guarantees, a society that provides equal opportunities to all remains a distant dream," the HC said. "The pandemic and the resultant lockdown have destabilised the Indian economy, while wrecking the 'haves' and the 'have nots' alike...It has shown how pitiable the conditions of migrant workers in India are...And as things stand now, one can hardly think of a fair and just society any time in the near future," it said. However, it was now time to learn a good lesson and prioritise strengthening the state's healthcare system, it said. The pleas filed through senior counsels Gayatri Singh, Mihir Desai, and advocate Ankit Kulkarni, had sought adequate testing, PPEs for frontline workers, mobile health clinics, beds, health infrastructure, and a helpline for COVID and non-COVID patients. In its verdict, the high court directed the state government to continue testing and screening for coronavirus aggressively, to develop a "wholesome strategy" for dealing with positive patients of all classes, and to make available to the public real-time information on availability of beds, doctors, etc for both COVID and non COVID patients. The court further said that though unavailability of beds was no excuse for refusing admission to patients, efforts shall be made to first admit those patients who "genuinely deserve treatment and care in hospitals in preference to others who out of fear may seek admission but can wait".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-showed-equal-opportunity-remains-distant-dream-hc-849040.html
13-06-2020||National||Pakistani troops violate ceasefire, fire towards Indian positions||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kamalkote sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday by firing without provocation towards Indian positions, officials said. "At about 9:20 am, ceasefire violation was reported from Kamalkote sector in Uri area of north Kashmir's Baramulla district," the officials said. They said Pakistani troops fired without provocation on Indian posts and firing is going on. The Army is giving a befitting response to the Pakistani troops, they added. This is the second ceasefire violation by Pakistani troops in the district in as many days. On Friday, a 48-year-old woman was killed as Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the LoC in Rampur sector of the district. Akhtar Begum, wife of Zahoor Ahmad Chechi, was killed on the spot when her house at Batgran was hit by a shell. A 23-year-old woman was also injured in the incident. Four residential houses and a mosque were damaged in the shelling by Pakistani troops. Several families took refuge either in underground safety bunkers or moved to safer places elsewhere in the Uri Tehsil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-troops-violate-ceasefire-fire-towards-indian-positions-849061.html
13-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 cases jump from 2 lakh to 3 lakh in 10 days as it records worst daily spike||India took 64 days to cross the 1 lakh-mark from 100 cases, then in another fortnight it reached the grim milestone of two lakh cases. It has now become the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic with a caseload of 3,08,993, according to coronavirus statistics website Worldometer. However, the Health Ministry said on Friday the doubling time of coronavirus cases has improved to 17.4 days from 15.4 days. And its data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed active cases at 1,45,779 and those who have recovered at 1,54,329; one patient has migrated. "Thus, around 49.9 per cent patients have recovered so far," a ministry official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 386 new deaths, Delhi accounted for the highest 129 fatalities followed by Maharashtra 127. The virus is moving rapidly in Delhi, which for the first time reported over 2,000 cases on Friday, and Maharashtra, where the number of cases has crossed one lakh. Gujarat reported 30 deaths, Uttar Pradesh 20, Tamil Nadu 18, West Bengal, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh 9 each, Karnataka and Rajasthan 7 each, Haryana and Uttarakhand 6 each, Punjab 4, Assam 2, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir and Odisha 1 each. Of the total 8,884 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,717 fatalities followed by Gujarat with 1,415, Delhi with 1,214, West Bengal with 451, Madhya Pradesh with 440, Tamil Nadu with 367, Uttar Pradesh with 365, Rajasthan with 272 and Telangana with 174 deaths.  The death toll reached 80 in Andhra Pradesh, 79 in Karnataka, 70 in Haryana and 63 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 53 COVID-19 fatalities, Bihar 36 and Uttarakhand 21, Kerala 19, Odisha 10 and Jharkhand and Assam 8 each. Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh have registered 6 deaths each, Chandigarh 5, Puducherry 2, while Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh 1 each, according to the health ministry. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of cases at 1,01,141 followed by Tamil Nadu (40,698), Delhi (36,824), Gujarat (22,527), Uttar Pradesh (12,616), Rajasthan (12,068) and Madhya Pradesh (10,443). The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 10,244 in West Bengal, 6,516 in Karnataka, 6,334 in Haryana and 6,103 in Bihar. It has risen to 5,680 in Andhra Pradesh, 4,730 in Jammu and Kashmir, 4,484 in Telangana and 3,498 in Odisha and Assam each. Punjab has reported 2,986 cases while Kerala has 2,322 cases.  A total of 1,724 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 1,617 in Jharkhand, 1,424 in Chhattisgarh, 961 in Tripura, 486 in Himachal Pradesh, 463 in Goa, 385 from Manipur and 334 in Chandigarh. Ladakh has registered 239 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry 157, Nagaland 156, Mizoram 104, Arunachal Pradesh 67, Sikkim 63, Meghalaya 44 while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 38 cases. Dadar and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 30 cases. The ministry said 7,984 cases are being reassigned to states and "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR". State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-jump-from-2-lakh-to-3-lakh-in-10-days-as-it-records-worst-daily-spike-849074.html
13-06-2020||National||Country passing through difficult times: Army Chief||Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane on Saturday said the country is passing through difficult times and its safety and honour depend on the ability of its young officers as military leaders.       Addressing gentlemen cadets at the Indian Military Academy here as the reviewing officer of a passing out parade, Gen Naravane said they are being commissioned as officers into the army under the most daunting of circumstances and the high standards of their military training will help them overcome the challenges lying in store for them. The parade saw a total of 423 cadets being commissioned into the army including 333 from the country and 90 from friendly foreign countries. "These are difficult times for the country. Its safety, honour and respect depend on your abilities as military leaders. You have to live up to the expectations of your countrymen. You have to ensure that whatever you do is for their welfare," he said. The army chief said there are no good or bad regiments but only good officers. "Become one with your men. Win their trust and affection and they will win battles for you," Naravane said.            He asked the gentlemen cadets to throw themselves into their new role as commissioned officers with passion but also be compassionate towards their men. "When the going gets tough and all seems lost, it is the spirit of your men that helps you win," he said.            He said the gentlemen cadets who are taking their first step as commissioned officers will have to make decisions in the tactical and operational domain as well as resolve ethical issues and they will have only their conscience to guide them.            "In such critical moments let the core values enshrined in the preamble of the constitution of India be your guiding light," the Army Chief said. Asking them to rise above petty considerations of caste, creed and religion, he said the army does not discriminate. Apart from containing the external threats, you may also have to defang internal forces out to destabilise the country. He said the precise drill movements of the cadets had convinced him they will do their respective countries proud. "In the autumn of your careers what will matter is not the position you finally attain but how honourably you have served your nation," he said.                He promised to be with them through thick and thin. The parade looked slightly off-colour this time with the enthusiastic crowds of parents and some usual features missing like the showering of the drill square with flower petals by helicopters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-passing-through-difficult-times-army-chief-849075.html
13-06-2020||National||Situation on borders with China under control: Army chief||Army chief General M M Naravane on Saturday said the situation on India's borders with China was under control and expressed hope that the ongoing dialogue will settle all the perceived differences between the two countries. "I would like to assure everyone that the entire situation along our borders with China is under control. We are having a series of talks which started with Corps Commander level talks which were followed up with meetings at the local level between commanders of equivalent ranks, " he told reporters on the sidelines of the Indian Military Academy's Passing Out Parade here. Naravane said the ongoing dialogue will sort out all the perceived differences between the two countries. "As a result, a lot of disengagement has taken place and we are hopeful that through the continued dialogue that we are having, all perceived differences that we (India and China) have will be set to rest," the Army chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-on-borders-with-china-under-control-army-chief-849076.html
13-06-2020||National||Gauhati HC dismisses PIL on Assam gas well tragedy||The Gauhati High Court has dismissed a PIL against PSU major Oil India, a private firm, the Centre and the state over the Baghjan gas well blowout and successive fire in Assam's Tinsukia district. Hearing arguments from both the petitioner and respondents, the bench comprising Chief Justice Ajai Lamba and Justice Soumitra Saikia on Friday disposed of the public interest litigation filed by environmentalist-cum-entrepreneur Niranta Gohain. "In Paragraph 4 of the petition, it has been pleaded that the petitioner has no personal interest in the litigation. However, learned counsel for the petitioner states that the petitioner is an entrepreneur and has a lodge in the nearby area. "Learned counsel, however, has not been able to dispute that all such hotels, motels and lodges are not functional on account of spread of pandemic under the state-issued regulations," the order said. Stating that a prayer was made in the application to conduct an inquiry other than seeking compensation, the court said that a number of probes have already been ordered by various agencies. "Considering various aspects of the case, this petition cannot be entertained in the present form. We have taken judicial notice of the fact, as noted above, that enquiries in the incident have already been ordered. The matter is still at inceptual stage. "In such circumstances, the petitioner would be at liberty to file a fresh petition, if genuine public cause demands, however, on the basis of relevant data and findings recorded by the enquiry agencies," the court said. On June 10, Gohain filed the petition with 12 respondents, including Oil India Ltd (OIL), John Energy Pvt Ltd, and various agencies of the Centre and the state government. Petitioner's advocate Santanu Borthakur had said the PIL seeks adequate compensation to all the affected parties, a proper inquiry into the incident and measures to protect and restore the rich biodiversity of the area. At present five inquiries are taking place to find out the facts -- a three-member probe by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, a one-member probe by Assam Chief Minister and an internal five-member inquiry by the OIL. Besides, two more crucial independent investigations of technical nature are being carried out by Directorate General Of Mines Safety (DGMS) and Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD). The chief minister also ordered the Additional Principal Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) to conduct a study on the effects of the explosion on the environment and ecology of the surrounding areas, including on flora and fauna in the adjacent Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. The well number 5 at Baghjan has been spewing gas uncontrollably for the last 18 days and it caught fire on Tuesday afternoon, killing two of OIL's firefighters at the site. The blaze at the well is so massive that it can be seen from a distance of more than 30 km with thick black smoke going up several metres high, endangering the local biodiversities. Though there is no fire in the periphery of the well site at present, the company has declared an area up to 1.5 km of radius as "red zone" to avoid any untoward incident. Already two officials of the OIL have been suspended for alleged negligence of duty at the gas well site, while a show-cause notice has been issued to John Energy Pvt Ltd, the outsourced private operator of the well. A case has also been registered against Oil India and John Energy over the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gauhati-hc-dismisses-pil-on-assam-gas-well-tragedy-849107.html
13-06-2020||National||Two 'Indian spies' arrested in Gilgit-Baltistan after crossing LoC: Pakistan media||According to the report in the Dawn newspaper, Indian currency notes, identity cards, and other documents were seized from the alleged spies. They were handed over to police on Friday and Gilgit senior superintendent of police (SSP) Raja Mirza Hassan produced the alleged spies before the media at a press conference, it said. Hassan said the two arrested persons belonged to Kashmir and had been forcibly sent to Pakistan for "spying". They were arrested soon after they crossed the LoC in Gilgit-Baltistan. The detained "Indian spies" introduced themselves as Noor Mohammad Wani and Feroze Ahmed Lone, residents of Gurez's Achora village in Bandipora district in Kashmir, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-indian-spies-arrested-in-gilgit-baltistan-after-crossing-loc-pakistan-media-849108.html
13-06-2020||National||12 arrested, booked under NSA for thrashing Dalits in UP village||Twelve people were arrested after they thrashed youths in a Dalit locality here and charged under the stringent NSA, a senior officer said on Saturday. The police also suspended the SHO of Maharajganj Police Station under which Sikandarpur Aima village falls where the incident triggered by the alleged molestation of some Dalit girls by a few men from another community took place. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati praised the state government saying, “In the Azamgarh molestation case involving a Dalit girl, the action initiated by UP chief minister is better late than never. This is good. But, it would be better, if similar action was initiated in cases pertaining to sisters and daughters in the future as well." In another tweet, Mayawati said, "The molestation of any Dalit girl or those from any other religion and caste, be it from Azamgarh, Kanpur or any other district, must be condemned." Those arrested were identified as Pervez, Faizan, Noor Alam, Sadre Alam, Hamir, Asif, Meraj and Suhail, police said. Under NSA, a person can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that they are a threat to national security or law and order. According to police, the incident took place on Wednesday evening when the girls belonging to the Dalit community were molested near the village tubewell. "When residents of the Dalit locality resisted, they were attacked with sharp-edged weapons and sticks. In the police complaint, 9 people were named while 10 were unidentified,” Superintendent of Police of Azamgarh, Triveni Singh said. “Of them, 12 have been arrested and action is being initiated against them under the NSA,” Singh added. A cash reward of Rs 25,000 has been announced for information on the absconding accused, he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-arrested-booked-under-nsa-for-thrashing-dalits-in-up-village-849110.html
13-06-2020||National||Unease in MVA? Congress to meet Maharashtra CM to seek say in decision-making||Signs of unease in the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are visible, with the Congress, one of the three ruling allies, making a pitch for having a say in the key decision-making process and inclusion in important meetings. Speaking on Saturday, a party source said that state Congress leaders are likely to meet Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray next week to discuss this and some other issues with him. According to a Congress leader the chief minister has been holding talks with Sharad Pawar, president of NCP that is also part of the ruling dispensation, on various issues, including the COVID-19 pandemic and relief for people affected by cyclone Nisarga. This has created a feeling that the state Congress is being left out, he said. A Congress minister said, "There is some resentment within the party over certain issues, which we want to discuss with the CM and get resolved." Another party leader said that when the three-party government was formed in November last year and after the council of ministers was sworn in, it had been decided that there would be equal sharing of power and responsibilities. The party source said that state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat and PWD Minister Ashok Chavan will meet Thackeray on Monday to discuss the issues related to legislative council nominations from the Governor's quota, appointments for state-run boards and corporations, problems faced by Congress ministers. State Congress leaders had met earlier this week to discuss that the party leaders and ministers were not being made part of the decision-making process in the alliance government. Chief minister's close aide Milind Narvekar was also present as an emissary of the CM to know the views of the Congress leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unease-in-mva-congress-to-meet-maharashtra-cm-to-seek-say-in-decision-making-849118.html
13-06-2020||National||Physically-challenged girl 'raped' by father in Tripura||A 14-year old physically- challenged girl has been allegedly raped by her father in Tripura, police said on Saturday. The incident took place in Lalcherra village in North Tripura district on Tuesday when the victim's mother was not at home, officer-in-charge of Kadamtala police station, Krishnadhan Sarkar said. "The girl narrated the incident to her mother upon her return to their home. The woman lodged an FIR against her husband on Friday, based on which the accused was arrested," Sarkar told PTI over the phone. A case under POCSO Act has been registered against the accused, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/physically-challenged-girl-raped-by-father-in-tripura-849121.html
13-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Surat's 8 diamond firms partly shut after +ve cases||With 23 workers employed in some diamond units in Surat city of Gujarat testing coronavirus positive, the civic authorities have ordered the partial closure of around eight such firms and asked their other staff members to undergo a 14-day quarantine. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that it has ordered the closure of certain floors and departments of these eight diamond units located in the city's Katargam locality, to contain the spread of coronavirus. Surat is the biggest diamond cutting and polishing hubs of the country. "In the last three days,23 diamond workers have tested COVID-19 positive and the number is rising," SMC's Deputy Municipal Commissioner, Ashish Naik, said on Saturday. With the detection of several positive cases, certain departments of diamond units, including Shivam Jewellers, SRK Empire, Dharmnandan Diamonds, Rinkle Impex, C Dinesh and Co, JB and Brothers, and Royal Diamonds, have been shut, the civic body said in a statement. Other workers of these units have been asked to strictly observe 14-day quarantine, it added. It also said that the units where social distancing norms were not being followed have been slapped with Rs 10,000 penalty each. The SMC said that it will continue to check diamond units to see whether norms like social distancing, use of masks and sanitisers, were being followed to prevent the spread of the virus. All the workers in the diamond polishing units sit in close proximity while working. Over 20 people, who recently tested coronavirus positive, worked at these units, civic officials said, adding that family members of these workers have also been quarantined. Regional President of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Dinesh Navadiya, said that the diamond industry employs around 6.5 lakh workers in Surat. "There are around 6,000 diamond units in Surat that employ around 6.5 lakh workers. As per our calculation, from June 1, when these diamond units were allowed to reopen after lockdown, 2 lakh to 2.25 lakh workers have started working in these units," he said. "We will meet SMC officials to discuss the matter. We will try to find a way out," he said. Diamond polishing units started their operations again from this month after lockdown as relaxed in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-surats-8-diamond-firms-partly-shut-after-ve-cases-849123.html
13-06-2020||National||About 56% of children have no access to smartphones for e-learning: Study||About 56 per cent of children were found to have no access to smartphones which have emerged as essential tools for online learning during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, according to a new study that surveyed 42,831 students at various school levels. The study 'Scenario amidst COVID 19 - Onground Situations and Possible Solutions' was conducted by child rights NGO Smile Foundation with an aim of analysing the access to technology. The findings of the study showed that 43.99 per cent of surveyed children have access to smartphones and another 43.99 per cent of students have access to basic phones while 12.02 per cent do not have access to either smartphones or basic phones.  A total of 56.01 per cent children were found to have no access to smartphones, the study said.  "Concerning television, it was noted that while 68.99 per cent have access to TV, a major chunk of 31.01 per cent does not. Hence suggesting that using smartphone interventions for enhancing learning outcomes is not the only solution," it said. At the primary level of education (class 1 to 5) 19,576 children were surveyed while at upper primary level (class 6 to 8) 12,277 children were surveyed. At secondary level of education (class 9 to 10) 5,537 children were surveyed and at higher secondary level (class 11 to 12) 3,216 children were surveyed. The survey based on which the study was conducted used two approaches - over the telephone wherein the NGO reached out to the children whose database it already had -- students enrolled in various education centres of the NGO -- and second was through community mobilization wherein community workers went door to door to get answers. The survey was conducted in 23 states, including Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, over a period of 12 days from April 16 to April 28.   The lockdown induced by the COVID-19 pandemic in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. However, many experts say the digital divide in the country may turn online classes into an operational nightmare. As per official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country. However, it is not clear as to how many of them have access to digital devices and Internet. Santanu Mishra, co-founder and executive trustee, Smile Foundation, said the findings clearly show that the digital divide is a real challenge, and multiple approaches need to be implemented to cater to all across the nation. "As an exercise before we start any programme, we do a baseline study to understand the on-ground challenges so that our programmes can bring in real work and real change. With the onset of the pandemic, following indefinite school closures, it is more important than ever to understand the situation and how can we ensure that children are given quality education. Through this, we understand that customized modules need to be built in accordance with the channel of communication," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-56-of-children-have-no-access-to-smartphones-for-e-learning-study-849136.html
13-06-2020||National||COVID-19 spreads tentacles in MP villages; rural tally at 951||At least 951 persons from 462 villages in Madhya Pradesh have tested positive for novel coronavirus, the latest report from the state government has said. According to the report, the disease has spread its tentacles in 50 districts of the state, infecting 951 people from the rural areas, of which 32 have died. The revelation has come at a time when the state government claims that the impact of the outbreak has weakened in Madhya Pradesh. Earlier this week, state Health Minister Narottam Mishra had said that Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan had directed officials to focus on capital city Bhopal, as the situation in other parts of the state was under control. Among the 951 COVID-19 patients in rural areas, 479 were labourers, including migrants who returned to the state following the lockdown, the latest panchayat and rural department's report stated. As per the data, 336 people were infected in rural Madhya Pradesh on May 21 and of them, 130 were labourers and 206 were other villagers. Swab samples of 29,881 people have been collected for testing from rural areas of the state so far, it stated. The infection, which was detected in 186 villages on May 21, has spread to 462 villages in just 22 days, the report revealed.  Incidentally, none of the villages in Hoshangabad and Niwari districts have reported a single case of COVID-19 so far, the report said. According to the data, villages in Indore district have recorded the highest number of rural COVID-19 cases with 90 persons testing positive for the infection, followed by 51 in the villages of Khargone, 50 in Bhind, 43 in Neemuch, 42 in Gwalior and 41 in Burhanpur. At least 14 people have succumbed to the infection in eight villages of Indore, with six deaths reported from Baank village alone. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary of the Panchayat and Rural Development department Manoj Shrivastava said the state government was working hard to contain the viral spread in rural areas. Over 14.82 lakh migrant labourers had returned to their homes from other states so far, he said. Presently, 12,04,315 migrant labourers and villagers were home quarantined or put in isolation centres, the official said. The state government was also working towards providing jobs, food and healthcare facilities to migrant labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-spreads-tentacles-in-mp-villages-rural-tally-at-951-849137.html
13-06-2020||National||TDP leader Prabhakar Reddy, son held for illegal registration and sale of motor vehicles||TDP leader J C Prabhakar Reddy was arrested on Saturday over his alleged involvement in the illegal registration and sale of motor vehicles that were purchased as scrap, making him the second opposition party leader in Andhra Pradesh to be held over graft charges. On Friday, Telugu Desam Legislature Party Deputy leader and former minister K Atchannaidu was taken into custody by state Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths in connection with alleged Rs 151 crore scam in the ESI Corporation. Prabhakar Reddy and his son, Asmith Reddy, were arrested at their residence in Hyderabad and brought to their native Anantapuramu district, police sources said. Sources said the former MLA produced fabricated documents for obtaining no-objection certificates for selling the vehicles in other states. Joint Transport Commissioner S A V Prasada Rao said Jatadhara Industries Private Ltd and another C Gopal Reddy and Company of Tadipatri in Anantapuramu district were indulged in malpractices by purchasing vehicles (BS-3 standard) sold as scrap and getting them registered in Nagaland during 2018, through fake and fabricated documents. In all, 154 vehicles were involved in the illicit transactions. Jatadhara Industries is owned by J C Uma Reddy and Asmith Reddy, wife and son of Prabhakar Reddy. The other company is owned by Gopal Reddy, a close associate of Prabhakar Reddy. "It became clear that the owners of the two companies purchased the vehicles (from Ashok Leyland) as scrap, which are not roadworthy. They forged documents to show as if they are roadworthy vehicles, properly sold by the manufacturer, to get them registered at a faraway place in Nagaland," Prasada Rao said. He pointed out that the invoices produced for registration, purportedly issued by Ashok Leyland company were not in consonance with each other. "It is also clear that, for securing wrongful gains, they obtained no-objection certificates within a few days and got the vehicles re-registered at Anantapuramu. They were not only cheating the government by plying these unfit vehicles illegally but also endangering road safety and human lives," the Joint Transport Commissioner said. Of the total 154 scrap vehicles, 101 were registered in AP while 28 were taken to other states on NOC. The remaining vehicles were registered in other states. "We have informed the vehicle registering authorities in other states about these vehicles and fake documents. We have also written to the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways requesting that these 154 vehicles be blacklisted in the VAHAN database to prevent any further transactions," Prasada Rao added. A part from registration using fake documents, the crime also extended to fake insurance policies for these vehicles. "As faking insurance policies and plying of such vehicles endangers public safety and road safety, further criminal cases have to be booked against the two companies," the JTC said. The Regional Transport Authorities in Anantapuramu so far filed 24 criminal cases against the two companies and their owners while three more cases were registered in Kurnool district. Further investigation into the case is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tdp-leader-prabhakar-reddy-son-held-for-illegal-registration-and-sale-of-motor-vehicles-849139.html
13-06-2020||National||India repatriates 227 stranded citizens from Finland, Denmark, Estonia and Latvia||As many as 227 Indian nationals stranded in Finland, Denmark, Estonia and Latvia have been flown back home under the third phase of the mega evacuation exercise Vande Bharat. National carrier Air India on Friday evening operated its first passenger flight ever from the Finnish capital city Helsinki, bringing back the Indian citizens stranded in the four European countries due to the international travel restrictions following the coronavirus outbreak. Air India's Country Manager in Israel, Pankaj Tiwari, whose office coordinated the repatriation flight told PTI that the AI 1184 flight landed in New Delhi on Saturday. "The repatriation provided immense relief to stranded Indians, especially those who had come to Finland as tourists, business travellers, senior citizens who had been visiting their children and students who finished their academic year," India's Ambassador to Finland Vani Rao told PTI. "Among them were a couple who came to Finland for their honeymoon and got stuck for three months. Several are returning to India for medical attention and family emergencies," Rao added. While most of the stranded passengers were from Finland, 15 were from Estonia, some from Denmark and one from Latvia. The Air India flight also brought to Finland 168 people, including 15 infants, who were stranded in India. The special flight was a massive effort and a challenging one because Air India does not have any operations in Finland and all the logistics and ground support had to be handled by the concerned Finnish operators and was managed remotely by the Air India office in Tel Aviv, Rao said. "This operation was very special as it was the first ever passenger flight from Finland to India by Air India. Another first was the scale at which thermal screening was carried out at the Helsinki airport -- in the last 15 years a thermal screening operation of so many passengers was not done in Helsinki on a single day," she said. The Finnish government, especially the foreign ministry, the border police and the airport management company, Finnavia, extended their cooperation and support to the inbound and outbound flights in coordination with the Indian embassy and the Air India office in Tel Aviv. The Indian community in Finland also came forward to volunteer in the efforts. "While the mission was extremely challenging and needed coordination on several fronts, the happiness of the stranded Indians and their relief at finally heading back home made it completely worthwhile. For the embassy and the Indian community, an Air India flight landing at Helsinki was a moment of pride and a very memorable one," Rao said. Some Indians in Finland and Estonia who could not be accommodated on the flight, and are keen to go back to India, have been advised to take the Vande Bharat Flights from Frankfurt and Paris through direct booking. "Handling operations at an offline location is challenging, but with the excellent support from the team of Embassy officials, local authorities in Finland and the Air India Team it was a seamless experience," Tiwari said.  The third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission got underway on Thursday and will continue till July 2. Phase-III will have 432 international flights from 43 countries reaching 17 states and union territories. A total of 1,65,375 Indians have returned from abroad till Thursday under the evacuation mission, the first phase of which was launched on May 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-repatriates-227-stranded-citizens-from-finland-denmark-estonia-and-latvia-849142.html
13-06-2020||National||1,233 personnel of Mumbai Police recovered from COVID-19: Govt||A total of 1,233 personnel of Mumbai Police have recovered from COVID-19 and 334 of them have resumed work, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Saturday. Deshmukh said he was proud of police personnel who risked their lives to perform their duties. "A total of 1233 policemen from the #MumbaiPolice Force have successfully defeated #Covid19. 334 of them have returned to duty. Congratulations to these #coronawarriors. I am proud of the @MumbaiPolice who risk their lives to perform their duties diligently," Deshmukh tweeted. As of June 12, 35 policemen, including 21 from Mumbai and others from rest of Maharashtra, have lost their lives due to COVID-19.  A total of 197 police officials and 1,211 staffers have been infected by the novel coronavirus across the state, as per the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1233-personnel-of-mumbai-police-recovered-from-covid-19-govt-849145.html
13-06-2020||National||Females in India may have higher COVID-19 death risk than males: Study||While studies have shown that men are more prone to dying from COVID-19 than women globally, an analysis of case fatalities in India suggests that females may have a higher relative-risk of COVID-19 mortality in the country. Scientists, including Abhishek Kumar from the Institute of Economic Growth in New Delhi, used crowdsourced data to provide early estimates for age-sex specific COVID-19 case fatality rate (CFR) for India. The study, published in the Journal of Global Health Science, presented an age and sex specific view of mortality from the disease using the measure of CFR, which is the ratio of confirmed deaths in total confirmed cases. In the research, the scientists evaluated adjusted-CFR to capture the potential mortality among the currently active infections. According to the study, the CFR among males is 2.9 per cent, while that for females it is 3.3 per cent in India. The researchers said as of May 20, 2020, males shared a higher burden (66 per cent) of COVID-19 infections than females (34 per cent) but the infection is more or less evenly distributed in under-five as well as elderly age groups. Males are at a greater disadvantage than females, they said, adding that it is unclear whether males experience a higher risk of mortality throughout the age-spectrum, or if there are sex-related differences in survival risk. "While males have a higher overall burden (66 per cent) of COVID-19 infections than females, the infection is evenly distributed in the under-five age group and, to some extent, even among the elderly age groups (particularly 70+ years)," the scientists wrote in the study. The World Health Organization (WHO) world standard population structure standardized CFR for India is 3.34 per cent while the adjusted-CFR is estimated to be 4.8 per cent, the study noted. While early evidence indicated that males have higher overall burden across the world, females have a higher relative-risk of COVID-19 mortality in India, the researchers said. According to the scientists, elderly males and females both display high mortality risk and require special care when infected. Citing the limitations of the study, the researchers said the analysis is based on crowdsourced data with "considerable gaps in reporting of age-sex specific information of all the COVID-19 infections and deaths." The scientists said the number of confirmed cases in India depends upon the testing facility and capture of the data on age-sex specificities of COVID-19 cases, which they added "has been inadequate." Based on the results, the researchers emphasised the need for data collection and sharing of age-sex specific COVID-19 cases and mortality data to develop robust estimates of COVID-19 case fatality to support policy decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/females-in-india-may-have-higher-covid-19-death-risk-than-males-study-849153.html
13-06-2020||National||Karnataka Bhavan employee tests COVID-19 positive||An employee in the Karnataka Bhavan tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. 28-year old employee working in housekeeping section in Karnataka Bhavan-1 at Chanakyaouri, tested positive after mild symptoms of fever and admitted to hospital. He had last checked into duty on June 8. The officials also doing his  contact tracing and his primary contact in Karnataka Bhavan will be tested. Those employees come to contact with him are asked to home quarantine, said an official in Karnataka Bhavan. The Bhavan has been closed for two days from Saturday and entire building sanitised as per health protocols. The Karnataka Bhavan has already taken all precautionary steps and asked that only asymptomatic employees should attend duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-bhavan-employee-tests-covid-19-positive-849155.html
13-06-2020||National||Booked for questioning Uttar Pradesh's COVID-19 policy, ex-UP bureaucrat says ready to go to jail||Booked for questioning the COVID-19 policy of Uttar Pradesh government, former IAS officer Surya Pratap Singh has reiterated his claim that the district magistrates were 'admonished' by a top state bureaucrat for increasing the number of coronavirus tests and said that he was ready to go to jail. Singh, who had opted for VRS (voluntary retirement) in 2016, had been booked by the police for spreading 'misleading' and 'mischievous' information, which could ''create fear'' in the minds of the people. He has been charged under the IT Act, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act. Singh had tweeted that UP's COVID-19 policy appeared to be ''No tests, No Corona'' and wondered if the low number of coronavirus positive cases in the state were due to less number of tests. He had claimed that at a meeting, the state chief secretary had 'admonished' some district magistrates for increasing the number of coronavirus tests. ''Why are you (DMs) going so fast....why are you shouting tests-tests?...do you expect a prize,'' Singh quoted the chief secretary as having told the DMs. Singh, who, as the then special secretary of former UP chief minister Veer Bahadur Singh, had been a witness to the opening of the lock of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya in 1986, was considered to be an outspoken official.  He had taken on the then Akhilesh Yadav government in the state in 2015 on different issues. ''The chief secretary has not denied my remarks...if it is correct the it means that the officials are running away from their duty to please their political masters,'' Singh, who was transferred 54 times in his 25 year service, said. ''UP accounts for 21 per cent population of the country but the number of coronavirus positive people is only around three per cent...have they developed a vaccine or some special potion?'' he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/booked-for-questioning-uttar-pradeshs-covid-19-policy-ex-up-bureaucrat-says-ready-to-go-to-jail-849158.html
13-06-2020||National||Centre deploys tuberculosis testing platform TrueNAT to ramp up COVID-19 tests||With COVID-19 cases rising at a faster pace, the Centre has fallen back upon its extensive tuberculosis testing facilities to ramp up testing for SARS CoV-2 virus. The TrueNat machines have been extensively used across almost every district for conducting tests for tuberculosis, prevalence for which is high in the country. With migrant workers returning in huge numbers in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, the TrueNat machines prove to be an important resource to ramp up tests for COVID-19 and be cost effective as well. The biosafety and biosecurity requirements for TrueNat machines are also minimal, which make them an ideal tool for mass deployment. “Out testing outreach has increased significantly as the TrueNat platform is available even as primary health centre levels,” Nivedita Gupta, senior scientist Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said. On Friday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister beefed up COVID-19 testing in the state by deploying TrueNat machines in each of the 75 districts as well as medical colleges. The Jharkhand government has also ordered additional TrueNat machines to add to its testing capabilities. ICMR had earlier granted approval for use of TrueNat machines for screening tests for COVID-19. Recently, it also validated the confirmatory tests that could be conducted using the TrueNat machines. Truenat was developed by the Indian firm MolBio Diagnostics Pvt Ltd Goa for the detection of TB bacteria. It was used not only for rapid detection of TB bacteria but also helped in detecting drug-resistant TB bacteria. More recently, the TrueNat machines were also used for detecting the Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala. India has crossed the three-lakh mark of confirmed cases of COVID-19 with a spike of 11,458 cases on Saturday. There are 3,08,993 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in India, of which 1,54,330 have recovered and discharged from hospitals and 8,884 have succumbed to the disease. India has ramped up testing for COVID with ICMR testing 55.07 lakh samples of which 1,43,737 were tested on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-deploys-tuberculosis-testing-platform-truenat-to-ramp-up-covid-19-tests-849167.html
13-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Vidarbha is the safest zone in Maharashtra||Maharashtra may be the worst COVID-19 affected state but its vast Vidarbha region seems to be safest. Spread over 11 districts, Vidarbha has just 2,879 positive cases and 82 deaths.  The six districts of Nagpur division are Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur. The five districts of Akola division are Akola Amravati, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Washim. The three worst-affected districts are Akola, Amravati and Nagpur, according to the data compiled by the Public Health department. While Akola has 979 cases and 40 deaths, its neighbouring Amravati has 324 cases and 21 deaths. Nagpur, that is considered the winter capital of state and has an international airport, has reported 969 cases and 12 deaths. Three districts of Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur has reported zero deaths. In Vidarbha region, the recovery rate is around 60 to 65 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vidarbha-is-the-safest-zone-in-maharashtra-849172.html
13-06-2020||National||Centre moves Supreme Court for clarification on promotion to SC/ST employees||The Union government has approached the Supreme Court for seeking clarification on an order to maintain status quo on reservation in promotion to the SC/ST employees. It said as on January 31, 2020, more than 1.3 lakh promotions were held up in 23 out of a total of 78 departments, causing resentment and financial loss to them. In an application, the Centre sought permission to make "ad-hoc promotions to the large number of vacant posts" subject to outcome of the cases, as it said, "the status quo ordered on April 15, 2019 has resulted in a complete stoppage of all promotions" in reserved and general category. It said a significant numbers of government servants were retiring every month without getting the promotions due to them. "This is causing resentment, demoralisation and confusion amongst a large section of the government servants, besides financial losses," it said.  In the current pandemic of COVID-19, government employees are at the forefront of providing various relief measures to the public and it is important to keep up their morale, the government further said. It submitted that the application was necessitated as previously the court by its order on May 17, 2018 and June 5, 2018 permitted for going ahead with the promotion. The Delhi High Court has on August 23, 2017 quashed the office memorandum of August 13, 1997, providing for reservation in promotions to the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs). The HC had also restrained the government from granting any reservation, in promotion, to SC/STs, in exercise of the power conferred by Article 16 (4A) of the Constitution, without, acquiring quantifiable data indicating inadequacy of representation, and evaluating the situation by taking into consideration the said data, along with the competing considerations of backwardness and overall efficiency in administration, and arriving at an empirical decision. The special leave petition by the Union government was still pending before the top court. "This HC judgment has affected morale of employees due to uncertainty about their future prospects, fear of reversions, etc," it said. Further, keeping the various promotional posts vacant in various cadres for a long time was bound to hamper the smooth functioning of the public work in all government establishments, which was not in public interest, it said.   In the Central Secretariat Services (CSS), the status of vacancies as on May 14, 2020 is as follows: Grade Total Vacancies Director (Group A): 130 Deputy Secretary (Group A): 116 Under Secretary (Group A): 260* Section Officer (Group B): 1355** * This includes 116 vacancies that will percolate down after promotion of 116 Deputy Secretaries to the grade of Director. ** This includes 260 vacancies that will percolate down after promotion of Under Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries to the higher grade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-supreme-court-for-clarification-on-promotion-to-sc/st-employees-849179.html
13-06-2020||National||'Fitness freak ghost'? Video shows vacant gym machine swinging, Police calls it a prank||Who doesn't want to be fit? And that includes the ghosts as well. Police in Uttar Pradesh's Jhansi town, about 300 kilometres from here, were sent into a tizzy after they a video showing a shoulder workout machine in an open gym at a park swinging without any one sitting on the chair went viral on the social media. The Kanshiram Park in Sipri Bazar area in the town had turned into a horror place and the locals had stopped visiting the park after the video went viral. A team of cops, which was rushed to the park, found two shoulder press workout machine there. They found that the machines, once moved two-three times, started swinging on its own for a few seconds.   ''This could be owing to excessive greasing of the machines,'' said a police official.  The cops said that it appeared to be the handiwork of some mischievous elements. ''They must have mad the video by moving the machines a few times and then leaving it to swing without any one sitting on the chairs....We will soon nab those living ghosts and keep the pranksters in a haunted cell,'' remarked the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fitness-freak-ghost-video-shows-vacant-gym-machine-swinging-police-calls-it-a-prank-849180.html
13-06-2020||National||Health Ministry okays HCQ for early course of COVID-19, remdesivir under emergency use authorization||Backtracking from its earlier stance, Union Health Ministry in its revised 'Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19', released on Saturday, said anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) should be used in the early course of the disease to achieve any meaningful effect and should be avoided in severe cases. The ministry has also recommended use of anti-viral drug remdesivir under emergency use authorization, off-label application of immunomodulator tocilizumab and convalescent plasma therapy for treating COVID-19 patients in moderate stage of criticality. In the new set of protocols, the ministry has removed its earlier recommendation of using hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin in severe cases and requiring ICU management. Hydroxychloroquine has demonstrated in-vitro activity against SARS-CoV2 and was shown to be clinically beneficial in several small single-centre studies though with significant limitations, it stated. "Nonetheless, several large observational studies with severe methodologic limitations have shown no effect on mortality or other clinically meaningful outcomes. "As such, the evidence base behind its use remains limited as with other drugs and should only be used after shared decision making with the patients while awaiting the results of ongoing studies," the revised document stated.  "As is the case with other anti-virals, this drug should be used as early in the disease course as possible to achieve any meaningful effects and should be avoided in patients with severe disease," it read. An ECG should ideally be done before prescribing the drug to measure QTc interval, to assess some of the electrical properties of the heart, and avoid hydroxychloroquine if QTc is greater than 500 ms, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-okays-hcq-for-early-course-of-covid-19-remdesivir-under-emergency-use-authorization-849191.html
13-06-2020||National||As lockdown being eased, COVID-19 infections through local contact witnessing increasing trend in Kerala||With the relaxation of lockdown norms Kerala has been witnessing an increasing trend in the number of infections caused due to local spread, which is over 11 percent by now. Kerala has been giving thrust on containing the local spread and hence people coming from other states and countries were being strictly monitored and kept under quarantine. Even then there were scores of incidents of people flouting the norms and there by causing the spread. While the number of infections through local contacts in May, after people from abroad and other states started arriving, was 92, so far in June it reached 128. It included health workers also. Relaxation of lockdown norms seems to be the key reason. A health department official said that it was owing to the strict protocol and surveillance that the number of infection through local contact could be kept at a low rate compared to many other states. However, relaxation of norms is obviously a cause for concern. Meanwhile, the state government of Saturday decided to ease the total shutdown on Sundays. People can go to worship centres, examination and to join educational institutions. 85 more test positive While 85 more persons were tested positive in Kerala on Saturday, 46 under treatment recovered, taking the number of COVID active persons to 1,343. Of the fresh cases, 53 came from abroad and 18 from other states.  The 14 persons who got infected locally included four health workers. About 30 employees of Kannur international airport had to go on quarantine after terminal manager was tested COVID positive. He was asymptomatic. ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-lockdown-being-eased-covid-19-infections-through-local-contact-witnessing-increasing-trend-in-kerala-849192.html
13-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: India crosses 3 lakh COVID-19 cases; Infosys faces another racism charge||India surpassed the three lakh-mark on Saturday with the worst daily spike of 11,458 infections. IT major Infosys is facing yet another charge of racism as one of its former employees has filed a lawsuit against the company. Former Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi says he has tested positive for COVID-19.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-crosses-3-lakh-covid-19-cases-infosys-faces-another-racism-charge-849194.html
13-06-2020||National||Loss of smell or taste added to list of COVID-19 symptoms: Health ministry||Loss of smell or taste has been added to the list of COVID-19 symptoms, according to the revised clinical management protocols released by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. The ministry said that coronavirus-infected patients reporting to various COVID-19 treatment facilities have been reporting symptoms like fever, cough, fatigue, shortness of breath, expectoration, myalgia, rhinorrhea, sore throat and diarrhea. They have also complained of loss of smell (anosmia) or loss of taste (ageusia) preceding the onset of respiratory symptoms. Older people and immune-suppressed patients in particular may present with atypical symptoms such as fatigue, reduced alertness, reduced mobility, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, delirium, and absence of fever, the ministry said. Children might not have reported fever or cough as frequently as adults. The US's national public health institute, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), had in early May incorporated "a new loss of taste or smell" in the list of COVID-19 symptoms. According to the data from Integrated Health Information Platform and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, portal case investigation forms for COVID 19 (n=15,366), the details on the signs and symptoms reported are (as on June 11), fever (27 per cent), cough (21 pc), sore throat (10 pc), breathlessness (8 pc), Weakness (7 pc), running nose (3pc ) and others 24 pc. According to the health ministry, people infected by the novel coronavirus are the main source of infection.  Direct person-to-person transmission occurs through close contact, mainly through respiratory droplets that are released when the infected person coughs, sneezes, or talks. These droplets may also land on surfaces, where the virus remains viable. Infection can also occur if a person touches an infected surface and then touches his or her eyes, nose, or mouth. The median incubation period is 5.1 days (range 2–14 days). The precise interval during which an individual with COVID-19 is infectious is uncertain.  As per the current evidence, the period of infectivity starts 2 days prior to onset of symptoms and lasts up to 8 days. The extent and role played by pre-clinical/ asymptomatic infections in transmission still remain under investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loss-of-smell-or-taste-added-to-list-of-covid-19-symptoms-health-ministry-849195.html
13-06-2020||National||SC to take up NGO's plea for national plan to deal with COVID-19||The Supreme Court is scheduled to take up on Wednesday a plea by an NGO for a direction to the Centre to prepare a well-thought out national plan to deal with COVID-19 pandemic. It also contended there cannot be continuous arbitrariness in the decision making process, putting a disproportionate burden on the poor and other marginal sections of the society. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah would consider the plea by the 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' through advocate Prashant Bhushan. The petitioner also sought a direction to the Union government to utilise transfer of all contributions made to PM Cares Fund to the National Disaster Relief Fund for the purpose of providing assistance in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioner also demanded laying down of minimum standards of relief, under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to be provided to persons affected by the virus, as well as by the resultant national lockdown. The petitioner contended a national plan needs to be prepared after due consultation with the state governments and experts, recommending ex gratia assistance for the kith and kin of those lost life not just because of COVID-19 infection but also as a result of the harsh lockdown restrictions. "The plan should provide proper and detailed mechanism for any future lockdown measures, detailed coordination mechanism between Centre and States, social distancing norms keeping in mind the predicaments of the lower strata of the society, least disruption of public transports and essential activities, large scale ramping up of quarantine facilities along with rapid manufacturing oftesting and PPE kits and all this needs to be done transparently," it said. There should be the minimum requirements to be provided in the relief camps in relation to shelter, food, drinking water, medical cover and sanitation, it pleaded. The petitioner maintained that the right to health is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution. Though the acute and unforeseen challenge in the face of the current Covid-19 pandemic was understandable, the statutory provisions in fighting the instant crisis were required to be followed both in letter and spirit. "The latest national plan uploaded on the website of National Disaster Management Authority is of the year 2019, which doesn't deal comprehensively with situations arising out of the current pandemic and has no mention of measures like lockdown, containment zones, social distancing etc in it," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-take-up-ngos-plea-for-national-plan-to-deal-with-covid-19-849200.html
13-06-2020||National||Maharashtra govt slashes COVID-19 testing price in private labs by half||The Maharashtra government has slashed 50-percent of the charges levied by private laboratories for conducting COVID-19 tests. This will make the coronavirus test charges in the state uniform and also the lowest in the country, state health minister Rajesh Tope said. The private labs were charging between Rs.4,500 and Rs.5,200. “Even several organisations which wanted to conduct such tests on their employees found it too expensive and hence we decided to study the issue,” Tope said. A committee of experts headed by top health officials headed by Dr. Suhakar Shinde and comprising Dr. Sadhna Tayde, Dr. Ajay Chandanwale, and Prof. Amit Joshi went into the issue in detail,  a press statement said.  "They have recommended a maximum rate of between Rs.2,200-Rs.2,800  which we have accepted and implemented. This will prove to be a huge relief to the people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-slashes-covid-19-testing-price-in-private-labs-by-half-849201.html
13-06-2020||National||Goa witnesses jump in COVID-19 cases; 60 reported||On Saturday, Goa witnessed its biggest ever jump yet vis a vis COVID-19 cases, with 60 persons testing positive, even as panic in the state's rurales has seen several villages opting for self-imposed lockdowns in a bid to insulate their respective population from the viral pandemic. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said, that sixty persons had tested positive in Goa on Saturday, nearly half of whom were from in the state's first containment zone at Mangor hill in South Goa. "We have 60 more cases today. 26 cases were from Mangor hill, five others who tested positive were travellers and the rest were primary contacts of already infected persons," Mohanan said.  The state's COVID-19 tally currently stands at 545, she said. Mohanan also said, that one person, who was suffering from COVID-19 as well as a severe lung condition and had a history of a recent heart attack was in critical condition and had been put on a ventilator. The state government meanwhile formally notified the remote village of Ghodemal in North Goa as a 'containment zone' following a spike in the number of cases in the area. Saturday also saw a string of villages across the state, opting to impose a lockdown in their jurisdiction as a precautionary measure against the spread of the viral infection. The village panchayats of Chopde-Agarwado, Merces, Keri village, were among several villages which opted for a lockdown. According to a resolution passed by the Chopde-Agarwado panchayat the lockdown of shops and establishments as well as private offices has been imposed for seven days, with exceptions for banks, health facilities, government offices and other emergency services. Those violating the lockdown would be fined Rs. 5,000 the resolution passed by the panchayat states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-witnesses-jump-in-covid-19-cases-60-reported-849207.html
13-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi flags need for 'emergency planning' in meet over COVID-19 spike||Ahead of his interactions with Chief Ministers on June 16 and June 17 to draw a new strategy to check COVID-19 spread in major cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune, Indore and Jaipur Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held  a comprehensive meeting with senior ministers and officials in which he reviewed the national level status and preparation in the context of the pandemic In the meeting, Member NITI Vinod Paul, who is convenor of the Empowered Group of Medical Emergency Management Plan, made a detailed presentation on the current status and the likely scenario of COVID-19 cases in the medium term. Taking a view of the wide range of recommendations of the Empowered Group on city and district-wise requirements of hospital beds and isolation beds which will be required, the Prime Minister instructed Health Ministry officials to undertake emergency planning in consultation with the states and UTs. With death cases also registering a spike, concern rang loud and clear in the government circles amid a clear view that out of box measures would be required to contain the spread in states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi,  Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal which have a high load. It was observed that out of the total cases two-thirds are in five states with an overwhelming proportion of cases in big cities.  In view of the challenges being faced, particularly by the large cities, the meeting dwelt on the need to augment testing as well as increase the number of beds and services to effectively handle the peak surge of daily cases.  The present and emerging scenario of the COVID 19 disease in Delhi was discussed and the projections for next 2 months were deliberated upon. The Prime Minister’s meeting on Saturday was attended by Shah, Health Minister Harshvardhan, Principal Secretary to PM, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, Health Secretary Priti Sudan, DG ICMR Balram Bhargava, and the convenors of the related Empowered Groups. Modi’s  review of India’s response to COVID-19 pandemic and took stock of situation in different states and union territories including Delhi came a day before Home Minister Amit Shah will be holding two meetings on Delhi on Sunday—with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi L-G Anil Baijal, medicos and experts as well as a separate one in which Mayors have also been called. In the Saturday meeting, Modi underlined the need for convening such an “emergency meeting” to plan a coordinated and comprehensive response to handle the challenge posed by rising cases of COVID-19. During the meet, it was observed that two-thirds of India's COVID-19 infection load are in five states with an overwhelming proportion of cases in big cities, the statement said. Ten days after recording two lakh COVID-19 cases, India surpassed the three lakh-mark on Saturday with the worst daily spike of 11,458 infections, while the death toll too climbed to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities, the Union Health Ministry said. In Delhi, the number of infections stood at 36,824.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-flags-need-for-emergency-planning-in-meet-over-covid-19-spike-849209.html
13-06-2020||National||As COVID-19 cases rise, Assam seeks cap on number of flights carrying stranded persons||As the COVID-19 positive cases are rising, the Assam government has moved the union civil aviation ministry seeking a cap on the number of flights carrying its residents from the rest of the country. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters in Guwahati on Saturday (June 13) that maintaining social distancing was becoming tough in the state's airports as more people are taking flights to return home. "Even today 27 flights landed in our airports and it is becoming impossible to maintain the social distancing norms. So we have written to the civil aviation ministry with a request to restrict the number of flights at 25 per day," he said. More than 1.73 lakh people have returned to their homes in Assam from the rest of the country of which 39, 707 came by flights. A total of 452 flights have operated in Assam since the Centre allowed flight movement to transport the stranded persons. Of these, 358 flights landed in Guwahati, 52 in Dibrugarh, 29 Silchar and 30 Lakhimpur. Assam reported the first COVID-19 positive case on March 31 and since then the tally has touched 3,718. Of these, 2,123 are still active and eight died so far. Guwahati reports 25 positive cases without travel history:  Detection of 25 COVID-19 positive cases in Guwahati without any travel history has left the Assam health department worried. Sarma said preliminary assessment suspects that the transmission could have taken place from the truck drivers, who are carrying essential goods but they could not be tested or quarantined as per the Centre's directives. "Most of these cases have been reported from in and around 153 warehouses in Guwahati, where loading and unloading of the goods are done. So we are now keeping surveillance on such warehouses, petrol pumps, and dhabas to check further spread of Coronavirus. The situation in Guwahati is becoming worrisome," he said.  Worried over the situation, the health department has decided to conduct sample tests of 50,000 persons in Guwahati to decide further course of action. "If the number of positive persons from the samples turns out to be big, we will have to take a tough decision like lockdown," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-cases-rise-assam-seeks-cap-on-number-of-flights-carrying-stranded-persons-849213.html
13-06-2020||National||SC to hear plea by journalist Vinod Dua for quashing FIR and summons on Sunday||The Supreme Court is to hold a special sitting on Sunday to take up a writ petition by journalist Vinod Dua to quash an FIR lodged against him by a BJP leader in Shimla. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran would take up the matter in a virtual court at 11 am on June 14. Dua was issued summons for Saturday by the police in Shimla in the sedition case lodged by BJP leader Ajay Shyam on June 6, over his YouTube show on communal riots in Delhi, earlier this year. The complainant alleged Dua had spread fake news by accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of using death and terror attack to get votes. Dua's plea was shown to be filed in the Supreme Court on Saturday. Notably, he has already been granted advance bail by a Delhi court in an FIR registered by the Delhi police's Crime Branch on June 4 on a similar complaint by BJP leader Naveen Kumar. In the instant case, the Delhi High Court had already on June 10 stayed the investigation, finding "unexplained delay" of about three months in lodging the FIR, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-by-journalist-vinod-dua-for-quashing-fir-and-summons-on-sunday-849215.html
13-06-2020||National||SAIL Chairman goes into quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19: Sources||SAIL Chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary is in quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19, sources said on Saturday. The total number of COVID cases in SAIL's corporate office here has grown five-fold to 25, they added. "SAIL Chairman A K Chaudhary is in quarantine after he was tested positive for the COVID virus. He was tested on June 1. A virus positive person had gone close to him in his office. Following which tests were conducted for three consecutive days at the corporate office," one of the sources said. Besides, some other senior company officials at the corporate office have also tested positive and the total number of cases now stands at 25, another source said. When reached out to the company for official response, a spokesperson said the company has taken numerous steps to contain further spread of the virus at the corporate office. "We have gone in for mass testing of our employees and their family members. About 25-30 persons have been found to be positive, including some family members. However, except two cases, all are asymptomatic and are under house isolation," the official said. SAIL had earlier said that a few company officials at its headquarters in Lodhi Road have tested positive for COVID-19. The company immediately closed its office for fumigation. A source had informed that a total of five persons were tested positive for the virus. On Wednesday, Atul Srivastava, Director (Personnel) SAIL died at Apollo Hospital. On Thursday, SAIL said that Srivastava was admitted at Apollo Hospital, with which it has tied up to provide healthcare services to its employees and their families amid the COVID-19 pandemic, after he complained of difficulty in breathing. He was also having high fever for the past few days. However, on Srivastava's COVID test report, the company said the report had come negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sail-chairman-goes-into-quarantine-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-sources-849216.html
13-06-2020||National||386 succumb to COVID-19 in a day; Centre recommends remdesivir for treatment under emergency use authorisation||The Health Ministry on Saturday recommended use of remdesivir under emergency use authorisation to treat COVID-19 patients on oxygen support even as fatalities due to the infectious disease rose by 386, the biggest single-day increase, to settle at 8,884. The death count in India has nearly doubled over the past fortnight and Maharashtra (3,717) and Gujarat (1,415) together account for nearly 58% of the fatalities. According to an analysis done by economist Shamika Ravi, Delhi accounts for the highest death rate in the country – 64.88 deaths per million people which is almost 10 times the all-India death rate. Delhi has reported 1,214 deaths so far and the pressure was visible at various crematoria which was witnessing a heavy load of bodies for last rites. The document also recommended drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab, and convalescent plasma under investigational therapies for a defined sub-group of patients making it clear that it was based on limited evidence.  The guidelines make it clear that remdesivir is not recommended for patients with severe renal impairment, children below 12 years and pregnant and lactating mothers. The guidelines come as Maharashtra has announced multi-centre clinical trials or remdesivir imported from Bangladesh as the Indian drug controller was yet to grant permission for manufacturing the drug in India. India on Saturday witnessed its sharpest spike in COVID-19 cases – 11,458 new cases – that took the total confirmed cases past the three-lakh mark to 3,08,993. With the addition of loss of smell and taste, the clinical symptoms for COVID-19 have now risen to 15. Earlier the symptoms were fever, cough, diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain, breathlessness, nausea, haemoptysis (coughing up of blood), body ache, sore throat, chest pain, nasal discharge and sputum. Any patient with one or more symptoms is allowed to get tested for COVID-19. The clinical management protocol has also indicated that direct person-to-person transmission occurs only through close contact, mainly through droplets that are released when the infected person either coughs, sneezes or talks to another person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/386-succumb-to-covid-19-in-a-day-centre-recommends-remdesivir-for-treatment-under-emergency-use-authorisation-849222.html
13-06-2020||National||Monsoon progresses well so far, more rains in central India in the next 10 days||For the next ten days, central India is set to receive copious rainfall, thanks to the south west monsoon that brought plenty of rains so far. This will happen because of the formation of monsoon low - a shallow weather system unlike cyclones, which gives plenty of rains - over the Bay of Bengal. The country as a whole received nearly 34% excess rainfall so far while central India has been showered with 95% additional rain so far, much to the happiness of the farmers. "Monsoon is progressing well after a small delay due to cyclone Nisarga. Cyclone Amphan didn't have a large scale impact on monsoon. It looks like the monsoon is going well. No worries," M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences told DH. Cyclone Amphan created a temporary lull in the monsoon onset and initial progression over the Bay of Bengal. "Meanwhile Cyclone Nisarga pulled the monsoon up along the west coast, which resulted in a slightly early onset over southwest India. The west coast cyclone was also followed by a lull in further progression. But monsoon has slowly picked up after that with a monsoon depression moving into the land from the Bay," said Roxy Mathew Kill, a senior scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. The peninsular India got 28% more rainfall while north west India received 42% excess rainfall even though that is due to a different weather phenomenon known as Western Disturbances. Because of the monsoon low, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is likely along the west coast of Odisha and northeast India in the next five days. "For now, most of the rainfall activities would be restricted to the eastern parts of central India. No break is expected for the next 10 days," Rajeevan said. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over central and adjoining east India during next 3-4 days. Scattered rainfall activity is  very likely over south peninsular India in next 4-5 days and isolated to scattered rainfall. For north west India,  isolated thunderstorms and lightning is likely to happen over plains of northwest India in the next 3 days. The monsoon trough now runs from northwest Rajasthan to north interior Odisha across north Madhya Pradesh and north Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-progresses-well-so-far-more-rains-in-central-india-in-the-next-10-days-849224.html
13-06-2020||National||It's untenable: India on Nepal's lower house passing bill to redraw political map||India on Saturday termed as untenable Nepal's lower house of parliament amending the country's Constitution to update its new political map featuring areas which New Delhi maintains belong to it. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the artificial enlargement of territorial claims by Nepal is not based on historical facts or evidence. "This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues," MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The lower house of Nepalese parliament on Saturday unanimously voted to amend the Constitution to update the country's new political map, laying claim over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura along the border with India. In a show of unprecedented national unity, opposition parties including the Nepali Congress (NC), Rastriya Janata Party-Nepal (RJP-N) and Rastriya Prajatantra Party (RPP) voted in favour of the bill to amend the Constitution to update the national emblem by incorporating the new map. The ties between the two countries came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. In the midst of the row, Gen Naravane said that there were reasons to believe that Nepal objected to the road at the behest of "someone else", in an apparent reference to a possible role by China in the matter. The comments triggered angry reactions from Nepal. Days later, Nepal came out with the new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territories. After Nepal released the map, India reacted sharply and cautioned the country that such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it. The Lipulekh pass is a far western point near Kalapani, a disputed border area between Nepal and India. Both India and Nepal claim Kalapani as an integral part of their territory - India as part of Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district and Nepal as part of Dharchula district. Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has been asserting that Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura belong to Nepal and vowed to "reclaim" them from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-untenable-india-on-nepals-lower-house-passing-bill-to-redraw-political-map-849225.html
13-06-2020||National||COVID-19 cases and deaths continue to rise in Tamil Nadu||As many as 30 COVID-19 deaths, including seven mortalities that took place between May 24 and June 7 in private hospitals in the city, were reported in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, even as the state’s tally zoomed past 42,000-mark.   The state reported 1,989 fresh cases – 1,487 from the state capital of Chennai alone – on Saturday, pushing the tally to 42,687, including 23,409 discharges and 397 deaths. Chennai continued to be the biggest hotspot with 30,444 cases. Sources said the seven deaths that took place in May and the first week of June were added to the state’s COVID-19 tally after a couple of private hospitals reported them now. “These hospitals reported the death late and after due process, these moralities were added to the official death toll,” a senior official told DH.  These deaths are not part of the exercise that the Health Department is carrying out to reconciling its coronavirus death figures with the numbers that are mentioned in the death registry of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). The state government had earlier this week constituted a committee to scrutinize the death records maintained by the GCC and conclude, after reports emerged that at least 200 deaths of Coronavirus patients in this metropolis in the past few weeks have not been added to the state’s Covid-19 death toll.  Previously unreported COVID-19-related deaths took place on May 24, 28, 31, June 2, 5, and 6 at private hospitals in the city. This includes the death of a 77-year-old man on June 5, who spent a month at a private hospital. “(The) reconciliation process is going on. We have not added any old deaths now,” Dr. T.S. Selva Vinayagam, Director of Public Health (DPH) told DH. Twenty-eight of the total 37 districts reported positive cases on Saturday as the state tested 17,911 samples. However, the prevalence of the virus seems to be high in Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Chengalpattu that account for 35,618 of the total 42,687 cases in the state, which is over 80 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-and-deaths-continue-to-rise-in-tamil-nadu-849226.html
13-06-2020||National||9,000 defense personnel will be moved out from Central Vista: Master Architect||Nearly 9,000 defense personnel and their settlements presently located at Central Vista, New Delhi are all set to give way to the residences of Prime Minister and Vice-President of India as planned in the redevelopment of the Central Vista, the seat of Parliament. This was revealed in a Facebook live presentation by Ahmedabad-based architect and master planner of the project Bimal Patel on Saturday. "There are 9,000 defense personnel working here (Central Vista)...there is no reason for them to be located here. These employees of the defense departments can be working in other places also. So, the first thing that is being done for these 9,000 who do not need to be located in the center is to move them out of here into new offices that are being custom built," Patel said in an hour-long power-point presentation titled "Transformation of Central Vista. New Delhi." The event was organised by Maharashtra Association of Schools of Architect (MASA). Incidentally, a similar event of the Council of Architect, a government body, was cancelled on May 22 reportedly after opposition from several members. Patel said in his presentation, "The actual population of the Central Vista area is not going to change much. Presently, the place has a load of nearly 50,000 people that includes 9000 defense personnel and under the new plan the population is not going to be more than 51,000 people. So, the load on the infrastructure is not going to significantly increase at all." It is to be noted that concerns are being raised that the new plan will increase the population density in the area which is also called as "lung" of Delhi due to its greenery. Patel said that at present there are 41,000 central government employees of 22 ministries who work in and around the Central Vista and the remaining 10,000 are scattered elsewhere. He said that the total 51,000 employees of 51 ministries of the government will be accommodated in one place for which new buildings are being built and at the same time, 9000 defense personnel will be moved outside which will balance the population density. The defense settlements will be replaced by residence of the Prime Minister and Vice-President which are being constructed opposite one another in the north and south block corners.The office of Special Protection Group will also be built close to the PM residence. Patel had said in another presentation earlier this year that there will be a dedicated tunnel for the movement of the Prime Minister from his office to residence to end the traffic blockades. The Central Vista redevelopment is an ambitious project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi led BJP government which is being criticised as "wasteful" by opposition parties. Patel defended the move by saying that redevelopment is "needed" for many things including "very poor use of land, the present building and landscape are nothing like the other inspiring 'capitol' of the world like United State, France and Australia."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9000-defense-personnel-will-be-moved-out-from-central-vista-master-architect-849239.html
13-06-2020||National||Congress flags 'colossal failure' on foreign policy front||Nepal Parliament on Saturday passed the bill to update the country’s new political map showing Indian areas as its part has given the main Opposition party Congress a handle to put Modi government in the dock and raise questions on its “colossal failure” on the foreign policy front. BJP, which has repeatedly claimed that the Modi government has been able to do what could not be done in the last 70 years, was attacked by one after another Congress spokesperson, who accused the ruling party of “undoing the work of last 70 years”. “You know where you stand, when even Nepal has the audacity to include your territory in its official map! You stand NOWHERE! Colossal failure on the foreign policy front for the BJP Govt, with this move by Nepal!,” said former I and B Minister and Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari. Another party spokesperson Jaiveer Shergil said the approval of map by Parliament of Nepal including Indian territory into Nepal is a “massive failure of foreign policy” being steered with “closed eyes” by BJP Central Government “What could not happen in 70 years has happened under BJP rule; “Nepal draws a fictitious map while BJP naps,” he tweeted AICC Social Media Department Rohan Gupta accused the government of “putting politics over diplomacy and governance”, alleging “this is a huge diplomatic failure of the Modi Government! They are undoing the work of the last 70 years !” Congress member Udit Raj, a former BJP MP asked “would this tiny country (Nepal) dared to do like this in congress Govt ?.” Congress, whose UPA governments in the past have regularly been panned for alleged “weak” foreign policy by the BJP in past, took to social media to berate Modi government’s handling of India’s relations with the neighbourhood countries. Mumbai Congress parodied the Latin phrase Veni, vidi, vici ( I came; I saw; I conquered") attributed to Julius Caesar to attack Modi government on the issue. “I came, I saw and I blundered" - @narendramodi on his disastrous handling of India's foreign policy. #Nepal #NepalIndiaBorder,” it tweeted. Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s political secretary Ahmed Patel chose the day to remind the Prime Minister that despite his so many visits to China, the neighbouring country occupied Indian land. “ While Chinese have again occupied our territory, important to remember the list of official visits to China Pt Nehru: 1 Shastriji:0 Indira ji:0 Morarji Bhai:0 Rajiv ji: 1 Narsimha Rao ji: 1 Devegowda ji: Gujral ji:0 Vajpayeeji: 1 Dr Singh:2 Modi ji: 9 (5 times as PM, 4 times as CM), ” he tweeted. Responding to BJP’s reminder of India’s defeat in the 1962 war at the hands of China when Jawaharlal Nehru was Prime Minister, Patel said, “One of the most decisive victories ever against Chinese happened in 1967 at Sikkim border. under the Congress govt India successfully inflicted huge casualties on the enemy, drove them back & won the confidence of Sikkimese ppl It was a befitting reply to 1962.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-flags-colossal-failure-on-foreign-policy-front-849241.html
13-06-2020||National||Health ministry issues revised clinical management protocols for COVID-19 and spurt in cases||As the number of COVID-19 cases crossed the three lakh-mark, the government on Saturday came out with a revised treatment protocol to deal with the deadly infection, allowing use of antiviral drug Remdesivir in moderate cases and Hydroxychloroquine in patients during the early course of the disease. It also recommended an off-label application of Tocilizumab, a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning, and convalescent plasma for treating coronavirus-infected patients in moderate stage of the illness, besides adding loss of smell or taste to the list of COVID-19 symptoms. In its revised 'Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19', the Union health ministry, in a turnaround from its earlier decision, advised use of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine in the early course of the disease, while dropping the use of azithromycin in combination with HCQ in severe cases and those requiring ICU management. Ten days after recording two lakh COVID-19 cases, India surpassed the three lakh-mark on Saturday with the worst daily spike of 11,458 infections, while the death toll too climbed to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities, according to the Health Ministry. India took 64 days to cross the one lakh-mark from 100 cases, then in another fortnight it reached the grim milestone of two lakh cases. It has now become the fourth worst-hit nation with a caseload of 3,08,993. Only US, Brazil and Russia have more cases. Hydroxychloroquine has demonstrated in-vitro activity against SARS-CoV2 and was shown to be clinically beneficial in several small single-centre studies though with significant limitations, the health ministry said. "Nonetheless, several large observational studies with severe methodologic limitations have shown no effect on mortality or other clinically meaningful outcomes," the revised document said. "As such, the evidence base behind its use remains limited as with other drugs and should only be used after shared decision making with the patients while awaiting the results of ongoing studies," it said. As is the case with other antivirals, this drug should be used as early in the disease course as possible to achieve any meaningful effects and should be avoided in patients with severe disease, the health ministry said, adding that an ECG should ideally be done before prescribing the drug. Under emergency use authorisation, Remdesivir may be considered for patients in moderate stage requiring oxygen support. It is not recommended for those with severe renal impairment and high level of liver enzymes, pregnant and lactating women, and those below 12 years, the document stated. The drug, administered in the form of injection, should be given at a dose of 200 mg on day one followed by 100 mg daily for five days. According to the revised protocols, convalescent plasma therapy may be considered for patients with moderate illness with no improvement in condition despite the use of steroids. The therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 and transfusing those to a coronavirus patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight the infection. The recipient should be closely monitored for several hours after transfusion for any adverse events and its use should be avoided in patients with immunoglobulin A deficiency or immunoglobulin allergy. "The dose is variable ranging from 4 to 13 ml/kg -- usually 200 ml single dose given slowly over not less than two hours," the revised document stated. The guidelines state that tocilizumab may be considered in patients with moderate illness with progressive increase in oxygen requirement and in mechanically ventilated patients not improving despite the use of steroids. Long term safety data in COVID-19 remains largely unknown, the guidelines stated. The presence of raised inflammatory markers should be checked before its use and the patient should be carefully monitored after tocilizumab is administered for secondary infections and neutropenia. Active infections and Tuberculosis should be ruled out before use, it stated. For patients with progressive deterioration of oxygenation indicators, rapid worsening on imaging and excessive activation of the body's inflammatory response, glucocorticoids can be used for a short period of time. Larger dose of glucocorticoids, a class of steroid hormones, will delay the removal of coronavirus due to immunosuppressive effects, the revised document stated. The ministry said that coronavirus-infected patients reporting to various COVID-19 treatment facilities have been reporting symptoms like fever, cough, fatigue, shortness of breath, expectoration, myalgia, rhinorrhea, sore throat and diarrhoea. They have also complained of loss of smell (anosmia) or loss of taste (ageusia) preceding the onset of respiratory symptoms. The ministry said the use of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and convalescent plasma therapy, at present, is based on limited available evidence. As the situation evolves and when more data become available, the evidence will be accordingly incorporated, and recommendation upgraded, it stated. Meanwhile, the ministry's data updated at 8 AM on Saturday showed active cases at 1,45,779 and those who have recovered at 1,54,329; one patient has migrated. "Thus, around 49.95 per cent patients have recovered so far," a ministry official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-revised-clinical-management-protocols-for-covid-19-and-spurt-in-cases-849246.html
13-06-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon hospitalised||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon was on Saturday admitted to a hospital here and his condition was stated to be stable. Tandon, 85, had fever and complications related to urology. All necessary tests have been performed and he has been admitted in the ICU at the Medanta hospital, the sources said. According to the director of the Medanta Hospital, Rakesh Kapoor, his condition is stable and there is no need to worry. He may be discharged from hospital on Sunday. According to BJP sources, Tandon is presently in Lucknow which is also his home district. He had also represented Lucknow Parliamentary seat in Lok Sabha and had also been a minister in the Uttar Pradesh government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandon-hospitalised-849273.html
13-06-2020||National||Amit Shah to meet LG, Kejriwal to discuss COVID-19 situation; Over 2,000 new cases for 2nd day in Delhi||With the coronavirus cases rising sharply to nearly 39,000 in the national capital, Union Home Minister Amit Shah will hold a meeting with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and others on Sunday to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the city. A separate meeting will be held with the mayors and municipal commissioners of Delhi's three civic bodies. Kejriwal will also interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with his counterparts including West Bengal, Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka, where the coronavirus cases are on a much higher side, on June 17. The national capital recorded 2,134 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to 38,958, while the the death toll mounted to 1,271, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. It was the second consecutive day when the number of reported cases breached the 2,000-mark. On Friday, Delhi had witnessed 2,137 cases, the highest single-day spike here. As many as 57 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi is the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Another meeting of the DDMA is also scheduled on June 16 which will see discussion on capping private hospital and ambulance charges and reducing COVID-19 private lab tests in the wake of complaints of exorbitant prices. The meeting will be attended by Kejriwal and Baijal. Taking note of the "gravity" of the coronavirus situation in the national capital, the Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government and the Centre to increase the number of beds and ventilators for COVID-19 patients. "Considering the gravity of the situation, we hereby direct the respondents (Centre and Delhi government) to increase the number of the beds for COVID-19 patients and also try to increase the number of ventilators so that all COVID patients in need can get these facilities," the bench said in its order which was passed on June 11 but made available on Saturday. Earlier this week, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said the coronavirus patients in Delhi are expected to reach 5.5 lakh by July end. During the same period, 1,50,000 beds will be needed, Kejriwal had said. On the Sunday's meeting, Shah's office tweeted, "Home Minister, Shri @AmitShah and Health Minister, @drharshvardhan to hold meeting with @LtGovDelhi, CM Delhi & members of SDMA to review situation in the capital regarding COVID-19 tomorrow, 14th June at 11 am. Director AIIMS and other senior officers would also be present." Director AIIMS and other senior officers would also be present. Hours later, the home minister's office announced that a separate meeting will be held on Sunday with the mayors and top officials of Delhi's three municipal corporations -- North, South and East. Baijal is the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). He has also formed a six-member panel to formulate a COVID management plan and suggest ways to ramp up medical infrastructure in the capital. The six-member panel also includes National Disaster Management Authority members Krishna Vatsa and Kamal Kishore; Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) DG Balram Bhargava, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, DGHS Additional DDG Dr Ravindran and National Centre for Disease Control Director Surjit Kumar Singh. This comes close on the heels of Baijal's recent assertions on hospital beds and testing, and overturning of two Delhi government orders -- reserving hospital beds only for residents of Delhi in hospitals except those run by the Centre and testing of only symptomatic patients. There has been criticism from different quarters over the handling of COVID-19 cases in the capital with complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals for patients and difficulty in getting the tests done in laboratories. The Supreme Court on Friday lashed out at the city government, terming as "horrific" the state of affairs in Delhi hospitals with bodies being stacked next to COVID-19 patients. Meanwhile, a day after the apex court expressed concern over fewer coronavirus tests in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain put the onus on the ICMR, saying its guidelines should be changed for the testing to increase. The Supreme Court had had asked the government to ensure that there should be a “steep increase in the testing both by Government hospitals and private labs” as “non-testing of the patients is not a solution to the problem”. Jain said that the Delhi government is following the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "If you want the number of tests conducted for coronavirus to increase, ask the Indian Council of Medical Research to change its guidelines. We cannot flout ICMR guidelines," he said. The Delhi government had last week issued testing guidelines making it mandatory that only symptomatic patients will be tested for COVID-19, but the Lieutenant Governor had overruled it on Monday stressing that ICMR guidelines testing of contacts of patients be followed “without any deviation”. In its efforts to ramp up the health infrastructure, the Delhi government is planning a 10,000-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients under a sprawling tent in south Delhi to prepare for a projected surge in cases in the city. The planned COVID-19 facility will come up at the south Delhi campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas on the Delhi-Haryana border. Similar facilities have been established in Mumbai. The city has a total 9,647 dedicated COVID-19 beds in state-run, central, and private hospitals. Of these, 5,402 are occupied.  The Delhi government has also started the process to identify community halls and stadiums which can be converted into makeshift COVID-19 hospitals. Kejriwal has also appealed to all doctors to volunteer for the city government's telemedicine helpline to provide free healthcare advice to people. In a video message, Kejriwal urged them to register with the government by giving a miss call on 08047192219.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-meet-lg-kejriwal-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-over-2000-new-cases-for-2nd-day-in-delhi-849275.html
13-06-2020||National||Chennai: 97-year-old defies age, comorbidities, beats COVID-19||Age is just a number, they say. Chennai’s 97-year-old A Krishna Murti proved this old adage by beating COVID-19, of course, with able medical support. Murti, probably the oldest patient in Tamil Nadu to recover from coronavirus, had multiple comorbid conditions like hypertension and coronary artery disease when he was wheeled into Kauvery Hospital on May 30 after testing positive for COVID-19.  Despite complications, he recovered, providing a glimmer of hope in times of despair. The nonagenarian left the COVID-19 ward amid cheers from the hospital staff. In a short video released by the hospital, Murti, who is wheeled out of the exclusive ward meant for COVID-19 patients, looks cheerful and even waves to the hospital staff on his way out. “We have to understand that this (COVID-19) is a dreadful disease. We do lose people. But we do have people fighting and coming out healthy. Bear in mind that having COVID-19 is not the end of your life. We would always have a chance to win the war and stay healthy,” Dr Vijayalakshmi Balakrishnan, consultant, Infectious Diseases, Kauvery Hospital, said. Talking about the challenges in treating the 97-year-old patient, the doctor said Murti presented himself with symptoms of fever, cough and mild breathlessness.  “He had pneumonia. But was an ambulant gentleman and required mild oxygen therapy for the first day or so and he slowly recovered and after five to six days, he started becoming much better, walking around, and talking to us. In fact, he gave us a lot of energy and by the time he went home, we all had a good feeling,” she said. The patient, according to doctors, was put on a protein-rich diet, and following his recovery, he remained cheerful and jubilant, even advising fellow patients not to worry about the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-97-year-old-defies-age-comorbidities-beats-covid-19-849281.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Centre's 'abrupt' lockdown exit plan behind spike in COVID-19 cases: Adhir Ranjan||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, on Friday blamed the Centre’s "abrupt and unprofessional" lockdown exit strategy for the spike in coronavirus numbers across the country. Chowdhury also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come down from the "virtual to actual India" to have a feel of the crisis. His comments came on a day the country's COVID-19 tally crossed the three-lakh mark with over 10,000 new virus cases. "Like imposition of lock down, exiting strategy was also taken in an abrupt and unprofessional manner, fraught with danger. Thus resulting into the alarming spike of Corona infection in the country, heading towards catching the 1st rank in the world. @narendramodi Ji should come down from virtual to actual India," Chowdhury tweeted. With over three lakh cases, India is the fourth worst-hit nation after the US, Brazil and Russia. While the US has reported more than 20 lakh confirmed cases so far, the tally for Brazil is over eight lakh. Over five lakh cases have been detected in Brazil so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-abrupt-lockdown-exit-plan-behind-spike-in-covid-19-cases-adhir-ranjan-848957.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Former MP forgets to cancel multiple train tickets, Parliament ends up paying an extra Rs 1.46 lakh||A former Rajya Sabha MP made 63 train bookings on 23 days in January 2019 but travelled only on seven occasions. He did not cancel the rest of the tickets, resulting in Parliament paying the Railways an extra Rs 1.46 lakh. Similarly, an analysis by Rajya Sabha showed, a sitting MP's actual journey's on train in January 2019 amounted to only 15% of the actual bookings, again making Parliament pay for the tickets the lawmaker booked but did not cancel. This has prompted Rajya Sabha Secretariat to warn MPs and former MPs that the amount for such non-cancellation of train tickets will be recovered from them. MPs and former MPs are given one free non-transferable first class air-conditioned or executive class of any train pass. Spouses can travel with MPs and former MPs in first class AC or executive class for free while a companion can travel in second tier air-conditioned coach for free. Sources said the analysis of multiple bookings and their implications was done on the directions of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and it found that the Rajya Sabha Secretariat is being asked by the Railways to pay huge amounts for journeys not undertaken by the lawmakers. Naidu was of the view that non-cancellation in time leads to unnecessary expenditure and avoidable drain on Rajya Sabha budget besides putting the public to inconvenience as they fail to get confirmed berths, sources said. Following this, Rajya Sabha Secretary General Desh Deepak Verma published the decision to recover money from MPs and former MPs if they do not cancel tickets.   Referring to the former MP who made 63 bookings, sources said the total ticket cost was Rs 1.69 lakh but the lawmaker made only seven trips, whose train fare was just Rs 22,085. Rajya Sabha Secretariat had to pay an extra Rs 1.46 lakh, which is 87% of the total amount claimed by the Railways. In 2019, sources said, the Railways had raised a demand for a payment of Rs. 7.8 crores to be made by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat as one-third share of the total cost of travel by the sitting and former MPs, their spouses and companions. While one-third of the bill is paid by Rajya Sabha, the rest is paid by the Lok Sabha Secretariat. Following audit objections regarding multiple bookings and the cost sharing formula as well as the directions from Central Information Commission to recast the process, sources said, Rajya Sabha Secretariat is in touch with the Railways. The Railways has agreed to change the software for train bookings by the MPs to enable identification of bookings by the lawmakers of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha separately. This new software is likely to be operationalised soon, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-mp-forgets-to-cancel-multiple-train-tickets-parliament-ends-up-paying-an-extra-rs-146-lakh-848966.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Congress 'defaming' India says BJP minister Naqvi, taking a jab at Rahul Gandhi||Accusing the Congress of "defaming" the country, BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Saturday the opposition party remains "fixed in feudal family photo frame" and is unable to realise that India's DNA is full of tolerance and harmony. Speaking to reporters, the minority affairs minister said "ill-informed" leaders of the opposition party should know that the credo that "all living beings be happy" is India's legacy and cultural commitment.  He was taking a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who in a conversation with former US diplomat Nicholas Burns on Friday said the DNA of openness and tolerance that India and the US were known for has "disappeared", and those creating divisions are now claiming to be nationalists. "Fixed in feudal family photo frame, the Congress is unable to see India's DNA which is full of tolerance and harmony," Naqvi said, adding India doesn't need any certificate of "DNA test" from "prejudiced laboratory of political hypocrisy". India's cultural commitment to tolerance and harmony has united such a large country with the thread of unity in diversity, he said. Naqvi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been the "biggest victim" of intolerance of "bogus bashing brigade" for more than last one decade. Even in a pandemic period, the Congress and its leaders instead of becoming a part of the solution to problems are creating "political pollution". The Congress due to its political bankruptcy has been involved in defaming the country even in these hours of crisis, he said. The Congress raised questions when terrorists were eliminated, it created ruckus on surgical strike, it created confusion on the coronavirus pandemic and now it is conspiring to portray India as intolerant, Naqvi alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-defaming-india-says-bjp-minister-naqvi-taking-a-jab-at-rahul-gandhi-849094.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Govts 'failed' in handling COVID-19 situation: A Raja||Charging both the Central and state governments with "failing" to contain the spread of coronavirus, DMK leader A Raja on Saturday said there was no proper infrastructure to test those with symptoms of the infection. Criticising the governments over their handling of the situation, the Nilgiris Lok Sabha MP told reporters here that arrangements were made to test those coming by air and train, but there was no proper facility to examine those coming by road, leading to an increase in cases. A total of 56 people stranded in various countries were brought to Nilgiris due to his personal efforts and 28 more people were awaiting their return to the district, Raja, a former union minister, who was here to distribute relief measures to 800 people in Kandal area, said. Asked about the proposed medical college in this tourist town, he said he has done his part while the rest was in the hands of the state government. Raja said he would discuss the issue of waiver of loans taken by SHG, with the district collector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govts-failed-in-handling-covid-19-situation-a-raja-849134.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Govt burdening common man with high taxes on petrol, diesel: Congress||The Congress on Saturday accused the BJP-led government of burdening the common man with high taxes on petrol and diesel and earning Rs 2.5 lakh crore since March 5. Congress leader Kapil Sibal said while international crude oil prices have fallen and are at the lowest level in 15 years, yet petrol and diesel prices are skyrocketing and common people continue to suffer under the Modi dispensation. He said instead of passing the benefit of lower crude prices to consumers, petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the seventh straight day on June 13. "The government has earned as much as Rs 44,000 crore in the last six days due to hike in petrol, diesel prices. Since March 5, the government has earned as much as Rs 2.5 lakh crore by way of increasing petrol, diesel prices. "If the government had even the slightest feelings for the common man, instead of benefitting the companies and the government, the prime minister would have helped the common man with reduced fuel prices," Sibal said at an online press conference. According to a report by Care Ratings, he said the hike effectively meant that the Central government is collecting around 270 per cent taxes on the base price of petrol and 256 per cent in case of diesel. The former union minister said petrol was selling at Rs 71.41 in Delhi on May 1, 2014, when international crude oil prices were USD 106.85, while on June 12, 2020, the price of petrol was Rs 75.16 when the crude oil was at USD 38. He said central excise and VAT cumulatively account for 69 per cent of tax on fuel in India which is higher than anywhere else in the world. He said the tax of fuel in the US was 19 per cent, Japan 47 per cent, the UK 62 per cent, France 63 per cent and Germany 65 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-burdening-common-man-with-high-taxes-on-petrol-diesel-congress-849151.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi slams UP government over suicides of farmers, migrant workers||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday hit out at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over suicides of farmers and migrant labourers, saying he talks about "mapping" but the poor don't find a place on that map. Tagging four media reports on farmers and workers' suicides with a post on Twitter, Priyanka Gandhi said in Bundelkhand four farmers and labourers committed suicide in the last one week. Migrant workers who returned from other states were among those who ended their lives, she said. "UP CM and officials sitting in Lucknow are daily talking about getting mapping done. Sadly, these farmers and migrant labourers do not have a place in their map," the Congress general secretary in-charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh said. Chief Minister Adityanath had last month directed officials to complete skill-mapping of migrant labourers in 15 days and get a survey conducted for their adjustment in micro, small and medium enterprises, and industrial units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-government-over-suicides-of-farmers-migrant-workers-849177.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||'Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again': Rahul Gandhi uses quote to slam govt on lockdown||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked the Central government over the rise in coronavirus cases in India during the various phases of the lockdown. Gandhi took a swipe at the government on Twitter by posting the quote, "'Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results' - Anonymous." He also tagged graphs of the rise in COVID-19 cases in India in four different phases of the lockdown. India on Thursday went past the United Kingdom in terms of coronavirus cases to become the fourth worst-hit country, according to the Worldometer and Johns Hopkins University data. On Friday, Gandhi had tweeted, "India is firmly on it's way to winning the wrong race. A horrific tragedy, resulting from a lethal blend of arrogance and incompetence." India is firmly on it's way to winning the wrong race. Gandhi's attack on the government on Saturday came as India surpassed the three lakh-mark with the worst daily spike of 11,458 infections, while the death toll too climbed to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities. India took 64 days to cross the one lakh-mark from 100 cases, then in another fortnight it reached the grim milestone of two lakh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/insanity-is-doing-the-same-thing-over-and-over-again-rahul-gandhi-uses-quote-to-slam-govt-on-lockdown-849214.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Six-year BJP rule has been of mismanagement, immense despair and agony: Congress||The six-year BJP rule has been of "mismanagement, immense despair and agony" and the country today stands at a stage where the common people are suffering from the wounds inflicted by the government, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Saturday. Addressing Congress MLAs and legislators supporting the party-led government in Rajasthan at a hotel in Kukas near here, Surjewala said politics of disorientation and false propaganda have become the hallmark of the functioning of the Modi government. "In the beginning of the seventh year (of the Narendra Modi government), India stands at a stage where the citizens of the country are forced to suffer the countless wounds and ruthless insensitivity inflicted by the government," he charged. In his address, Surjewala lashed out at the Modi government on various fronts, including unemployment and economic growth. He said that Modi came to power with the promise of providing two crore jobs every year but in 2017-18, India had the highest unemployment rate in the last 45 years. After the coronavirus pandemic, India's unemployment rate has increased to 27.11 per cent. He said that infiltration by the Chinese forces into the areas of Pangong Lake and Galwan Valley in Ladakh is a matter of concern for national security. "We will ask the prime minister to share all information about Chinese infiltration in the country and prove his promise of showing red eyes," Surjewala said, referring to the government's promise of strong stand on the issue of national security. The Congress leader said the border issue with Nepal, China's widespread expansion in Feydhoo Finolhu Island in the Maldives, the granting of Hambantota Port in Sri Lanka to China for long-term operations are some of the developments that affect India's national security. Surjewala also flagged the plight of migrant workers during the COVID-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. Surjewala said that in the last six years, the politics of disorientation and false propaganda have become the hallmark of the functioning of the Modi government. "Unfortunately, this disorientation has fulfilled the political ambitions of the Modi government, but has caused great social and economic damage to the country," he said. The six-year BJP rule has been of "mismanagement, immense despair and agony", he said. "Prime Minister Modi has to remember that the real criterion is to live up to the promises made. But this government, which came to power by making huge promises, failed to meet even a small hope of running the country normally and has proved to be zero in terms of achievement," he added. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and senior party leaders K C Venugopal, Sachin Pilot, Avinash Pandey, Deepender Singh Hooda and Rajeev Satav were present when Surjewala addressed the legislators in a workshop. The Congress has kept its MLAs and legislators supporting the government here amid allegations of poaching bid by the BJP ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/six-year-bjp-rule-has-been-of-mismanagement-immense-despair-and-agony-congress-849217.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||If government doesn't infuse cash, poor will be decimated, middle class will be new poor: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi||With India making efforts to contain the economic cost of the COVID-19 pandemic, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi warned on Saturday that if the government doesn't infuse cash into the economy, "the poor will be decimated, the middle class will be the new poor and crony capitalists will own the country". He cited a news report about the plight of retrenched workers of a private company, who were staring at a long battle ahead. Gandhi has asked the government to provide Rs 10,000 cash in the hands of each poor family immediately and provide them with Rs 7,500 every month for the next six months for them to survive the effects of the coronavirus lockdown. He has also called for a fiscal stimulus package for the small and medium industries. "If the Government of India doesn't inject cash to start the economy now: The poor will be decimated. The middle class will become the new poor. Crony capitalists will own the entire country," Gandhi said on Twitter on Saturday. The Congress leader has been asking the government to provide cash in the hands of the people and to the small industries, to enable them to restart the economy, which has suffered a setback due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown.  The government has also held back the release of complete data of index of industrial production (IIP) for April, saying it is not appropriate to compare the IIP data with earlier months due to COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-government-doesnt-infuse-cash-poor-will-be-decimated-middle-class-will-be-new-poor-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-849223.html
13-06-2020||National Politics||Ahmed Patel lists Modi's 9 visits to China to take swipe at him over border face-off||Taking a swipe at the prime minister over the border face-off in Ladakh, senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Saturday said China has "again occupied our territory" and listed that Narendra Modi had visited China nine times, including five as the premier. "While Chinese have again occupied our territory, important to remember list of official visits to China (sic)," he said on Twitter, giving a list of visits by all former prime ministers to China. While Chinese have again occupied our territory,important to remember list of official visits to China Pt Nehru: 1Shastriji:0Indira ji:0Morarji Bhai:0Rajiv ji: 1Narsimha Rao ji: 1Devegowda ji:Gujral ji:0Vajpayeeji: 1Dr Singh:2Modi ji: 9 (5 times as PM, 4 times as CM) He said Modi paid nine official visits to China, while his predecessor Manmohan Singh visited only twice. Former prime ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, Rajiv Gandhi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Narsimha Rao visited only once each, he said. Other former prime ministers did not pay any visit to China, Patel said. Despite numerous visits by Modi, the country is now faced with this situation, he said. "One of the most decisive victories ever against the Chinese happened in 1967 at Sikkim border, under a Congress government. India had successfully inflicted huge casualties on enemy, drove them back and won the confidence of Sikkimese people. It was a befitting reply to 1962," he tweeted, referring to the 1962 war. Patel said the present government gave the slogan of "Inch to Miles" for the ties between India and China, and asked, "Was it meant for what is happening at our border or for diplomatic relations." The Congress has been demanding answers from the government on the current standoff between India and China on the border in eastern Ladakh. On Thursday, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said India is maintaining military and diplomatic engagements with China to peacefully resolve the row at the "earliest".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahmed-patel-lists-pm-narendra-modis-9-visits-to-china-to-take-swipe-at-him-over-border-face-off-849259.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops shell five sectors in J&K’s Poonch||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire for the fifth consecutive day on Friday as they shelled forward posts and villages in five sectors of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, officials said. "At about 1915 hours, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by small arms firing and intense shelling with mortars in Shahpur, Kirni and Qasba sectors in Poonch,” PRO defence said. He said at about 1950 hours, the Pakistan army violated ceasfire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Balakote sector of Poonch district and Manjakote sector of Rajouri district. “The Pakistani troopers had initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Kirni and Qasba sectors in district Poonch at 1615 hours,” the PRO said. Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he said. An Army jawan was killed and a civilian injured when the Pakistan army heavily shelled villages and forward posts along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch district on Thursday. The neighbouring nation had targeted over a dozen villages along the LoC in Nowshera and Balakote sectors late Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-shell-five-sectors-in-jk-s-poonch-848952.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Bihar will get nothing from personal attack on me, focus on real issues: Tejashwi Yadav tells BJP, CM Nitish Kumar||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Friday slammed the BJP and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for "personal attacks" on him, asking them to focus instead on real issues like "unemployment, law & order and migration". "Bihar will get nothing by personal attacks on me," the RJD leader said in a tweet. "We are used to these derogatory attacks & inflammatory rhetorics from last 30 years from all of you. Why did you stop updating about corona cases, health management, unemployment, quarantine centres & poor migrant’s issues?" His counterattack came a day after Bihar Information and Public Relations Department Minister Neeraj Kumar accused RJD supremo Lalu Prasad of getting land registered in the name of his son Tej Pratap Yadav, when he was a minor, by promising people government job. "Even after being in power for 15 years, your political employment in my family’s name says you’ve nothing to showcase. Your disastrous term will end very soon. It’s about time to pull down the facades and let the people of Bihar know about your immortality & corruption," Tejashwi said in another tweet. He went on to add, "Nitish Kumar & BJP must concentrate on real ground issues vis-a-vis unemployment, law & order, migration, labourers, corruption, communalism, governance, development, education and health infrastructure etc. This will help Bihar and therefore needs to be addressed urgently." Neeraj Kumar had also alleged that Lalu's "greed" for acquiring benami properties was evident from the fact that he got land registered in the name of "a third unknown son Tarun Kumar Yadav, whose whereabouts are not known to anyone". Both RJD and Tejashwi's elder sister and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti have said that Tarun Kumar Yadav is Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and that this fact has been mentioned in an affidavit too. Bharti's clarification on Tarun Prasad Yadav was made during a TV interview. Local TV news channels are also showing a video clip of a programme aired several years ago in which Lalu Prasad is seen with his family members. In the programme, Tejashwi is seen introducing himself. "Hi, I am Tarun and studying in class VII". RJD MLA Bhola Yadav, who is a close confidant of Lalu Prasad's family, said that the affidavit furnished by Tejashwi during the 2015 assembly elections read "Tejashwi Prasad Yadav alias Tarun Kumar Yadav". "He (Neeraj Kumar) is hurling allegations at (RJD) on what basis?" the MLA said in a video message on RJD's WhatsApp group. Condemning the minister's statement, the RJD MLA demanded that he should apologise for spreading "lies". Not a single property he mentioned is benami, the RJD leader claimed. In fact, all the properties have been mentioned since 1996 to the CBI, the Election Commission and Income Tax authorities, he added. Neeraj Kumar, meanwhile, stood by his allegations and dared Tejashwi to file a defamation suit against him if his accusations were false and baseless. He also questioned how Tejashwi could show the property in his election affidavit without first getting it registered in the name of Tarun Kumar Yadav. Interestingly out of the two properties at Phulwaria village in Gopalganj district that were registered in 1993, Tejashwi had mentioned details of only one in his election affidavit. Tej Pratap Yadav, too, did the same with regard to the two properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-will-get-nothing-from-personal-attack-on-me-focus-on-real-issues-tejashwi-yadav-tells-bjp-cm-nitish-kumar-848974.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Kulgam||Two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district in the early hours of Saturday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Nipora area of Kulgam in south Kashmir following specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired at security forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing gunfight, two militants were killed, the official said. He said the identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras was being ascertained. The operation is on, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-kulgam-849011.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Adopt digital payment in public transport to prevent COVID-19, Centre tells states||The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs issued an advisory to states in the view of the pandemic that has impacted the way of life and that of local, regional and global transport systems. "Active utilisation of technology to curb the spread of the virus by enabling technologies such as Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), indigenous cashless and touchless system like BHIM, PhonePe, Google Pay, PayTM etc and National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), will reduce human interaction, in operations of public transit systems," said the advisory issued by Urban Affairs Ministry Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra. Recommencing public transport with greater confidence of commuter-public transport is the backbone in urban areas especially for the low/middle-income commuters for which these services are the mainstay of their daily transit needs. However, it is imperative at this stage that transmission of infection through the usage of public transport should be curbed by adopting the right sanitisation, containment and social distancing measures, the advisory said. To prevent a resurgence of car and other private vehicle usages, many cities around the world have encouraged digital payments and are reallocating street space for cycling and pedestrians through street closures, creating non-motorised transport (NMT) priority zones, pop-up bike lanes and sidewalks, providing parking and charging equipment and financing options to make cycling more accessible, he said. Giving some of the instances, where some of the cities quickly adopted non-motorised transport system, the advisory said New York has added 40 miles of new NMT lanes to support cyclists, Oakland, USA has closed 10% of its streets for motor vehicles, In Bogotá, Colombia has added 76 km of cycle overnight. Promotion of bike-sharing in China has led to a 150% increase in trips nationwide during the lockdown. The ministry said India has a robust 700 km of operational metro rail in 18 major cities and a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) network of about 450 km operational in 11 cities carrying 10 million passengers daily. "But due to the social distancing norms being practiced, their capacities would be utilised at 25 to 50 percent of pre-coronavirus levels. Such dramatic and dynamic changes in demand and supply will require complementing these public transport systems with alternative modes of transit," the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adopt-digital-payment-in-public-transport-to-prevent-covid-19-centre-tells-states-849042.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||With one more death, COVID-19 fatalities rise to 54 in J&K||A retired doctor from Parray Pora area of the city here passed away due to cardiac arrest at SKIMS hospital, Bemina at around 1 am last night, the officials said. They said the man had tested positive for COVID-19. He was admitted to the hospital on June 2 and was suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). His condition turned critical on June 9 and he was shifted to the ICU of the hospital where he passed away, the officials said. With his death, the number of fatalities due to the coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 54.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-one-more-death-covid-19-fatalities-rise-to-54-in-jk-849062.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Three of family killed in road accident in UP||Three members of a family were killed and four injured here when a speeding truck crashed into their tractor while they were returning from a wedding, officials said on Saturday. The accident took place at Parsola village on the Bilgram-Kannauj highway on Friday Dr Srinath Yadav, who is posted at CHC Bilgram, said, "The deceased were identified as Rubi Singh (34), and her two daughters Gomti (13) and Anjali (4). They were declared brought dead at the CHC. Four people have sustained serious injuries." Their bodies were sent for post-mortem and police nabbed the truck driver who tried to flee from the spot, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-of-family-killed-in-road-accident-in-up-849063.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Attorney General K K Venugopa to get 1-year extension||Attorney General K K Venugopal has agreed for extension of one more year as a top law officer of the country.  Venugopal, 89, was offered an extension by the government and he has consented to it for the period of one year only on the ground of his age, they said. Sources said Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited his residence recently to convince him to stay on the post for another three-year term. The tenure of the AG is coming to an end on June 30. Venugopal, a leading lawyer of the country, was appointed as Attorney General and had succeeded Mukul Rohatgi on June 30, 2017. Known as a doyen of Indian Bar, Venugopal has appeared for the Centre in Aadhaar and Rafale cases, among others, in the Supreme Court. He is defending the Union government in other important cases including those related to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attorney-general-k-k-venugopa-to-get-1-year-extension-849080.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Breathless in Delhi: Finding ambulances with oxygen cylinder big challenge for families, patients||The ambulance stopped at the GTB Hospital and Sarwar Ali sprang out and ran into the building, hoping to quickly get his unconscious wife admitted – the oxygen cylinder in the vehicle was running dangerously low and there was not a minute to waste. It had to be third time lucky if Miskeen Begum had to survive. After being refused admission in two hospitals, her life hinged on getting that bed in GTB Hospital. And if not, enough oxygen in ambulance to see her through to another hospital for another try at getting admitted. Three hospitals, several kilometres, many hours and just one cylinder. That was what it had come down to for a despairing Ali as he fought to save his wife. Suffering from chronic kidney disease and diabetes, Miskeen Begum had lost consciousness in the morning and her 57-year-old husband had run the rounds of hospitals. From their home in Khajuri Khas in northeast Delhi to the Jag Pravesh Hospital, which turned them away, then to the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS), which also said no, and finally to the Delhi government-run GTB Hospital. “She cannot be transported without any oxygen mask,” Ali, a weaver by profession, said, as he rushed through the paperwork on Thursday. Miskeen Begum finally got admission and Ali heaved a sigh of relief. But it was touch and go. As increasing number of stories emerge of patients being sent from one hospital to another in search of a vacant bed, accessing an ambulance equipped with enough oxygen to see the patients through the traumatic journey is rapidly turning into a huge challenge. The numbers seem adequate enough on paper. The Centralised Ambulance Trauma Services (CATS) of the Delhi government has nine Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulances, 142 Basic Support Ambulances (BLS) and 109 Patient Transport Ambulances (PTA). Private hospitals and several other institutes have their own ambulances. However, while ALS and BLS ambulances have two oxygen cylinders, the PTAs are fitted with only one cylinder since the vehicles are small and there is not enough space. “Due to coronavirus, patients have to be taken to different hospitals. Admission of the patient takes a lot of time, sometimes even four hours. So, a lot of time goes in transit,” said Sanjay Tyagi, CATS programme officer. The fact that the vehicles need to be sanitised is another issue. Those operating COVID-19 ambulances have been given PPEs. Plus, the vehicle is either sanitised or fumigated after each trip, Tyagi said. The next call is only assigned after a break of 45 minutes. He denied that there was a shortage of oxygen cylinders. “Since a lot of time goes in transit these days, there could be a case that ambulances may not have been able to replenish the stock as our cylinders are kept at one central location.” It’s not always about a coronavirus patient but other health needs too. Also at GTB Hospital was 55-year-old Ashok Chauhan, who works for Uttar Pradesh's Provincial Armed Constabulary and was brought from Meerut. He was suffering from typhoid and was also breathless. When doctors at GTB said it is a designated COVID facility and they can’t take him in, his family was faced with a fresh crisis – hunt for another hospital and an ambulance with a functional oxygen cylinder. The family arranged an ambulance, but the doctor warned them not to transport him in an ambulance without an oxygen cylinder. Chauhan's two sons scrambled to arrange for one, rushing to each ambulance that drew up with patients at the hospital. They stopped the drivers to ask if their vehicles were equipped with oxygen and were free to transport their father. "Even an enemy should not go through the trouble we are facing," Chauhan's wife said, breaking into tears. After much running around, Chauhan's son Birender managed an ambulance with a functional oxygen cylinder. The situation was not too different at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, another dedicated COVID-facility, in Dilshad Garden. Ashish Jain had brought his father Subhash who was suffering with pneumonia for a week. But doctors told him he was a suspected COVID-19 patient but had not yet tested positive and they could therefore not treat him. The super speciality hospital, they said, is meant for coronavirus positive patients. But Jain's father could only be shifted to another hospital in an ambulance with a proper oxygen cylinder as he had respiratory issues. "There was an ambulance available, but it was only meant for COVID-patients. Since he is not a confirmed case of coronavirus, another ambulance is needed, but one with a proper oxygen cylinder," Jain said as he scrambled to arrange for an ambulance. All for an ambulance with a properly functioning oxygen cylinder. As hapless families grapple with their ailing patients, endless bureaucracy and figure out which hospital they should go to, COVID-19 or not, that really has emerged as a big issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/breathless-in-delhi-finding-ambulances-with-oxygen-cylinder-big-challenge-for-families-patients-849081.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||People fed up with militancy in J&K: Army chief||Army Chief General M M Naravane on Saturday said the security forces in Jammu and Kashmir have had a lot of successes recently as people there are fed up with militancy and want normalcy to return to the Union territory.          "As far as Jammu and Kashmir or our western neighbour is concerned, we have had a lot of successes in the last one week or ten days. In the last 10-15 days alone more than 15 terrorists have been killed there,"Naravane told reporters on the sidelines of the IMA's passing out parade which he addressed as the reviewing officer. "All this has been because of the close cooperation and coordination between all the security forces operating in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir," he said. He said a majority of the recent anti-terrorist operations were based on information provided by locals which is an indication that they are fed up with militancy and want normalcy to return to the valley.          "Most operations have been carried out on the basis of information provided by locals which goes to show they are also absolutely fed up with militancy and terrorism and want that the situation should return to normal," Naravane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-fed-up-with-militancy-in-jk-army-chief-849106.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||India hopes 'continued dialogue' with China will end stand-off along LAC||India hopes that "continued dialogue" between its military officials and their counterparts in the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) will end the stand-off along the entire stretch of the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh.  New Delhi on Saturday officially acknowledged that talks between military officials of India and China resulted in disengagement by both the Chinese PLA and the Indian Army from several stand-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) - the de facto boundary between the two nations.  "I would like to assure everyone that entire situation along our borders with China is under control," Gen M M Naravane, the chief of Indian Army, said in Dehradun on Saturday. "We're having a series of talks which started with Corps Commander-level talks and has been followed up with meetings at local levels between commanders of equivalent ranks. "  Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, led the delegation from India in the meeting with the Chinese PLA officials at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on June 6. The Chinese PLA delegation was led by its commander in charge of the South Xinjiang Military Region, Maj Gen Liu Lin.  Major General Abhijeet Bapat of the 3 Infantry Division of the Indian Army and his counterpart in the PLA followed it up with several meetings, including one on Friday.  "We are hopeful that through the continued dialogue we're having, all perceived differences that we (India and China) have will be set to rest. Everything is under control," said Gen Naravane.  The PLA thinned out its troops from at least four stand-off points along the LAC over the past few days. But it did not withdraw its soldiers, who transgressed the LAC into the territory of India on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake. China also maintained additional troops it deployed on its side of the LAC after the stand-off started following a scuffle between its soldiers and the Indian Army personnel on May 5.    What made it difficult to fully resolve the stand-off is the Chinese PLA’s refusal to withdraw troops from “Finger 4” on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake and demolish the bunker and the moat-like structure it built to deny Indian Army soldiers access to an area they regularly patrolled before the stand-off started. New Delhi also rejected Beijing’s demand to stop construction of a bridge over a rivulet. The bridge is being constructed on one of the roads India is building to its forward positions along the disputed boundary with China. The new roads will be linked with the 255-kilometre-long strategic road that the Border Roads Organization of India has already constructed from Darbuk via Shyok to its Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) military base. A source in New Delhi stated that the location of the bridge was not close to the LAC and the area where it is being built undisputedly belongs to India. India conveyed to China during engagements between diplomats and military officials that it was well within its sovereign rights to build infrastructure in its territory and it would keep doing so. As the stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese PLA continued along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held another meeting with the top military brass on Friday and reviewed the situation. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the chiefs of the Indian Army, Air Force and Navy – General Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K Singh Bhadauria and Admiral Karambir Singh – attended the meeting with the defence minister. He was briefed about the follow-ups to the June 6 meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-hopes-continued-dialogue-with-china-will-end-stand-off-along-lac-849109.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||FIR against BJP activists for violating lockdown restrictions in JK's Ramban||An FIR has been filed against BJP activists for allegedly organising a meeting in violation of lockdown restrictions in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Saturday. Several BJP activists, including a 'mandal' (unit) president and the district general secretary, were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) at Banihal police station on Friday, they said.  A police official said the activists organised a public meeting at Gugthal-Doolgam in violation of the restrictions in force to contain the outbreak of the coronavirus. Ramban on Jammu-Srinagar national highway is the only district in Jammu region which falls in the “red zone”, having recorded a total of 193 coronavirus cases. While 37 patients have recovered, 156 others are still under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-bjp-activists-for-violating-lockdown-restrictions-in-jks-ramban-849117.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||No COVID-19 case reported from forward areas in J&K and Ladakh: Indian Army||Asserting that no COVID-19 case has been reported from any forward areas in the twin Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the Army on Saturday said the northern command has advocated best practices to be followed by its personnel including quarantining the troops returning from leave and temporary duties. It said the northern command has also been working tirelessly in conjunction with civil administration and medical authorities to fight the pandemic as well as to bring the much-needed succour to the people during the present crisis as part of “Operation Namaste”. “No COVID-19 case has been reported from our forward areas including Leh, where our troops stand strong. The protocols adopted by Army have ensured that no other soldier has come in contact with COVID patients and they are being treated at Command Hospital, Northern Command,” Udhampur-based Public Relations Officer (Defence) Lt Col Abhinav Navneet said. He said individuals are being screened and tested again meticulously to ensure a COVID-free environment in forward areas. “The northern command is fully poised to carry out its operational tasks as well as to aid civil administration in whatever manner required,” the spokesperson said. Lt Col Navneet said the northern command has advocated best 'anti-corona practices' to be followed by army personnel including various sanitization drills, self-isolation measures, post-infection care and prescribed measures including quarantining the troops returning from leave and temporary duties.  “After medical screening, the troops are being quarantined for the stipulated period, tests are being carried out and thereafter the troops are dispatched to their locations,” he said. Terming “exemplary” the effort of the Army to combat the coronavirus in J&K and Ladakh, the PRO said the northern command is maintaining daily contact and liaison with civil administration to control the pandemic. “It has opened a COVID-19 hospital facility at Old Air Field, Srinagar, testing facility at Command Hospital, Udhampur, number of Quick Reaction Medical Teams (QRMTs) to assist civil medical authorities in emergency situations and also stand-by columns for providing aid to civil administration in case of any deteriorating law and order situation as carried out by few anti-social elements in other parts of India,” he said. Lt Col Navneet said COVID Command Control Rooms have also been established in all headquarters and 24x7 helpline numbers shared with civil administration. “Indian Army has a dual task during the pandemic -- to assist the people as well to keep the troops physically and mentally fit for their primary role,” he said. As part of 'Op NAMASTE', army units are organizing awareness drives on COVID-19, display and broadcast of advisories, telemedicine facility, online education initiatives, distribution of safety kits to include face masks, hand sanitisers, protective glove and disinfectant to the locals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-covid-19-case-reported-from-forward-areas-in-jk-and-ladakh-indian-army-849125.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Ex-BJP MLA booked for holding b'day event sans sanction||A case was registered against former BJP MLA Sudarshan Gupta after a programme to distribute ration on the occasion of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar's birthday in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city led to chaos and looting, police said on Saturday. The case was initially registered against unidentified persons under section 188 (disobeying a government official's order banning public assembly) of the IPC, but Gupta's name cropped up during the probe and he was also named an accused, inspector Sanjay Mishra of Malharganj police station said. The organisers of the event held at Banganga had not taken any official permission, he said, adding that efforts to identify other accused were on. A video of the melee, during which social distancing was thrown to the wind, went viral on social media. A programme was organised by Gupta in Banganga area on Friday, wherein free ration was given to 2,000 needy families on the occasion of Tomar's birthday. According to eyewitnesses, people initially behaved in an orderly manner, but later started snatching ration packets. Gupta, however, claimed that till the time he was there, ration was being distributed through a token system, but after he left, some people disrupted the orderly distribution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-ex-bjp-mla-booked-for-holding-bday-event-sans-sanction-849133.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Locust swarm headed towards Banda||A swarm of locusts was headed towards Banda city after attacking crops and plants in a village in the district, an agriculture department official said on Saturday. District agriculture officer Pramod Kumar said lakhs of locusts attacked crops, plants and trees in Vaidan Purwa hamlet of Majhiva Sani village Friday evening. However, agriculture department and district administration officials drove them away by spraying insecticides, Kumar said. The swarm was now headed towards Bisanda town and Banda city, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locust-swarm-headed-towards-banda-849135.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||'Radio classes' helping students in J&K's Doda complete syllabus amid lockdown||In the absence of high speed mobile internet services and few households having access to smartphones, the Jammu and Kashmir education department's initiative to start 'radio classes' is helping students in Doda district to complete their syllabus despite the coronavirus lockdown. The local station of All India Radio -- AIR Bhadarwah, which covers almost the entire Doda district, is airing one-and-a-half hours of educational content daily since May 29 on frequency 101 MHz. The students and their parents, especially those living in rural areas with very little income who could not afford private tuition, were a worried lot after all the schools were shut for a prolonged period due to the nationwide lockdown in March. The schools in the hilly Doda district usually remain closed from December to March for winter vacations due to harsh climatic conditions, while March to September is the productive period for completion of syllabus before the term-end examination up to 12th standard in October-November. For the welfare of students, the authorities had started online classes from March 27 and accordingly all the schools of the district were linked with it. However, data collected by the education department showed that only 55 per cent students in the district had access to internet and smartphones. "As per the direction of the principal secretary of school education, Asgar Samoon, and director education, Jammu, Anuradha Gupta, we started online classes in the district by linking 598 schools but after collecting the data, it came to light that out of 63,406 students, only 37,837 had access to Internet and smartphones," Nodal officer, radio classes district Doda, Anis Ahmed told PTI. He said to bridge the gap and reach out to the remaining 25,569 students, majority of whom belong to BPL families and residing in far off hills of the district, a request was made to Prasar Bharti to provide a time slot on AIR Bhadarwah and accordingly, daily virtual radio classes were started from May 29 for students of 9th to 12th standard. In-charge of monitoring cell and coordinator of radio classes, Rana Arif Hamid said, “We were fully aware of the reach of the radio in these hills but the overwhelming response we are getting was never expected.” “As of now, in addition to the students who do not have access to internet or a smartphone, over 45,000 students are benefited by the radio classes," he said. Meanwhile, students from different parts of the district are enjoying the new experience of learning and said that they are religiously attending the radio classes every morning. "My father is a daily-wage labourer and lockdown has left him jobless. We can’t afford a smartphone and were worried about our studies after online classes started. However, the radio classes are a blessing in disguise and all my siblings and cousins attend them daily," Rizwana Bano, an 11th class student of village Sartingal, said. Expressing similar views, 12th class student Rameez Ahmad of Kursari village said radio classes are of great help in absence of regular schools. “Hope this arrangement will continue till the reopening of the schools," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/radio-classes-helping-students-in-jks-doda-complete-syllabus-amid-lockdown-849140.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Increase beds, ventilators for COVID-19 patients: HC to Centre, Delhi govt||Taking note of the "gravity" of the coronavirus situation in the national capital, the Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government and the Centre to increase the number of beds and ventilators for COVID-19 patients. The direction was issued by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan after the Delhi government informed it that till June 9 there were 9,179 beds for COVID-19 patients in the city and out of that 4,914 were occupied and remaining were available. The Delhi government also told the bench that total 569 ventilators were available, out of which 315 were being utilised and remaining are available. "Considering the gravity of the situation, we hereby direct the respondents (Centre and Delhi government) to increase the number of the beds for COVID-19 patients and also try to increase the number of ventilators so that all COVID patients in need can get these facilities," the bench said in its order which was passed on June 11 but made available on Saturday.  The court also said it expects all hospitals in the national capital to correctly upload the availability of real-time bed capacity data so that public may know in advance where to go if they are suffering from COVID-19.   The order came while disposing a joint plea moved by several lawyers, through advocate Mridul Chakravarty, seeking proper implementation of containment guidelines, especially in Defence Colony of South Delhi, and to ensure availability of adequate number of beds for COVID-19 patients in hospitals in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-beds-ventilators-for-covid-19-patients-hc-to-centre-delhi-govt-849156.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Amit Shah to hold meeting with Delhi LG, CM Arvind Kejriwal on COVID-19 situation in capital||Amid worsening COVID-19 situation in the national capital, Home Minister Amit Shah has called two back-to-back meetings with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Mayors of three municipal corporations on Sunday to review the situation in Delhi. The announcement of the meetings on Ministry of Home Affairs' (MHA) Twitter handle came a day after Baijal set up a six-member advisory committee under the leadership of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava to suggest measures to Delhi Disaster Management Authority to tackle COVID-19 and guide augmentation of hospital beds. In the meeting called by Shah at 11 AM on Sunday, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Baijal. Kejriwal, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria and other senior officials of the Centre, DDMA and Delhi government will attend. The second meeting is scheduled at 5 PM in which the Mayors of East Delhi, North Delhi and South Delhi Municipal Corporations. In this meeting too, Baijal, Kejriwal and Guleria along with officials will attend. Though the Delhi government on Friday ruled out a return to a stricter lockdown, officials said the situation is “worrisome” and there has been a huge surge in numbers. The number of cases and deaths have been increasing in the capital and the Centre has now set its focus on Delhi and Maharashtra. Officials said the Home Minister calling a meeting with Mayors also showed that the Centre wanted more involvement from the BJP-ruled civic bodies, which has claimed that there have been at least 2,098 COVID-19 deaths till June 10. As on Friday, Delhi reported 36,824 cases out of this 46.16% or 16,980 of the total cases were reported in June alone. June 12 alone reported 2,137 cases, the highest spike for a single day. So far, according to the official medical bulletin, 1,214 people have died due to COVID-19. Within 12 days, June has surpassed the total number of 16,326 cases reported in the whole of May. Facing criticism over COVID-19 tests, the AAP government also demanded that the ICMR change its guidelines on testing, a day after the Supreme Court rapped it for low testing. Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain said increasing the number of tests depend on the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Jain said, "if you want the number of tests conducted for COVID-19 to increase, then ask the ICMR to change its guidelines. We cannot flout ICMR guidelines that state certain conditions which are prerequisite for tests." AAP's Rajya Sabha leader Sanjay Singh also demanded a change in the guidelines issued by the ICMR and shot off a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to allow any person who suspects that he or she is infected could get the COVID-19 test done. "The 'sarkari' culture of testing should end. The need of the hour is to increase the number of tests. The ICMR guideline for testing should be changed for that and I have written to the Union Health Minister requesting that anyone who suspects they are infected should be allowed to go to labs and get tested," Singh said. He also said that all laboratories should be allowed to conduct testing and ICMR should give permission for this. "If we do not test enough, the situation will explode," he added. An analysis of daily medical bulletins released by the Delhi government showed that with increase in number of tests, the number of cases also increased. While on June 10, 5,047 samples were tested out of which 1,501 tested positive, the number increased on June 11 to 1877 cases when 5,360 samples were tested. As per Friday's bulletin, there were 5,947 samples tested, the number crossed 2,000-mark. The Supreme Court on June 12 sought an explanation from the Delhi government why its COVID-19 testing had dipped from 7,000 to 5,000 a day when cities Chennai and Mumbai, which are equally affected, had increased their testing from 16,000 to 17,000. The apex court said the number of samples tested on May 27 was 6,018 and while it was 4,670 on June 9 and 5,047 on June 11. On Thursday, the Delhi High Court directed that all private hospitals in the capital that have been asked to reserve 20% beds for admitting COVID-19 patients should conduct tests on symptomatic and asymptomatic persons, who seek admission in the hospital for undergoing surgeries and procedures of other nature as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-to-hold-meeting-with-delhi-lg-cm-arvind-kejriwal-on-covid-19-situation-in-capital-849163.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot government tapping opposition members’ calls in garb of probe into ‘poaching MLAs’: Rajendra Rathore||Deputy Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan assembly, Rajendra Rathore, on Saturday targeted the ruling Congress, alleging that the state government is tapping the opposition members’ phone calls in the garb of a probe into the alleged cash transfer for poaching MLAs. "By ordering an investigation by the ACB and SOG, the Gehlot government is tapping phone calls of the opposition members. I think there is no need to be worried. If the people sitting in the government have any evidence, they should disclose it," Rathore told reporters. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday had said a complaint has been lodged with the Special Operations Group (SOG) for probe into cash transfers for poaching MLAs. He had said a huge amount of cash has been transferred to Jaipur and attempts were being made to poach the Congress MLAs ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. The poll for Upper House for three seats in the state is due on June 19. Rathore said the Congress government in the state is battling with internal conflict right after it came into power in the state. He said its high command had to struggle a lot to make a chief minister. “Since then, two power centers have persisted. There is strong dissatisfaction in the Congress Legislature Party and due to that dissatisfaction, the chief minister has to undergo fortification,” said Rathore. This is the first time in the political history of Rajasthan that this type of fortification has been done ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections, he said. He said due to the coronavirus pandemic, the government promulgated an ordinance under which no more than 50 persons are allowed to participate in marriage ceremonies and no more than 20 are allowed in funerals. “But, at the same time, the government is sitting in a five-star hotel with 200 people,| he said. "I understand that there are no rules. False accusations are being levelled against the Bharatiya Janata Party to save the wobbly chair as the government itself is upset due to its internal rifts," Rathore said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-government-tapping-opposition-members-calls-in-garb-of-probe-into-poaching-mlas-rajendra-rathore-849165.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Anti-COVID-19 fight, a war against invisible enemy: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||Terming the government efforts to curb the COVID-19 pandemic as a “war against an invisible enemy", Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officials to ensure proper arrangements in hospitals to treat patients. Chairing a meeting of senior UP government officials at his residence here, Adityanath said, "The war against COVID-19 is a war against an invisible enemy. Until an effective medicine or vaccine is developed for the treatment of COVID-19, prevention is the only way out." Instructing officials to ensure proper arrangements in COVID-19 hospitals, he said, “The oxygen level of the COVID-19 patients should be monitored time-to-time using Pulse Oxymeter." The chief minister added that awareness about the disease too should be spread to the maximum possible limit so that people can keep themselves safe from infection. Adityanath also said the common public should be told that by hiding COVID-19 symptoms, treatment is not possible, one should consult a doctor at the earliest, if symptoms appear. He also emphasised on disciplined livings to avoid COVID-19 after unlocking of the state. Terming human resource as the backbone of economy and industry, he said a large number of workers are now available in the state and they should be fully utilized. "Human resources are the backbone of industry sector. A large number of workers are now available in the state. They have built the nation and the society. The workers who have returned to the state will now do 'nav nirmaan' of UP through their hard work," said the CM. Adityanath also directed the Industrial Development Department and MSME Department to explore employment opportunities for workers. He said a manpower supply app should be developed by industrial units and service providers. He also asked state police force to conduct intensive patrolling to ensure that no crowd gathers at any place, a state government said, quoting the CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-covid-19-fight-a-war-against-invisible-enemy-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-849168.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||LAC stand-off: 'Disengagement' starts from Galwan Valley where China accused India of trespassing||The talks between military officials of India and China resulted in phased disengagements by both sides on the stand-off points along their disputed boundary – beginning with the Galwan River area, where the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory. Gen M M Naravane, the chief of the Indian Army, on Saturday said that the “entire situation” along India’s border with China was “under control”. He said that the military officials of India and China had a “series of talks”. India was hopeful that “continued dialogue” with China would resolve the stand-offs along the entire stretch of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations. “Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner starting from the north in the Galwan River area where a lot of disengagements have happened,” Gen Naravane told journalists in Dehradun. “We have a fruitful dialogue which will continue and the situation will keep improving as we go on.” The Galwan Valley – one of the scenes of the 1962 India-China war – is the area, where the Chinese PLA had last month accused the Indian Army of illegally trespassing into its area and building “defence facilities”. The Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party of China, on May 18 reported that the Chinese PLA had “bolstered border control measures and made necessary moves” in response to construction of defence facilities by the Indian Army in Galwan Valley. It had indicated that Indian Army’s activities in Galwan Valley had triggered the current stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. "We are hopeful that through the continued dialogue we are having, all perceived differences that we (India and China) have will be set to rest. Everything is under control,” Gen Naravane said while responding to questions by media-persons on efforts to defuse tension along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. He, however, did not mention about the situation along the LAC near the Pangong Tso lake, where the stand-off was still continuing. Sources in New Delhi said that what had made it difficult to fully resolve the stand-off was the Chinese PLA’s refusal to withdraw troops from “Finger 4” area on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake and to demolish the bunker and the moat-like structure it built to deny Indian Army personnel access to Finger 8 – an area they had been regularly patrolling before tension had escalated following a scuffle between the soldiers of the two nations on May 5. The Indian Army too did not withdraw additional troops it had deployed on the bank of the lake over the past few weeks in response to the transgression by the Chinese Army, sources told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lac-stand-off-disengagement-starts-from-galwan-valley-where-china-accused-india-of-trespassing-849170.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt plans 10,000-bed makeshift COVID-19 hospital under sprawling tent||The Delhi government is planning a 10,000-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients under a sprawling tent in south Delhi to prepare for a projected surge in cases in the city. The planned COVID-19 facility will come up at the south Delhi campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas. The lush green campus is located near the Delhi-Haryana border. The COVID-19 facility, which will be 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide, will have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each, said Vikas Sethi, secretary of Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Bhati Mines. This makeshift hospital will be the largest such facility in the city so far. The work is expected to be completed by June end, he said. The metal tent has lights and fans installed. Coolers will be needed considering the heat. The medical staff can also be accommodated in a building in the campus, he added. The spiritual organisation gave its approval for the makeshift hospital two-three days ago.  According to the Delhi government's estimates, coronavirus cases in the national capital are likely to breach the 5 lakh-mark by July end. Around one lakh beds will be needed for COVID-19 patients. The city has a total 9,647 dedicated COVID-19 beds in state-run, central and private hospitals. Of these, 5,402 are occupied. The Delhi government has also started the process to identify community halls and stadiums which can be converted into makeshift COVID-19 hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-plans-10000-bed-makeshift-covid-19-hospital-under-sprawling-tent-849176.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||ICMR needs to change guidelines for testing to increase, says Delhi health minister; LNJP employee suspended for making video||A day after the Supreme Court expressed concern over fewer coronavirus tests in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday put the onus on the ICMR, saying its guidelines should be changed for the testing to increase. Facing flak after a video purportedly showing mishandling of bodies and patients at the LNJP hospital surfaced, Jain said a contractual employee, who made the video, has been suspended. "A contractual employee who made the video was motivated and did it on purpose. The person has been suspended," Jain told reporters here. Taking note of the reports of “horrific scenes” of bodies being stacked next to coronavirus patients at Delhi's COVID-19 dedicated LNJP hospital , the Supreme Court had said on Friday that it indicated the “sorry state of affairs” in government facilities. The top court had also directed chief secretaries of the NCT and other states to take "remedial action" ensuring proper management of patients at hospitals. The Supreme Court had also wondered about the fewer COVID tests being conducted in Delhi and asked the government to ensure that there should be a “steep increase in the testing both by Government hospitals and private labs” as “non-testing of the patients is not a solution to the problem”. Asked about it, Jain said that the Delhi government is following the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).  "If you want the number of tests conducted for coronavirus to increase, ask the Indian Council of Medical Research to change its guidelines. We cannot flout ICMR guidelines," he said. The Delhi government had last week issued testing guidelines making it mandatory that only symptomatic patients will be tested for COVID-19, but the Lieutenant Governor had overruled it on Monday stressing that ICMR guidelines testing of contacts of patients be followed “without any deviation”. With 2,137 fresh instances, the total number of coronavirus cases rose to 36,824 in Delhi, the health department''s bulletin said on Friday. Seventy-one deaths were reported as the toll reached 1,214.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/icmr-needs-to-change-guidelines-for-testing-to-increase-says-delhi-health-minister-lnjp-employee-suspended-for-making-video-849185.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 20 new COVID-19 deaths, over 500 new cases||Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 20 coronavirus deaths and 502 new cases pushing the state's COVID-19 tally to 13,118. The total number of those who have lost their lives due to the virus so far has now gone up to 385, Principal Secretary Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. There are 4,858 active cases in the state and 7,875 have been discharged from hospitals after treatment, Prasad said, adding that the recovery rate in the state continues to be over 60 percent.   On Friday, 14,236 samples were tested in the state and so far a total of 4,39,438 tests have been done, Prasad said.   Stating that surveillance work was going on, he said ASHA workers have tracked over 15.91 lakh migrant workers till now of which 1,413 were found to be having some coronavirus symptoms and their samples were sent for testing. Urging people to maintain social distancing, he advised the aged, children, pregnant women or those having comorbidities not to go out unless very important. He also stressed on seeking medical assistance in the early stages of infection saying delay can lead to complications.   It has been seen in the recent days that people who do not have any medical condition or are young have had to face complications as they sought medical assistance very late and could not be saved, Prasad said. The government has made testing and treatment facilities free of cost and all those having any symptom need to use them, Prasad added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-20-new-covid-19-deaths-over-500-new-cases-849190.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||5-year-old raped by neighbour in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour in a village here, police said on Saturday. The incident took place in the village under the Khairaghat Police Station limits on Friday night, they said. The girl was sleeping along with her mother in their house when the 28-year-old man took her to a nearby field and allegedly raped her, SP Vipin Mishra said. The neighbour was taken into custody based on a complaint filed by the girl's father, the SP said, adding she has been sent for medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-year-old-raped-by-neighbour-in-uttar-pradeshs-bahraich-849219.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Neighbour rapes 5-year-old girl in UP's Bahraich||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour in a village here, police said on Saturday. The incident took place in the village under the Khairaghat Police Station limits on Friday night, they said. The girl was sleeping along with her mother in their house when the 28-year-old man took her to a nearby field and allegedly raped her, SP Vipin Mishra said. The neighbour was taken into custody based on a complaint filed by the girl's father, the SP said, adding she has been sent for medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neighbour-rapes-5-year-old-girl-in-ups-bahraich-849230.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Couple, toddler daughter found hanging in Chhattisgarh||A couple allegedly committed suicide after killing their one-and-half-year-old daughter in Chhattisgarh's Korba district, police said on Saturday. The bodies of Ashok Kumar Ratre (28) and his daughter Eshi were found hanging in one room while that of his wife Ragini was found hanging in another room in their house in Sukri village under Dipka police station limits on Saturday morning, said KL Sinha, City Superintendent of Police of Darri. "Prima facie it seems the couple first killed their daughter and then hanged themselves. No suicide note has been found at the spot," the CSP informed. Ashok's father has said his son, employed in a private firm, and Ragini had married three years ago and the couple was staying in a separate part of the house for the past one year, the official said. "The father said Ashok and Ragini used to constantly quarrel. Further probe into the case is underway," Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couple-toddler-daughter-found-hanging-in-chhattisgarh-849233.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Rs 1,000 credited into bank accounts of over 10.4 lakh migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government has transferred Rs 1,000 in the bank accounts of over 10.4 lakh migrant workers who have recently returned to the state. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the maintenance allowance being given by his dispensation to migrant workers returning to the state has given a new direction to the public welfare schemes. He said migrant workers coming from other states are being safely taken to quarantine centres and proper arrangements have been made for their food and medical screening there. "All these workers have a very big role in nation-building. They have set a good example in front of society through their labour," he said. According to an official release, Rs 1,000 has been transferred through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in the bank accounts of 10,48,166 migrant workers. A total of 35 lakh migrant workers have returned to the state so far. Adityanath said over 12,000 buses of the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) were arranged for their return and 15-day ration kits were given to migrant workers. "When we work as a team, the entire system connects with it and gives positive results. The commitment with which all departments have performed during the crisis is an example for the country. This is the reason that the Supreme Court did not comment against the state when hearing was underway (over COVID-19 crisis)," he said.  He said it is the state government's responsibility to provide employment to the workers returning to their home towns. "Firstly, the revenue department performed the task of mapping skills of the workers and then the finance department held a few meetings with banks and prepared the action plan for their employment and self-reliance," he said.  "Arrangements have been made to deliver food to 12-15 lakh people daily through community kitchens since the lockdown," he said. Adityanath said his government is doing everything for social and economic security of migrant workers, he said. The chief minister also interacted with beneficiaries via video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-rs-1000-credited-into-bank-accounts-of-over-104-lakh-migrant-workers-in-uttar-pradesh-849243.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh COVID-19 case count up by 198 to 10,641, death toll 447||The number pf COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 10,641 on Saturday after 198 new cases were detected, with Bhopal accounting for 63 of them, an official said. With seven patients succumbing to the infection in the day, the death toll has risen to 447, he said. The number of COVID-19 cases in the state increased by 2,552 since lockdown restrictions were eased after May 31, while 97 people lost their lives during the same period, the official said. Since Friday, Bhopal reported 63 cases, followed by 57 in Indore, among the worst-hit districts in the country. Two deaths each were reported in Indore and Jabalpur, one each in Neemuch, Sagar and Khargone, the official said. No new coronavirus case was reported in 26 districts since Friday evening. Cases have been reported from 51 of the 52 districts in MP, five of them not having any active case as on Saturday, a health department bulletin informed. The number of cases in Indore increased by 57 to reach 4,029, while the death toll stood at 166. Bhopal has 2,145 COVID-19 cases, and 69 have succumbed to the infection. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases: 10,641, active cases: 2,817, new cases: 198, death toll: 447, recovered: 7,377, people tested so far: 2,46,973.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-case-count-up-by-198-to-10641-death-toll-447-849250.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh's COVID-19 tally reaches 1,512 as 67 test positive||The number of COVID-19 cases in Chhattisgarh reached 1,512 after 67 people, including an Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawan, tested positive on Saturday, a health official said. Besides, 81 patients were discharged from different hospitals across the state following recovery, he said. "Of the new cases, 13 were reported from Korba, 10 from Bemetara, nine each from Rajnandgaon and Balodabazar, eight from Bilaspur, five from Kabirdham, four from Raipur, three each from Durg and Balrampur, two from Dantewada and one case came from Koriya," he said. The two cases in Dantewada are the first instances of infection in the district, the official said, adding that the two patents had returned from Hyderabad on June 11. "An ITBP constable, belonging to 40th battalion, is among the new cases from Rajnandgoan. He had recently returned from Uttar Pradesh and was in quarantine in Somni village," the official said. Earlier, on June 8, an ITBP jawan staying in the same quarantine centre had tested positive, he added. The ITBP is deployed in Rajnandgaon, which borders Maharashtra, for anti-Naxal operations. The state's COVID-19 count is now 1,512, though active cases are 875 as 631 people have been discharged and six patients died, he said. At present, 2,52,786 people have been kept in 20,155 quarantine centres while 57,256 people are in home quarantine as a precautionary measure, he said. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases-1,512, new cases-67, deaths-6, discharged-631, active cases-875, people tested so far-1,01,554.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarhs-covid-19-tally-reaches-1512-as-67-test-positive-849270.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||17 Punjab policemen test positive for coronavirus||Seventeen asymptomatic Punjab policemen have tested positive for coronavirus in a random sampling of 7,165 officers posted at various police stations and doing frontline jobs, state DGP Dinkar Gupta said on Saturday. It translates to around 0.9 per cent positive cases of the total samples for the police force, as compared with the average of two per cent positive cases for the entire state, he said. Of the 17 positive cases, 14 belonged to district police, two (including a cook) were from the state armed police/Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) and one from Punjab Home Guards (PHG), he said in a statement here. Sangrur has reported the maximum number of coronavirus cases, Gupta said. He said the state's higher percentage among the general population was understandable since testing of citizens is normally carried out either for symptomatic individuals or for their primary or secondary contacts, in contrast to the random exercise conducted among asymptomatic Punjab police personnel. While 1,868 of the 7,165 samples collected till June 12 had tested negative, results for 5,280 were pending, the DGP said. The sampling process started on June 1 and efforts were being made to test a maximum number of police personnel posted in police stations and other high-risk areas on a daily basis depending upon the spare sampling and the testing capacity available with the health department, he said. The DGP said all the 17 infected cops were in isolation, either in civil hospitals or in the COVID care centres established by the Punjab health department. On the directions of the DGP, testing of policemen was undertaken amid apprehensions of a spike in COVID-19 cases. Around 48,000 policemen have been performing their frontline duties for the last three months, Gupta said. Meanwhile, a COVID-19 positive assistant sub inspector, with comorbidities, was reported to be in critical condition in Amritsar, he said. He was, however, not part of the random sampling exercise undertaken by the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-punjab-policemen-test-positive-for-coronavirus-849271.html
13-06-2020||North and Central||333 fresh COVID-19 cases take Rajasthan's total tally to 12,401; death toll rises to 282||Rajasthan reported 333 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday which took the total tally to 12,401, while the death toll climbed to 282 with 10 new fatalities, officials said. Four deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bharatpur, while the rest were non-natives of the state, they said. Among the fresh cases, 75 were reported from Jodhpur, 62 from Pali, 39 from Bharatpur, 27 from Jaipur, 16 from Sikar, 14 from Dholpur, 13 from Sirohi, 12 from Jhunjhunu, 11 each from Ajmer and Nagaur, health department officials said. The number of active cases in the state stood at 2,782 and 8,945 patients have been discharged from hospitals till date, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/333-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-rajasthans-total-tally-to-12401-death-toll-rises-to-282-849272.html
13-06-2020||Opinion||China’s COVID-19 white paper: A propaganda pill||Attempt to own the narrative The white paper obviously puts emphasis on the areas where the Chinese government has been successful while completely glossing over its failures. After its initial failures in taking charge of the narrative on COVID-19, China has tried to weave its version of the pandemic and its role in it. It has portrayed itself first as a victim and then as a provider of global public goods, like ventilators, masks and testing kits. This white paper is yet another effort to own this narrative. China has been constantly blamed by the world community for its failure to disclose the existing cases in a timely manner and to highlight the nature of human-to-human transmission. There has been a major backlash about these factors since the onset of the pandemic in the Western world. In addition, the Chinese government is facing criticism domestically as well and is being held accountable for the delay in reporting cases to the World Health Organization (WHO).  While the White Paper provides a timeline from December 27, 2019, onwards, there are multiple reports which suggest that the first cases came to light in early December. In addition, the attempts by the Chinese government to prevent any information from leaking out aggravated the situation. The most prominent example is the case of Dr. Li Wenliang, who succumbed to the infection in February 2020. The Chinese government refused to acknowledge his warnings and even forced him to not talk about his concerns. As per the White Paper as of May 31, 2020, the Chinese government claims a recovery rate of 94.3 per cent. The total data provided by the Chinese government stands at 83,017 cases out of which 78,307 recovered and 4,634 deaths. This figure is also controversial. According to unofficial, anecdotal data gathered from ground reports, the total number of deaths could be closer to 47,000. These figures raise doubts over China’s genuineness.  Handling domestic criticism The white paper also attempts to underscore the efforts made by the Chinese government to help in battling the spread of the infection. It provides a day-to-day narrative of the steps undertaken by the government and the leadership which helped in controlling the spread of COVID-19. As per the paper, the Chinese government spent a total of 162.4 billion RMB in its efforts to help get people tested and to access medical care. However, this is an attempt to ease the growing criticisms within Chinese society by showing the leadership and the Chinese Communist Party in a positive light.  These claims help soothe some of the tensions within Chinese society about the government’s inaction. The White Paper states: “A major crisis is a litmus test of the ruling Party’s governance philosophy and effectiveness. The strong leadership of the CPC has been fundamental to China’s rapid containment of the virus. The CPC has a strong leadership core, a people-oriented governance philosophy, and well-established organisation and operation mechanisms”. Asserting China’s positive role The paper also highlights the steps undertaken by the Chinese government to help other countries in their fight against the virus. It states that Xi Jinping conducted telephonic diplomacy, speaking to over around 50 heads of state. China also donated testing kits and medical gear to a number of countries in need of help. According to the White Paper “from March 1 to 31 May, China exported protective materials to 200 countries and regions, among which there were more than 70.6 billion masks, 340 million protective suits, 115 million pairs of goggles, 96,700 ventilators, 225 million test kits, and 40.29 million infrared thermometers.” These figures are an attempt to assert China’s positive role in the global fight against the spread of the pandemic. However, one important question lingers after reading the White Paper, what if Beijing had disclosed the situation in time? Would the situation be different? Would the number of deaths be less? The answers to these questions are only suppositions. China’s silence during the initial days has made the situation quite grim. To add to this, questions surrounding the origin of the virus have further complicated the situation. No doubt, the Chinese economy too has faced the brunt of the infection, but the initial attempts by China to suppress the extent and gravity of the disease have likely caused grave consequences for the world economy. The late response has greatly harmed China’s image as a ‘responsible’ global power. All this will deepen the existing mistrust towards Beijing, which is likely to amplify with the spread of the disease.   (Dr Gunjan Singh is an assistant professor at the Jindal Global Law School. She has 10 years of experience in research pertaining to China Studies) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-s-covid-19-white-paper-a-propaganda-pill-849143.html
13-06-2020||Opinion||Appeasement doesn’t work, time to change tack with China||Three years after Doklam and after two ‘informal’ summits’, China is once again flexing its military muscle in yet another strategic area, Ladakh. Throwing a spanner in China’s PLA-operated strategy, India, stepping up on decades-old border road construction plans, built an important all-weather road near the Pangong lake and another road connecting the nearly 255-km long Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. This road will allow the Indian Army to easily access its post in the Karakoram Pass which oversees Chip Chap River, Trig Heights and Depsang Plains. The success of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), a key component of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), China’s ambitious global strategy and Xi Jinping’s personal signature project, requires unrestricted entry for China in PoK. China therefore is compelled to protect its assets in PoK to ensure unimpeded passage to Gwadar in the Indian Ocean. China is aware that given Pakistan’s situation, any Indian action on PoK will seriously jeopardise Beijing’s game plan. Partition has been one of the key debilitating factors in India’s socio-economic progress and accomplishment of its strategic objectives since 1947 when we began our ‘tryst with destiny’. Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir and Tibet have remained core issues in our engagement with the two neighbours who never ceased to harbour ill will against us despite the olive branch approach of successive governments in New Delhi. Even after China’s Doklam misadventure, India went out of the way to accommodate China’s wish list and decided to play down the Tibet card. The President of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) Lobsang Sangay (not yet officially recognised as the Government of Tibet in Exile) and the Trade Representative of Taiwan, Chung-Kwang Tien, who were officially invited to Narendra Modi’s swearing-in ceremony in 2014, were not included in the guest list for the 2019 swearing-in ceremony. All this resulted in facilitating a cordial atmosphere in the first ‘informal summit’ between the two top leaders in April 2018 at Wuhan, now better known as the original epicentre of the COVID-19 pandemic. Both leaders agreed to provide “strategic guidance” to their respective armies to improve local communication and decided to seriously implement the existing mechanisms to prevent another ‘Doklam-like conflict’. After a few incidence-free months, both countries seem to have entered a sphere of mutual suspicion and mistrust. The COVID-19 epidemic has added to the simmering tensions. The pandemic has prompted many countries to seriously consider floating a global anti-China platform. The shape of things to come is not clear but it is certain that any such global platform will expect New Delhi to be an active supporter of the anti-China action plan, whatever it may be. Domestically, too, there is a huge anti-China sentiment sweeping the country, and for some valid reasons. While the “Wuhan spirit” seems to have completely evaporated, the Mamallapuram trade agreements are also not moving towards their logical conclusion. In such circumstances, the Ladakh stand-off should come as an opportunity for New Delhi to push the reset button and reconsider options other than those the two informal summits have offered. New Delhi has to seriously consider taking a lead in forging a new regional trade forum to include commercial centres like Hong Kong and Taiwan and other countries that look to the new Indo-Pacific architecture as more than a security umbrella. If that amounts to revisiting the ‘One China Policy’, it is time to bite the bullet.  In a span of about 120 years, from the Boxer Revolution in 1900 to the border dispute in 2020, China has exhibited its strengths and weaknesses, experienced fall and rise, expanded in geography and fell apart again, and has experimented with various economic models. A strong military and economy alone do not add up to make a country a ‘Superpower’.     As an ancient civilisation, China needs to wake up to the current global realities. The world is not yet ready to accept China as a rule-maker and a hegemon, and probably will never be.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/appeasement-doesn-t-work-time-to-change-tack-with-china-849279.html
13-06-2020||Opinion||Big Blast Theory||The BJP clings to the pretence of democracy via the pretence of procedure, while subverting the former with parodies of the latter. See any number of stolen elections, peaceful protesters arrested under extreme laws, and media co-opted or silenced. Given how willingly it is buttressed by the cravenness and toxicity of all the other so-called pillars of democracy, you would think the government would be secure in its power, but that’s the thing about the bottomless psychic grudge that Hindutva carries -- any dissent, however tiny, scrapes at the wound; and nothing can ever sufficiently heal it. Like all bullies, the BJP readily makes red-eyed moves on its own citizens and its weaker regional neighbours, but silently accepts China’s occupation of Indian territory. Besides its bizarre wounded tone, there’s a large hole in that theory. As The Quint pointed out, there was no public mention or report of Trump’s visit to India until January 13. But who cares, right? Fans of Big Bang Theory love the sitcom’s science-obsessed geeks. Fans of Big Blast Theory love the way you can retro-engineer reality without too many people questioning you. Or maybe there’s a better celluloid reference: Modi and Shah are our very own Nurse Ratched. We could call it One Nation, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/big-blast-theory-849280.html
13-06-2020||Opinion||What does it all mean, anyway?||Of course, they are right. This is not war and it calls for an entirely different approach to the matter at hand. And yet, since the war metaphor is here to stay, how might we understand why the comparison seems particularly apt at a visceral level?  Though not everyone is participating equally in this ongoing battle, all of us are implicated -- there are those who are battling for their lives and those who are putting their own lives at risk to save others. And then there are a whole lot of us, watching this drama, this pitched battle, as it were, between human beings and an unseen virus, unfold. Waiting, watching, helplessly hoping or wringing our hands in soap, sanitiser and despair.    If we are lucky to have the vantage of spectatorship, then it is also impossible not to be moved by the great tragedy of it all. At the time of writing, 425,888 people had died of COVID-19 globally. As we finally hear of cities in India, too, becoming overwhelmed by COVID-19 cases and deaths, we wonder in unexpected moments, thoughts intruding upon our consciousness like explosives going off nearby, whether it will be our loved ones who will contract the infection next or whether it will be us. And sooner or later, we land on a question that has been with us for a long time -- what does it all mean, anyway?  For there seems to be no sense in how this pandemic is upsetting and uprooting lives. This may not be a deadly disease for most, but there is something random about who gets infected and to what extent. As if this were not enough, there is also something random about who gets treatment and how soon. The talk of asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic cases and those with co-morbidities doesn’t really help. There is no escaping the fact that most of us – scientists, doctors and policymakers included – are groping in the dark. We just don’t know enough about this disease or how to defeat it.  How do we wrap our heads around this -- this shattering of hum-drum ordinariness and the accompanying intimation of a lack of meaning in our lives? We may have had rare or periodic glimpses of this condition before, but now this psychological reality appears like it is here to stay.  It’s not easy having an existential crisis on a battlefield. But if we really think about it, we will see that making sense of the human condition has always been the toughest battle that people have fought, perhaps, from the very start. We have been at it forever, inventing culture and mythology, science and technology to help us through this conundrum. And here we are, asking the same question once again: What does it all add up to? Is there any sense in how it operates? What is our role in all of this? And what are we supposed to do?  When Arjuna asks this question on the battlefield to Krishna, the dialogue between the two ends when the former is granted a vision of the immensity of life as reflected in the universe-enveloping form of the Lord. Perhaps it is our turn now to see the same but reflected in the form of a microscopic virus. Or more simply, maybe it’s time, as the poet William Blake wrote, to try and see a world in a grain of sand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-does-it-all-mean-anyway-849282.html
13-06-2020||Opinion||Ecology and the ‘Just City’||COVID-19 has shown us how unequal our cities are. In a way that is hard to ignore. Workers were turned out on the streets across India, and we read horrific stories of their suffering, even death. Stories of injustice flooded in from across the world. In Singapore, the government seemingly forgot about its migrant workers, living in cramped unsanitary conditions – until an outbreak brought public attention to their problems. In many parts of Africa, migrant workers who lost their jobs overseas returned home, facing income loss and starvation. In the US, Hispanics and Latin Americans were disproportionately impacted by COVID-19, forced to keep working in low-income jobs, exposed to high risk while suffering from low nutrition and chronic ill-health. The richest countries – the US, UK, Italy and Spain – were worst-hit. Closer to home, our financial capital, Mumbai, and administrative capital and power centre, Delhi, have been most impacted. COVID-19 was initially called a “disease of the rich”, brought in by those who lived, worked and holidayed outside India. The virus steadily made its way to low income neighbourhoods, becoming a disease of the poor. Areas like the slums of Mumbai faced the brunt of infection. When over 1,400 people share a single toilet, social and physical distancing are abstract concepts, impossible to implement. Cities are inter-linked places, where rich and poor co-exist, interdependent on each other. We cannot plan for a strong city, resilient to current and future disasters, unless we do so in a way that helps all its residents. As the tragic events of the past weeks have shown us, our current ways of city planning are not just insufficient in times of crisis. They are immoral and unjust. We have violated basic fundamental human rights in building our cities. How can we do better? There is much that needs to be done. Job security, health insurance, a better public health system, well-implemented labour laws, more accessible food rations, universal public income – these are some of the important changes we need to make. But ecology has been left out of many of these discussions. Ecology shapes the unequal city in fundamental ways. The poor live in slums, shacks, tents with leaky roofs: exposed to smoke-filled air, polluted lakes, garbage dumps and dengue-carrying mosquitoes. How do we redesign the city to make ecology part of the solution, rather than the problem? We could provide urban employment through the aggressive planting of “green infrastructure” – more trees in public spaces, including parks, lakes, streets, slums, anganwadis, schools and college campuses. We can expand edible gardens in the city, planting fruiting trees like mango, jamun, jackfruit and tamarind, edible trees like the drumstick and agase, and wild weeds and soppus which people can add to their diet. Jobs can be provided as we clean up our polluted kaluves or canals, re-converting them from the drains and sewers that they have become, back to flowing streams that carry clean water. People can walk and bike alongside these canals, reducing the need to take the car or motorbike, and helping provide safer means of transport in COVID-19 times. People from all walks of life must be able to access spaces of nature: women and men, rich and poor, old and young. This provides stress relief, exercise, and mental and physical health: most important in times of crisis, such as we face today. While emerging from the lockdown, we need to think of different ways to stimulate our economy: ways that also address inequality and injustice. Ecology plays an essential role in such new approaches. Do we have the boldness of imagination to take the plunge?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ecology-and-the-just-city-849283.html
13-06-2020||Opinion||Beijing’s season of all-round assertion||The white paper asserted that in its “fight and win” over COVID-19, China fought a “resolute battle to prevent and control its spread” by employing “extensive, stringent, and thorough containment measures.” China’s responded in an “open, transparent and responsible manner and in accordance with the law” and “a decisive victory was secured in the battle to defend Hubei Province and its capital city of Wuhan”. It did not explain its inactions during November to January 23, which led to the spread of over five million people leaving from Wuhan to different destinations, infecting the globe and creating worldwide misery, death and destruction. Australia, India and other countries which at the World Health Assembly on May 19 sought an “impartial, independent and comprehensive” investigation into the origins of Covid-19 became objects of Beijing’s ire. China took to economic warfare against Canberra, banning beef and other imports, and issuing an advisory to its citizens not to visit Australia. India faced military heat in Ladakh and Sikkim. Not only did China resist the US in many multilateral institutions and made them ineffective, such as in the United Nations Security Council meeting on April 10 to discuss Covid-19, in the IMF and World Bank, and in the WTO and WHO, China’s UN Representative Zhang Jun also organised a Forum of Small States meeting last week to retain its support base in multilateral fora. Specifically, not only did China praise the WHO leadership’s responses on COVID-19 but also increased its contribution by $20 million, in addition to President Xi Jinping announcing $2 billion for the developing countries to cope up with Covid-19. Thirdly, while every nation was busy fighting COVID-19, China stepped up its military forays against Japan on Senkaku islands, against Vietnam, Malaysia and Philippines on the disputed islands in South China Sea, and against Taiwan and India recently. Japan alleged that China’s coastguard vessels and air force planes have transgressed on the small Senkaku islands 621 times in 2019, and has kept up the tempo in 2020 as well (compared to over 400 transgressions on the long India-China border). China’s Haiyang Dizhi 8 ‘survey vessels’ forayed into Vietnam and Malaysian waters in April, sank Vietnamese vessels, declared a unilateral fishing ban till August, decided on April 18 to establish two Sansha cities on Woody Island for further administrative control over the South China Sea, and began preparations to impose an Air Defence Identification Zone to restrict global flights. These attracted unusual criticism from India, whose foreign ministry spokesman on May 21 stated: “We firmly stand with the freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded lawful commerce in these international waterways, in accordance with international law.” With India and Australia holding their virtual summit on June 4 and announcing a maritime logistics arrangement, it appears they have bridged the weakest link in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, although unlike in 2017 when Australian foreign minister Julie Bishop defended the Indian position in the Doklam incident, no such comments were made now on the ongoing Ladakh stand-off. Fourthly, China-Taiwan relations went into a tail-spin. President Tsia Ing-wen’s second inaugural coincided with China’s parliamentary meeting. Most significantly, China has been operationalising its second aircraft carrier, Shandong, in the region, while its first aircraft carrier, Liaoning, surrounded Taiwan twice. China’s third-ranking leader Li Zhanshu indicated the use of force, even as Joint Staff chief Gen. Li Zuocheng warned of “smashing separatist forces” on Taiwan. Fifthly, China’s parliament debated and approved a new security law imposing restrictions on Hong Kong’s “one country, two systems” model, thus riling Hong Kong residents but also the UK, which brokered that compromise solution in 1984 and agreed to hand over Hong Kong to China in 1997. All of these Chinese assertive and aggressive responses have been put down to a new “wolf warrior” diplomacy and to a bid to cover-up the Covid-19 disaster. Mao Zedong once suggested, in his classic guerrilla warfare techniques which were then applied to foreign policy, that it is not prudent to “attack in all directions.” However, China’s current leaders appear to be in a hurry to occupy the global “centre stage”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/beijing-s-season-of-all-round-assertion-849286.html
13-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Mind games||Every serious sportsperson knows that diet, training, and equipment can improve performance only up to a certain point, after which sport becomes a mind game. September 25, 2019, was an important date. It was somebody’s birthday in my family, but when midnight chimed, I was at 15,500 feet on Mount Kilimanjaro, dressed in five layers of thick clothing to protect myself from the subzero temperatures.  Uhuru Peak was 4,000 feet above, roughly the equivalent of a 400-storey building. The oxygen content in the air was only about half that at sea level, we had to reach the summit by dawn, and then descend about 10,000 feet to a lower camp, trekking a distance of about 32 km on rough mountain territory, and all this without sleep for the past 18 hours and the next 18 hours.  Sportspersons know that the body can keep going long after the mind has decided to quit. There were five mental tricks that I used on Kilimanjaro.  The first trick was thinking that, no matter what happens, time would pass, the night would end, and day would dawn with my feet on the summit. It was just a matter of time. The second was that I did not have a mountain to climb; I just had to take a step. And then another step. And then another.  The third was that, whatever I was experiencing, others had experienced before me; so if they had suffered and succeeded, then so could I. It was just a matter of time, waiting till dawn, taking one step at a time. The fourth was that, when half the night was over, the rest of the climb was getting shorter and shorter and the goal was getting nearer and nearer. What did I feel when I reached the summit? Nothing. There was no exhilaration, no cry of triumph, taking photographs, and preparing for the descent. And that was the fifth and most important trick. Reaching the summit was not the end of the journey; it was merely a milestone along the way. There was a long way to descend, nearly 10,000 feet, a long trek on the mountain, another 16 km, and another 12 hours left in the day before I could think of rest. I could not afford to surrender my concentration merely because I was at the top. These tricks cannot be learned overnight for use on demand. They need to become the mental habits of a lifetime. We need to play mind games not just in sports but also in life, to survive and to succeed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/mind-games-849020.html
13-06-2020||South||Congress announces 'lights off Kerala' protest against hike in power charges||The Congress in Kerala on Friday decided to stage a dharna on June 17, protesting against exorbitant electricity bills, by switching off lights for three minutes. Called 'Lights off Kerala', the protest will be held on June 17 and the leader of Opposition in the State assembly, Ramesh Chennithala, urged the people of the state to join the movement at 9 PM. "People have lost their jobs, their income. They are facing immense difficulties. The spike in the electricity bills came as a shock to the people. We demand withdrawing the increased bills," Chennithala said in a press meet. Chennithala claimed people have been complaining about the spike in electricity bills during the COVID-19 lockdown period. "The state government is fleecing the people of the state during the COVID-19 crisis. This is like an unannounced tariff hike," Chennithala said, adding that the delayed meter reading due to the lockdown shifted many people to the next higher power tariff slab. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) had, however, earlier informed that the latest bill generated was for two-and-a-half months instead of the usual two months. The board said it was resolving the complaints regarding the bills. The Electricity Board was not given permission to record the meter-readings from March 24, when the nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 was declared, till April 20, when it was partially lifted. Chennithala said the delay in recording the reading was not due to the fault of the consumers and the people need not carry the burden. The Congress leader also lashed out at the Centre over the hike in petrol and diesel charges and claimed the union government refuses to lower the fuel price even when the crude oil rates are low in the international market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-announces-lights-off-kerala-protest-against-hike-in-power-charges-848959.html
13-06-2020||South||97-year-old beats COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu; leaves hospital with a smile||Age is just a number, they say. 97-year-old A Krishna Murti, a resident of this metropolis, proved this old adage by beating COVID-19, despite age not being on his side, of course, with able medical support. Krishna Murti, probably the oldest patient in Tamil Nadu to recover from Coronavirus illness, had multiple comorbid conditions like hypertension and coronary artery disease when he was wheeled into Kauvery Hospital on May 30 after testing positive for COVID-19.  Despite complications, the 97-year-old patient recovered from the illness, which has consumed the lives of nearly 400 people in Tamil Nadu alone, providing a glimmer of hope in times of despair. As the nonagenarian left the COVID-19 ward for his home after recovery, the hospital staff, including doctors, cheered him up for beating the virus and giving them “much-needed energy.” In a short video released by the hospital, Krishna Murti, who is wheeled out of the exclusive ward meant for COVID-19 patients, looks cheerful and even waves his hand at the hospital staff who treated and took care of him, before bidding adieu to them.  A video that will make you smile. “We have to understand that this (COVID-19) is a dreadful disease. We do lose people. But we do have people fighting and coming out healthy. Bear that in your mind that having COVID-19 is not the end of your life. We would always have a chance to win the war and stay healthy,” Dr. Vijayalakshmi Balakrishnan, Consultant, Infectious Diseases, Kauvery Hospital, said.  Talking about the challenges in treating the 97-year-old patient, the doctor said Krishna Murti presented himself with symptoms of fever, cough and mild breathlessness.  “He had pneumonia. But was an ambulant gentleman and required mild oxygen therapy for the first day or so and he slowly recovered and after five to six days, he started becoming much better, walking around, and talking to us. In fact, he gave us a lot of energy and by the time he went home, we all had a good feeling,” she said. The patient, according to doctors, was put on a protein-rich diet, and following his recovery, he remained cheerful and jubilant, even advising fellow patients not to worry about the disease.  Krishna Murti is one of the oldest survivors of COVID-19 in India and is doing fine, the hospital said, adding he was cured despite his comorbid conditions.   Dr Vijayalakshmi Balakrishnan also said people should take Krishna Murti’s recovery as an example and should not give in to the fear and lose hope. “The fatality rate of COVID-19 is very low, and we urge people to be positive and safe during these challenging times,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/97-year-old-beats-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-leaves-hospital-with-a-smile-849127.html
13-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM reaches out to global heads of consumer goods firms||Seeking to attract foreign investments,Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami has reached out to five global heads of prominent companies in the consumer goods sector by writing to them personally, the government said here on Saturday. Outlining the investment attractiveness and inherent advantages of Tamil Nadu, the Chief Minister pointed out the facilitation support provided for business and industry to further their growth and assured a customised incentive package as per their requirements. Palaniswami has written to Chief Executive Officer, Kate Spade, Liz Fraser, Chairman, Fossil Group, Kosta Kartsotis, CEO, Nike, John Donhoe, CEO, Adidas AG, Kasper Rorsted and CEO, Mattel Inc Ynon Kreiz, an official release said.  Due to the impact caused by COVID-19 to the world economy, many overseas industries are likely to exit from certain countries and relocate their manufacturing activities in countries like India, the government said. "The proactive steps taken by the government is already showingresults as evidenced by the fact that the State could recentlysign MoUs with 17 multinationals for foreign investments of Rs 15,128 crore. This shows that Tamil Nadu is the best destination for investment even in this pandemic situation. "Palaniswami has taken several steps for attracting foreign investments into Tamil Nadu and it includes formation of country specific investment facilitation desks and diplomatic outreach programmes and constitution of Special Task Force to promote investments, the government said. Days ago, he had written to leaders of global pharmaceutical companies, inviting them to set up units in the state, promising them attractive packages. The Chief Minister had written to heads of various companies, including Philips Medical Systems, Siemens Healthcare, Sirona Dental Systems and GE Healthcare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-reaches-out-to-global-heads-of-consumer-goods-firms-849147.html
13-06-2020||South||Telangana: TRS MLA tests positive for COVID-19||A ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA has tested positive for COVID-19, TRS sources said on Saturday. He is undergoing treatment, they said. Meanwhile,Telangana Finance minister T Harish Rao tested negative for the virus after he took the test in the wake of a staff member being found positive for the infection. When contacted, Harish Rao said he went into self-quarantine after a personal assistant at his camp office at Siddipet tested positive for the virus. After going into self-quarantine, his samples were sent for COVID-19 test and the report was negative. Harish Rao said he is healthy and fine. Earlier, a former BJP MLA had tested positive for COVID-19. As at 5 PM on Friday, the tally of positive cases in Telangana stood at 4484.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-trs-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-849157.html
13-06-2020||South||Liberian woman, toddler son stuck in Kerala hospital as lockdown derails plans to return home||Sitting in a hospital room, Jenneh Paye is hoping that she and her two-and-a-half-year-old son would be able to join their family in Liberia, thousands of miles away from this South Indian port city, very soon. Unable to fly back to their country due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the 26-year-old mother and her son Jin have been staying in the private Lisie Hospital for over two months since he recovered from a serious heart ailment following surgery. They are hoping that the Indian government would extend a helping hand to enable their return home. A hospital spokesman said Jin, who had been suffering from severe heart ailment since birth, was admitted to the hospital in the first week of March after being referred from a hospital at Monrovia for better medical care. He underwent an open heart surgery on March 12. Relieved over the improvement in Jin's health following the surgery, Jenneh was preparing to go back to Liberia on April 2 but the lockdown derailed their plan. The spokesman said the boy was brought to Kerala for treatment after taking a loan pledging their property back home and now they are under financial stress due to the delay in their return trip. It was on March 2 that Jenneh reached Kerala from Liberia along with her son for treatment of his heart condition. Jin is the second child born to Peter and Jenneh and was diagnosed to have a hole in the heart within a few months. He was not gaining weight adequately and he used to get recurrent respiratory infections and Jenneh knew he needed to undergo cardiac surgery for a complete recovery. Peter and Jenneh managed to collect enough money to travel to India and get Jin operated though it meant working overtime, mortgaging their family house and giving up much other leisure in life. "All went well according to plan when they came to Kochi. The aorto-pulmonary window in his heart was closed and the family's happiness knew no bounds when he had an uneventful recovery after the surgery. All they wanted now was to travel back home...but then came the pandemic scare, travel restrictions and lockdown shattering all their dreams. Jenneh and Jin could not travel back home as planned on April 2 and they are unsure when they can," he said. The little resources they had with them was planned for a month's stay and recovery and is drained completely, he said. According to him,they are now being supported by the management of Lisie Hospital, which is taking care of their food and shelter along with some help from the Liberian Consulate and a few philanthropists.  In a video message released to the media, Jenneh appealed to the Indian government to facilitate their return home. "I am Jenneh, I came from Liberia for my son's surgery.Now his surgery is over...we are being here for too long. So we appeal to the government of India to please arrange means for us to go back home," she said. Her husband, Peter, currently in Liberia, also sent a video message requesting the Indian government to facilitate their return trip. "I am hoping that in few days government of India with good people will be able to bring my family back to Liberia," he said. Peter also thanked the hospital authorities for providing good medical care to his son and safe stay of his family in Kochi. The hospital spokesman said Jin is fully cured and his follow-up medical examination, if needed, can be done in Liberian hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liberian-woman-toddler-son-stuck-in-kerala-hospital-as-lockdown-derails-plans-to-return-home-849183.html
13-06-2020||South||COVID-19 negative certificates mandatory for Non-Resident Keralites returning in chartered flights from Gulf||The Kerala Government has made COVID-19 negative certificates mandatory from June 20 for Non-Resident Keralites in the Middle East taking chartered flights to the state, a decision which drew flak from the opposition Congress-led UDF. With some NRKsraising concerns on the matter, the government has requested the Indian Ambassadors in the Middle East to inform it of the testing infrastructure, cost and protocols available in the Gulf,NORKA (Non Resident Keralites Affairs) Principal Secretary Dr K Ellangovan, told PTI. A private airline had insisted on the certificates, he said. "The danger is if an infected person comes in the flight, he/she will infect all the co-passengers. Only after we understand the views of the ambassadors will a decision be taken", he said. Ellangovan said COVID-19 cases were increasing in Kerala and about 89 per cent of those infected were those who had returned from abroad. "So we have to take precautions for the health of the people of the state," he added. Hitting out at the government, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said it is "strange" that the LDF government, which had passed are a solution in the assembly against the Centre for insisting on COVID-19 negative certificates, had now taken a similar decision, and demanded that it be re-considered. The Kerala Assembly had on March 12 passed a unanimous resolution against the Union government's circular barring the return of Indians from coronavirus-hit countries such as Italy unless they produced a certificate that proves they have tested negative for the infection. The resolution moved by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said the circular was "inhuman" and was akin to "cruelly abandoning" expatriate Indians. "There was no such stipulation for those returning by flights of the Vande Bharat mission and the decision is likely to cause immense hardships", Chennithala said. Most of the NRKs returning had lost their jobs and were able to come back to the state following help from various quarters, he said, adding that insisting on the certificates would further create problems for them. IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty, MP, also criticised the government decision on the COVID-19 negative certificates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-negative-certificates-mandatory-for-non-resident-keralites-returning-in-chartered-flights-from-gulf-849266.html
13-06-2020||State||8 booked for assaulting corona warriors||Kakati police have filed cases against eight persons accused of assaulting corona warriors at institutional quarantine centre at Maranhol village in Belagavi taluk on Friday when they had been to collect their swab samples. Police arrested one accused, while five were absconding and two in quarantine will be arrested later. Panchayat Development Officer Prashant Munavalli, Village Accountant Prashant Nesargi and Asha workers were assaulted by villagers who had been called by those in quarantine who had been refusing to give their swab samples for tests as they did not have health complaints. Suspects in quarantine too had assaulted them. Accused were identified as Laxman Bharma Patil, Laxman Santram Gawade, Akkappa Subbanna Patil, Gangubai Subbanna Patil, Santuram Subbanna Patil, Renuka Akkappa Patil, Ratnabai Appanna Patil and Rani Santu Gawade residents of Maranhol. Accused Laxman Patil has been arrested, while others were at large and manhunt has been launched for them. Two accused were in quarantine and will be arrested after the quarantine period, police said. Kakati police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-booked-for-assaulting-corona-warriors-849211.html
13-06-2020||State||Time to check vehicles speed at national parks||With increasing road accidents and kills on national highways that passes through the Nagarhole and Bandipur tiger reserves, it is time for the Forest department to implement new initiatives to check speeding vehicles and impose strict fine on offenders.  Due to rash and negligent driving, not only wildlife, even humans are losing lives at protected areas. Several people, including forest personnel lost their lives in road accident. In recent accident that reported at Bandipur Tiger Reserve, on Friday, a Forest department personnel Rahamath was killed after he was hit by a ten-wheeler truck when he ventured out to switch on bore well pump set. Likewise, a driver attached to Jungle Lodges and Resorts, was fatally knocked down by a truck near Antharsanthe, Nagarhole tiger reserve, last week. It has to be noted that hundreds of wild animals such as spotted deer, leopards, tigers, elephant, died due to road accidents. An elephant died in a road accident as it was hit by a speeding bus near Mathigodu Elephant Camp in Nagarahole in October 2018. Conservator of Forests and Field Director Bandipur Tiger Reserve T Balachandra said, "The speed limit inside the national park is 40 kilometer per hour, but, still many drivers, particularly truck drivers, fail to abide by the rules." Despite having speed breakers across the forest region, there is a need for more humps and the barricades to control vehicles speed. Every 500 metres has speed breakers, but the latest vehicles are more powerful and the speed takes off within a few distances. More speed breakers and barricades could help in cutting the speed, he pointed out. The Forest department has provisions to impose fine for the violators, but it is not easy to check the violations. There are hardly a few CCTV cameras across the stretch. The cameras exist at entry and exit points. “The Forest department has provisions to impose penalty of up to Rs 25,000 for killing a spotted deer in road accident. But, it is highly difficult to identify the culprits. More number of CCTV cameras at vantage spots are helpful to identify the culprits,” said the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/time-to-check-vehicles-speed-at-national-parks-849237.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Amendment to KTCP Act by month end to regularise unauthorised buildings: Karnataka Minister||The State government would bring an amendment to the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act by the month end to regularise unauthorised buildings, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Saturday. "We had formed a committee of officials to bring an amendment to the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act. The committee has now submitted its report," Ashoka told reporters. Further the amendment would be submitted to the Supreme Court, he added. "We will bring amendment at the earliest, maybe by the end of this month, which people had been demanding for long to regularise their buildings," the minister said. The government had in the past tried to regularise buildings in Bengaluru by bringing in 'Akrama Sakrama' scheme, aimed at regularising unauthorised structures but it hit a legal road block when the Supreme Court stayed it. This time the government is aiming to pass the amendment and get the Supreme Court's nod. It intends to regularise over 35 lakh properties across the state by collecting fees. The move is seen as an effort to overcome the financial hardship caused due to the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amendment-to-ktcp-act-by-month-end-to-regularise-unauthorised-buildings-karnataka-minister-849187.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 308 fresh coronavirus cases, three more deaths||The coronavirus cases in Karnataka climbed to 6,824 with 308 more people testing positive for the infection on Saturday while the toll rose to 81 with three more deaths, the state health department said. The total cases include 3,648 discharges, 3,092 active cases and 81 deaths. Of the new cases, 208 were inter-state travellers and 25 international passengers. According to the health department, on Saturday 67 patients were tested positive in Kalaburagi district, 52 in Yadagiri, 42 in Bidar, 31 in Bengaluru urban, 30 in Dakshina Kannada, 20 in Dharwad, 14 in Udupi, 11 each in Hassan and Ballari, six in Vijayapura, five each in Raichur and Uttara Kannada, four in Kolar, two each in Mandya and Haveri, and one each in Mysuru, Bagalkote and Ramanagara. Regarding deaths, the health department said the deaths took place in Dharwad and Bengaluru Urban district. A 70-year-old patient, resident of Dharwad, who had complained of breathlessness and with travel history from Maharashtra, was admitted to a hospital in Hubballi on June 9 where he died on Friday. The other two deaths occurred in Bengaluru Urban where a 23-year-old and a 62-year-old person died yesterday. The health department also decided to change the status of a deceased from death due to COVID-19 to death due to non-COVID reasons.  The deceased has been identified by the health department as P-2762. "As per the opinion of the expert committee and approval from the Health Commissioner, the case of P-2762 is revised as non-COVID death," a senior health department official told PTI. The state continued to fare better in the number of patients who were discharged. On Saturday, 209 patients were discharged. The maximum discharges of 110 took place in Udupi, followed by 32 in Kalaburagi, 14 each in Raichur and Hassan, 13 in Davangere, six each in Mandya and Ballari, five in Vijayapura, four in Dakshina Kannada, three in Gadag and two in Dharwad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-308-fresh-coronavirus-cases-three-more-deaths-849232.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State records 308 new cases; 3 new deaths||As many as 308 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Saturday and three new deaths taking the death toll to 81 apart from three deaths due to non-Covid cause.  Out of the 308, as many as 208 were interstate passengers and 25 were international passengers. There are 15 patients in the ICU. P-6258, a 70-year-old man, who was a resident of Dharwad district complained of breathlessness and was admitted to a hospital on June 9. He had returned from Maharashtra. He died on Saturday. Another two deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban. The health department also declared on Saturday that P-2762 did not die of Covid-19 and has been excluded from the death tally due to Covid.  Now the total number of active cases in the state are 3,092 and the total number of cases so far reported in the state are 6,824. . The state tested 10,177 samples on Saturday, a higher number compared to the past few days.  The highest number of cases on Saturday were reported from Kalaburagi (67), followed by Yadgir (52), Bidar (42), Bengaluru Urban (31), Dakshina Kannada (30), and Dharwad (20). Most were returnees from Maharashtra, contacts of previously diagnosed patients, returnees from Delhi, SARI or ILI cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-records-308-new-cases-3-new-deaths-849251.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka urges Centre to release Rs 10,208 crore towards GST||The state government has urged the Centre to release GST compensation worth Rs 10,208 crore that is due for Karnataka. The request was placed with Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman during the 40th GST council meeting, in which Karnataka Home Minister and state’s representative to the council, Basavaraj Bommai, participated. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Bommai said that Rs 10,208 crore was due from the Centre as GST compensation for four four months - from March to May. “We have requested the Centre to release Rs 1,460 crore - pertaining to GST compensation for the month of March - as soon as possible due to the dire financial conditions of the state,” he said. Bommai said that the state was confident that the funds will be released soon, noting that Karnataka had recently received Rs 4,314 in GST compensation for three months, between December 2019 to February 2020. Meanwhile, the state also proposed the Council to reduce penalty for delay in filing GST. Bommai said that while people are made to pay 18% of the tax as fine in delay in payment, Karnataka has asked the Centre to reduce the percentage by half to 9%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-urges-centre-to-release-rs-10208-crore-towards-gst-849252.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kalyana Karnataka continues to see surge in infections||Three Kalyana Karnataka districts continued to record significant number of Covid-19 cases. Of the 308 fresh infections reported in the state on Saturday, the virus hotspots - Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Bidar - combined accounted for a whopping 166 cases. Kalaburagi district saw 67 fresh cases while Yadgir and Bidar districts reported 52 and 42 infections respectively in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Saturday). Of the 166 cases in the region, Maharashtra returnees accounted for 159. A four-year-old boy suffering from SARI is among the fresh infections reported in Kalaburagi. As many as 11 children aged between 1 and 10 have tested positive for novel coronavirus. With a tally of 883 cases, Kalaburagi is second in terms of Covid cases in Karnataka followed by its neighbour Yadgir (787). Dharwad district on Saturday reported 20 fresh cases and a death. All but two are primary contacts of the previously diagnosed Covid patients. The remaining two cases are domestic returnees - one each from Maharashtra and Delhi. 12 people, including two kids, aged 2 and 5, are the contacts of Patients 6257 and 5828. A 70-year-old man (P-6258), with a travel history to Maharashtra, was admitted to the designated Covid hospital on June 9 following a complaint of breathlessness. He failed to respond to treatment and died on Friday. His throat swab sample tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Ballari district saw 11 more cases, including eight contacts of infected Jindal employees, test positive on Saturday.  Meanwhile, 14 new cases took Udupi’s tally past 1000-mark on Saturday. The coastal district, however, has only 420 active cases, thanks to its good recovery rate. In the last 24 hours, the district reported 110 recoveries. Dakshina Kannada witnessed a spike in infections on Saturday. The district saw a total of 25 UAE returnees and five Maharashtra returnees test positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kalyana-karnataka-continues-to-see-surge-in-infections-849253.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka MLC polls: DCs to coordinate candidates, voters' travel amid COVID-19||As the state readies for elections to the Legislative Council amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the government has asked the district officials to coordinate the travel of all the candidates and the voters. In an order issued by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, the respective DCs of various districts have been asked to provide details of all the MLAs who have been quarantined and to coordinate with them for their travel for the polls on June 29. Even those staying in the containment zones will be allowed to travel for the purpose of elections, the order said. The polls will be conducted keeping in mind social distancing norms, while also ensuring appropriate protective gear for everyone taking part in the process, the order added. The government has appointed tourism department director K N Ramesh as the nodal officer for the polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mlc-polls-dcs-to-coordinate-candidates-voters-travel-amid-covid-19-849254.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt draws more flak over plan to amend Land Act||A day after Congress leader Siddaramaiah flayed the ruling party for proposing amendment to the Land Reforms Act making way for non-agriculturists to buy farm land in the state, more opposition followed from several quarters. On Saturday, JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti wrote to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa warning him against the decision. This was an anti-farmer move which would further make them vulnerable, the leader wrote.  "Even if the farmer gets a better price for the land, eventually he will be put in a landless situation, where he will have to migrate to bigger cities for daily wages. This will only help people to legalise black money in a clandestine manner," Horatti alleged. There will be huge backlash if the government goes ahead with this move, he further warned. Meanwhile, Karnataka State Federation of Farmers' Association has also opposed the decision. "This move by the government favours realtors and industrialists. Already, several acres of farmland in the vicinity of big cities have become unsuitable for cultivation. The government's decision will further impact the situation," said activist Kuruburu Shanthakumar, warning of massive protests if the government went ahead with the amendment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-draws-more-flak-over-plan-to-amend-land-act-849257.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid debate, Karnataka's Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan stresses for digital learning||Even as schools are divided over providing online education, the state Higher Education Department is stressing on continuing online education. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has stressed the need for digital learning to eliminate educational inequalities. Taking part in a Webinar on ‘Digitising Higher Education - Challenges and Opportunities,’ organised by the Padmashree Institute of Management, he asked educational institutions to give emphasis to digital learning. “Digital learning is a means to ensure quality education to all sections of the society without discrimination on the basis of caste, region and religion. This is a solution to eliminate discrimination. Through digital learning, a student in a remote village will also get an opportunity to learn from an experienced and highly qualified teacher. In addition to this, students are getting study material in digital form. Keeping these important aspects in mind, all educational institutions should give stress to digital learning without wasting any time,’’ he said. He, however, admitted that digital learning has its own challenges like - quality internet connectivity, laptops and mobile gadgets. “We are trying to find a solution to it by raising funds through Corporate Social Responsibility or through government funds,” he said. “We are making efforts to provide 4G network across the State,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-debate-karnatakas-higher-education-minister-c-n-ashwath-narayan-stresses-for-digital-learning-849258.html
13-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Bhavan staffer tests coronavirus positive||An employee in the Karnataka Bhavan tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. The 28-year old employee, in the housekeeping section of Karnataka Bhavan-1 at Chanakyaouri, tested positive after he reported mild symptoms of fever and was admitted to hospital. He reported for work last on June 8. The Bhavan closed for two days from Saturday and the entire building was sanitised as per health protocol. The Karnataka Bhavan has already taken all precautionary steps and has asked only asymptomatic employees to attend duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bhavan-staffer-tests-coronavirus-positive-849261.html
13-06-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Will work as bridge between Centre and state, says Eranna Kadadi||Rajya Sabha Member Eranna Kadadi said that he would work as a bridge between the state and Centre to get funds for the development of Karnataka.  The former president of the Zilla Panchayat said he was aware of the funds released by the Centre and the schemes and he would ensure that the funds released are utilised. Kadadi made his maiden visit to Belagavi on Saturday after being elected unopposed to the Upper House of Parliament. MLAs Abhay Patil, Anil Benake, district president Sanjay Patil, state spokesperson M B Zirali and other leaders of the party welcomed Kadadi. Speaking to reporters, he said he was aware of the needs of the people and their expectations from Parliament members. "Programmes and schemes of the Centre need to reach the people. With my experience of people's needs, I will work towards living up to their expectations," he said. He said that the BJP, by fielding a common party worker and getting him elected to the Rajya Sabha, has given the message that commoners can also make it to the Upper House of Parliament. The BJP has sent the message across the political spectrum and workers from other political parties too are making demands to give them justice, he said. Kadadi said that he would discharge his responsibilities with the cooperation of party leaders and elected representatives from the district and state. "All of them have expressed support to me and there are no factions in BJP," he said.   He said he was not competent enough to speak about whether BJP would spring a surprise while selecting candidates for the elections to Karnataka Legislative Council later in the month. "BJP state core committee and high command will take a decision in this regard. We have to wait and see who the party fields in the election. As of now, we are unaware of the candidates who will be in the fray," he said. Regarding elections for the Belagavi District Central Cooperative Bank slated for next month, he said the BJP will show its existence and the chairman will be from the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/will-work-as-bridge-between-centre-and-state-says-eranna-kadadi-849148.html
13-06-2020||West||Fake currency: Accused used to pose as 'Nizam of Hyderabad's descendants'||Members of a gang which dealt in counterfeit currency, arrested here earlier this week, used to tell gullible customers that they were descendants of the Nizam of Hyderabad, police said on Friday. In a joint operation on Wednesday, Pune Police and the Army's Intelligence Wing carried out raids in Viman Nagar area and seized fake Indian currency, mostly dummy bills of 'Children Bank of India', and US Dollars with a face value of Rs 87 crore. The accused were identified as Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan who is a serving Army personnel, Sunil Sarda, RiteshRatnakar, Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan, Abdul Gani Khan and Abdul Rehman Abdul Ghani Khan. According to the police, the gang was operating here for the last seven-eight months, and used to target people with black money. "Their main modus operandi was to exchange US currency with Indian currency or vice-versa," said a senior police officer. The gang would dupe the customers by passing off fake note bundles with real currency on the top in exchange of genuine currency. "To gain the trust of the victim, the accused showed them videos of the cash along with that day's newspaper to convince the victim that they had piles of cash ready at the bungalow," he said. If the customer questioned the source of cash, the accused would tell him that they were descendants of the Nizam, he said. "They had even put pictures of the Nizam outside their bungalow," the official said, adding that further probe was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fake-currency-accused-used-to-pose-as-nizam-of-hyderabads-descendants-848970.html
13-06-2020||West||Ahmed Patel slams Gujarat govt over acquisition of farmers' land||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Friday slammed the Gujarat government over the issue of land acquisition for a highway project in Bharuch district, alleging that farmers' land was being forcibly snatched away and they were paid inadequate compensation. The issue pertains to some tracts of land in Old Diva village near Ankleshwar town of Bharuch district. This land is needed for the Vadodara-Mumbai Express Highway project. In his letter to Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Patel has alleged that 35 farmers were detained on June 11 by police when they were peacefully protesting against the acquisition of their land and inadequate compensation. "Officials then forcibly took possession of the disputed land, causing significant damage to their standing crop. The farmers had already given their consent. Their only demand is that they be paid adequate and market rate-based compensation," said the Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat in the letter. "In the absence of adequate compensation, the acquisition of their land amounts to daylight robbery and is a gross injustice to the hard-working farmers of Gujarat," Patel, a native of Bharuch district, alleged. He criticised the police action against farmers saying that "such tactics of police high handedness, intimidation and violence to subjugate and silence the farmers is the hallmark of a dictatorial society and a blot on Gujarati pride". "I urge the state government to end this policy of forcibly acquiring land and suppressing farmers' rights through brute muscle power," Patel said in his letter. He expressed hope that the government would consider the farmers' demand for adequate compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmed-patel-slams-gujarat-govt-over-acquisition-of-farmers-land-848981.html
13-06-2020||West||Foreign brand cigarettes worth Rs 12 crore seized in Navi Mumbai||In a major haul, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized foreign brand cigarettes worth Rs 11.88 crore from a container at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Navi Mumbai, an official said on Friday. Based on a tip-off, the Mumbai unit of the DRI intercepted the 40-ft container, an official said. The container had arrived from Dubai and was carrying 600 master boxes containing 32,640 cartons of undeclared foreign brand cigarettes, he said. Two persons have been arrested in this connection and remanded in judicial custody till June 25, the official said, adding that a probe was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/foreign-brand-cigarettes-worth-rs-12-crore-seized-in-navi-mumbai-848986.html
13-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Industries demand COVID-19 care centre at Waluj||Industries in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district have urged the state government to set up a dedicated COVID-19 care facility at Waluj industrial area, in light of the pandemic, an official said on Saturday. Representatives of industries met Guardian Minister of Aurangabad and state Industries Minister Subhash Desai and state minister Aditi Tatkare here on Friday to put forth their demand. Waluj is home to several large and small-scale industrial units and also has a residential zone.  "The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation has set up a COVID-19 facility in Chikalthana industrial area. A similar facility is needed at Waluj as well to ensure timely treatment to locals in the area," said Abhay Hanchanal, president of Marathwada Association of Small-Scale Industries and Agriculture (MASSIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-industries-demand-covid-19-care-centre-at-waluj-849039.html
13-06-2020||West||Instucen to conduct courses on forts in Mumbai||Once impregnable by military standards, a majority of the forts in Mumbai, the commercial capital of India, are in ruins. In fact, in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which also comprises parts of Mumbai’s adjoining coastal districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad, there are several small, medium and big forts and fortifications. Mumbai city itself has around a dozen forts. These include forts on land, along the Arabian Sea and hills. Added to it are a grid of tunnels and several caves – which are of immense importance as far as history and heritage are concerned. These forts also show that geography has influenced history, economics and politics. In a unique initiative, the India Study Centre Trust (Instucen) is conducting a week-long course on 'Forts of Mumbai'. "Forgotten sentinels, the forts of Mumbai made possible the rise of the city from a set of swampy islands to India's greatest trading city. Dotted across the coast, these forts are slowly decaying into oblivion," said Dr Mugdha Karnik, the managing trustee of Instucen Trust. The course will be held from June 15 to 20, said researcher and expert Raamesh Gowri Raghavan. Two veterans - Dr Rashna Poncha and Dr Kurush Dalal -  will bring alive once again the archaeology and history of these magnificent monuments. Dr Dalal is a veteran archaeologist, historian and culinary anthropologist. Dr Poncha, an assistant professor at the History Department, Sophia College (Autonomous), is passionate about teaching and about history. The forts in the hustling-bustling commercial capital withstood the ravages of time for centuries – but commercial development of land and neglect from authorities is threatening their existence. Every fort or garrison has its own history and heritage. Some of these forts come under the jurisdiction of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) while some of them come under the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums of Maharashtra. The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) is also working with various agencies to protect these forts – besides other agencies including corporations in the MMR. What is unique about the forts in MMR is the unique mix – imprints of Marathas, East India Company, British Raj, Portuguese, Mughals, Siddis – and it throws light on close to five to six centuries. The Bombay Castle, which touches the Arabian Sea on the eastern side of south Mumbai, is well protected as it is the headquarters of Western Naval Command, the sword arm of the Indian Navy. As far as the seven islands of Bombay is concerned, these forts protected it at one point of time. Some of the forts in Mumbai are the Sion Fort, Mahim Fort, Dongri Fort, Worli Fort and the Sewri Fort. If one takes into account the western forts – two important forts are the Vasai Fort and Arnala Fort, while on the eastern suburbs there is the Belapur Fort and the Kalyan Fort. Sandwiched between eastern and western suburbs are the ruins of the Ghodbunder Fort. The creeks of Dahanu, Mahim and Dharamtar and rivers like Ulhas, Vaitarna, Tansa, Kundalika and Mithi had contributed to where the forts have been established.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/instucen-to-conduct-courses-on-forts-in-mumbai-849056.html
13-06-2020||West||Maharashtra govt slashes charges for COVID-19 tests by private labs||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said that the government has reduced the rates of the COVID-19 tests conducted by private laboratories from Rs 4,500 to Rs 2,200. Talking to PTI, Tope said the lowering of rates for the tests would provide a relief to the people. "Rs 2,200 will be charged for collecting the swabs through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals, while it would cost Rs 2,800 for collection of swab from home. Earlier, the charges were Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,200 respectively," he said. The revised rates are the maximum these labs can charge. District collectors can negotiate with private labs to reduce the rates further, Tope said. "If the private labs charge more than the prescribed upper limit, legal action would be taken against them," he said, claiming that the new rates will be the lowest in the country. According to him, the government had last week formed a four-member committee to fix the rates of COVID-19 tests conducted by authorised private laboratories in the state.  State Health Assurance Society CEO Sudhakar Shinde headed the committee, which had Joint Director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research Ajay Chandanwale and Grant Government Medical College and Hospital professor Amita Joshi as its members and Health Services director as member secretary. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed 44 government and 36 private laboratories in the state to carry out coronavirus tests. While the tests are free at the government-run laboratories, the ICMR had fixed charges at private labs at Rs 4,500. The committee was formed as the ICMR had conveyed to negotiate with private labs and revise the rates. The kits required for conducting the tests were being imported earlier when the charges of tests at private laboratories were fixed by the ICMR. However, as the kits are being manufactured in the country itself, the ICMR had conveyed to hold talks with the private laboratories and fix the test rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-slashes-charges-for-covid-19-tests-by-private-labs-849083.html
13-06-2020||West||Three more deaths from coronavirus in Rajasthan, tally of fatalities rise to 275||Three deaths and 118 fresh cases of coronavirus were reported in Rajasthan on Saturday, taking the total number of fatalities and positive cases to 275 and 12,186, respectively, officials said. Two deaths were reported from Jaipur and one from Bharatpur on Saturday, they said. Meanwhile, 118 patients tested positive for coronavirus, the officials said.  Among the fresh cases, 39 were reported from Bharatpur while Pali recorded 34 cases, followed by 19 in Jaipur, five in Ajmer, four in Nagaur, three each in Churu, Dungarpur, and Kota, two each in Alwar, Barmer and Tonk, and one in Jhalawar besides a case from other state, Health Department officials said.  A total of 9,175 people have been discharged till date and there are now 2,736 active cases in the state, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-more-deaths-from-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-tally-of-fatalities-rise-to-275-849112.html
13-06-2020||West||Two persons test positive for COVID-19 in Diu||Two persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Diu district, taking the tally of cases to 34 in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu (DNHDD), a health official said on Saturday. The number of positive cases in Daman district rose to four after two more persons tested positive for the deadly infection on Friday, the official said. "Diu reported its first two cases of COVID-19 on Friday when a woman and her nine-year-old daughter, who had returned from Thane in Maharashtra a few days ago, tested positive," he said. As many as 28 cases of coronavirus have been reported from Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) district of the Union Territory so far.  With this, the count of COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory rose to 34, of which two patients have recovered, the official said. Daman and Diu had not reported a single case of COVID-19 till last week, despite their close proximity to Gujarat and Maharashtra, the two of the worst COVID-19 affected states. According to health officials, all the cases reported so far in Daman and Diu are of patients with a history of inter-state travel, and all of them were already quarantined. At least 266 persons, who had travelled to the Union Territory from other states on Friday, have been advised home quarantine or placed in isolation facilities, the official said. At present, 2,273 persons are quarantined in the Union Territory, including 1,686 in DNH, 251 in Daman and 336 in Diu, he said. A total of 2,22,289 samples have been collected till date, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-diu-849141.html
13-06-2020||West||Frontline COVID-19 workers should not be ostracised: Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court has said that the frontline COVID-19 workers should be encouraged to discharge their duty without fear and should not be ostracised for travelling to work daily. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Amjad Sayed said this on Friday while dismissing a petition filed by a Palghar district resident, seeking for such workers to be kept in isolation. The petition had been filed by one Charan Bhatt, in which he sought temporary accommodation in Mumbai for the essential service providers, who commute between Mumbai and Palghar district everyday for their work. Bhatt, in his plea filed through advocate Uday Warunjikar, claimed that frontline workers contracting the infection in Mumbai and travelling back to their homes in Vasai and Virar had become one of the primaryreasons for the spread of COVID-19 in Palghar district. The situation is similar in areas such as Thane, Kalyan Dombivali and Navi Mumbai as well, the petition claimed. The state government had opposed the plea saying the petitioner should be more sensitive towards the essential workers who are engaged in combating the pandemic. While dismissing the petition, the HC noted that a sense of fear drove the petitioner to approach the court, but narrow personal interest must yield to the greater public interest that is involved. "The essential staffers, having an onerous responsibility of discharging most important public duties, are perceived by the petitioners as carriers of infection who could easily spread it among others," the court said. "We are also inclined to the view that even if some of such staffers might have unfortunately been infected by COVID-19, that is no ground to sort of ostracise them," the bench said. It added that authorities have been engaged in formulating policies to tackle the pandemic and these essential staffers have been tirelessly working to implement the measures of the overall benefit of mankind. "It is a humane approach which is the call of the moment. The essential staffers, instead of being put to any disability because of their nature of work and also instead of being forced to reside in a place away from their houses, should be encouraged to discharge their duty without fear of duress and restraint," the court said. It noted that these staffers themselves will take the greatest care and act with caution to ensure that they are free of the infection and do not transmit the same to their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/frontline-covid-19-workers-should-not-be-ostracised-bombay-high-court-849152.html
13-06-2020||West||Gujarat's COVID-19 tally crosses 23,000-mark; 33 new deaths reported||With 517 new COVID-19 cases being reported in Gujarat on Saturday, the overall case count has mounted to 23,079, state Health department said. With 33 more people succumbing to the viral infection, the number of fatalities has risen to 1,449, it said. A total of 390 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 15,891, an official release said. Gujarat now has 5,739 active cases, it said, adding that 61 patients are on ventilator support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-tally-crosses-23000-mark-33-new-deaths-reported-849244.html
