14-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dharwad records its 3rd COVID-19 death||Dharwad district reported its third COVID-19 death on Sunday. Dharwad district, which had reported zero mortality due to coronavirus till the first week of June, has now reported three deaths within a fortnight, including two in the last 48 hours. A 65-year-old man from Morab in Navalgund taluk of Dharwad district succumbed to the virus at 6:10 am on Sunday. He was rushed to Karnataka Institute of Medical Science, Hubballi, which is the district COVID-19 centre, on June 12, in a critical condition. Sources in KIMS informed DH that the patient, who was showing symptoms for the last many days, was first treated at a hospital in Morab, and was later shifted to a private hospital in Dharwad. Doctors at KIMS had diagnosed the patient as he was suffering from Bronchopneumonia. Inspite of making all out efforts in the last 26 hours, the doctors could not save him, as he died before his medical reports on COVID-19 arrived. This is the fifth death to be reported at KIMS. First was a 44-year-old priest from Gadag on June 4, followed by a 58-year-old resident of Girani Chawl in Hubballi,. A 70-year-old male of Shantiniketan Colony in Bhairidevarkoppa of Hubballi, and a 65-year-old male from Haveri have lost their battle against COVID-19 at KIMS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dharwad-records-its-3rd-covid-19-death-849488.html
14-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Quarantined woman gives birth in ambulance; child dies||A quarantined woman went into labour in an ambulance but the child died at birth on Sunday at Sedam, Karnataka. The woman has been identified as Maria Ashok (35). She returned to the town from Pune on June 11 and was quarantined in the town itself. As she developed labour pain on Monday morning, the pregnant woman was taken to local government hospital but the doctors advised to take her to Kalaburagi.  Maria, on way to Kalaburagi, gave birth to a baby boy. But, the child died at birth. The woman was then taken to GIMS in Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/quarantined-woman-gives-birth-in-ambulance-child-dies-849541.html
14-06-2020||National||Nepal endorses new map with Indian territory; Delhi fumes||The lower house of Nepal’s Parliament on Saturday passed a Bill to amend the country’s Constitution to endorse the new map its government issued last month showing within its territory an area of nearly 400 sq km claimed by India, which reacted strongly to the move. Dismissing Nepal’s action, New Delhi said its move to expand its territorial claims was “not based on historical fact or evidence” and “not tenable”. India also subtly indicated that Nepal’s latest move would make it difficult for the two sides to hold talks to settle the border dispute. Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said Nepal’s move also violated its “current understanding” with India “to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues”. Nepal has been ratcheting up its territorial dispute with India over the past few weeks. It coincided with the stand-off on the disputed boundary between India and China in eastern Ladakh. The Nepal Communist Party’s government led by Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli received support from the Nepali Congress and other opposition parties in the House of Representatives, which passed the Bill to amend Schedule 3 of the Constitution of Nepal to update the country’s national emblem by incorporating in it the new map. Though the Opposition Nepali Congress initially dithered, it finally decided to vote in favour of the Bill –- helping the Oli government secure the support of two-thirds of the total members of the House. Nepal’s new map includes Lipulekh Pass, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura –- the areas, which New Delhi claims to be part of India and which are also close to India’s disputed boundary with China. “The House of Representatives unanimously adopted the Constitution Amendment Bill, paving the way for accommodating the updated political-administrative map in the national emblem,” Pradeep Gyawali, Foreign Minister of Nepal, posted on Twitter. The Bill is now set to move to the National Assembly, the upper house of Nepal’s Parliament, where it is likely to sail through, as the ruling Nepal Communist Party itself has two-thirds majority. Nepal’s latest move was in response to construction of a road by India from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to Lipulekh Pass near its disputed boundary with China. Kathmandu alleged that the road built by India passed through Nepal. The dispute has its origin in the Treaty of Sugauli, which Nepal had signed with the British East India Company in December 1815. Both New Delhi and Kathmandu are still committed to the treaty, which identified the Kali River as the India-Nepal border in the region.  New Delhi suspects that the Oli Government had been nudged by Beijing to raise its pitch on the Nepal-India territorial dispute at a time when Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army are engaged in a stand-off along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. A source in Delhi said Nepal had encroached upon Indian territory in Narsahi and Susta in Bihar by settling its population and through construction activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-endorses-new-map-with-indian-territory-delhi-fumes-849291.html
14-06-2020||National||Coronavirus claims 386 lives in 24 hours; Death toll in India nearly doubled in 15 days||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday recommended the use of remdesivir under emergency use authorisation to treat COVID-19 patients on oxygen support while fatalities rose by 386, the biggest single-day increase, to settle at 8,884. The recommendation from the ministry came under the revised ‘Clinical Management Protocol for COVID-19’ that also added “loss of smell and taste” to the list of symptoms for the disease. The death count in India has nearly doubled over the past fortnight and Maharashtra (3,717) and Gujarat (1,415) together account for nearly 58% of the fatalities. According to an analysis done by economist Shamika Ravi, Delhi accounts for the highest death rate in the country – 64.88 deaths per million people, which is almost 10 times the all-India death rate. Delhi has reported 1,214 deaths so far and the pressure was visible at various crematoria, which are witnessing a heavy load of bodies for last rites. The document also recommended drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab, and convalescent plasma under investigational therapies for a defined sub-group of patients making it clear that it was based on limited evidence. The guidelines make it clear that remdesivir is not recommended for patients with severe renal impairment, children below 12 years and pregnant and lactating mothers. The guidelines come as Maharashtra has announced multi-centre clinical trials for remdesivir imported from Bangladesh as the Indian drug controller was yet to grant permission for manufacturing the drug in India. India on Saturday witnessed its sharpest spike with 11,458 new cases, taking the total confirmed cases past the three-lakh mark to 3,08,993. With the addition of loss of smell and taste, the clinical symptoms for COVID-19 have now risen to 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-claims-386-lives-in-24-hours-death-toll-in-india-nearly-doubled-in-15-days-849292.html
14-06-2020||National||19 of a family test positive for COVID-19 in Telangana||Nineteen members of a family in Sangareddy district have tested positive for coronavirus, health department officials said here on Saturday. They said a 55-year-old woman in Zaherabad was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad earlier this week with multiple health problems. Her swabs were collected for coronavirus tests on June 9, but she died the same day. The woman was buried in the town on June 10 with 25 relatives attending the funeral. Meanwhile, her samples tested positive on June 10, following which all the relatives were put in isolation at the government hospital here and their swabs were sent to Hyderabad for COVID-19 tests. Nineteen of the family tested positive on Friday and reports of six others are awaited, the officials said. Shanti Nagar colony, the area where the woman and her relatives lived, has been declared a red zone, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19-of-a-family-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-telangana-849303.html
14-06-2020||National||COVID-19: We must focus on controlling number of fatalities, says Anand Mahindra||Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra on Saturday called for focus on controlling number of fatalities due to coronavirus and ensuring availability of hospital beds, saying that in a country of India's size the number of infection is inevitably going to rise. In a series of tweets, Mahindra said even though the level of transmission is probably significantly higher and largely untraceable and unreported, it shouldn't alarm the world. "The absolute number of infected in a country of our size is inevitably going to rise," he said. Mahindra further said, "In fact the level of transmission is probably significantly higher & largely untraceable & unreported. This shouldn't alarm the world". Suggesting steps for the way forward, he said, "What we must focus on & control is the number of fatalities & the availability of beds/ICU beds". These numbers are real and trackable, he added. "So far, the percentage of fatalities has been mercifully low & with boosted medical infrastructure we must aim to keep the numbers low," Mahindra added. Stating that a vaccine is many months away, if not longer, he said, "An effective prophylactic could be closer, but unpredictably so. In the meantime, as we return to work, it's good to know that if we are disciplined about using masks, we could keep ourselves & others safe".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-we-must-focus-on-controlling-number-of-fatalities-says-anand-mahindra-849321.html
14-06-2020||National||SC sets up video-conferencing facilities at seven district court complexes||In a bid to enable lawyers and litigants to appear before it with more ease, the Supreme Court registry has set up video-conferencing facilities in all seven district court complexes in the national capital. The facilities will be available at the district court complexes in Rohini, Dwarka, Patiala House, Saket, Tis Hazari, Karkardooma and Rouse Avenue, a notification issued by the apex court on Saturday said. "It is notified for the information of all concerned that in compliance with the directions of Chief Justice of India, the Registry, in coordination with the Delhi High Court, has set up Supreme Court Video Conferencing Facilitation Rooms [SCI VC Room] in Seven District Courts Complexes of Delhi," it said. The arrangements have been made "for facilitating learned advocates and litigants to join hearing of their respective matters listed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Virtual Courts through video conferencing", it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sets-up-video-conferencing-facilities-at-seven-district-court-complexes-849322.html
14-06-2020||National||Centre's draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 'inhuman', aimed at destroying federal structure: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed outrage over the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, describing it as "inhuman" and an attempt by the Centre to "destroy" the country's federal structure. In a strongly-worded letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Banerjee said the move by the Centre to amend the Electricity Act, 2003 was "completely unjustified" amid the socio-economic crisis brought upon by the COVID-19 pandemic. "I feel constrained to inform that the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has been drafted without any consultation with the states, despite the fact that 'electricity' as a subject is on the Concurrent List. This is a clear and blatant violation of the constitutional provisions, the spirit of cooperative federalism and our democratic values. "The government of India should have held consultations with the states before the bill entered the legislative process," Banerjee said in the letter sent to the prime minister on Friday, a copy of which is available with PTI. She also expressed concern over the proposed bill having an adverse impact on consumers in terms of increased electricity tariff. "At present in every matter, attempts are being made to take away the powers of the state governments. This proposed bill is yet another attempt of the centre to destroy the federal structure as enshrined in our Constitution. "With regard to the proposed amendments, the bill is very much anti-people, anti-farmer, anti-unorganised sector, anti-consumer and more or less inhuman to the common people living in semi-urban and rural areas...as it proposes to completely end subsidies and cross-subsidies extended to consumers," Banerjee said. The chief minister said comments on the bill have been sought by the central government in a very hurried manner, "unfairly restricting" the scope of pre-legislative scrutiny on the part of the states and other stakeholders. . She also took exception over the proposal that the electricity tariff is to be determined by a government-appointed commission, following the mandate of a centrally-determined tariff policy, which may be "tweaked to the whims and fancies" of the Centre. "This tariff determination by a central government-appointed authority will divest the state of its powers to the detriment of people's interests, and will adversely affect the ability of the state to discharge the onerous responsibility of improving the lives of its common people," Banerjee said in the letter. The Trinamool Congress chief opposed plans of setting up the Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) to adjudicate on matters relating to performance obligations under electricity contracts, when other regulatory bodies already exist. "The proposed creation of the ECEA clearly indicates the ulterior motive of the central government to snatch away full powers of the states and demolish its constitutional obligations," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-draft-electricity-amendment-bill-inhuman-aimed-at-destroying-federal-structure-mamata-banerjee-849327.html
14-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 14||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  3,31,603 as of June 14.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 9,502 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,54,330 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-14-849330.html
14-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 14, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-14-2020-edition-849331.html
14-06-2020||National||Nursing homes in Delhi having 10 to 49 beds declared as COVID-19 facilities||Small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes in the city having 10 to 49 beds have been declared as "COVID nursing homes" by the Delhi government to increase the bed capacity for coronavirus patients, according to an official order. Only standalone exclusive eye centres, ENT centres, dialysis centres, maternity homes and IVF centres are presently exempted, the order issued on Saturday said. "In order to avoid intermingling of COVID and non-COVID patients in small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes (10 bedded to 49 bedded) and also to augment the bed capacity for COVID-19 patients, all nursing homes in NCT of Delhi having bed strength of 10 beds or more up to 49 beds are declared as COVID nursing homes," it said. All such nursing homes are required to make their COVID beds functional within three days of the issuance of the order failing which it would be treated as violation of Clause 14.1 of the schedule appended to Rule 14 of the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration (Amendment) Rules, 2011, it said.  It added that "action, as deemed fit, would be initiated against the defaulter nursing home". According to Clause 14.1, in the event of any natural calamity, including outbreak and epidemics or disaster, the owner or the keeper of every nursing home shall, on being directed by the supervising authority in writing, cooperate and provide reasonable assistance and medical aid as may be considered essential by the supervising authority at the time of natural calamity. The government on May 24 had directed 117 nursing homes/private hospitals having bed strength of 50 beds or more to reserve/ earmark at least 20 per cent of their total bed strength for COVID-19 patients. The occupancy of the beds earmarked for COVID patients is displayed on a real-time basis on the Delhi Corona App. More than 70 per cent COVID beds in the private sector are already occupied. Further, it is projected that there would be a requirement of over 15,000 COVID beds till June 30  and by the end of first fortnight of July, the requirement would further swell up to more than 33,000 COVID beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nursing-homes-in-delhi-having-10-to-49-beds-declared-as-covid-19-facilities-849356.html
14-06-2020||National||Soldier killed, two injured in firing by Pakistani troops along LoC in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir||An Army personnel was killed and two others were injured as Pakistani troops opened fire and shelled areas along the Line of Control in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. This is the third fatality in the Pakistani firing and shelling on forward posts and villages in the twin districts of Poonch and Rajouri this month. The officials said the latest firing and shelling from across the border took place in Shahpur-Kerni sector on Saturday night, drawing strong retaliation by the Indian Army. Three Indian Army personnel were injured in the Pakistani firing and were immediately evacuated to hospital, where one of them succumbed to injuries, the officials said. They said the casualties suffered by the Pakistani Army in the retaliatory action were not known immediately. On June 4, havaldar P Mathiazhagan fell to Pakistani firing in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district, while on June 10, Naik Gurcharan Singh lost his life in a similar incident in Rajouri sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soldier-killed-two-injured-in-firing-by-pakistani-troops-along-loc-in-poonch-district-of-jammu-and-kashmir-849359.html
14-06-2020||National||MP health dept proposes to rope in volunteers as 'COVID Mitra'||The Madhya Pradesh health department has proposed to rope in volunteers as 'Covid Mitra' to help the government in containing the spread of coronavirus in the state. The 'COVID Mitra' will be equipped with an oximeter to check the oxygen levels of people, the state health officials said during a COVID-19 review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday. Any healthy individual up to 45 years of age, or a social/voluntary organisation in an urban area can be made Covid Mitra', they suggested. The health department also proposed to develop a 'Sarthak Light' app for people to get information about the nearest COVID-19 treatment facility and sample collection centre and seek help, an official release said. A person will be able to register on the app by providing his/her mobile number and address. Chouhan asked health officials to take help from citizens to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state. Till Saturday, Madhya Pradesh reported 10,641 COVID-19 cases and 447 deaths due to the disease||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-health-dept-proposes-to-rope-in-volunteers-as-covid-mitra-849366.html
14-06-2020||National||Record jump in COVID-19 cases; Toll rises over 9,000||India saw the highest single-day spike of 11,929 novel coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the number of infections to over 3.20 lakh on Sunday, while the toll crossed the 9,000 mark with 311 more deaths, the Health Ministry said. This is the third day in a row there were more than 10,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in India, which is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic. There are 1,49,348 active COVID-19 cases, while 1,62,378 people have recovered and a patient has migrated. The total confirmed coronavirus cases rose to 3,20,922, including 9,195 deaths, according to the ministry data updated in the morning. The number of recoveries are more than the active cases as 50.60 per cent of the patients have recovered so far, an official said. As many as 113 out of the 311 more deaths were from Maharashtra, followed by 57 in Delhi, 33 in Gujarat and 30 in Tamil Nadu. There were 20 more fatalities in Uttar Pradesh, 12 in West Bengal and 10 in Rajasthan. Haryana and Telangana registered eight more coronavirus deaths each, followed by seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Bihar. Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Uttarakhand reported two deaths each. Of the total 9,195 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,830 fatalities, followed 1,448 by Gujarat and 1,271 in Delhi. The toll from the pandemic rose to 463 in West Bengal, 447 in Madhya Pradesh, 397 in Tamil Nadu and 385 in Uttar Pradesh. There have been 282 COVID-19 deaths in Rajasthan and 182 in Telangana. The number of fatalities reached 82 in Andhra Pradesh, 81 in Karnataka, 78 in Haryana and 65 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 55 COVID-19 deaths, followed by 39 in Bihar, 23 in Uttarakhand and 19 in Kerala. Odisha registered 10 deaths so far, followed by eight each in Jharkhand and Assam, and six each in Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh. Five people have succumbed to the contagion in Chandigarh, followed by two in Puducherry, and one each in Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh, the ministry said. More than 70 per cent of the deaths have happened due to comorbidities, it added. The maximum number of cases are from Maharashtra with 1,04,568 infections, followed by 42,687 Tamil Nadu, 38,958 in Delhi and 23,038 in Gujarat. The tally rose to 13,118 in Uttar Pradesh, 12,401 in Rajasthan and 10,698 in West Bengal. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 10,641 in Madhya Pradesh, 6,824 in Karnataka, 6,749 in Haryana and 6,290 in Bihar. As many as 5,965 people have contracted the deadly disease in Andhra Pradesh, followed by 4,878 in Jammu and Kashmir, 4,737 in Telangana, 3,723 in Odisha and 3,718 in Assam. There are 3,063 cases in Punjab and 2,407 in Kerala, while 1,785 people have been infected in Uttarakhand and 1,711 in Jharkhand. A total of 1,512 people are afflicted with the disease in Chhattisgarh, followed by 1,046 in Tripura, 523 in Goa and 502 in Himachal Pradesh. The number of coronavirus cases rose to 449 in Manipur, 437 in Ladakh and 345 in Chandigarh. Puducherry has registered 176 COVID-19 cases so far, followed by 163 in Nagaland, 107 in Mizoram and 87 in Arunachal Pradesh. Sikkim has 63 COVID-19 cases, while there are 44 infections in Meghalaya and 38 in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Dadar and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have registered 35 COVID-19 cases so far. The figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the ministry said, adding that 7,436 cases were being reassigned to states. Statewise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-jump-in-covid-19-cases-toll-rises-over-9000-849368.html
14-06-2020||National||PM greets people of Odisha on Raja Parba festival||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted the people of Odisha on "Raja Parba", hoping that the festival strengthens the spirit of brotherhood in society. Raja Parba is a three-day-long festival. The second day signifies beginning of the solar month of "Mithuna" marking the beginning of rains, according to the Odisha tourism website. "Greetings on the very special festival of Raja Parba. May this occasion strengthen the spirit of joy and brotherhood in society," Modi tweeted in Odiya and English. Greetings on the very special festival of Raja Parba. May this occasion strengthen the spirit of joy and brotherhood in society. I also pray for the good health and well-being of my fellow citizens. "I also pray for the good health and well-being of my fellow citizens," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-greets-people-of-odisha-on-raja-parba-festival-849376.html
14-06-2020||National||SC protects journalist Vinod Dua from arrest||The Supreme Court on Sunday protected journalist Vinod Dua from arrest but refused to stay the investigation into an FIR lodged by the police in Shimla last month over his YouTube show, critically analysing the Union government's decisions on Pulwama attack to lockdown. Holding a special hearing, a bench led by Justice U U Lalit said that the police can interrogate him at his residence in Delhi on giving a prior notice of 24 hours, "keeping in mind the social distancing norms prescribed during COVID-19 pandemic". On a writ petition filed by him for quashing the May 6 FIR, the bench, also comprising Justices Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran, sought a complete status report on the probe. The court also sought personal appearance of the investigating officer. The court asked Dua to extend full cooperation to the police through video conferencing or online mode as he has made the offer on June 12, in terms of summons for his personal presence on June 13. A BJP leader, Ajay Shyam filed a sedition complaint with Kumarsain police station against Dua. During the hearing, senior advocate Vikas Singh sought a stay on the FIR, contending that prima facie none of the allegations raised in the FIR were made out. "If this kind of content can attract the FIR, then whole of the country would be committing the offence of sedition," he said. The bench told him we will not prejudice your rights but the investigation can go for now. Singh said the whole of Himachal Pradesh was on institutional quaratine. "For reporting, this kind of sedition charges can't be made. The fundamental rights have completely been taken out," he said. "We won't stay the investigation at this stage," the bench said. Singh, then said, "It will send a wrong signal." "Whether it will send a right signal or a wrong signal, it is for us to decide," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta accepted notice on behalf of the Centre and the Himachal Pradesh government and sought two weeks time to file response in the matter. The court put the matter for further consideration on July 6. In his plea, Dua also sought the top court to lay down that, henceforth, FIRs against persons belonging to the media with at least 10 years standing should not be registered unless cleared by a committee to be constituted by every state government, the composition of which should comprise of the Chief Justice of the High Court or a judge designated by him, the leader of the Opposition and the Home Minister of the State. He also sought exemplary damages to him for the harassment. In a separate FIR lodged in Delhi against a similar YouTube show, Dua got advance bail by a trial court. The Delhi HC had stayed the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-protects-journalist-vinod-dua-from-arrest-849381.html
14-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Elderly at old-age homes cook, exercise, bake to keep dark thoughts away||Cooking, exercising, baking and gardening are among the means adopted by the elderly at old age homes to keep dark thoughts away during the novel coronavirus pandemic. Many elderly say they have had a difficult life -- facing abuse and torture from their own family members -- but trying to cope up with the trauma of being highly vulnerable to COVID-19 has proved to be another turning point in their lives. As the world is set to mark Elder Abuse Awareness Day on Monday, many senior citizens, living in old age homes, share how they are dealing with ongoing coronavirus crisis. Nirmala aunty, as she is fondly called at the Mann Ka Tilak old age home in Delhi, keeps herself busy through cooking. "I love cooking and I regularly help out with the kitchen. If it's not too hot, I sit outside in the garden and help chop up the vegetables," the 65-year-old said. "Being busy keeps away all the dark thoughts that sometimes come in my head." Sam, another resident of the old-age home, uses exercise to keep himself fit and healthy "I exercise daily and do yoga to keep myself fit and healthy. All the residents join me in the morning yoga session," the 75-year-old said. "We end the session with a few minutes of meditation. It leaves everyone very refreshed." Seventy-one-year-old Madan helps the caretakers' children study and also plays board games like ludo and carrom with them to keep himself occupied. Gayatri, 67, says she spends her day listening to 'bhajans'. "They give me lot of peace and help calm any fears I have. I also take care of the kitchen garden. We grow lots of herbs and vegetables," she said. "I feel very proud that we make dishes out of the things that we grow ourselves!" Shabnam (name changed), a resident of an old-age home in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, says she has started baking to ensure that her mind is occupied. "It was my childhood hobby. I would make cakes and pastries with my mother in a bakery that we owned. I couldn't pursue it after marriage," she said. The 72-year-old underlined that this was an ideal time to pursue it again as she had been depressed and restless due to the pandemic. "Ever since lockdown, even my children have not visited me. So there is nothing else to look forward to, so I'm rigorously baking cookies, cakes for other residents," the septuagenarian said. "I have started getting requests for baking birthday cakes too now," she added. Farzana (name changed) has been concentrating on building her immunity, which she says has also become a hobby in the recent months.  "I eat one garlic clove every morning and do brisk walking. I am also eating only healthy in less oil to ensure my cholesterol level stays in check," the 67-year-old said. "The situation is extremely scary and the news reports of the pandemic rise keeps me on edge. Working towards keeping myself safe gives me peace," she said. Based on the profile of elderly persons in the country, a government report had stated that there were 10.38 crore (8.6 per cent of the population) elderly persons in 2011 as compared to 7.66 crore (5.6 per cent) in 2001. The Centre had recently said the elderly accounted for over 50 per cent of the country's COVID-19 deaths. People aged 60 to 74 accounted for 38 per cent of the coronavirus deaths, while those above 74 years constituted 12 per cent of the total deaths. Geetanjali Chopra, founder and president of Wishes and Blessings NGO and Mann Ka Tilak old-age home, said the residents of the old age homes were extremely susceptible to the virus due to their age and health conditions. "Many came to us when they were frail and under-nourished. It's only with regular care and attention that we have been able to improve their health and immunities," Chopra said. "However, with newer residents, there is still a long way to go," she said. Chopra said many are at an age where they find difficulties in processing information that is completely new to them. "They don't understand why they their movement has been restricted, why they cannot go to the temple, why they cannot walk down to the lake and why there are no people visiting," she said. According to her, the initial few weeks were difficult. The restrictions did bring displeasure and there was a slight downfall in morale. It took a lot of patience and repeated efforts to explain the urgency of the situation at hand and, slowly, most members came to terms with it, she said. Chopra stated that some residents were too aged and still don't comprehend the danger associated with free movement. "The silver lining to this is that the lockdown has given them ample time to build even stronger bonds with each other," she said. "They keep up to date with all news and hold robust discussions on the happenings across the world."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-elderly-at-old-age-homes-cook-exercise-bake-to-keep-dark-thoughts-away-849389.html
14-06-2020||National||Hit hard by lockdown, Goa museums wait for govt nod to reopen||Owners of Goa's heritage museums, which were struggling to stay afloat due to the COVID-19 crisis, are hopeful that the state government will allow them to reopen their premises for visitors soon. Though a lot of curbs have been lifted in Goa, museums have not yet been allowed to reopen. Goa, which is popular among tourists as a beach destination, is also home to several museums that showcase the rich culture and heritage of this former Portuguese colony. Since the lockdown came into force in March, these museums, which used to attract hundreds of visitors or normal days, have remained closed. Talking to PTI, Maendra Alvares, the curator of 'Big Foot' museum at Loutolim village in South Goa district, said his gallery has been shut for over two-and-a-half months now. But, he is hopeful the government will allow museums to reopen. "When the state borders open for tourists, we also expect to get visitors. We used to host nearly 400 visitors a day at the museum earlier, but now the footfalls are likely to decrease, he said. Spread across 12 acres, the museum has a sculpture of 'Mirabai', which has been registered in the Limca Book of Records as the longest laterite sculpture in India. Alvares said he is aware that all precautions will have to be taken while reopening the museum. "Very soon, people will be used to living with the coronavirus. People are bored of sitting at home, so they will prefer visiting places like ours, he said. The 'Goa Chitra' museum, another popular tourist attraction at Benaulim in South Goa, has also been shut since the lockdown began in March. Its curator Victor Hugo Gomes is also waiting for the government's order to open the premises for visitors. "We have temporarily closed the place. It has been financially draining, but personally I got time to sit and document whatever I have been collecting all this while, he said. Gomes said he is ready to open the museum, which has a rich collection of artefacts dating back to pre-Portuguese era, whenever allowed by the authorities. "We have already installed a sanitisation booth for visitors. They will be provided face masks and social distancing will be maintained during tours of the place," he said. He is also hopeful that once the museum opens, the footfalls will not be less than earlier. The United Nation's cultural agency last month warned that nearly 13 per cent of museums around the world may never reopen, as about 90 per cent of them globally have had to close their doors due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Two studies by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and the International Council of Museums (ICOM) said museums have been especially affected by the pandemic, with nearly 90 per cent of them, or more than 85,000 institutions, having closed their doors for varying lengths of time during the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hit-hard-by-lockdown-goa-museums-wait-for-govt-nod-to-reopen-849393.html
14-06-2020||National||500-year-old temple submerged in Mahanadi found||An ancient temple that remained submerged in Mahanadi in Odisha has been found, said experts who are leading a documentation project of heritage sites in the river valley. The 60-feet temple, believed to be around 500 years old, was located recently during an exercise as part of the project, said Anil Dhir, project coordinator of the Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage (INTACH) in Odisha. The temple was found in the mid-river near Baideswar in the Padmavati area in Cuttack, he said on Sunday. The temple dates back to the late 15th or early 16th century, considering the construction style of the Mastaka and the materials used for the construction, Dhir said, adding that INTACH would approach the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to take steps for relocating and restoring the temple. We will soon write to the ASI requesting it to take steps to relocate the temple to a suitable site. They have the required technology to do it. The state government should also take up the matter with the ASI, he said. Stating that INTACH has so far located as many as 65 ancient temples in the Mahanadi river during its documentation project, Dhir said many of the temples in the Hirakud reservoir too can be dismantled and reconstructed. INTACH's project assistant Deepak Kumar Nayak, who with the help of a local heritage enthusiast Rabindra Rana located the temple, said he was aware of its existence. The temple was dedicated to Gopinath Dev, he said. The region used to be known as "Satapatana" in the early days. However, with the river changing its course due to catastrophic floodings, the entire village was submerged, Nayak said. In the mid 19th century, the deities of the vulnerable temple were shifted and installed in a safer and higher place, which is presently the Gopinath Dev temple of Padmavati village, he said. Dhir said INTACH Odisha had launched its project on the documentation of the heritage of the Mahanadi valley early last year. A systemic survey of all the tangible and intangible heritage of the entire length of the Mahanadi, from the source to the sea, covering a distance of nearly 1,700 km, is in its final stage of completion, he said. A multi-volume report of the nearly 800 monuments that have been documented will be released next year, he added. Amiya Bhusan Tripathy, the state convener of INTACH, said this will be the first of its type study on any river in India and is the pilot project of the trust. A comprehensive survey of the heritage, on either bank, has been undertaken in the nine districts through which the Mahanadi flows, he said. Dhir, who had earlier led the Old Jagannath Sadak and the Prachi valley documentation projects, said the richness and diversity of the Mahanadi valley have not been studied properly till date. He lamented that many of the ancient monuments have been destroyed, or are in a state of advanced decay. Nearly 50 ancient temples were lost due to the Hirakud dam, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/500-year-old-temple-submerged-in-mahanadi-found-849395.html
14-06-2020||National||133 fresh COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan||Rajasthan registered 131 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 12,532, while the death toll climbed to 286 with four new fatalities, officials said.   Two deaths were reported from Bharatpur and one each from Jaipur and Sriganganagar, they said. Among the fresh cases, 40 were reported from Dholpur, 34 from Bharatpur, 15 from Alwar, 12 from Jaipur, nine from Bikaner, five from Nagaur, three each from Dausa and Swai Madhopur, two from Udaipur and one each from Kota, Karauli and Chittorgarh besides four patients from other states, health department officials said.  The number of active cases in the state stood at 2,815 and 9,059 patients have been discharged from hospitals till date, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/133-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-849396.html
14-06-2020||National||India no longer a weak country, says Rajnath Singh on Ladakh border row||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday re-asserted New Delhi’s vow to wrest back the territory currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan, even as Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad moved to take advantage of the continuing stand-off along India’s disputed boundary with China and escalation of its territorial row with Nepal. Singh said that India is no longer a weak country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government in New Delhi would never compromise on “national pride”. He said that New Delhi is keen to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between India and China through talks and so is Beijing. “Our government has been successful in sending the message that Jammu and Kashmir's development is its priority,” the Defence Minister said. He added that the Modi Government’s August 2019 move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganising the state into two Union Territories had paved the way for speeding up development of the region. “Our effort in the next five years will be to change its face so much that people of PoK (Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir) will feel envious. They will wish that if they were part of India, then their fate too would have changed,” he said, addressing a virtual Jana-Samvad rally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Let’s wait for what happens in future. There will be demand from PoK to be freed of Pakistan's occupation and to live with India. When this happens, then Parliament’s resolution (stating that the PoK is an integral part of India) will also be fulfilled,” said the Defence Minister. His comment came on a day Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi cited the continuing stand-off along India’s disputed boundary with China in eastern Ladakh and the escalation of its territorial row with Nepal to accuse the Modi Government in New Delhi of pursuing expansionist aspirations. “Perhaps with necessary introspection, the current Indian government would be less focused on igniting border disputes with every neighbour, behaving like an expansionist nation, and more focused on serving the poor, downtrodden and minorities of India better,” Qureshi posted on Twitter on Sunday. A scuffle between Indian and Chinese soldiers on May 5 on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh led to a stand-off. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deployed a large number of soldiers along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations – and hundreds of them transgressed the line in multiple locations to enter several kilometers inside India. The Indian Army also deployed additional troops in “adequate numbers” and the build-ups by both sides escalated tension between the two nations.   Though the talks between diplomats and senior military officials of India and China led to disengagement in the Galwan Valley area over the past few days, the more-than-five-week-long stand-off on the bank of Pangong Tso continued till the latest report came in on Sunday. "This is also our effort to defuse the tussle between India and China through military and diplomatic level talks," the Defence Minister said. “I want to assure that we will not compromise with national pride under any circumstance. India has become strong in its national security. India is no longer a weak India. Our strength has risen. But this strength is not meant to frighten anyone. If we are increasing our strength we are doing so to secure our country,” said Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-no-longer-a-weak-country-says-rajnath-singh-on-ladakh-border-row-849406.html
14-06-2020||National||Sufi Muslims' body condemns 'provocative action' of China & Nepal||The All India Sufi Sajjadanashin Council (AISSC) on Sunday "strongly" condemned the provocative action of the Chinese forces in eastern Ladakh and criticised Nepal for passing a bill to redraw its political map, which features areas that India maintains belong to it. These "unfortunate and provocative actions" of the neighbouring states are taking place at a time when the entire world is busy in combating COVID-19 and India in particular is busy in helping the world in stopping the spread of the virus and offering its resources for its cure, he said. "The selfish designs of the government of Nepal has blindfolded themselves from the vision of true friendship and very unfortunately is treading on the roses of friendship carefully spread by the people of these two countries," AISSC founder chairman Syed Naseruddin Chishty said in a statement. He said "this provocative act of the Nepalese government is against the principles of bilateral relations and guiding principles of SAARC". Chisty hoped that good sense will prevail upon the government of the respective neighbouring countries and they immediately desist from these "highly objectionable and provocative actions". On Saturday, the lower house of Nepalese parliament unanimously voted to amend the Constitution to update the country's new political map, laying claim over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura along the border with India. In Ladakh, the Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in a standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sufi-muslims-body-condemns-provocative-action-of-china-nepal-849411.html
14-06-2020||National||Elephant deaths in C'garh: 3 forest officials, guard suspended||Three Chhattisgarh forest officials and a guard have been suspended in connection with the recent deaths of three wild elephants in the state, an official said on Sunday. A show cause notice has also been issued to a divisional forest officer (DFO) in Balrampur district for alleged dereliction of duty, he said. The suspension orders and the show cause notice were issued on Saturday evening, a senior forest official told PTI. As per the orders, sub-divisional forest officer (Rajpur) K S Khutia, range forest officer (Rajpur) Anil Singh, deputy ranger (Gopalpur) Rajendra Prasad Tiwari, and forest guard Bhupendra Singh have been suspended, he said. The carcass of a female elephant was found on June 11 in Gopalpur circle under Rajpur forest range of Balrampur district, while two elephants, one of them pregnant, were found dead in the adjoining Pratppur forest range of Surajpur district on June 9 and 10. According to officials, all the three jumbos belonged to the same herd that had moved towards Pratappur from Rajpur. "As per reports, the elephant whose carcass was found on June 11 from Rajpur forest range probably died on June 6. These forest staff allegedly failed to inform senior officials about it till June 11. They allegedly indulged in serious negligence in duty," the official said. Their act amounts to violation of Rule 3 of the Chhattisgarh Civil Services (Conduct) Rules. Therefore, they have been suspended with immediate effect, he said. The forest department has also issued a show cause notice to Balrampur's DFO Pranay Mishra, seeking his reply within a week, the official said. "The DFO is expected to take steps to prevent human- elephant conflicts through various means. But in this case, he did not even have the information of the elephant's death till the carcass got decomposed. This clearly indicates that he has committed gross negligence," said the notice. Because of this, the incident was constantly reported in the media which has maligned the image of the state government, it further said. The notice asked why disciplinary action should not be initiated against Mishra under provisions of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969. State Forest Minister Mohammad Akbar on Friday constituted a panel headed by a retired Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer to probe the deaths of the elephants. The minister said the postmortem of the pachyderms revealed that one of them died of cardiac arrest, another of toxicity and third one died due to infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elephant-deaths-in-cgarh-3-forest-officials-guard-suspended-849418.html
14-06-2020||National||Truckers say extortion at peak in states like MP; seek PM's intervention||Extortion of truckers, already hit hard by the COVID-19 crisis, is at its peak in states like Madhya Pradesh, transporters' body AIMTC said, as it sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention to bring an end to their plight. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, AIMTC alleged that sums ranging from Rs 1,200 to Rs 3,000 per vehicle per entry are being charged by those deployed at the state borders, especially in Madhya Pradesh. If the payment is refused, the vehicle is detained and fined on one pretext or the other, it added. All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) is the apex umbrella body of transporters, representing about 95 lakh truckers. "Post-GST there should not have been any RTO (Regional Transport Office) checkpoints at the borders or elsewhere so as to ensure corruption-free seamless movement of transport vehicles across one nation.... "As an antithesis to your professed objective of zero corruption & the basic premise of GST law, the RTO check post have been working brazenly and with impunity at the state borders. There is all out corruption, extortion and exploitation of the vulnerable and poor truckers," it said in the letter. It said some of the most notorious border posts include Sendhwa (Bal Samud), Burhanpur, Multai, Pithol, Nayagaon, Dogargaon Soyat, Hanumana, Chakghat, Morena, Nowgaon, Jalgaon, Behrampur, Machalpur, Jirapur, Dholpur and Chindwara in Madhya Pradesh. Sums ranging from Rs 1,200 and Rs 3,000 per vehicle per entry are being rampantly charged there, it added. "Almost daily crores of rupees are fleeced from the vulnerable truckers that go into pockets of the people in this syndicate. It also results in acute loss of revenue to the central and state governments, and compromise road safety," said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president, AIMTC. Mentioning that corruption and extortion is prevalent in several states including Rajasthan, the body said Madhya Pradesh in particular has become one of the most inhospitable states for the road transport sector. The RTOs, District Transport Offices (DTOs) and motor vehicle inspector (MVIs) in the state "have unleashed a tyranny of harassment, corruption and extortion on vague provisions of law", Atwal said. Around 85 per cent of the truckers have just one to five trucks, and 65 per cent belong to rural areas, it said, adding they are facing severe financial stress due to the coronavirus crisis. "The ongoing extortion and harassment is fomenting acute resentment among the transport fraternity from across the," it added. "...we suggest and request your immediate intervention in the matter to resolve the issue in time by directing to abolish all the RTO checkposts in the states," the letter to the Prime Minister said. PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truckers-say-extortion-at-peak-in-states-like-mp-seek-pms-intervention-849421.html
14-06-2020||National||Delhi LG visits site of proposed 10,000-bed makeshift hospital||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Sunday inspected the site of a proposed 10,000-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients in South Delhi.  The planned COVID-19 facility will come up under a sprawling tent on the campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas on the Delhi-Haryana border. The LG visited the site along with a team of officials, including South Delhi District Magistrate B M Mishra, and took stock of the available facilities, an official said. Baijal said the administration will further ramp up medical infrastructure to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and directed the officials to build the makeshift hospital at the earliest, he said.   According to the Delhi government's estimates, coronavirus cases in the national capital are likely to breach the 5 lakh-mark by the end of July. Around one lakh beds will be needed for COVID-19 patients. The city has 9,816 dedicated COVID-19 beds in state-run, central and private hospitals. Of these, 5,399 are occupied. The Delhi government has also started the process to identify community halls and stadiums which can be converted into makeshift COVID-19 hospitals. This COVID-19 facility, which will be 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide, will have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each, said Vikas Sethi, secretary of Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Bhati Mines.  The makeshift hospital will be the largest such facility in the city so far. The work is expected to be completed by the end of June, he said. The metal tent has lights and fans installed. Coolers will be needed considering the heat. The medical staff can also be accommodated in a building on the campus, he added. The spiritual organisation gave its approval for the makeshift hospital two-three days ago. District Magistrate B M Mishra said the administration wants to finish the work by June end "at any cost". He said the spiritual organisation operates a large kitchen which can feed one lakh people at a time. Also, there are enough toilets available in the campus where the followers of the organisation listen to spiritual discourses. "There are around 500 toilets, which is enough for 10,000 COVID-19 patients," Mishra said. The district magistrate said a doctor, two nurses and a cleaner would be needed per enclosure. There is a building on the campus which can be used for accommodating doctors, nurses, and paramedical staff, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-lg-visits-site-of-proposed-10000-bed-makeshift-hospital-849426.html
14-06-2020||National||When Sushant Singh Rajput bought land on the Moon||Rajput, who shot to fame after playing former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, claimed that he had bought a piece of lunar land on the far side of the moon, in a region called the Mare Muscoviense, or the "Sea of Muscovy", two years ago. The actor was already an owner of an advance telescope called the Meade 14" LX600, which could help him keep an eye on this prime piece of real estate from his home on Earth. Rajput's land is on the blind side from the Earth. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/entertainment/entertainment-news/twitter-reacts-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-849424.html?_ga=2.263079759.2146607648.1592128838-580307578.1590806521 Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/entertainment/entertainment-news/twitter-reacts-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-849424.html?_ga=2.263079759.2146607648.1592128838-580307578.1590806521 Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/entertainment/entertainment-news/twitter-reacts-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-849424.html?_ga=2.263079759.2146607648.1592128838-580307578.1590806521 Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/entertainment/entertainment-news/twitter-reacts-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-849424.html?_ga=2.263079759.2146607648.1592128838-580307578.1590806521 "I would like to believe that the different ways we answer questions 'are' the answers of those questions. So the variations in the way we punctuate the narratives; the nuance, would create the different versions of reality in future. My mother used to tell me that my life will be the story that I will tell myself. I am just punctuating a nuance right now and already am, over the Moon!" Rajput had told PTI. The 34-year-old actor committed suicide in Mumbai, on Sunday. He was found hanging in his apartment in Bandra. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/entertainment/entertainment-news/actor-sushant-singh-rajput-commits-suicide-849423.html (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-sushant-singh-rajput-bought-land-on-the-moon-849437.html
14-06-2020||National||Low-cost test kits to sanitising drones: IIT innovations take commercial route to aid COVID-19 fight||Low-cost portable ventilators, affordable COVID-19 test kits, drones for sanitisation, specialised digital stethoscopes and "infection-proof fabric" for hospitals -- these are among key innovations by IITs across the country which are ready to hit the market. The innovations were developed by the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) during the last three months when the country was hit by the pandemic. The key innovations have taken commercial route either through IIT-incubated startups or the premier institutes have given license to companies keeping the patent rights with themselves. IIT Delhi, which became the first academic institute to get a nod from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for its COVID-19 test kit, has given non-exclusive open licence to Bengaluru-based biotechnology firm Genie Laboratories for commercialising the test, but with a price rider of Rs 500 per kit. The kits, being manufactured at the Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) in Vishakhapatnam, are expected to be available in the market in the next 10 days. "Over 40 companies, including a few big names, have reached out to us to commercialise the test. We will be giving open licences to companies which meet the quality criterion set by us and set a price rider so that companies do not hike the price once commercialised. We have chosen Genie laboratories as the first one, but there will be more companies too," IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal told PTI. According to the IIT Delhi team, the current testing methods available are "probe-based" while the one developed by the IIT team is a "probe-free" method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy. Another innovation by the institute, an "infection-proof fabric" to prevent hospital-acquired infections (HAIs) is being sent to various hospitals in Delhi and NCR in the form of bed sheets, curtains and uniforms by an incubated startup called "Fabiosys Innovations". The innovation was earlier tested at AIIMS. "We take rolls of cotton fabric and treat it with a set of proprietary-developed chemicals under a set of particular reaction conditions, using the machinery already commonly available in textile industries. The fabric, after undergoing these processes, gains the powerful antimicrobial functionality," said Samrat Mukhopadhyay, a professor at IIT-Delhi. "Even after washing multiple times, it does not lose its functionality. This fabric can be stitched into various articles such as bedsheets, the uniforms for patients, doctors and nurses and even curtains. The fabric satisfies the Indian standards in terms of the number of washing. It is completely non-toxic and affordable," he added. A "digital stethoscope", developed by a team at IIT Bombay, that can listen to heartbeats from a distance and record them, minimising the risk of healthcare professionals contracting the novel coronavirus from patients, is already available in the market.  The data or the auscultated sound from a patient's chest is wirelessly sent to the doctor using Bluetooth, doing away with the need to go near to take readings.   Operating a startup called "AyuDevice" from the IIT's technology business incubator, the team has sent 1,000 stethoscopes to different hospitals and healthcare centres across the country. The product is also available for sale at various stores. An IIT Guwahati startup "Marut Dronetech" has developed two types of drones, which are being used by the Telangana government and various departments across the state. The drones are being deployed for spraying disinfectant in public spaces to prevent the coronavirus. They can disinfect 50 times more area than what can be done using traditional methods, the institute claimed. "We have also developed public monitoring and warning drones which are fitted with a camera and speaker. These can be used to monitor places, especially with high disease prevalence for crowd gathering and give appropriate instructions to people, using fitted loudspeakers," said Prem Kumar Vislawath, an IIT Guwahati alumnus. The institute's design department has come up with a bamboo hospital furniture range, mass production of which is quick and low cost, to meet demands arising out of hospitalisation of more people with the spike in coronavirus cases. "The furniture can be used at primary health centres and makeshift isolation wards set up in places like indoor stadiums. It can be easily disposed of when the virus has been contained. Over 200 beds can be manufactured per day using the design. We have tied up with two local entrepreneurs for manufacturing," a professor said. IIT Kanpur has collaborated with ICICI Securities for the development of a low-cost ventilator innovated by two of its students. "This easily portable ventilator will be much cheaper than other life-saving machines available in the market. It will also work as a sanitizer to keep the hospital germ-free. Due to the components used in the ventilator which are specifically manufactured in India, it will cost only Rs 70,000 while available ventilators cost around Rs 4 lakh," said IIT-Kanpur Director Abhay Karandikar. "We plan to develop around 30,000 units in 2020, and the first lot is expected to hit the market soon," he added. According to the Union Health ministry, India saw the highest single-day spike of 11,929 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the number of infections to over 3.20 lakh on Sunday, while the toll crossed the 9,000-mark with 311 more deaths||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-cost-test-kits-to-sanitising-drones-iit-innovations-take-commercial-route-to-aid-covid-19-fight-849443.html
14-06-2020||National||COVID-19 peak in India may arrive in mid-November, paucity of ICU beds, ventilators likely: Study||The peak stage of COVID-19 pandemic in India has been delayed by the eight-week lockdown along with strengthened public health measures and it may now arrive around mid-November during which there could be a paucity of isolation and ICU beds, and ventilators, according to a study. The study conducted by researchers from an Operations Research Group constituted by ICMR said the lockdown shifted the peak of the pandemic by an estimated 34 to 76 days and helped bring down the number of infections by 69 to 97 percent, thereby, allowing time for the healthcare system to shore up resources and infrastructure. In the scenario of intensified public health measures with 60 percent effectiveness after lockdown, the demand can be met until the first week of November. After that, isolation beds could be inadequate for 5.4 months, ICU beds for 4.6 and ventilators for 3.9 months, projections by the health researchers showed. However, this shortfall is estimated to be 83 percent less than what it could have been without the lockdown and public health measures. With sustained government steps at increasing the infrastructure and different pace of epidemic in different regions, the impact of unmet need can be reduced. If the coverage of public health measures can be increased to 80 percent, the epidemic can be mitigated, the researchers stated. According to the model-based analysis for COVID-19 pandemic in India, with the additional capacity which has been built up for testing, treating and isolating patients during the lockdown period, the number of cases at the peak would come down by 70 percent and the cumulative cases may come down by nearly 27 percent.   In terms of COVID-19 mortality, approximately 60 percent deaths were prevented and one-third of this mortality prevention is attributed to the reduction in unmet need for critical care as a result of the intervention, the analysis showed. The researchers said the management of COVID-19 will involve a dynamic review of policies and significant strengthening of the healthcare system. "While lockdowns will delay the onset of peak and will give the much needed time for the health system to respond, strengthening the health system response in terms of testing, isolation of cases, treatment and contact tracing, as is being done currently, will have to be the mainstay to reduce the impact of the pandemic in India until vaccine becomes available," it said.   The overall economic health system cost of this pandemic is estimated to be 6.2 percent of India's gross domestic product (GDP). The country saw a record spike of 11,929 cases pushing India's COVID-19 caseload to 3,20,922 on Sunday while the death toll rose to 9,195 with an increase of 311 fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. India registered more than 10,000 cases for the third day in a row and is the fourth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic. The ministry on June 9 said coronavirus related health infrastructure in the country has been strengthened with the availability of 958 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU and 73,469 oxygen supported beds. Also, 2,313 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,33,037 isolation beds, 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised. Moreover, 7,525 COVID Care Centres with 7,10,642 beds are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country. The ventilators available for COVID beds are 21,494, the ministry had said, adding that order of 60,848 more ventilators has been placed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-peak-in-india-may-arrive-in-mid-november-paucity-of-icu-beds-ventilators-likely-study-849451.html
14-06-2020||National||New guidelines for funeral of COVID-19 victims on the cards amid complaints of dishonouring bodies||Amid a number of complaints of dishonouring bodies surfacing, the Centre on Sunday announced that it will revise the guidelines on the funerals of COVID-19 patients to reduce the waiting period. It has also decided to draft in Scouts and Guides, cadets of National Cadet Corps (NCC) and volunteers of National Service Scheme (NSS) and NGOs in health services, amid several healthcare professionals contracting the virus infection. These decisions were announced by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday after a meeting to review the worsening COVID-19 situation in the national capital. In a tweet, Shah said, "India is fighting COVID-19 with all its might. The government is sensitive to the sentiments of the families who have lost their dear ones to the virus infection. The government has decided to release new guidelines for the funeral, which will reduce the waiting period (for the bodies)." The decision comes against the backdrop of reports of families facing trouble in claiming bodies of COVID-19 patients and several instances of dishonouring the bodies while handling it. The Supreme Court on Friday said COVID-19 patients are treated worse than animals, and in one case, a dead body was found in garbage. While crematoriums are running to full capacity in some places, mortuaries are said to be full in cities with large numbers of casualties. Families are also finding it difficult to claim the bodies in some cases. Last month, the Delhi government had told the Delhi High Court that a sudden surge in COVID-19 deaths and crematorium workers refusing to handle the deceased were among the reasons for the pile-up of bodies at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital. The LNJP hospital also witnessed a case of mix up of bodies, releasing bodies to wrong families.  Another concern for the Centre and state governments was the stress on healthcare workers in dealing with the COVID-19 situation. To ease the pressure, the Centre is now planning to deploy volunteers in health services. "Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, the country has fought the COVID-19 with full vigour. Many voluntary organsations are doing excellent work. In this context, the government has decided to add Scouts and Guides, NCC, NSS and other NGOs as volunteers in health services to fight the epidemic," Shah said. Officials said these volunteers will help in managing the front office of hospitals, access control, contact tracing and campaign. Earlier last month, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had asked states to prepare an "effective second line" of defence to make up for the police personnel who may be rendered ineffective due to COVID-19 infection during the pandemic by deploying home guards, civil defence, NCC cadets and student cadets among others, wherever feasible to contain the spread of the deadly virus. This came following a number of paramilitary personnel and state police personnel tested positive for COVID-19. The MHA suggested that the NCC cadets and others could be deployed at relief centres and in facilitating the maintenance of supply chain and for coordinating other essential services, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla had said in his letter to states on May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-guidelines-for-funeral-of-covid-19-victims-on-the-cards-amid-complaints-of-dishonouring-bodies-849465.html
14-06-2020||National||India's coronavirus cases jump by almost 12K; concern over spillover effect rises||India’s COVID-19 count rose sharply by 11,929 cases on Sunday with officials expressing concern over the spillover of infections in adjoining districts. As on Sunday, India’s count of confirmed cases of COVID-19 is 3,20,922, while the death toll crossed the 9,000 mark to touch 9,195 with 311 deaths reported in a single day. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total number of cases at 3,24,414 and the fatalities at 9,249 at 7:30 p.m. on Sunday. According to Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant, the emerging districts of concern are those which have a high case load and 50 per cent of the total cases have been reported after May 18. The proximity of these districts to the 15 worst hit districts including Thane, Pune, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Surat, Gurugram, Jodhpur, Bhopal indicated a spillover of infections. Kant underscored the need to implement containment measures aggressively in these regions to prevent a further spread of the disease. Yadgir and Udupi were identified as the emerging districts of concern in Karnataka. In neighbouring Maharashtra, the border districts of Kolhapur and Solapur were marked as places experiencing the spillover effect of the viral infections. According to the Health Ministry, there are 1,49,348 active COVID-19 cases, while 1,62,379 people have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals. The number of recoveries are more than the active cases as 50.60 per cent of the patients have recovered so far. Of the total 9,195 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,830 fatalities, followed by Gujarat (1,448) and Delhi (1,271). The toll from the pandemic rose to 463 in West Bengal, 447 in Madhya Pradesh, 397 in Tamil Nadu and 385 in Uttar Pradesh. There have been 282 COVID-19 deaths in Rajasthan and 182 in Telangana. The maximum number of cases are from Maharashtra with 1,04,568 infections, followed by 42,687 in Tamil Nadu, 38,958 in Delhi and 23,038 in Gujarat. The tally rose to 13,118 in Uttar Pradesh, 12,401 in Rajasthan and 10,698 in West Bengal. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 10,641 in Madhya Pradesh, 6,824 in Karnataka, 6,749 in Haryana and 6,290 in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-cases-jump-by-almost-12k-concern-over-spillover-effect-rises-849466.html
14-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom June 14, 2020: Actor Sushant Singh Rajput commits suicide, COVID-19 tests in Delhi to be doubled in 2 days||From the Newsroom today, Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput has committed suicide in Mumbai. He was 34. He was found hanging in his apartment in Bandra. Amid a standoff with China on the Ladakh border, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday that India will never compromise on its "national pride", asserting that it is no longer a "weak" country and that its security capability has increased. As the COVID-19 situation worsens in Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday held discussions with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the steps to be taken to tackle the spread of the coronavirus.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-june-14-2020-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-commits-suicide-covid-19-tests-in-delhi-to-be-doubled-in-2-days-849472.html
14-06-2020||National||Army aspirant dies in WWE-style wrestling in Uttar Pradesh||A 17-year-old boy, an Army aspirant, died in a wrestling match after his rival allegedly pressed the former's neck with his foot as the boy lay on ground after being defeated. The incident happened at Gararian Bagaha village in Uttar Pradesh's Fatehpur district on Saturday. According to the police sources, the boy, identified as Sanjay Paswan, a resident of Painakhurd village, used to go for jogging and exercise every morning as he wanted to join the Army. On Saturday morning, he was taken to the neighbouring village of Gararian Khurd by a friend of his to take part in a wrestling competition, sources said. Paswan won his first match but in the second, his much stronger rival Kallu Raidas put the former on the mat and then pressed his foot on the boy's neck as a sign of victory, sources said. The boy lost consciousness and was rushed to the district hospital. The doctors referred him to the KG Medical University Hospital in the state capital after his condition worsened. Sources said that Paswan died while on way to Lucknow. The doctors said that the death was caused by severe neck injury. A case was registered in this regard and Kallu was arrested, police said adding that Paswan's friend has also been booked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-aspirant-dies-in-wwe-style-wrestling-in-uttar-pradesh-849476.html
14-06-2020||National||India does not want land of China or Pakistan but wants peace: Gadkari||India is not interested in land of Pakistan or China but wanted peace and amity, Union minister and senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari said on Sunday. Addressing virtual 'Jan Samvad' rally of Gujarat BJP from Nagpur in Maharashtra, he said India believed in peace and non-violence and do not want to be strong by becoming an expansionist. "India never tried to grab land of its neighbours like Bhutan and Bangladesh," he added. The Minister of Road Transport & Highways and MSME also said that COVID-19 crisis will not last long, as a vaccine is on its way soon. "India do not want land of either Pakistan or China. All India want is peace, amity, love, and (want) to work together (with neighbouring countries)," Gadkari said. His comments came at a time when India and China are engaged in a stand-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Talking about the completion of one year of the second term of the Modi government, Gadkari said its biggest achievement was to bring peace in the country by dealing with matters of internal and external security. "...Whether it is about almost winning over the Maoist problem or securing the country from Pakistan-sponsored terrorism...There is China on the one side of our border and Pakistan on the other side. We want peace, not violence," he said. During his speech, the Nagpur MP referred to famous novel "Mrityunjaya" by Marathi novelist Shivaji Sawant, saying peace and non-violence can be established by only those who are strong and not weak. "We should not make India strong by becoming expansionist. We want to make India strong for establishing peace. We never tried to grab land of Bhutan. Our country made Sheikh Mujibur Rahman the prime minister of Bangladesh after winning the war (with Pakistan in 1971), and our soldiers returned thereafter. "We took not a single inch of land. We do not want land either of Pakistan or China. All we want is peace, amity, love, and wanted to work together," he said. Gadkari also said the coronavirus crisis will not last long as scientists in India and abroad have been working to develop a vaccine. "This crisis is not going to last long. Effort is on in our country to develop a vaccine for coronavirus. Scientists across the world are working in this direction. As per the information received by me, I can say with confidence that very soon we will find vaccine. Once we develop a vaccine, we won't have to fear the crisis, Gadkari added. As per the Union Health ministry, India saw the highest single-day spike of 11,929 novel coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the number of infections to over 3.20 lakh on Sunday, while the toll crossed the 9,000 mark with 311 more deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-does-not-want-land-of-china-or-pakistan-but-wants-peace-gadkari-849481.html
14-06-2020||National||Six Indian firms await regulatory nod for anti-COVID-19 drug||India may have given the go ahead for use of remdesivir in treatment of COVID-19 patients, it will be a while before the drug is available for patients who need them. The Indian drug regulator has waived off the requirement for local clinical trials of the drug, but is awaiting reports on stability testing, emergency laboratory testing from domestic firms that have inked non-exclusive contracts with Gilead, the US-headquartered pharma major that has developed the drug. Remdesivir is yet to be granted market authorisation by the USFDA, which has allowed its use under Emergency Authorization Use. India, too has granted permission for Emergency Authorisation Use but is yet to grant permission to manufacture the drug in the country. Six Indian companies – Hetero, Cipla, BDR, Dr Reddy’s Labs, Mylan, and Jubilant have applied for permission to manufacture and market the drug in India while five have already signed non-exclusive agreements with Gilead. “These applications are being processed by the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on priority and in accordance with the laid down procedures,” an official statement said. It said that the companies are at various intermediate stages of inspection of manufacturing facilities, verification of data, stability testing, emergency laboratory testing as per protocol. As remdesivir is an injectable formulation, testing for assay, identity, impurities, bacterial endotoxin test and sterility are very critical elements for patient safety and this data need to be provided by the companies. “CDSCO is awaiting the data and is providing complete support to these companies,” the official statement said. Prior to administering the treatment, written informed consent of each patient would be required and the results of additional clinical trials, active surveillance data of all treated patients, risk management plan along with active post marketing surveillance and reporting of serious adverse events need to be submitted to the CDSCO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-indian-firms-await-regulatory-nod-for-anti-covid-19-drug-849483.html
14-06-2020||National||Jamiat moves SC to oppose possible action to reclaim Kashi-Mathura shrines||A Muslim scholars organisation, Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind has approached the Supreme Court to oppose a plea challenging validity of a 1991 law that barred reclaiming any shrine or changing its character from what prevailed on August 15, 1947. The move "will create fear in the minds of the Muslim Community with regard to their places of worship, especially in the aftermath of the Ayodhya dispute and will destroy the secular fabric of the nation," it apprehended. In a PIL filed earlier this month, Lucknow-based Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh questioned the validity of Section 4 of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, saying it violated the right to practice and profess one's religion, among others. The petition was significant as there have been demands to resume litigation on Kashi-Mathura, related to temples of Lord Shiva and Lord Krishna respectively, in Uttar Pradesh. In an impleadment application, advocate Ejaz Maqbool said, "it is apparent that the petition seeks to indirectly target places of worship which are presently of Muslim character." The applicant organisation contended that the allegations made in the plea was nothing but seeking a correction of historical wrongs, which was held in the recent Ayodhya case by a five-judge bench. The present petition, which rests on the basis that Muslim invaders allegedly converted the Hindu places of worship, cannot be entertained in view of the law laid down in the Ayodhya case, it added. "There is a list of numerous mosques which is doing the rounds on social media, alleging that the said mosques were built allegedly by destroying Hindu places of worship," it pointed out. "Needless to say that if the present petition is entertained, it will open floodgates of litigation against countless mosques in the country and the religious divide from which the country is recovering in the aftermath of the Ayodhya dispute will only be widened," the applicant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jamiat-moves-sc-to-oppose-possible-action-to-reclaim-kashi-mathura-shrines-849484.html
14-06-2020||National||IIT Kharagpur asks faculty not to write on topics critical of government||IIT Kharagpur has asked its faculty members not to participate in radio broadcast or write on subjects critical of the state and central governments. However, they can write on literary or scientific topics, the premier institute said in a recent circular. Registrar B N Singh told PTI on Sunday, it was not a fresh notice and the authorities have been quoting excerpts from an old central government circular from time to time for the new recruits who "may not have an idea about certain service conduct rules for central government employees." "It is not a gag order," he said. The IIT Kharagpur notification, signed by the registrar on June 5, read "It has been observed that many a times institute employees are offering their views/publishing information etc in the print/social media. It is true that media is a part of our daily lives...." "However, a few cases are reported in the media which have the effect of adverse criticism of the policies or action of the institute and the Central govt/any state govt/ any other institute or organisation or members of the public." The notification, quoting the conduct rules framed many years back, specified that no employee shall in any radio broadcast or in any document published anonymously or in any communication to the press in his own name make statement "which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current policy or action of the institute or which is capable of embarrassing the relations between the institute and the Central government." It said that the staff of IIT Kharagpur is governed by conduct rules as laid down in the acts and statutes of the institute. "No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the competent authority or any other authority empowered by it in this behalf, or in the bonafide discharge of his duties, participate in a radio broadcast or contribute any article or write any letter, in his own name or anonymously, to any newspaper or periodical..," the notification said. No such sanction shall be required if such broadcast or contribution is "of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character", the notification said. However, "members of the staff are at liberty, without any sanction, to publish their original scientific works in journals of repute in India and abroad...Such articles must be strictly confined to purely scientific subjects and should not touch administrative matters. They shall be free from all political tinge...," the circular said. Claiming that no recent development has prompted the institute to come up with the circular, Singh said, "It has been issued to apprise the new recruits about the service rules." An IIT Kharagpur source said, a circular like this is issued from time to time. "However, with the proliferation of social media in recent years, it is important to make those having joined later to know about their responsibilities. "If they refer to their association with the organisation in their Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts, their comments and posts may be considered to be part of their official identity by followers on net, including media. "There is no monitoring as such but the authorities expect them to use their own discretion while posting in social media," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-kharagpur-asks-faculty-not-to-write-on-topics-critical-of-government-849485.html
14-06-2020||National||Govt to reskill migrant workers to get them jobs locally||With large number of migrants returning to their home states, the Ministry of Skill Developement and Entrepreneurship is working on to reskill them and get them new employment opportunities in their home states. Maximum migrant workers returned to Uttar Pradeah, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand. The Ministry is working with these states to explore new areas where jobs can be generated. The Ministry is also doing skill mapping so that jobs can be provided closer to their home, said an official in the Ministry. Since large number of workers mostly having worked as electrician, plumber, painter, carpenter, driver and in other construcion based jobs, the Centre is working on to reskill them with local requirement, said an official from the Ministry. The Ministry also identified 116 districts, which witnessed maximum return of migrants, which include Gulbarga, Yadgir, Koppal and Raichur districts of Karnataka. In these districts, the Ministry of Skill Development in co-ordination with deputy commissioner identify labourers and  reskill them. Skill mapping exercise will help the government  to provide  short-term trainings and recognition of prior learning to reskill migrant workers, said the official. The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is also working with industry partnerships involving support from public sector and private firms in contributing funds towards rehabilitation of  migrant workers and provide jobs. The Ministry is working on district specific plan to reskill and rehabilitate migrant workers under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-reskill-migrant-workers-to-get-them-jobs-locally-849486.html
14-06-2020||National||Amid Indo-China face-off, 1500 workers leave Jharkhand by train to build roads at Leh-Ladakh||A special train, arguably the first-of-its-kind and arranged by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), left Jharkhand carrying over 1500 workers who will construct roads in the Leh-Ladakh region. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren flagged off the train at Dumka (the second capital of Jharkhand) and called the workers of his State as “the soldiers” who have helped build the nation for the last several decades. “At a time when there is tension along the Indo-China border, you are undertaking journey to fearlessly work for your country. You are no less than soldiers,” said Soren, while wishing the workers from his State a ‘Happy journey’ at Dumka railway station. Of these 1500 workers, over 1300 are from Dumka, while the rest from the adjoining places like Godda and Pakur. The BRO had sought Jharkhand Government’s assistance before ‘recruiting’ these workers, who are physically quite strong and could work under adverse situation and inclement weather. These workers are specially required to help construct roads in the difficult terrain of Leh and Ladakh.   The move assumes significance in the sense that there is a face-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh region. Prior to their departure from Dumka railway station on Saturday, an agreement was signed by the BRO with the Jharkhand Government assuring enhanced wages and other welfare entitlements to these workers who earlier worked in Leh-Ladakh but were devoid of proper wages due to ‘middlemen’ who got them the job. “Before their departure, an agreement was signed by the district administration and the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in the presence of Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren. The district administration will facilitate and tie-up with the BRO to ensure that all workers get their dues and welfare entitlements,” the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Dumka, Rajeshwari B, told Deccan Herald on Sunday. Soren presented these workers their job card and ration kits. Sources said these workers will now get around Rs 18,000 per month compared to earlier remuneration of Rs 15,000 a month. Earlier, when these workers were stranded in Leh-Ladakh during lockdown, Hemant Soren brought them to Jharkhand by flight last month after the State government paid their air fare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-indo-china-face-off-1500-workers-leave-jharkhand-by-train-to-build-roads-at-leh-ladakh-849498.html
14-06-2020||National||Former Lok Sabha MP, banker Madhavrao Patil dies in Nashik||Former Lok Sabha MP and founder of Janalaxmi Cooperative Bank Madhavrao Patil died after a brief illness on Sunday morning in Maharashtra's Nashik district. He was 80 and is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters. He was a staunch supporter of Sharad Pawar and was among the first to join when the latter formed the Nationalist Congress Party in 1999. Patil had won from Nashik Lok Sabha constituency on a Congress ticket in 1998. His last rites were performed at Amardham crematorium here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-lok-sabha-mp-banker-madhavrao-patil-dies-in-nashik-849501.html
14-06-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: 57 overseas Tablighis convicted, sentences set off and freed||A Saharanpur court near here has freed 57 overseas Tablighi Jamaat members after setting off their month-long sentences against the imprisonment already undergone by them during trial. The 57 Tablight Jammat members, who were ordered to be released, include 21 from Kyrgyzstan, five from Thailand, four from Indonesia, two from Malaysia and one each from Syria and France besides some other countries. Saharanpur Chief Judicial Magistrate Anil Kumar sentenced all 57 Tablighis to a month in jail on Saturday after convicting them under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for disobeying public servants orders issued under section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. CJM Kumar, however, set aside the prosecution charges under stricter IPC sections 269 and 271 for committing negligent acts likely to spread infections of dangerous disease and violating quarantine rules respectively. The court also acquitted them of violating section 14 of the Foreigners Act for allegedly overstaying in the country beyond the permission granted to them, saying this charge has not been made out against the accused. The court convicted the accused of the two penal offences after they pleaded guilty for them but claimed trial on others, claiming innocence. The court convicted and freed them after setting off their sentences in a trial held through video conferencing. After the court’s ruling, all 57 Tablighi Jammat members were released and have been kept in a resort in Saharnapur, said officials. They all have evinced keen interest in going back to their respective countries, the officials added. In fact, two diplomats from Kyrgyzstan embassy in India had earlier also visited their 21 nationals and had met them in jail on May 31, they added. The diplomats had also told Indian authorities that they would send their citizens back to Kyrgyzstan as soon as judicial process is over here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-57-overseas-tablighis-convicted-sentences-set-off-and-freed-849510.html
14-06-2020||National||Migrant pandits demand fool-proof security for minorities living in Kashmir||Kashmiri migrant pandits on Sunday staged a peaceful rally in Jammu against the recent killing of a sarpanch from the community and demanded adequate security for all minorities living in the Valley. Sarpanch Ajay Pandita was shot dead by terrorists in south Kashmir's Anantnag district on June 8. The rally, participated by a daughter of the sarpanch, was taken out under the banner of 'Kashmiri pandit volunteers' from Toph Sherkhan to Pandita's residence nearby. The participants wore black batches, chanted slogans against terrorism and Pakistan, and urged Lt Governor G C Murmu to ensure 'fool-proof security' to all minorities living in Kashmir, especially Kashmiri migrant pandits who got jobs under prime minister's employment package. They also demanded formation of a commission for "delivery of justice" to pandits, concrete policy for their return and rehabilitation and a plan for revival of temples, shrines and other religious places in the valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-pandits-demand-fool-proof-security-for-minorities-living-in-kashmir-849545.html
14-06-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon's condition improving: Hospital||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon is stable and his condition is improving, even as he remains in the ICU of Medanta Hospital here, an official said on Sunday. Tandon, 85, was admitted to the hospital on the morning of June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited the hospital Sunday evening and enquired about his health. Tandon was kept under supervision of doctors and his condition improved following the treatment given by the experts, the hospital said in its medical bulletin. His COVID-19 sample report came out negative at the time of admission, it said. "He is better. In the night, he had to be operated upon. At present, he is in ICU, but he is improving," Medanta Hospital Director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told PTI. The medical bulletin released on Sunday said, "Doctors detected a problem in his liver during precautionary health tests for which he was further investigated through a CT guided procedure. Post procedure, he developed internal abdominal bleeding for which an emergency operation was performed. The operation was successful and he was shifted to ICU where his condition is improving." "He is stable and is under strict supervision of medical experts and the decision of his discharge from the hospital will be taken once he recovers completely," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandons-condition-improving-hospital-849549.html
14-06-2020||National||India takes up with Nepal killing of Indian near Sitamarhi in Bihar||India has taken up with Nepal the killing of an Indian by Nepalese border guards on Friday in a border area near Sitamarhi district of Bihar, official sources said. The Nepalese guards opened fire on a crowd killing the 22-year-old Indian man and injuring two others following an altercation, according to Indian officials. The sources said India has taken up the matter with the Nepalese side. The incident came in the midst of a raging border row between the two countries after the Nepalese government came out with a map depicting areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as Nepalese territories. India has been maintaining that the areas along its border with Nepal in Uttarakhand sector belong to it. The House of Representatives or lower house of the Nepalese parliament on Saturday unanimously passed a Constitution amendment bill providing for legal backing to its new map.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-takes-up-with-nepal-killing-of-indian-near-sitamarhi-in-bihar-849550.html
14-06-2020||National Politics||Anurag Thakur tells BJP workers to remain vigilant against COVID-19||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday urged BJP workers to remain vigilant against COVID-19 and tell people how the central and the state governments both were tackling the pandemic. While addressing a virtual rally of Badsar area of the district through video conferencing, Thakur said the Modi government was taking several measures to provide relief to the people of the country from the pandemic. Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, HP Panchayati Raj Minister Virendra Kanwar and BJP district chief Baldev Sharma also participated in the virtual rally. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a relief package of more than a million crores rupees to people and all the BJP leaders and workers were working with complete planning and proper implementation of these schemes with full intentions, Thakur added. He appealed to the Bharatiya Janata Party workers that they should come forward to take the benefits of these schemes to the masses so that they could know who their real benefactor was. Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, said that the party workers had to shoulder a big responsibility while fighting with the deadly virus and for that they should educate the people how to lead their lives during this crisis.  Dhumal also urged people and BJP workers to make full use of the policies and programmes of the central and state governments as such schemes were for their own benefits and welfare. He said people should work on the farm-related activities in the fields and grow more vegetables, especially off season vegetables, fruits and crops for which the state government used to give them hybrid seeds and subsidy. Dhumal told them to work towards helping the government in its drive to end the COVID-19 pandemic forever and help those who were or had suffered due to this disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anurag-thakur-tells-bjp-workers-to-remain-vigilant-against-covid-19-849316.html
14-06-2020||National Politics||BJP's first virtual rally in Rajasthan on June 14||The BJP's first virtual rally in Rajasthan will be held on Sunday to mark the completion of the first year of the second term of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, a party spokesperson said. Union Minister Smriti Irani will address the ''Rajasthan Jan Samvad'' rally at 4 pm, the BJP spokesperson said on Saturday. The spokesperson said this will be the first virtual rally of the BJP in Rajasthan to inform the general public about the achievements of the Modi government and about the ''Atma Nirbhar'' (self-reliant'' India campaign. He said the rally will be broadcast on various social media platforms of the Bharatiya Janata Party and all preparations have been completed for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-first-virtual-rally-in-rajasthan-on-june-14-849326.html
14-06-2020||National Politics||Those who talk of zero tolerance, tolerating graft of 'big fishes': Priyanka Gandhi slams UP government||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday took a swipe at the Uttar Pradesh government over alleged frauds in the Education Department, saying those who talk about "zero tolerance" against corruption were tolerating the graft of "big fishes". Her attack on the government came over a media report which stated that after the case of teaching jobs being secured in the name of one Anamika Shukla emerged, another such case has come to light in Jaunpur and Azamgarh districts in which two jobs were secured in the name of Preeti Yadav, while the real Preeti Yadav is unemployed. "So many big frauds are happening in the Education Department, did the minister of the department not know about it? Did the Chief Minister's office also have no clue about it?" Priyanka Gandhi asked. "Surprisingly, those who talk about zero tolerance are tolerating the corruption of big fishes," she tweeted. On Saturday, Priyanka Gandhi had tweeted about another reported matter of fraud in which a job had been fraudulently secured in the name of Deepti Singh in Mainpuri. The most-talked about matter has been that of Gonda resident Shukla, who had appeared before her district Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) on a day when Basic Education Minister Satish Dwivedi had said some progress has been reported in the bizarre case, in which a woman was said to have withdrawn Rs 1 crore over 13 months from 25 schools across the state, while working for them simultaneously. The minister had said on Tuesday that a probe has revealed that the same set of documents were used to draw Rs 12.24 lakh from nine schools in six districts. After appearing before the BSA, Shukla had told reporters that she came to know of the case through media reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-talk-of-zero-tolerance-tolerating-graft-of-big-fishes-priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-government-849434.html
14-06-2020||National Politics||Article 370, CAA were never political issues for BJP: Union Minister Narendra Tomar||Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday asserted that Article 370 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act were never political issues for the BJP, but were connected with the country's unit and integrity. Tomar also said Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee sacrificed his life for the unity and integrity of the nation. "If today Kashmir is on India's map, it was Mookerjee's sacrifice," he said, adding that Mookerjee was against one country, two legislations, two emblems and two constitutions. "As BJP workers, we have been stressing that whether it is Article 370, 35-A, building of Ram temple, CAA, these were never issues of politics or votes for us nor are they today," the agriculture minister said at the 'Haryana Jan Samvad' rally. The rally was organised to mark the first anniversary of the Narendra Modi government's second term and Tomar spoke from Delhi. He said the BJP did whatever was possible to fulfill its commitment towards building the Ram temple. On triple talaq, Tomar said "it was our Prime Minister's dream that injustice which lakhs of Muslim women face should be done away with even if law has to be made for this and we did that". Tomar said our villages will have to be made 'Atma Nirbhar' for making the country self-reliant. Tomar spelled out steps which the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana have taken for making farming profitable.        He said the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, which allows barrier-free trade in agriculture produce outside the notified APMC mandis, will not impact local mandis in any way. "The only change we have made is allowing farmers to decide if he wants to sell inside mandi or outside," the minister said. He also said that purchase of crops at MSP will continue. The minister said that during its first term, the Modi government took many bold decisions, which took the country forward and helped bring change in lives of the poor. "People of this country have shown that they will back a leader one who makes bold decisions, is decisive and honest and one who does not think about himself, but for whole country and its people," Tomar said praising Modi. He also said Prime Minister Modi has given importance to cleanliness and it was his thinking that every household in the country should have a toilet. BJP's Haryana unit incharge Anil Jain said the Modi government took several bold decisions in the last on year including scrapping of Article 370.  On fighting COVID-19, he said nobody could have imagined that the government would be able to ramp up things and be able to create health infrastructure to cope with the crisis situation. Addressing the rally from Panchkula, Khattar slammed the opposition parties in the state, saying while it was time to collectively fight the pandemic, they chose to do “politics in everything”. "During this crisis time, they should not do politics… Congress in the state is a divided house and there is competition of sorts amongst its leaders as to who is in control. I will not name any of their leaders, but everyone knows, we see this tamasha in Haryana every day,” he said. The chief minister said, "If we leave the past few days, we were comparatively better than other states."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/article-370-caa-were-never-political-issues-for-bjp-union-minister-narendra-tomar-849474.html
14-06-2020||National Politics||Jyotiraditya Scindia’s loyalists risk COVID-19 infection for politics||Even as COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh have risen above 10,000, spread of the  pandemic does not seem to have deterred Jyotiraditya Scindia’s loyalists from exposing their supporters to the risk of infection ahead of the by-elections due in September. On Friday, cabinet minister Govind Singh Rajput paraded his supporters in Sagar, flagrantly violating social distancing norms. Rajput, who had quit the Congress with Scindia in March, organised a public function where his loyalists from his Surkhi assembly constituency took BJP membership. The supporters, most of them not wearing masks, jostled with one another to flesh v-sign with Rajput who was also without mask.   Before Rajput, other Scindia confidantes had staged similar regrettable spectacles with utter disdain for social distancing. Pradyumn Singh had brought his supporters from Gwalior to Bhopal for joining BJP in presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh. Then too, the workers milled around with impunity at the BJP state office. Two weeks, later, the BJP office witnessed repetition of same chaotic scenes when former minister Prabhuram Choudhary’s followers joined the party. In Indore, yet another Scindia acolyte Tulsi Silawat led his followers in breaking social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jyotiraditya-scindia-s-loyalists-risk-covid-19-infection-for-politics-849515.html
14-06-2020||National Politics||Congress indulging in 'petty politics' during COVID-19: BJP President J P Nadda||Accusing Congress of indulging in "petty politics" during COVID-19 crisis, BJP President J P Nadda on Sunday asked it to take 'tuition' from his party on how to conduct as the opposition during such situations. Addressing the Karnataka Jana Samvada virtual rally through video conference, he also hit out at its leader Rahul Gandhi over his comments during a conversation with former US diplomat Nicholas Burns and said Congress should worry about its "changing DNA". Nadda said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been leading the country from the front in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic and the world had acknowledged it. "Modi has fought from the front... world has recognised the way Modi has led the country during COVID with bold and timely decisions," he said. The Prime Minister was taking along everyone in the fight against corona. "If there is any prime minister in the country whose words people have obeyed with respect, after Shastri ji (Lal Bahadur Shahstri) it is Narendra Modi," Nadda said. People of the country followed his words religiously when he gave the call for Janata Curfew, they came out to clap for COVID warriors and to light lamps, the BJP chief pointed out. Nadda lauded the six year-NDA rule under Modi, stating that the 'gap' of six decades had been 'bridged' in six years and the first year of his term was full of achievements, including removal of triple talaq and bringing in Citizenship Amendment Act. "A gap of six decades has been bridged in six years under the dynamic leadership of Narendra Modi...ahead of Modi's takeover, the country was going through policy paralysis, crumbled administration and was synonymous with corruption, in six years, he has restored India's pride," Nadda said. Highlighting abrogation of Article 370 as another achievement of the Modi government, Nadda said people of Jammu and Kashmir were happy with the decision. Earlier even corruption was not getting probed there. Now that the Prevention of Corruption Act has come into effect in the Union Territory, inquiry into the Jammu and Kashmir Bank fraud has begun, and the guilty will be sent to jail, he said. Hitting out at the opposition, Nadda termed as "irresponsible" their conduct during the COVID crisis. "I'm saying this with pain that when the whole country is fighting against COVID, the opposition has been framing a strategy to weaken the nation though its video conferencing," he said. Maintaining that BJP during its long opposition stint had always stood by the nation during crisis situations without indulging in petty politics, he said, it was unfortunate that for Congress it had always been "politics, politics and politics", not the nation. "If you don't know how to conduct as an opposition take a bit of tuition form us, we will teach you," he added. For the BJP the country was bigger than the party, he said adding for them (Congress) party was bigger than the nation. Even during crises, they were involved in doing politics. "I feel sorry about it, such an irresponsible action of opposition is condemnable," he told the virtual rally attended among others by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union Ministers Nirmala Sitaraman, D V Sadananda Gowda, Pralhad Joshi and also party state chief Nalin Kumar Katel. Questioning Congress' leaders' comments against the imposition of lockdown, he said their party ruled states Rajasthan and Punjab were the first to implement it. Even when it was, relaxed they had a problem with it. Hitting back Rahul Gandhi for his comments that DNA of openness and tolerance that India was known for has "disappeared", Nadda asked, "are you forgetting, who is becoming intolerant, do you remember emergency?" "Don't worry about the country's DNA, worry about Congress' changing DNA, if you keep this in mind it will be good for your health and country's political health," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-indulging-in-petty-politics-during-covid-19-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-849537.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Brace for possible flood challenge amid COVID-19, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar tells officials||Amid forecasts of the monsoon reaching Bihar in a couple of days, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday stressed on the need for dealing with floods, which may follow the downpour, without neglecting the measures in place for containing the spread of COVID-19. At a high-level meeting that he chaired here, Kumar directed officials to make arrangements so that those displaced by floods are relocated at camps without compromising on social distancing norms. "I wish that floods do not ravage north Bihar this year. But, we must need to be prepared," he told the officials, referring to the natural calamity which is known to strike almost every year, often resulting in loss of life and property on a large scale. "I am glad to learn that many of the tents that were put to use in flood-affected districts last year are still in a usable condition and that these were utilised during the lockdown period. "We would, however, need to keep in mind that this year if the floods strike, people will have to be relocated while ensuring social distancing. We must rise up to the challenge," the chief minister said. Nearly a dozen districts in north Bihar were devastated by flash floods last year, which followed torrential rain in the catchment areas of Nepal. Kumar reminded officials of the water-logging in many parts of the state capital in October last year, after a three-day spell of heavy rainfall, which had reduced many localities of the city to marooned islands, and called for efforts to ensure that citizens were not inconvenienced this time. He also took note of the rise in COVID-19 cases in Bihar, where on an average, more than 100 new infections have been cropping up every day for quite some time, and told the officials to focus on setting up more isolation centres for accommodating those testing positive until they were declared fit for home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/brace-for-possible-flood-challenge-amid-covid-19-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-tells-officials-849318.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||National Conference calls for end to skirmishes on LoC||The National Conference on Saturday called for an end to skirmishes on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, saying it is the people who continue to bear the brunt of escalating tensions between the two neighbouring countries. "The flaring up of tensions between India and Pakistan along the LoC has made the lives of locals living there no less than a terrible nightmare, the situation there has remained as it is since long, making the lives of locals miserable," senior NC leader and Member of Parliament from north Kashmir Muhammad Akbar Lone said here. Lone said people living along the LoC are distressed over the continued shelling from across the border, which has resulted in the loss of lives and property. "This has become an everyday affair now, but those who can actually stop it from happening are not doing enough. There is no substitute to talks and only dialogue between the two frosty and rival neighbours can bring an end to the border skirmishes. If dialogue could be employed as a medium to deescalate soaring up tensions with China, why can't it be done with Pakistan?" he said. The MP said the fallout of such skirmishes along the LoC is being excruciatingly felt by the people who along with their belongings and livestock have become cannon fodder of these hostilities. "These skirmishes also have a chilling effect on the economic activities of the people, dwelling in border areas. Caught between the devil and the deep sea, they aren't able to manage their household chores and look after their farms. "Peace on the border is far more indispensable since any fall out has a direct impact on the daily lives of the locals. Ubiquitous tension on borders besides affecting the economic activities also causes mental trepidation to the elderly and children," he said. Calling for an end to the border skirmishes, Lone urged the government to take a review of stock positions of all essentials in the border areas. He also asked the government to initiate work on all major developmental works in the areas flanking the LoC without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conference-calls-for-end-to-skirmishes-on-loc-849325.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Videographer stabbed to death by three men in Delhi's Rohini||A 37-year-old videographer was allegedly stabbed to death by three men outside his house after an argument over some issue in Rohini's Aman Vihar area, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Thursday night. The deceased, identified as Bharat Bhushan, lived with his family in Karn Vihar area in a three-storey house, they said. On Thursday night around 11 pm, Bhushan's friend came to Karn Vihar area and called him to meet outside his house, a senior police officer said. "Bhushan and his friend had an argument over some issue, following which the man called his two friends who came there on a scooter. The accused stabbed him in his chest and fled," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) P K Mishra said. When the victim's family heard the noise, they rushed outside the house and took him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead, police said. Police have identified the accused and are trying to nab them, the DCP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/videographer-stabbed-to-death-by-three-men-in-delhis-rohini-849329.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt plans 10,000-bed makeshift COVID-19 hospital under tent||The Delhi government is planning a 10,000-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients under a sprawling tent in south Delhi to prepare for a projected surge in cases in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-plans-10000-bed-makeshift-covid-19-hospital-under-tent-849332.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||64 people who got jobs fraudulently in UP Health Dept over 2 decades ago dismissed||Chief Medical Officer of Mirzapur O P Tiwari has dismissed 64 people who had managed to get jobs in the Uttar Pradesh Health Department through fraudulent means over two decades ago. Between 1996 and 1998, the 64 people were appointed on Grade 4 posts and had been drawing the salaries since then. Some of them also got promotion and were now working as clerks, Tiwari said on Saturday. An inquiry was going on since the past 18 years and the government ordered their dismissal last Wednesday after a report was submitted by the Economic Offence Wing, Varanasi, the chief medical officer said.  Sixty-four people who had got jobs in the Health DepartmeHealth nt through fraudulent means and fake documents have been dismissed and letters have been sent to the CMOs of the districts where they are presently posted, Tiwari said. The matter had come to light when in 2002 an audit team asked for their service books that were not provided to them. It was on suspicion that the team had written to the government for an inquiry, which eventually found the wrongful means adopted by these people, the CMO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/64-people-who-got-jobs-fraudulently-in-up-health-dept-over-2-decades-ago-dismissed-849355.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Religious places allowed to reopen in Bhopal from Monday||The Bhopal administration has allowed religious places outside COVID-19 containment zones in the district to reopen from Monday after a gap of about two-and-a-half months. In an order issued on Saturday, the district administration said authorities at the religious places need to ensure that social distancing guidelines are followed, and put in place all safety measures. Devotees will not be allowed to touch the idols or religious books and there would be no distribution of 'prasad' (religious offering of food), the order said. People will need to perform 'Wudu' (ablution before prayers) at their homes before visiting mosques, it said. Religious singing, choirs, recital of Gurbani and any kind of gathering or religious function would not be allowed, it said.  Devotees will have to maintain a distance of six feet from each other, the order said. All religious places are needed to adhere to the guidelines and standard operating procedures prescribed by the Centre and the state government, it added. Till Saturday, Bhopal reported 2,145 COVID-19 cases and 69 deaths due to the disease. Earlier, following the easing of lockdown, religious places in several districts of Madhya Pradesh were allowed to reopen from June 8, but no decision was taken at that time for the state capital Bhopal. The famous Mahakaleshwar temple in the state's Ujjain city, located about 175 km from Bhopal, reopened for devotees last week. The temple, one of the 12 'jyotirlingas' in the country, attracts lakhs of devotees every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/religious-places-allowed-to-reopen-in-bhopal-from-monday-849367.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||101-year-old coronavirus patient dies in Indore||A 101-year-old man, who was among the oldest COVID-19 patients in the country, died at a private hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, the hospital authorities said. The victim, who was suffering from breathing difficulty, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences on Thursday, the hospital's chest department head Dr Ravi Dosi said. "His condition was serious, so we put him on oxygen support. We tried hard but could not save him. He died on Saturday," Dr Dosi said.  Apart from pneumonia, which a complication caused by coronavirus, he was also suffering from renal and heart ailments, he said. The man had not ventured out of his house at Chhatribagh locality in the last many days and he possibly got infected through a family member, Dr Dosi said. Till Saturday, the Indore district -- which is one of the worst affected by the pandemic -- reported 4,063 COVID-19 cases, including 170 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/101-year-old-coronavirus-patient-dies-in-indore-849374.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi to increase coronavirus testing two-fold in 2 days, to get 500 isolation coaches||Increasing tests by three-fold in six days, deployment of 500 isolation coaches that would add 8000 beds, intensive contact mapping in containment zones and drafting in municipal corporations are among a slew of decisions taken at back-to-back meetings chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday to tackle the worsening COVID-19 situation in Delhi. A committee under Niti Ayog member Dr V K Paul has also been set up to prepare a roadmap to provide 60% of COVID-19 beds in private hospitals at a lower rate as well as fix charges for treatment and testing, amid complaints of fleecing of patients. However, there will be no lockdown in the capital from Monday as speculated in several quarters with sources saying that the issue was not on the discussion table. Following the announcement of the new measures, Delhi traders who were mulling to shut down markets decided to keep the shops open "for the time being". The meetings called by Shah and attended by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal among others came as the capital witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases and deaths with June alone accounting for 21,338 or 51.81 per cent of the total 41,182 till Sunday. Within first 12 days, June has surpassed 16,326 cases reported in the whole of May.  The first case in the capital was detected on March 2 while the death toll has climbed to 1,214 as on Saturday though municipal corporations claim they have facilitated cremation of 2,098 COVID-19 positive patients till June 10. Mayors of three municipal corporations attended the second meeting. Signalling that the Centre would not remain a spectator with the situation is worsening, Shah has also convened an all-party meeting on Monday to discuss the situation in the capital. Delhi leaders of AAP, BJP, Congress and BSP have been invited to the meeting. Through the three meetings called by Shah in two days, sources said the BJP-ruled Centre is indicating that it is not happy with the AAP-led government's efforts in tackling the pandemic. The Centre also deputed six senior officials to the Delhi Government with an official spokesperson saying that two each officers from the Centre, Andaman and Nicobar and Arunachal Pradesh, who were transferred, will “assist” the state administration. In the meeting, Shah assured all central help to Delhi in fighting the pandemic, including by promising more oxygen cylinders, ventilators and oximeters. Kejriwal tweeted that it was an "extremely productive" meeting where "many key decisions" were taken and they would fight the battle together. Announcing the decisions taken in the first meeting , Shah said the number of COVID-19 tests would be increased in the capital by two-fold in two days and by three-fold in six days. COVID-19 tests will also be started at every polling station in the containment zone in the next few days. So far, Delhi has conducted 2.90 lakh tests and 77,808 happened in June so far. The decision comes against the backdrop of criticism that the number of sample testing in the capital has been low with the Delhi government facing criticism from both the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court. While the state government early this month curtailed the tests, which was overturned by the LG, Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain had said they could increase it only if the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) revised the guidelines. The Delhi government was also at odds with the Centre over the need for announcing community transmission of COVID-19 in the capital, with the latter not agreeing that the capital has entered the third stage of virus transmission. Kejriwal's decision to reserve hospitals only for residents was also overturned, which was reluctantly accepted by the state government. Keeping in mind the paucity of COVID-19 beds, Shah also announced that Centre will soon deploy 500 COVID-19 isolation coaches of the Railways in the national capital, which will add 8,000 beds. Another decision taken at the meeting was to hold an extensive door-to-door survey for proper contact mapping in containment zones within a week. To ensure proper monitoring, people in containment zones will have to download the Aarogya Setu App. Shah also said that a joint team of doctors of the central and state health departments, AIIMS and the three municipal corporations will visit all COVID-19 hospitals in the capital to inspect the existing facilities and preparedness to fight pandemic. In other measures, a panel of senior doctors in AIIMS will telephonic guidance to small hospitals to deal with the situation and the helpline number will be released on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-increase-coronavirus-testing-two-fold-in-2-days-to-get-500-isolation-coaches-849375.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon's health better: Hospital||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon is doing better and he is currently in the ICU of the Medanta Hospital here, an official said on Sunday. Tandon, 85, was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after he had fever and complications related to urology. "He is better. In the night, he had to be operated upon. At present, he is in ICU, but he is improving," Medanta Hospital Director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandons-health-better-hospital-849384.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Beds for COVID-19 patients in Delhi to increase by 5,000, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the bed strength in the national capital for treating coronavirus patients will increase by 5000 after the city government decided to declare small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes as "COVID nursing homes". Small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes in the city having 10 to 49 beds have been declared as "COVID nursing homes" by the Delhi government to increase the bed capacity for coronavirus patients, according to an official order issued on Saturday. Only standalone exclusive eye centres, ENT centres, dialysis centres, maternity homes and IVF centres are presently exempted, the order said. "With the Delhi government's decision, over 5000 beds will be available for coronavirus patients. In the next few days, our officials will talk to owners of each nursing home to solve their problems," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.  According to the Delhi Corona app, there are 9,802 beds available for coronavirus patients, with 5,367 beds being occupied at 11 am on Sunday. The order to convert small and medium nursing homes into COVID facilities was issued on Saturday. "In order to avoid intermingling of COVID and non-COVID patients in small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes (10 bedded to 49 bedded) and also to augment the bed capacity for COVID-19 patients, all nursing homes in NCT of Delhi having bed strength of 10 beds or more up to 49 beds are declared as COVID nursing homes," it said. All such nursing homes are required to make their COVID beds functional within three days of the issuance of the order failing which it would be treated as violation of Clause 14.1 of the schedule appended to Rule 14 of the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration (Amendment) Rules, 2011, it said. It added that "action, as deemed fit, would be initiated against the defaulter nursing home". According to Clause 14.1, in the event of any natural calamity, including outbreak and epidemics or disaster, the owner or the keeper of every nursing home shall, on being directed by the supervising authority in writing, cooperate and provide reasonable assistance and medical aid as may be considered essential by the supervising authority at the time of natural calamity. The government on May 24 had directed 117 nursing homes/private hospitals having bed strength of 50 beds or more to reserve/ earmark at least 20 per cent of their total bed strength for COVID-19 patients. The occupancy of the beds earmarked for COVID patients is displayed on a real-time basis on the Delhi Corona App. More than 70 per cent COVID beds in the private sector are already occupied. Further, it is projected that there would be a requirement of over 15,000 COVID beds till June 30 and by the end of first fortnight of July, the requirement would further swell up to more than 33,000 COVID beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/beds-for-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-to-increase-by-5000-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-849385.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan Army violates ceasefire along LoC in J&K's Baramulla district||Pakistani troops on Sunday shelled mortars along the Line of Control in Rampur sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. This is the second ceasefire violation by Pakistani troops in Rampur sector and the third in the north Kashmir district in the last three days. "On 14 Jun 2020, in the morning hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked Ceasefire Violation (CFV) along the LoC in Rampur by firing mortars and other weapons," defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said. On Saturday, the Pakistan Army violated ceasefire in Kamalkote Sector in Uri area of the district. A 48-year-old woman was killed on Friday in a ceasefire violation along the LoC in Rampur sector of the district. Akhtar Begum, wife of Zahoor Ahmad Chechi, was killed on the spot when her house at Batgran was hit by a shell. A 23-year-old woman was also injured in the incident. Four residential houses and a mosque have been damaged in the shelling by Pakistani troops. Several families have taken refuge either in underground safety bunkers or moved to safer places elsewhere in the Uri tehsil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jks-baramulla-district-849388.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Youth accused of raping 12-year-old in Uttar Pradesh||A 12-year-old girl who had gone to graze cattle in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot district was allegedly raped by a youth, police said on Sunday. Mau police station incharge Subhashchandra Chaurasia said the minor had gone to graze cattle when she was raped by a 20-year-old man of the same village. The youth threatened to kill the girl if she tells anyone about the incident. After reaching her house, the girl narrated the entire sequence of events, Chaurasia said. The suspect has fled from the village and efforts are on to arrest him. The girl has been sent for medical examination, police said. A case has been registered against the suspect person for threatening to kill the girl and the under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-accused-of-raping-12-year-old-in-uttar-pradesh-849405.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi truck driver tests positive for COVID-19 after death in Himachal Pradesh||A 19-year-old truck driver from Delhi, who died in an accident in Shimla, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, a senior health official said on Sunday. The man had sustained injuries while unloading goods in the city on Saturday night, following which he was taken to the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), where he breathed his last few hours later. He tested positive for coronavirus in a cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) conducted at the hospital after his death, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, R D Dhiman said. Doctors, paramedical staff and other persons who came in his contact have been quarantined and their samples will soon be tested for COVID-19, another health official said. The casualty ward, where the man breathed his last, is being sanitised as per protocol, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-truck-driver-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-death-in-himachal-pradesh-849407.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Indore city SP, SDM transferred for kneeling before Cong MLAs||Indore's city superintendent of police and a sub-divisional magistrate have been transferred for allegedly kneeling before Congress MLAs while requesting them to call off their protest against the Madhya Pradesh government's 'failure' in curbing the spread of COVID-19. A video of Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Rakesh Sharma and City Superintendent of Police D K Tiwari kneeling before legislators of the opposition party on Saturday went viral on social media, following which the ruling BJP in the state objected to the conduct of the two officials. In separate orders issued by the state government late on Saturday, Sharma and Tiwari were removed from their field postings and transferred to Bhopal with immediate effect, a government official said on Sunday. According to eye-witnesses, the two officials went to the venue in Rajbada area where former state minister Jitu Patwari, two other Congress MLAs and another party leader were holding a sit-in protest on Saturday. Tiwari and Sharma knelt before the Congress leaders and requested them with folded hands to end the protest, the eye-witnesses said. The Congress leaders were protesting against the state government's alleged failure in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the government orders, Sharma has now been posted as deputy collector in the General Administration Department, while Tiwari is posted as deputy superintendent at the police headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-city-sp-sdm-transferred-for-kneeling-before-cong-mlas-849419.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||MP teen beaten to death by father, brother for stealing||A teen boy habituated to stealing was beaten to death allegedly by his father and elder brother on Sunday morning in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, police said. The incident happened in Vicky Factory area under Jhansi Road police station limits, City Superintendent of Police Ratnesh Tomar said. "Rajendra Gaud's younger son Kapil (18) would often steal money from the house. On Sunday morning, he allegedly stole Rs 7,000. Rajendra and his elder son Chandu tied Kapil to a tree near the house and beat him to death. Both accused have been arrested," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-teen-beaten-to-death-by-father-brother-for-stealing-849430.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||PoK will wish to be part of India; will lead to fulfilment of Parliament's resolution: Rajnath Singh||The Modi government will change the face of Jammu and Kashmir with its development works so much that people from Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir will demand to be part of India, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. Addressing a virtual Jan Samvad rally for Jammu and Kashmir, Singh said when people of PoK will want to be freed of Pakistan's occupation and be part of India, then this will lead to the fulfilment of Parliament's resolution that the region is an integral part of the country. "Our government has been successful in sending the message that Jammu and Kashmir's development is its priority. Our effort in the next five years will be to change its face so much that people of PoK will feel envious. They will wish that if they were part of India, then their fate too would have changed," he said. "Let's wait for what happens in future. There will be demand from PoK to be freed of Pakistan's occupation and to live with India. When this happens, then Parliament's resolution will also be fulfilled," the minister said. While piloting in Parliament a resolution for annulling Article 370 and a bill to bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir into union territories last year, Home Minister Amit Shah had reiterated that PoK and Aksai Chin, which is under China's occupation, are integral part of India. Parliament has also earlier passed resolution that Pok is part of India. With Indian channels now including Muzaffarabad and Gilgit, which are under Pakistan's occupation, in their weather report, this has changed "temperature" in the neighbouring country which, Singh said, is now creating more mischief, a reference to terrorism in the Valley. Indian security forces have been giving befitting reply, he asserted. The defence minister described Article 370, which had given the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir special status, as a "stain" which has been removed due to the courage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier, Pakistan's and terrorist organisation ISIS' flags would be seen in protests in Kashmir, now Indian tricolour is visible there, he said. Singh said India's global standing has increased so much that earlier most countries supported Pakistan on the issue of Article 370, while now not only other countries but even many Muslim nations have backed India. He named Malaysia and Turkey as among the few Muslim nations which have not supported India over its move to nullify Article 370. He cited a number of development works undertaken in Jammu and Kashmir, including establishment of central universities and AIIMS, and said the central government has spent over Rs 2 lakh crore there in 2014-19. Earlier, money meant for the region's development would often be lost to corruption, and separatists and some other politicians would at times speak in favour of Pakistan, he said. "Their back has been broken," he said, referring to the revocation of Article 370. The BJP under Modi has proved that it does what it says by fulfilling its nearly 70 year-old promises with "a snap of the fingers" the moment it gets opportunity, he said. At times even our workers felt that our party would not be able to scrap Article 370 and 35A, but this has been done now, ending discrimination against people and integrating the region fully with India, he said. Referring to the series of virtual rallies being organised by the BJP to address people in different parts of the country by using broadcast and internet platforms, the former BJP president said Indian politics has moved into "digital world". The country has seen all round development under Modi, with its economy rising and global prestige enhanced, he said, presenting a report card of the government's works as it recently marked the first anniversary of its second term. With critics questioning the government's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of lockdown, Singh said its efforts have drawn praise from organisations like the WHO. It cannot be imagined as to what our condition would be if the lockdown was not enforced, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pok-will-wish-to-be-part-of-india-will-lead-to-fulfilment-of-parliaments-resolution-rajnath-singh-849435.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||MP man bludgeons wife to death in front of 6 children||A 38-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband in front of the couple's six children in a village in Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa district, police said on Sunday. The incident happened in Kadwalia village in Roshani area under Khalwa police station limits late Friday night and the children sat beside the body till Saturday morning, an official said. "Suraj (45) used to doubt the character of his wife. They had two girls and four boys in the 4-13 age group. After an altercation on Friday, he assaulted her and his brother who came to mediate. The woman was found dead by the accused's brother on Saturday morning, with the children sitting in the house dazed and frightened," Roshani police post in charge Susa Parte said. "The accused killed the woman by smashing her head with a stone. The children witnessed the murder. Suraj was arrested on Saturday night," Parte said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-bludgeons-wife-to-death-in-front-of-6-children-849438.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Charges against police over probe into northeast Delhi riots could be motivated: Police commissioner||Accusations against police over its probe into the northeast Delhi violence could be "motivated" and are also directed at the court of law, the chief of the force, SN Shrivastava, has said. In February, the northeastern parts of the national capital were rocked by communal violence that claimed at least 53 lives and injured many people. The police have been criticised for their handling of the investigation in various quarters, including by student activists, filmmakers and civil society groups, who have accused the force of carrying out a "witchhunt" at a time when the country is battling the coronavirus pandemic. Shrivastava said whether there is a lockdown or not, law-and-order issues will have to be handled with precautions. "You can also expect many such accusations to be motivated and coming from people who may have reasons to make false accusations," he told PTI over the phone. Shrivastava asserted that the Delhi Police is a "credible force", which has carried out the investigation into the northeast Delhi violence "with full responsibility" and has "been very fair and transparent". For those raising questions against the force, he said the police have the power to confine a person and make an arrest but within 24 hours, they need to produce him in a court. The arrests made in connection with the northeast Delhi violence have been sanctioned and approved by the court of law, the police commissioner said. He said if there are accusations against the police, then those are also directed at the court of law and stressed that they cannot keep a person under arrest beyond 24 hours unless they have the sanction and approval of the court concerned. "So do they mean that the courts are also influenced, which is not the case," he said. The police were heavily criticised for arresting several students in connection with the northeast Delhi violence, including Jamia Millia Islamia University students Safoora Zargar, who is four months pregnant, and Meeran Haider, and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal. A city court has on multiple occasions dismissed the bail plea of Zargar, booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in February. Zargar, an MPhil student, is currently under judicial custody in the Tihar jail. Without referring to any particular arrest, Sririvastava reiterated that all arrests have the sanction of the court of law. "How can you make an allegation against the court of law? It is very easy to make an allegation, but one needs to substantiate it. So these are legal things and I would say, instead of going to the social media, the best place is the court of law. Take it up legally," he said. The Delhi Police recently said it has submitted chargesheets in 78 cases related to the riots naming 410 people -- 205 Hindus, 205 Muslims. This was not by any design but due to impartial investigation, it had said. Shrivastava's appointment came at a time after the city had faced the riots and soon after taking charge as the police chief, he had said his priority was to restore peace and ensure communal harmony in the national capital, which witnessed its worst-ever riots in February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/charges-against-police-over-probe-into-northeast-delhi-riots-could-be-motivated-police-commissioner-849439.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Amit Shah transfers 4 IAS officers to Delhi govt to assist COVID-19 fight; 2 more attached from Centre||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday ordered the immediate transfer of four IAS officers to the Delhi government and attachment of another two from the Centre to help the national capital fight the coronavirus pandemic. The order was issued within hours of a high-level meeting Shah held with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. "@HMOIndia @AmitShah directed immediate transfer of 4 IAS officers - Awanish Kumar & Monica Priyadarshini from A&N (Andaman and Nicobar Islands), & Gaurav Singh Rajawat & Vikram Singh Mallik from Arunachal Pradesh to New Delhi to assist #GNCTD (Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi) for management of #COVID19," a home ministry spokesperson said. Shah also directed attachment with the Delhi government of two senior IAS officers -- SCL Das and SS Yadav -- from the central government. After his meeting with Baijal and Kejriwal, Shah said the central government will make available its five senior officers to the Delhi government to help fight the coronavirus vigorously. The COVID-19 tally has reached nearly 39,000 in Delhi and the virus has claimed more than 1,200 lives so far in the capital, raising an alarm in the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-transfers-4-ias-officers-to-delhi-govt-to-assist-covid-19-fight-2-more-attached-from-centre-849446.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand scholars refute Nepal's claim on Kalapani||Uttarakhand scholars on Sunday cited scriptures and books written before Independence that showed Kalapani as the source of Kali river, a key factor in Indian claim to areas that Nepal has now incorporated in its own map. The lower house of Nepalese parliament on Saturday approved the controversial map, triggering a strong protest from India. The new Nepal map lays claim over Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura which India maintains are on its side of the border. Kali is recognised as the border by both sides, but Nepal has contested that its source is the Kalapani area. Nepalese commentators have argued that the real source of Kali river – also called Mahakali – is the Kuti-Yangti rivulet which originates in Limpiyadhura, a claim that allows Nepal extra territory in the region. V D S Negi, a professor of history at the SS Jeena campus of the Kumaon University in Almora, cited Manas Khanda of the Skanda Purana, which has a reference to Kali river, known as Shyama in ancient times. "Shloka number 2 of chapter 117 of Manas Khanda of Skanda Purana clearly says that the origin of 'Shyama' or Kali river is from 'Lipi Parvat' or Lipulekh hill,“ Negi said. Manas Khanda of Skanda Purana was compiled in the latter half of the 12th century, centuries before the treaty of Sagauli was signed,” he said, referring to the 1816 border agreement between Nepal and British India. British travellers to Tibet before India's independence and Indian scholars writing on Kailash-Mansarovar have also cited Kalapani the origin of river Kali, Negi said. He said Charles A Sheering, a British traveller and administrator who visited Tibet in 1905, also wrote in his book “Western Tibet and the British Borderland” that Kalapani is considered the original source of Kali river. Quoting the book, Negi said over half a dozen small springs combine to form the source of Kali. He also referred to Swami Pranavananda, an explorer-saint whose 1949 book on Kailash-Mansarovar described Kalapani as the traditional source of river Kali. According to the author, the source was earlier known as Kalipani and later began to be called Kalapani by the locals. Ajay Rawat, former head of department of history at Kumaon University, said the tribals of Vyas valley have been trading with Tibet through Lipulekh pass since the 6th century. But there is no evidence to show the Nepalese doing trade through the pass, he argued. “The Kailash-Mansarovar yatra by Indian pilgrims has been going on through the same pass for centuries without any objection from the rulers of Nepal,” Rawat said. Rawat also cited an application moved by the landlords in Vyas valley, in the present Dharchula sub-division of Pithoragarh, in the court of the then commissioner of Kumaon soon after the Sagauli treaty was signed. The document said only two villages of Tinkar and Changru had gone to Nepal while six others remained with India after the treaty, according to Rawat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-scholars-refute-nepals-claim-on-kalapani-849462.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||2 held for threatening to blow up UP CM Yogi Adityanath's residence, other buildings in Lucknow||Two brothers were arrested here on Sunday for allegedly threatening to blow up 50 buildings in state capital Lucknow including the official residence of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, police said. The brothers were arrested from Chhapia area of Gonda district, they said. "Yesterday, DIAL 112 Headquarters got a message, in which the sender threatened to blow up 50 buildings in the state capital. Based on information provided by Lucknow Police Commissioner, the accused Swadesh Gaur and Manish were arrested from Chhapia police station area," SP Raj Karan Nayyar told reporters. Swadesh admitted that he had sent the message from his phone. His brother, Manish, was arrested for removing the evidence, Nayyar said. Police have recovered the mobile phone used in sending the message. A case was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act at Lucknow's Gautampalli Police Station. Investigation is going on in the case, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-held-for-threatening-to-blow-up-up-cm-yogi-adityanaths-residence-other-buildings-in-lucknow-849463.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Shah to discuss COVID-19 situation with all political parties of Delhi on Monday||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has called a meeting of all political parties of Delhi on Monday to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the national capital amid a recent spurt in coronavirus cases, an official said. The BJP, Congress, AAP and BSP have been invited for the meeting. The COVID-19 case tally has reached nearly 39,000 and the virus has claimed more than 1,200 lives in the capital. A home ministry official said Shah will discuss measures for management of COVID-19 with the political parties.  On Sunday, the home minister held two high-level meetings with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, mayors and commissioners of Delhi's three municipal corporations to strengthen the strategy to fight the pandemic. Announcing a slew of measures to check the spread of the virus after the meeting with Baijal and Kejriwal, the Union home minister announced that COVID-19 testing will be doubled in Delhi in the next two days and subsequently increased by three times. Shah said COVID-19 tests will be started at every polling station in containment zones and a comprehensive house-to-house health survey will be conducted in the hotspots for contact-tracing. To overcome the shortage of beds for coronavirus infected patients in Delhi, the Modi government has decided to immediately provide 500 railway coaches which will be equipped with all facilities, he said. Shah said a committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of V K Paul, a member of the NITI Aayog, to ensure the availability of 60 per cent beds by private hospitals at lower rates and fix the rate of coronavirus testing and treatment. The committee will submit its report by Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shah-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-with-all-political-parties-of-delhi-on-monday-849479.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Coronavirus fears mount as hospital beds run out||Ashwani Jain succumbed to the coronavirus in an ambulance as his family pleaded with several hospitals to take him in, the latest victim of the pandemic sweeping through the Indian capital and exposing a deadly shortage of hospital beds. "They don't care whether we live or die," said his 20-year-old daughter Kashish, whose uncle, Abhishek, sat with Ashwani in the back of the vehicle on its desperate journey across Delhi. "It won't matter to them but I have lost my father, he was the world to me," she said, tears welling up as she showed a photo of him. All of the hospitals the 45-year-old businessman's family tried refused to admit Ashwani, even though an app set up by the city government indicated Covid-19 beds were free, Abhishek told AFP. With surging infections highlighting the precarious state of the Indian healthcare system, the death of Jain and others like him have heightened anxiety in Delhi over the growing threat. More than 1,200 have died from the virus in the Indian capital and more than 1,000 new cases are being reported each day. Mortuaries are overflowing with bodies and cemeteries and crematorium staff say they cannot keep up with the backlog of victims. Some local Delhi councils say the real death toll is twice the number given by the regional government. Indian media has been full of tragic stories of people dying after being turned away by hospitals. One pregnant woman died as she was being shuttled between hospitals. A 78-year-old man petitioned the Delhi High Court for a ventilator bed but died before the matter could be taken up. India has now recorded more than 300,000 coronavirus cases with nearly 9,000 fatalities. Several families have used social media to recount their harrowing experiences after being refused hospital beds. Jain's family had joined a noisy, nationwide tribute to health workers, banging pots and pans from rooftops and balconies after a nationwide lockdown started in March. Now they feel abandoned. "The government is doing nothing. They are just playing with our feelings," Kashish said. Jain's devastated relatives are now waiting to get tested themselves but the Delhi government allows that for only high-risk and symptomatic family members. The city government has estimated that it could need 80,000 beds by the end of July, and warned hotels and wedding venues that they are likely to be turned into hospitals. Currently government hospitals have 8,505 designated pandemic beds while private hospitals have 1,441. But families say they are being forced to spend a small fortune for the few beds that are available. Suman Gulati, whose father is a coronavirus patient, said she was asked for one million rupees ($13,200) by a private hospital for a bed. "Once I paid the money getting a bed was not a problem. But arranging such a huge amount of money at such a critical time was," she told AFP. "What if I fall sick next, what will I do? Should I sell my property, my jewellery?" A sting operation by the Mirror Now TV channel showed five Delhi hospitals asking coronavirus patients to pay up to $5,250 in order to be admitted. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has accused private hospitals of lying about available beds and promised tough action if they were found extorting money. On Sunday, Home Minister Amit Shah said 500 of some 20,000 train coaches reserved as coronavirus wards would be "immediately" allocated to the state by the national government, adding some 8,000 beds. Experts are questioning the city's handling of the pandemic however. Virologist Shahid Jameel said Delhi, like other major cities, has not tested enough people. So far, it has covered just one percent of its population. "At the moment Delhi government is doing everything to make people panic," he told AFP. "It should be testing aggressively. I don't understand the logic of testing only people who are symptomatic. How will you find how much the infection has spread in the community if you don't test them?" Shah said after a meeting with the Delhi government Sunday that testing for the virus would be stepped up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-coronavirus-fears-mount-as-hospital-beds-run-out-849500.html
14-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt can help neighbouring states with 5,000 COVID-19 tests per day if needed: CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said his government will be able to provide facilities for up to 5,000 coronavirus tests per day, if required, to the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Delhi. He said testing capacity was earlier zero but has now increased to more than 15,000 tests per day in the state. "Our government is ready to support neighbouring states to test for coronavirus in this time of trouble," Gehlot said in a statement. In a high-level meeting here, Gehlot reviewed the status of coronavirus infections and said that it is the government's top priority to save people's lives in this critical time of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the situation of coronavirus infections is currently under control in Rajasthan and directed officials to continue with the system of screening further in the state. The Chief Minister said that after "Unlock-1", it has been seen that people are not keeping up with the seriousness of the health protocols. He directed that anyone who violates other rules, including wearing of face masks and social distancing norms should be strictly dealt with. They should be warned that legal action will be taken against them for disobeying the rules. Gehlot said that a special campaign will be launched in the state from June 21 to 30 to create awareness about coronavirus. He also reviewed the status of the employment of workers under the MGNREGA scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-can-help-neighbouring-states-with-5000-covid-19-tests-per-day-if-needed-cm-gehlot-849548.html
14-06-2020||South||COVID-19: Man conducts daily pujas for 'Corona Devi' in Kerala||As the coronavirus spread causes distress worldwide, a man in Kerala is worshipping the deadly pathogen as a Goddess and praying for the well being of frontline warriors,with his move drawing flak on social media. A thermacol replica of of 'SARS CoV2, the virus that has affected millions worldwide and over three lakh in India, with red protrusions as seen in pictures, finds a place in the large puja room in the house of Anilan at Kadakkal here. "I am worshipping the coronavirus as a goddess and doing daily pujas for the safety and well being of health professionals, police personnel and scientists, who are toiling to discover a vaccine, fire force and media personnel and others engaged in the battle against the virus, he said. Unfazed by the trolls against him in the social media, Anilan said people ridicule him for offering prayers to 'Corona Devi'. "This is my way of creating awareness,"he told PTI. Many in the social media have questioned his motive, while others have said he was doing it just for publicity and some said it was just superstition. Anilan, who is against the government's decision to open places of religious worship, including temples, said people can sit in their homes and pray.  At this juncture, when the virus has not been contained, allowing people to go to religious places will create havoc, he said. "There are 33 crore Hindu gods and I am worshipping the virus as a goddess as part of the fundamental right guaranteed under the Constitution", he said. Anilan does not encourage devotees to come to his house to offer prayers and give money to 'Corona devi.' Asked for his reaction to prayers being offered to the idol,well known writer, critic and orator Sunil P Elayidom said "At one end, our society and its people are well known for their knowledge and degrees and have become teachers, professors, technical experts, scientists and professionals. But on the other side, we still hold close to our heart such blind beliefs and communal expressions. We carry the extreme ends of both worlds. We never feel anything wrong in it. This worship is just a crude expression of that phenomenon", he said. Many parts of Rural India in Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal Bengal has seen people worshipping Corona Devi to ward off the pandemic. Women in parts of Assam have also offered prayers to please 'Corona Devi', according to media reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-man-conducts-daily-pujas-for-corona-devi-in-kerala-849392.html
14-06-2020||South||18 more COVID-19 cases in Puducherry takes tally to 194||Eighteen more COVID-19 cases in Puducherry took the tally of infections to 194 on Sunday, while fatalities remained at four with no fresh deaths being reported. Of the 18 who tested positive in the last 24 hours, 13 were admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital at nearby Kadirkamam, three to the centrally administered JIPMER here and two at Karaikal and Mahe, Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar said.  There are presently 99 active cases in the hospitals. Ninety one COVID-19 patients have so far been treated and discharged, he told reporters here. He said people's cooperation in adhering to norms like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing was absolutely necessary as the number of cases was increasing rapidly in the union territory. "The pandemic is spreading fast in Puducherry and the situation should not be taken for granted," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/18-more-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry-takes-tally-to-194-849403.html
14-06-2020||South||Kerala's e-classrooms reaching out to remote tribal hamlets||Students of Edamalakkudy, one of the most remote tribal villages in Kerala, which is over 15 kilometres into the forest in Idukki district, are among the over 41 lakh students of Kerala who are attending online classes from their houses or community learning facilities. After the two-week long trial run of the Kerala government's ambitious online learning project from Class 1 to 12, titled First Bell, regular classes of the fresh academic year are commencing from this Monday. With the suicide of a tenth-standard student, Devika, hailing from a weak dalit family in Malappuram on the opening day of the online classes on June 1 allegedly owing to unavailability of online study facility like smart phone or television connection, the fact that 2.26 lakh students even don't have any means for accessing online classes got highlighted. What Kerala had seen in the following days was a campaign for providing online access to such students with individuals, voluntary organisations and government and private agencies extending support. The state even witnessed TV, smart phone and computer challenges. Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) chief executive officer K Anvar Sadath told DH that over one lakh gadgets like television sets and mobile phones were received as donations. He said that priority was given to remote places like Edamalakuddy in setting up the infrastructure for online classes. Officials had to walk through tough terrains like forests to set up the online learning facilities and teachers are ensuring that each and every students get access. The online classes are being delivered through Victers education channel run by KITES with specific time slots for each standard. It could be also viewed through Facebook and Youtube, with facilities for viewing later also. In order to cater to students of Kannada and Tamil medium students, online classes in both these languages would also offered from Monday.  In places like coastal areas, tribal hamlets, settlement areas and slums, community learning centres have been set up with support of local bodies, government agencies, Kudumbasree and voluntary organisations. Over 1.20 lakh laptops and 70,000 odd projectors of the state schools were also used for setting up the community learning centres. Cable TV operators and mobile service providers also extended support in ensuring connectivity. Despite all these initiatives, there were still complaints from some remote areas, especially hamlets in forests, regarding lacking proper connectivity. Anvar said that the response to the online class was tremendous during the initial two weeks. Apart from India, the classes were many viewers from Middle East, America and Europe. The subscriber base of the YouTube channel reached nearly one million, while over 16.50 lakh persons downloaded Victers mobile app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-e-classrooms-reaching-out-to-remote-tribal-hamlets-849416.html
14-06-2020||South||Kerala govt to use telemedicine service e-Sanjeevani for non-COVID patient care||The Kerala government has decidedto effectively make use of the telemedicine platform e-Sanjeevani, as a sustainable solution for non- COVID-19 patient care while avoiding direct interface with doctors during the COVID-19 crisis. The app offering high-utility features was launched on June 10 and the state decided to be part of e-Sanjeevani, developed by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) as an effective consultation platform. State Health Minister K K Shailaja, in a release, said telemedicine has every possibility to emerge as a viable and efficient solution in Kerala. "It has a definite advantage as it precludes the need for a patient to go to hospital and it provides the services at the fingertips. Since the elderly and other vulnerable people are advised against going outside their homes during the Covid-19 times, the health requirements of these people can be met with this innovative solution," she noted. The minister also said if telemedicine picks up the way the state anticipates it to, then probably the government would want to strengthen this by offering health consultations round the clock on all days of the year. Planning Board Member B Ekbal observed that many non-COVID patients were not getting treatment due to the coronavirus situation at hospitals and telemedicine can help such patients in a big way. He said e-Sanjeevani offers tele consultation to the public, both for general and speciality consultations free of charge. NHM Kerala Mission Director Rathan Kelkar, said e-Sanjeevani app has received good response from the people of the southern state since its launch and each day more than 125 consultations were being recorded, which is the highest in the country. "  We have held discussions with Centres of excellence like the RCC, MCC, IMHANS, SCTIMST, CCRC, IID for providing specialist consultations services and the same would be started very soon wherein the people can avail services of the specialists online on dedicated days," Kelkar was quoted as saying in the release. With the platform receiving a huge number of calls daily, which are being attended by more than 30 doctors, the telemedicine venture would be expanded to districts in about a month's time with specific spokes being established. A person can use the facility by logging in to www.esanjeevaniopd.in from 8 am to 8 pm and can call DISHA on 1056, 0471-2552056 for any queries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-to-use-telemedicine-service-e-sanjeevani-for-non-covid-patient-care-849460.html
14-06-2020||South||1,974 fresh coronavirus cases, 38 more deaths reported in Tamil Nadu||38 more people have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus in Tamil Nadu pushing the number of fatalities to 435 in the state, where 1,974 people were infected by the virus on Sunday, the health department said. With 1,974 fresh cases being confirmed, the total number of those affected by the disease in the state climbed to 44,661, the department said in a bulletin said. The number of recoveries on Sunday stood at 1,138 leading to a cumulative tally of 24,547 so far. The number of active cases including those remaining in isolation was at 19,676, the bulletin said. Chennai continues to record a high number of COVID-19 cases at 1,415 today alone among other districts. The state capital is closely followed by neighbouring Chengalpet, which also saw 178 people getting affected, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1974-fresh-coronavirus-cases-38-more-deaths-reported-in-tamil-nadu-849491.html
14-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh MLA's personal security officer dies of COVID-19||The personal security officer of a ruling YSR Congress MLA has died of coronavirus infection in Anantapuramu district of Andhra Pradesh, officials said on Sunday. At least eight people who worked in the MLAs office tested positive for the virus, the district authorities said. Following this, the MLA, Kethireddy Venkatrami Reddy, has been kept in home quarantine, Anantapuramu Collector Gandham Chandrudu told PTI over phone. Sources said the PSO, an Armed Police constable, also had other comorbidities that caused his death. The PSO did not get a COVID-19 test done fearing stigmatisation and samples taken after his death confirmed he was positive for the virus, they said. The legislator issued a statement appealing to people to get tested for coronavirus if they experience any symptoms. He also appealed not to stigmatise the infected persons and treat them with courtesy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-mlas-personal-security-officer-dies-of-covid-19-849492.html
14-06-2020||South||Kerala CM seeks separate flights for COVID-19 infected NRIs||As the number of NRIs being tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala is rising, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged the centre to ensure testing all NRIs returning to India and operate separate flights for those testing positive. So far 955 of the 1,965 positive cases reported in Kerala after the first week of May are NRIs. Vijayan urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi that embassies should be directed to ensure COVID-19 test or at least anti-body test of all NRIs returning. This was essential to curb the spread of COVID-19 among air travellers. Meanwhile, Kerala heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday as the number of people who recovered from virus infection during the day outnumbered the fresh cases. While 54 were tested positive, 56 recovered, taking the number of COVID-19 active patients to 1,341, while the number of patients recovered reached 1,101. Malappuram district in north Kerala was on high alert as the number of active cases crossed 200.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-seeks-separate-flights-for-covid-19-infected-nris-849531.html
14-06-2020||State||5-yr-old twins lap up chance to be back in parents' lap||Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures. After a five-year-old boy flew alone from Delhi to Bengaluru recently, a similar journey was made by city-based five-year-old twins, Tanya and Adrian, on Thursday. They flew alone from Madurai to Bengaluru to reunite with their parents after over two months. This was the first journey alone for the kids who were staying with their grandparents at Mudalur in Thoothukudi district during the lockdown. On Thursday, their grandparents dropped them off at Madurai airport. The children were assisted by the Indigo Airlines staff, till they were handed over to their parents at the Kempegowda International Airport, family members told DH. They boarded the flight at 1 pm and landed in Bengaluru an hour and fifteen minutes later.  "They recounted to us that they were able to put on the seat belt without assistance. They were also given a snack during the flight. They seemed to have had a good time," said their parents Eva and Yuvaraj.  “This was the longest they have been away from us. They were at their grandparents’ house for a vacation. We didn't have much choice as driving down to Mudalur would have created anxiety among the people in the village. When we told the children that they would be travelling alone, they were positive,” they said.   For over a week, the family had mentally prepared them for their travel. “They asked us if there would be anyone to take care of them during the journey. We told them that the airport staff would be with them. We showed them photographs of people with face shields so that they would not be shocked on seeing them,” Eva narrated.  “Instead of bedtime stories, we have been talking to them about the journey,” said John Ratnam, grandfather of the children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/5-yr-old-twins-lap-up-chance-to-be-back-in-parents-lap-849383.html
14-06-2020||State||No question of reimposition of lockdown: Karnataka Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said there was no question of reimposition of the lockdown amid speculation that it would be done. "The question of lockdown is not in front of us. There is such speculation as the Prime Minister is holding a video conference with all Chief Ministers on June 16 and 17. On June 17 our state will be taking part in it at around 3 pm," Sudhakar said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi, he said the current situation would be discussed in that meeting. Sudhakar said the Prime Minister has repeatedly been holding such video conferencing exercises to take stock of the situation and plan for the future. "There will not be a lockdown anymore according to me," he added. There has been speculation that there would be another shutdown from this month owing to a rapid rise in the number of cases. Sudhakar had on Friday said experts have indicated a surge in COVID-19 cases in the state in August and that the government was taking all precautionary measures in that direction. As of June 13 evening, cumulatively 6,824 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 81 deaths and 3,648 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-question-of-reimposition-of-lockdown-karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-849431.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 cases in Karnataka touch 7,000-mark; five succumb to virus||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka reached the 7,000-mark on Sunday, with the state reporting 176 new cases and five related fatalities, taking the toll to 86. The day also saw 312 patients getting discharged in the state after recovery while the total number of positive cases in the Udupi district alone breached 1000 cases mark. As of June 14 evening, cumulatively 7,000 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 86 deaths and 3,955 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 2,956 active cases, 2,940 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 16 are in ICU. The five dead include- thee from Bengaluru urban, and one each from Dakshina Kannada and Bidar. The three from Bengaluru include- two women aged 57 and 60 respectively and a man who was 50 years; while the person who died in Dakshina Kannada was a 24-year-old man. Also, a 76-year-old man from Bidar, who died at his residence on June 6, later tested positive for COVID-19. Out of 176 new cases, 88 are returnees from other states, the majority of them from neighboring Maharashtra. While 6 are those who returned from other countries. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 42, Yadgir 22, Udupi 21, Bidar 20, Kalaburagi 13, Dharwad 10, Ballari 8, Kolar 7, Uttara Kannada 6, five each from Mandya and Dakshina Kannada, Bagalkote 4 and Ramanagara 3. Besides, two each from Raichur and Shivamogga, and one each from Belagavi, Hassan, Vijayapura, Bengaluru rural, and Haveri. Udupi district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,026 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 896 and Yadgir 809. Among discharges also Udupi tops the list with total of 713 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 427 and Bengaluru urban 327. A total of 4,43,969 samples were tested so far, out of which 7,451 were tested on Sunday alone. So far 4,27,608 samples have been reported as negative, and out of the 6,835 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-touch-7000-mark-five-succumb-to-virus-849523.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Unscientific works pose grave threat to Great Indian Bustard||Wildlife activists have expressed their concern over the Forest department's construction activities in Hachcholli-Raravi area in Siruguppa taluk, a breeding centre of the Great Indian Bustard.  The unscientific works in the region, they said, was posing a grave threat to the critically endangered GIB, India's heaviest flying bird. Sprawling plains, dry grassland and black soil make the Hachcholli-Raravi area a perfect breeding ground for the GIB, outside its natural habitat Gujarat and Rajasthan. In 2016 bird census, as many as 12 GIBs were spotted in the region. Jindal Steel Works (JSW) had parted with its 250 acres of land to the Forest department for the conservation of the GIB. The department had then banned hunting and poaching in the region to protect the rare bird species. But the department has now posed grave danger to the GIBs by constructing watchtowers and water holes in the region, complain wildlife enthusiasts Samad Kottur, Anand Kundargi, Santhosh Martin among others. They have written to Forest minister highlighting the style of functioning of the Forest officials. Wildlife activist and a member of Supreme Court appointed GIB Conservation Advisory Committee, Samad Kottur, told DH, "According to the guidelines laid down by the Centre, no construction activity is allowed at the GIB habitat/breeding centre. The guidelines bar the Forest department from constructing the watchtowers, water holes/tanks, planting trees and even patrolling. But the Forest department has done completely opposite. Because of the construction activities, the GIBs are not seen for the past few months." "Great Indian Bustard is a shy bird. It prefers quiet grasslands as its habitat. The Supreme Court has appointed an advisory committee to find ways to protect the GIB. But the Forest department is not willing to listen to expert advise," Samad Kottur alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unscientific-works-pose-grave-threat-to-great-indian-bustard-849528.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Stamps dept reverts to issuing ECs offline, post software glitches||Marred by technical glitches in Kaveri Online Service, the Department of Stamps and Registration has now allowed sub-registrars to issue Encumbrance Certificate (EC) and certified documents of other property documents offline.  The decision to revert to the system of issuing such documents both online and offline, came due to malfunction in the software which sources fear could result in legal complications for both the Department and parties involved in property transactions. Owing to recurring complaints regarding Kaveri software, the department will hold meetings with all district level officials, and e-governance department to address the concerns. A circular issued by the Department on June 10 noted that there have been complaints of sub-registrars insisting that people apply for EC and other documents online, despite problems with the software. "The public should be informed of the online system. But, if the applicants insist that EC and other documents are issued offline, they should be issued offline ....." the circular by K P Mohan Raj, Inspector General of Registrations and Commissioner of Stamps said. K A Mohammed Iqbal, who had applied for EC and other documents for his recently purchased property in Belthangady taluk, Dakshina Kannada district, said that he had tried with the software for more than two months, before he was forced to visit sub-registrar office for the documents. "EC is crucial for loan from banks, as the document clarifies that there are no prior liabilities associated with any property. Complications in the software has affected several applicants like me in the taluk," he said. Owing to complications with the software in issuing documents, the government recently allowed farmers availing loans to submit ECs at a later date, Kuraburu Shantakumar, president of Karnataka Rajya Kabbu Belegarara Sangha, said. According to sources in the Department, the problems associated with the software was manifold affecting property registrations throughout the state. "Registering a property in any sub-registrar office in Bengaluru city is also affected due to flaws in the software. ECs issued to new properties by BDA or other urban development authorities is not reflected in the Kaveri database, which will cause complications," a sub-registrar told DH. Mohan Raj said that the Department had insisted on online applications during the course of the pandemic to ensure social distancing, due to which several complaints were raised. "We have now reverted to the system of issuing such certificates both online and offline till all glitches are addressed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-stamps-dept-reverts-to-issuing-ecs-offline-post-software-glitches-849529.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: HD cameras in covid wards to monitor patients||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Sunday that high-definition cameras will be installed at COVID-19 wards across state to supervise treatment from Bengaluru. Speaking at a press meet, the minister stated the expert doctors from Bengaluru were advising the district-level doctors through Tele ICU. The HD camera will be installed in Kalaburagi on June 15, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hd-cameras-in-covid-wards-to-monitor-patients-849530.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP ensured migrant labourers reach home safe: Nadda||Lauding the efforts of the central government and BJP workers in helping migrant labourers stranded due to lockdown, BJP national president J P Nadda said that steps taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to control the pandemic had received global acclaim. Addressing the Karnataka Jan Samvad virtual rally from Delhi, he said that the Centre actually wanted the migrant labourers to stay where they were. “The situation faced by migrant labourers was unimaginable. In the last three months, central ministers faced new problems and offered solutions to them. Despite such difficulties, we have ensured that migrant labourers reach home safe,” Nadda said. He lauded the efforts of Karnataka government in preventing the spread of the disease. Compared to other metros in the country, only Bengaluru has been successful in flattening the curve, Nadda said. Hailing the Atmanirbhar package of the central government, he said that it would take India in a new direction. International agencies such as United Nations, World Bank and WHO have appreciated the package filled with reforms. “It aims to turn the crisis into an achievement,” he said. When the impact of the package is witnessed in the country in the next two years India’s economy will have changed at a fundamental level. Modi has lead from the front in the face of Covid-19 crisis, he said. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa, in his address, also hailed the efforts of central government in containing the pandemic. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel and other senior BJP leaders and cabinet ministers participated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-ensured-migrant-labourers-reach-home-safe-nadda-849532.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Seven primary contacts of Dharwad school teacher contract virus||The number of primary and secondary contacts of the Covid-19 patients testing positive for the virus is increasing in Dharwad and Ballari districts. On Sunday, seven primary contacts of a 29-year-old private school teacher in Dharwad have tested positive for novel coronavirus. The teacher, a resident of Yalakki Shettar Colony, had attended a teachers’ meeting recently. Post meeting, she was admitted to a hospital after she complained of high fever. Days later, her husband also tested positive for Covid-19. On Sunday, throat swab samples of seven of her contacts, including six women, have returned positive for virus. Similarly, an eight-year-old boy from Morab in Navalgund taluk, is believed to have contracted virus from Patient 6222, a 59-year-old man from the village.Two 20-year-old men with the respiratory issues have tested positive. One youth was presented with SARI while another was diagnosed with influenza-like illness (ILI). All 10 have been admitted to the designated Covid hospital. The district’s Covid-19 tally has gone up to 121. Of which, 69 are active cases, according to the district administration. Ballari district continued to see a spike in fresh infections transmitted through primary contacts. The district reported 15 new cases, including three contacts of a Jindal employee and as many contacts of Patient 6467, a 55-year-old Toranagallu gram panchayat member. All three contacts of GP members are Toranagallu panchayat employees - two valvemen and a civic worker. This apart, three Jindal employees - a 43-year-old man from ITPS division and a 30-year-old man (RMS Logistics) and 28-year-old man (CNC division) - all residents of Sandur taluk, have tested positive for the virus. In the last two weeks, as many as 25 areas including Vidyanagar, VV Nagar, Toranagallu, Shankargudda Colony, Hillside Town, Taranagar, Vaddu, Taranagara and Basapur have been sealed. Door-to-door surveillance has been taken up in the affected areas. Also, three returnees from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have also contracted virus. Ballari district, as on June 14, has 140 active cases. Three virus hotspots in Kalyana Karnataka - Yadgir, Bidar and Kalaburagi combined have recorded 55 fresh infections. Maharashtra returnees alone accounted for 43 cases. Five Covid-19 deaths Meanwhile, Bidar and Dakshina Kannada reported one Covid-19 death each on Sunday. A 76-year-old man from Bidar (P-7000), a known case of hypertension, died on June 6. His death has been categorised as ‘others’ as he died in Hyderabad.   Dakshina Kannada saw its 7th fatality. A 24-year-old man, a Maharashtra returnee and a known case of chronic kidney disease and hypertension, died at the Covid hospital on June 12. However, his swab sample returned positive for virus on Sunday.  Bengaluru Urban reported 3 deaths. With this, the state’s death toll has reached 86, as on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seven-primary-contacts-of-dharwad-school-teacher-contract-virus-849533.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Parties to finalise candidates on June 15||All three parties will hold meetings on Monday to finalise the candidates for the upcoming MLC elections to seven seats. The BJP core committee including Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and state president Nalin Kumar Kateel will meet on Monday evening to finalise candidates for the elections. In the wake of the recent snub by the BJP central leadership to the state committee, as it rejected names sent by the latter for the Rajya Sabha elections, the state leadership is expected to tread cautiously while selecting the candidates. On the other hand, Congress leaders face a 'problem of plenty' when they discuss candidates for the polls. More than 10 Congress leaders are lobbying for party nomination for the two seats that the Congress can win. The JD(S) is scheduled to hold its legislature party meeting on Monday afternoon to finalise one name for the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-parties-to-finalise-candidates-on-june-15-849534.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: New date for D K Shivakumar coronation soon||KPCC president D K Shivakumar said on Sunday that the date for his official coronation as the president will be announced in a day or two.  "After discussion with senior Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, Mallikarjun Kharge, S R Patil and working presidents, a date for the event will be announced," he said. Shivakumar, who was appointed KPCC president in March, is yet to be officially coronated and had accused the government of deliberately delaying his Prathigna Dina.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had granted permission to hold the event on Thursday, June 11, after the government denied to Shivakumar the permission thrice, for organising the event. Shivakumar also took part in a series of puja ceremonies held at the new KPCC building, for which the construction was restarted recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-new-date-for-d-k-shivakumar-coronation-soon-849535.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Move to appoint admin officers to GPs raises concerns||The government’s recent decision to appoint administrative officers to gram panchayats (GPs) in place of conducting elections amid the pandemic has left panchayat members worried. Bringing in a government official at the helm of affairs would throw COVID-19-mitigation measures off gear as accessibility to the officials will become a challenge, panchayat members feared. Kanti Veeresh, president of Nandihalli GP (Hoovinahadagali, Ballari), told DH: “Take for instance the case of two boys who returned from a town to our village recently. We immediately sent them to quarantine before they could walk around the village. Swift action was possible as we are aware of every issue in the village. A government official will not have the same advantage,” he explained. COVID-19-related measures apart, works such as disbursal of salaries under MGNREGS would also get delayed with government officials at the the helm, he said. “Thus far, we have found it a challenge to get these bills processed by the nodal officers who are not even available on phone. In this season, we also have cholera and dengue to worry about. We are concerned that all these issues will go unaddressed,” he added. Veeresh said some of them had decided to approach the High Court in this matter. K A Yacoob, member of Belur GP (Somwarpet taluk, Kodagu district) said they had already given a representation to the government against the move. “During the lockdown, we have been constantly monitoring travel of people in and out of the village, taking care of BPL cards and trying to help people find jobs. A government official will not be aware about these local issues,” he said.  This decision by the government will only take away the agency of the GPs, working against the spirit of local self-governance, alleged Krupa, activist of Gram Panchyat Hakkothaya Andolana, urging the government to hold elections at the earliest.  However, government officials said this was the best available choice under the circumstances. L K Atheeq, principal secretary of Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, said, “We will have to wait and see how this pandemic pans out. Till that time administrators are being appointed to carry out the business of the GPs. Till the new elected GPs are in place, the department will put in place a system to ensure transparency in the functioning of the panchayats.” There are about 6,000 GPs in the state, majority of whose term ends by July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-move-to-appoint-admin-officers-to-gps-raises-concerns-849538.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Expert panel bats for mentoring system in higher education||The mentoring committee formed by the advisor to the state government on education reforms, Prof M R Doreswamy, will recommend implementing a mentoring system at higher educational institutions across Karnataka.  The committee, which met in Bengaluru last week, unanimously decided to submit the recommendation to the government on implementing a mentoring system for students to achieve academic proficiency. “All teachers shall practise the sacred art of mentoring. We urge the government to implement the mentoring system in the state,” Doreswamy said.  Former VTU vice-chancellor Prof H P Khincha, REVA University Chancellor P Shyama Raju and education expert R Nagarajaiah were present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/expert-panel-bats-for-mentoring-system-in-higher-education-849539.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Expert predicts sharp rise in state's COVID-19 deaths in two weeks||Even as the number of COVID-19 cases have come down from a peak of 515 days ago, the number of deaths is increasing. If the last seven days have been any indication, the state has a serious problem on its hands. One expert cautioned there will be a sharp increase in deaths within the next two weeks. In the first 13 days of June, the number of total COVID-19 cases has jumped by a factor of 111.9% to 6,824 cases. As many as 27 deaths were registered (an increase of 55.5%) in the said period. Of which, 19 were reported in the last one week with Bengaluru alone accounting for 12. This is a number that will multiply by an as-of-yet unknown percentage in the next 15 days, explained Dr K S Satish, president, Karnataka Pulmonology Association, and a member of two official audit groups examining deaths in the state and in Bengaluru. “One finding is clear, a person with untreated diabetes has a 10% chance of death if exposed to COVID-19. What the data also shows is that most of the people who have succumbed have sugar levels above 400,” Dr Satish said. He pointed out that India also happens to be the ‘diabetes capital’ of the World. According to data from the state COVID-19 War Room, the death rate among people with diabetes or hypertension is 30.4%. The death rate for people with other comorbidities is 18.8%. However, among the recent fatalities was a teenage girl, aged 17, with a neurological disorder, and a 28-year-old woman with SARI, indicating that there is no monopoly on age, and that comorbidities do not have to be limited to diabetes. Age factor Dr Satish and other experts agree that as long as the death rate is less than 5%, the number of deaths will be within expectations. The state Covid-19 War Room says that the death rate is currently 2.4%. This per cent, however, is an average. By considering death rates according to age, an alarming picture emerges. Among people aged 40 to 50, the death rate was 7.4% at the start of June. For people in the age group of 50 to 60, it is currently 8.8% and even higher at 18.8% for people over the age of 60. Meanwhile, BBMP Commissioner B H Anil Kumar acknowledged that the increase of infection rate across Bengaluru was due to the inordinate delay in communication of the test results. “The test result of the patients is not communicated immediately. The symptomatic person until the arrival of the test result would have been roaming all around spreading the infection. If the communication of the test result happens immediately, perhaps it will be helpful in arresting the larger spread across the city by isolating the infection person in a quick possible time,” the commissioner clarified.  Evidently, the big surge in number in the past one week across Bengaluru is attributed to backlog cases. Health officials across the board also complained that many of the fatalities are unknown to the government until the last few hours of life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/expert-predicts-sharp-rise-in-states-covid-19-deaths-in-two-weeks-849540.html
14-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Padarayanapura containment zones: It’s like a siege, say residents||Residents of the four separate containment zones at Padarayanapura said they were living in a netherworld. They are not only physically cut off from the rest of the society but are also left to fend for themselves with little help from the government. Parts of Padarayanapura have been in lockdown for 56 days so far. “The situation here is dire,” admitted Khizer, a social worker from Swaraj Abhiyan who lives near a containment zone. “In some of the longest existing containment zones such as those in Arafat Nagar, people have run out of food and are totally dependent on handouts and donations to survive. Despite the BBMP’s promises that essential goods would be allowed into the zones, nothing has come so far,” Khizer added.  The shortages extend to water. Streets connected to the Cauvery lines get water once in two days, often at 3 am. “If you miss this supply, you are stuck. On one hand, the government asks us to wash our hands constantly and maintain cleanliness. On the other hand, we are not given the water to do so,” Khizer added. In other places, residents are dependent on a communal tap. Meanwhile, at 8th Main Road,residents were in a state of anxiety about the future. “Our lives are totally at the mercy of the police, explained Junaid, a techie.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/padarayanapura-containment-zones-it-s-like-a-siege-say-residents-849547.html
14-06-2020||West||Central Railway introduces infrared camera temperature monitoring||Sanjeev Mittal, General Manager, Central Railway appreciated and congratulated officers and staff of Central Railway for this FebriEye human body screening facility.Shivaji Sutar, Chief Public Relations Officer, Central Railways said that FebriEye thermal cameras can cover large areas which means it can detect the temperature of multiple people entering at once at a premise and record temperature automatically while passengers keep moving. Presently all passengers boarding Mail/Express trains at CSMT and LTT are being scanned by FebriEye as they enter for temperature before they go inside the platform for boarding.All railways staff and officers coming for duty at these two major stations are also being screened through this AI (Artificial Intelligence)-based camera.Shalabh Goel, Divisional Railway Manager, Mumbai Division said that Indian Railways remained committed to use the latest available technology for helping passengers travel in a seamless fashion, while ensuring desired safety checks. This initiative of Mumbai Division, Central Railway is a step forward in this direction.FebriEye is an AI-based thermal screening system for real-time and automated, non-intrusive monitoring to ensure that a person running a temperature does not enter the station. FebriEye is equipped with ‘Black Body’, a constant temperature source that ensures accuracy in temperature readings of up to 0.3 degree Celsius (+/-). It uses heat sensors that can record heat generated by the body of a person or an object to create a 2D image with differing temperature levels. When passengers pass before the cameras, anyone with temperature above the set range will be shown in a different colour pattern than the rest on the computer screen connected to the cameras, a Central Railway press statement said.The FebriEye human body screening facility is a step towards modernising security measures by the railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-railway-introduces-infrared-camera-temperature-monitoring-849345.html
14-06-2020||West||Maha govt panel to probe issues related to Medigadda Barrage||The Maharashtra government has formed a six-member committee to examine the problems that arose following submergence of land in the state due to the Medigadda Barrage in neighbouring Telangana. It is possible Telangana constructed the barrage "in a different manner" than what it had conveyed to Maharashtra, the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government said in a recent order. The land was acquired in Sironcha area of Gadchiroli district in eastern Maharashtra for the project. The barrage was inaugurated by Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao last year at an event which was also attended by then Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. The two states had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the construction of the inter-state irrigation project in August 2016. "It is possible that Telangana constructed the barrage in a manner different from what it had conveyed to the Maharashtra government when the inter-state agreement with regard to the barrage was reached," the Shiv Sena-led government said in its order. "Also, it needs to be examined what is (the area of) the forest land that will be submerged (due to the barrage)," the government said. It also needs to be probed whether the certificate issued by the forest department was issued as per the government criteria or under somebody's pressure, it said. "The local office of deputy conservator for forest had raised objections on certain aspects while the construction was on, but the then district collector instructed him not to act, this be probed under whose pressure it was done," said the committee's terms of reference. The committee will also take up with the Telangana government the issue of compensation for farmers in Sironcha whose lands were submerged, the order said. The panel, to be headed by Nagpur divisional commissioner, has been asked to submit its report within a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-govt-panel-to-probe-issues-related-to-medigadda-barrage-849371.html
14-06-2020||West||Monsoon rain clouds cover entire Maharashtra||Four days after hitting coastal Maharashtra, the southwest monsoon made a steady progress and has now covered the entire state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The progress of the monsoon has so far been normal and on the expected lines, an IMD official said. In the last 10 days, parts of Central and North Maharashtra and Vidarbha received incessant showers, IMD's Mumbai centre deputy director general K S Hosalikar said. "The southwest monsoon covered the entire state on Sunday," he said. "North Maharashtra and most parts of the Marathwada region face water scarcity every year. It is a good sign that these areas have received showers this year. It will help accelerate the pre-sowing activities of farmers, he said. However, heavy showers in some urban areas, including Nashik, caused some inconvenience. Water-logging occurred at the Nashik Road police station on Saturday after heavy downpour. "It started raining around 6 pm in our area and within a couple of hours, the Nashik Road police station was inundated. The entire staff had to make efforts to remove the water," an official from the police station said. In Beed district, which faced acute water shortage in last few years, received good showers in the past one week, filling up some of the dry river beds. The Chausala river bed, which was completely dry this summer, got filled up on Saturday after rains, a senior official from the state agriculture department said. "If the current monsoon trend continues in the state, we could see early sowing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/monsoon-rain-clouds-cover-entire-maharashtra-849409.html
14-06-2020||West||Mini Dharavi another concern for coronavirus-hit Mumbai||The Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) is the worst pandemic affected area of India, with over 20% of the cases. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) with hectic efforts have been able to contain the spike in Dharavi.Another place which is a cause of concern is part ot Nalasopara East,  often referred to as Mini Dharavi.The Nalasopara township - around 75 kms off downtown Mumbai - is located in the Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC) in Palghar district that adjoins Mumbai.The VVCMC has reported 53 deaths and 1,476 positive cases. A total of 744 persons have been treated and discharged.Nalasopara East's localities like Santosh Bhuwan, Bilalpada, Dhanivbaug, Shriram Nagar,  that is home to over five lakh people, is often referred to as Mini Dharavi, owing to its mushrooming slums, narrow bylanes and small industries.Nalasopara East reported over 200 cases within a fortnight and nearly 25 deaths altogether. "There is a lot of chaos in the administration which has led to a rise in cases. According to the commissioner's directives, only selected places should be disinfected and sanitised, which should not be the case. There are more than five lakh daily wage earners who travel to Mumbai region every day. If adequate measures are not taken, there could be a Dharavi-like situation," said VVCMC mayor Pravin Shetty. Located on Mumbai's Western line, Nalasopara is sandwiched between Vasai and Virar and has a huge migrant population.The Nalasopara suburban station of Western Railway is one of MMR's busiest suburban station in terms of ticket sales are concerned."There is a a threat of massive spike in Nalasoapara East and it may be a threat to the Vasai-Virar belt," two general physicians of Vasai tehsil told DH.There are several public toilets in Nalasopara area and social distancing is an issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mini-dharavi-another-concern-for-coronavirus-hit-mumbai-849447.html
14-06-2020||West||Earthquake of 5.3 magnitude shakes parts of Gujarat, no reports of damage||An earthquake of 5.3 magnitude shook parts of Gujarat on Sunday night but no major damage to property or life has been reported though some houses in Kutch and adjoining districts developed cracks as per preliminary information, the state government said. The epicentre of the tremor was located near Bhachau in Kutch district, officials said. An official of the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said that the tremor was recorded at 8:13 pm. An aftershock of 3.1 magnitude was felt six minutes later, with its epicentre located 25 km west north west of Rapar in Kutch district, the ISR said. Though the earthquake reportedly didn't cause any major damage, it reminded many people of the devastating temblor of 2001 that had killed thousands and flattened houses and buildings. In Kutch, Rajkot, Ahmedabad and Patan, many people rushed out of their houses on Sunday night. While several parts of Gujarat felt the quake, its intensity was said to be more in Patan and Rajkot districts neighbouring Kutch. Several houses, most if them made from mud, suffered a minor damage with their walls developing cracks, officials said. "It was scary even though it lasted for only a few seconds. We all rushed out including my septuagenarian mother. It reminded us of the 2001 earthquake," said a man in Rajkot, which is located about 150 kms away from the epicentre of the earthquake. "I was sitting with my friend in his office when we felt the intense shake for a few seconds. The table and the fan in the office started moving on their own. We all rushed down from the second floor. People were scared. Despite lockdown and curfew, people came out in large numbers," said another resident. Several people said the tremor rekindled old memories of the 2001 earthquake (of 7.7 magnitude) whose epicentre was also located near Bhachau in Kutch district. The January 26, 2001 temblor, labelled as the second most destructive in the country in the last two centuries, had killed around 20,000 people and flattened several villages in Kutch district. It had also damaged buildings in Saurashtra region and other parts of Gujarat. Meanwhile, deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said a quake of such intensity was felt after a long time. "Entire Saurashtra and north Gujarat regions, including Ahmedabad, felt the impact of the quake with 5.3 magnitude. The after shock was of a lower intensity. Thereis no report of any major damage to life and property from any area after the quake," he said. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held telephonic conversation with collectors of Kutch, Rajkot and Patan districts that are located close to the epicentre of the quake. He directed the collectors to report damage, if any, caused due to the quake and activate disaster management cell, said a release from the CMO. "Earthquake risk is very high in Gujarat and the state has suffered nine major earthquakes in the past 200 years," as per the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/earthquake-of-53-magnitude-shakes-parts-of-gujarat-no-reports-of-damage-849511.html
