15-06-2020||First Edit||Under-reporting COVID-19 data unhelpful||There have been persistent reports about governments fudging and misrepresenting COVID-19 data relating to deaths, new cases, recoveries, tests and other factors necessary for evaluation of the pandemic situation. In Delhi, the official figures of death are only half of the numbers reported from crematoria and burial grounds. When the official count of death was about 1,000 there were credible reports that it was over 2,000. In Tamil Nadu, there was criticism last week that the actual number of COVID-19 deaths were 236 more than what was reported by the government. There were charges from the beginning that the number of cases and deaths in West Bengal were under-reported. Similar charges have been made about the data released by most state governments. While the governments have denied the reports, there are circumstances that confirm the reports about under-reporting, fudging or manipulation.  The figures of one state cannot be compared with those of another. The big differences in data coming from different states could be because of the differences in the health infrastructure and the strategies adopted by different governments, the efficiency in the implementation of strategies, possible existence of different virus strains or other factors. Such differences may make it difficult to judge the veracity and importance of the figures put out by governments. But there are many ways in which fudging can be found out, like discrepancies in the figures entered by various agencies. In some states, COVID-19 deaths did not include deaths caused by co-morbidities which were aggravated by the infection, leading to death. Governments do not want to be blamed for failure to control the disease and that is why they under-report the number of cases and deaths. But this seriously impairs the fight against the disease because all containment strategies depend on the number of affected persons, the spread of the disease and the stage of its development. This is especially true of a pandemic. If correct data is not available, the fight against the disease will be impacted.  Transparency is very important in any public health campaign. The fight against a pandemic cannot be won without the cooperation and support of the public and these will not be available if people lose their trust in the government. Correct data is also necessary to study the behaviour of the virus, about which little is known. If governments suppress or distort the data for political or other reasons, they are doing a great disservice to the fight against the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/under-reporting-covid-19-data-unhelpful-849964.html
15-06-2020||In Perspective||Plight of migrants in dehumanised South Asia||There could be a genuine concern about the dispute. But the way it unfolds is a telling tale. The dispute distracts us from one of the worst human crises, the woeful plight of the migrant workers due to bad governance and absence of a caring state. It reveals that the nation-states in South Asia are more interested in borders and boundaries than in the people who belong to the place. Moreover, India called for a multi-lateral conversation, a SAARC meeting on COVID-19, in the absence of Pakistan. The nearly-failed meeting became another show of the failure of the nation-state based approach to South Asia. Merely counting a nation in or out does not make for the region that has innumerable issues of common concern. The common crisis of migrant workers across South Asia was a golden opportunity to humanise our approach. But the strategic interest and flawed policy of ‘Neighbourhood First’ drowned human sigh, anguish and anxiety. The superiority complex of India comes in the way to set right the dehumanisation of South Asia.  Ideally, the nations from the region would have joined hands, learned from one another, and devised efficient ways of handling the social calamity appended to the pandemic. A sense of cross-border compassion was much needed. Instead, they decided to stick to the old rhetoric. The claim to have understood the teeming mass of the workers in formal or informal sectors of the economy in South Asia turned erroneous. Inscrutable policy jargons cannot hide chinks in the armour and we can see the cracks in the states across the region.   One can congratulate Bangladeshi premier Sheikh Hasina to prevent panic during the lockdown. This was not so in India, where, after every announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there was a mad rush to hoard essential items. In a similar vein, the panicked masses of workers began to throng railway and bus stations exploring the possibility to rush back home to small towns and villages. Better planning Seemingly, Bangladesh had better planning about ensuring basics for the most underprivileged and the workers in the cities. Sheikh Hasina appeared more frequently on television and pacified the people without using the dreadful word, lockdown. There is an intuitive thesis doing rounds that the states governed by the female political heads did better pandemic management across the world. This, however, is not the point. The point to note is that India did not look at neighbours to learn and emulate a plan.   When it comes to migrant workers, most of South Asia seems to have failed. Bangladesh did not arrange sufficiently to take care of the utterly disarrayed garment industry, a huge contributor to the employment market there. Many workers walked to and fro, between Dhaka and their respective hometowns and villages hoping to join work. Seemingly, the issue of migrants is an Achilles’ heel for state across the region. The migrant workers have been variously deemed as the spine of a substantial part of the economy. The engine of growth runs with them as key cogs in the machinery. And yet, unfortunately, they have been perceived only as cogs in the machinery rather than humans with emotion, imperatives and sensibility. This is commonly visible across the region.   Moreover, the workers who were once contributors to the remittance economy became migrants without a nation. Even if they returned, it was only to an ungrateful nation. Nepali workers returning back to their country from India had to endure arduous walk for miles for hours without any care on the way. Bangladesh also failed to plan in advance for the returning workers from afar, like in India and Nepal. In India, there were arrangements along class lines - there were flights arranged for out-migrants returning from foreign locations. In contrast, there was no time given with any facility of return, for the in-migrants. In Pakistan, though heavily under-reported, it is a not very commendable situation for the workers either.   The real problem is that state leadership across South Asia never perceived workers in relation with society, sentiments and sociability. The workers, be they in the formal or informal sector, were the only embodiment of saleable labour-power. They were not understood as humans with due sentiments, mythology, folklore, culture and everyday life. This was possibly a golden opportunity for yet another kind of South Asia to emerge. In sentiments, we are supposed to inch closer to one another, be equal and able to empathise, and thus be compassionate in our approaches.    (The writer is founding faculty, Department of Sociology, South Asian University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/plight-of-migrants-in-dehumanised-south-asia-849567.html
15-06-2020||In Perspective||The relentless rise of the ‘Great Leader’||Subsequently, some more old guards of the party -- Yashwant Sinha, Arun Shourie and Shatrughan Sinha -- left the party and those that remained, like Sushma Swaraj and Rajnath Singh, were sidelined during the last term. Soon, it was made clear to them that they were in the Union Cabinet only because of PM Modi’s grace. The party was reshaped on different lines. During PM Vajpayee’s tenure, nobody professed personal loyalty to him but were in the government because they had served the party or the nation for long and had some merit to be in the jobs that they were assigned. Now, the rules of engagement were different and they were clear from day one. You are in the government or the party or in the legislature on the sufferance of the ‘Great Leader’ and not because of any intrinsic worth you may have, because nobody got elected on their own popularity but of the Leader alone. That was the narrative and the belief system that soon percolated downwards.  Just as the party was being reshaped, government institutions, including Constitutional bodies, were bent to the political will and suborned. This process affected the RBI, the Election Commission, the CBI, CAG, Indian Statistical Organisation and others. Never before had so many powerful institutions been subverted. And never before has the IAS cadre of one state, Gujarat, acquired so much clout in Delhi as in the last six years. In an RTI reply in August 2019, it was revealed that 370 IAS officers from Gujarat cadre were in the central government above the rank of Joint Secretary. This is the real ‘Gujarat Model’ -- you worked with the then CM, now you will be heading a key post in the Government of India, not only because you know the PM’s style of functioning but also because you know how to get things done for him. Rules and procedures are not to hinder the obedience to orders, that is the key. This is a deliberate and planned process of hollowing out the State. Hollowing out the State has two aspects. First, destroy the impersonality and objectivity of an ‘institution’ and personalise it and subordinate it to your command. Have your handpicked officers in all key posts. The second, and more devious objective, is to challenge the very purpose for which those institutions are built, such as ‘keeping a check on the Executive’, or ‘serving the interests of all citizens’. You question that fundamental premise ‘how dare you check my authority’ or ‘how dare you serve the interest of all citizens, you are here to serve my interests alone’. This belief is justified by a sense of perceived grievance of a community over a long period, however false it is, as seen in Modi’s remark that “Hindus have suffered slavery for 1,200 years”.   The 2019 election threw up another important and revealing slogan -- ‘Modi hain tho mumkin hain’. Whether it’s hitting back at Pakistan through a ‘surgical strike’ or taming the ‘aggressive minority’ at home, or overcoming terrorism in Kashmir, or Make in India, or taking India to a $5 trillion economy; it’s all possible only with Modi in power, we are told.  The spread of the COVID-19 pandemic gave another twist to the projection of the Great Leader’s power. The Leader put his power to test, not once but thrice and found that the entire country obeyed his diktat like one man. Not only did they obey him on the need for the lockdown when it was announced, but they also obeyed his call to clap hands and light lamps. Thanksgiving to the Corona warriors may have truly impelled the people, but the messaging and the ordering of a mass drill for 1.3 billion people served another purpose. The Great Leader demonstrated that he controlled and directed his people like a puppeteer. No Leader had done such a thing in the history of this nation. This is a scary prospect as such power could be unleashed again, and not necessarily for a benign purpose.  Now, as the pandemic curve rises and the economy’s curve falls precariously, the Great Leader has to be shielded from public view and saved from people’s anger. His charisma is too precious to be used often. When you see President Trump on TV every day and if your first reaction is ‘what a jerk’, that’s bad for the Leader, right? (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is presently Visiting Fellow, Observer Research Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-relentless-rise-of-the-great-leader-849965.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Unlock 1.0: Karnataka's Kateel temple starts e-ticket for darshan||Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple in the Dakshina Kannada district opened its door for the devotees after issuing e-tickets on Sunday. Kateel Temple, considered an integral part of the temple tourism itinerary and  situated on the banks of River Nandini, has taken a cue on the lines of a special darshan module of Sri Venkateswara Temple at Tirupati for the darshan of the deity. On day one of reopening of the temple, 2,500 devotees had visited the temple. The e-ticket is mandatory for those coming from outside the district. When the number of devotees visiting the temple increases in the coming days, the e-ticket will be mandatory to have darshana, said the temple management committee. Thermal screening and use of sanitisers have been made mandatory for the devotees.The temple offers only darshana for the devotees. No sevas are allowed as per the guidelines of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unlock-10-karnatakas-kateel-temple-starts-e-ticket-for-darshan-849680.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sons kill father over family discord in K'taka district||A 69-year-old man was murdered by his two sons after they assaulted him with sickle and wooden logs at Muggaguthu in Karaya village of Uppinangady Police Station jurisdiction on Sunday late night. According to the police, the deceased is Dharnappa Poojary. The accused are Monappa Poojary (34) and Naveen (28). It was said that a family discord led to the murder. The grievously injured Dharnappa Poojary died on the spot. A case has been registered at Uppinangady police station and investigation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sons-kill-father-over-family-discord-in-ktaka-district-849732.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yoga Day: 3L expected to do yoga at home||Three lakh people of Mysuru district are expected to do yoga, at their respective home, and upload the videos, to mark International Yoga Day on June 21, Sunday. It has to be noted that there is also a solar eclipse, on the same day, even though it will not be visible in the city. D Srihari, Yoga Federation of Mysuru, said, “The theme for the International Yoga Day this year is ‘Yoga at Home, with Family’ and the participants should be ready before 7 am to begin the event at 7 am sharp. In the wake of Covid pandemic, gathering like in the previous years is not possible in view of social distancing and other protocols.” Since the initiation of the day in 2015, it is anticipated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be part of the event in Mysuru, as the city is deemed to be the Yoga hub of the world. This year, the anticipation is washed away, by Covid pandemic. It has to be recalled that Mysuru was successful in breaking the Guinness record for a mass yoga at a single venue in 2017. Around 55,506 people participated in the mass yoga demonstration in 2017. Srihari has shared a video message and has appealed to the yoga enthusiasts to share one’s own video messages on various social media platforms, inviting all friends and relatives for participation in the International Yoga Day. “This time, we Mysureans will make it big. Probably, three lakh people will do yoga at home in Mysuru district. We will update the protocol video, time to do and other formalities soon,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yoga-day-3l-expected-to-do-yoga-at-home-849906.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||SWR runs first parcel express||Following the lockdown, the first Parcel Special Express of South Western Railways, Mysuru division, left Nanjangud to West Bengal and Assam, on Monday. The first ever parcel special express from Nanjangud left to Sankrail in West Bengal and Changasari in Assam. The special service comprises 10 high capacity parcel vans and carried 185 tonnes of product manufactured by Nestle India. The special runs on a fixed schedule and covers a distance of about 3,000 km, and reach the destination on Wednesday. According to Priya Shetty, Divisional Commercial Manager, the division is adopting an aggressive marketing strategy to impress upon potential customers to make use of the services for quicker transportation of their goods and utilisation of loading space optimally. Railway is running goods trains and parcel express trains to ensure supply of essential commodities across the country like food and medicines to meet the requirements of the citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swr-runs-first-parcel-express-849908.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||II PU exam: Masks, thermal screening mandatory||The Department of PU Education has taken all measures for the safety of 2nd PU students appearing for English exam, scheduled to be held on June 18. The department has made physical distancing, thermal screening and wearing masks mandatory for students. The department will distribute masks to students, who are in need. English exam, which was scheduled for March 19, was postponed following the coronavirus pandemic. The students are getting ready for the exam after a gap of three months. In all, 16,808 students will appear for the exam in Hassan district. Around 120 students, who had returned to their native will write the exam at their nearby centres. Similarly, 928 students from other districts will also be allowed to write exam in the district. Earlier, nine blocks and 734 classrooms were identified for the exams. With social distancing being mandatory, an additional 13 blocks and 562 classrooms have been identified for the exam. The students having symptoms of cold and fever will be made to write the exam in separate classrooms. The students would be made to sit in a zig-zag manner. Sanitiser, thermal screening and mask facilities have been made, said Government Composite PU College principal K P Suresh. The exams will be conducted from 10 am. But, the students are told to reach the centres at 8.30 am, as they have to undergo thermal screening. MLA Shivalingegowda and MLC M A Gopalaswamy have sponsored masks for the students in Arsikere and Channarayapatna. Donors have come forward to distribute masks for the students, said DDPU C D Jayanna. The authorities have written letters to Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and have provided the list of areas, seeking bus service. There will be no transport problem, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ii-pu-exam-masks-thermal-screening-mandatory-849910.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Museum need to accelerate activities using social media||With Covid-19 pandemic spreading all over, museums have to accelerate their activities to educate the public through social media, as the present condition is not encouraging for museums to function normally. According to V Ashok Vardhan, Museologist, Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya (IGRMS), museum exhibitions are considered as the effective tools to bring a change, when it comes to social issues or cause. “The thematic exhibition of past or contemporary society constantly draws a huge footfall into galleries, with some psychological intentions and objectives,” he said. Ashok, also In-charge Assistant Director of National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, said, “If we look back into this background, museum exhibitions have played a key role to fight against the spread of deceases. Historical records disclose that museums, curators and other supporting staff took the social responsibility to combat the deadly diseases in the past.” In the recent past, in India and across the world, exhibitions are being conducted in collaboration with national and international organisations on diseases like AIDS, Corona, Swine Flu and other health epidemics to create awareness with several preventive practices, he said. As false information is posted on social media, museums have to come up with a blueprint, by providing reliable and safe preventive measures. The preventive measures may be posted as top priorities in an informative manner in local languages, to reach all age groups. The concept of virtual museum should come up with activities like museum education programmes and digital galleries, along with museum lectures. Even if the situation improves and normalcy returns, a virus-free environment may not be possible until a vaccine is available. After Covid-19, if museums reopen, they have to prepare for future health hazards, epidemics and pandemics. The social responsibility of the museum is to maintain sanitised and safe environments. Mobile exhibitions on Recreational Vehicles or Mobile Museums can be developed on health and hygiene, epidemic and pandemics to create awareness. Irrespective of specialisation of museums, the government should make a policy to showcase health exhibitions and related activities, he said. The International Committee for Museums and Collections of Modern Art (CIMAM) has framed important guidelines, based on the policies implemented by the National Gallery Singapore, M+ Museum in Hong Kong, and the Mori Art Museum, Ashok said. The guidelines speak about screening of all visitors, visitor registration, visitor’s travel history, limiting large groups, maintaining social distancing between individuals, suspending of activities that target elderly persons and vulnerable groups, guide tours and ensuring masks for all visitors. However, in the present, situation, the guidelines framed by CIMAM may not be feasible to the rest of the museums, says Ashok.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/museum-need-to-accelerate-activities-using-social-media-849912.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bread, biscuits replace Langar at Hubballi Gurudwara||For the first time in the history since its inception in 1969, bread and biscuit packets replaced the famed ‘Langar’ at Gurudwara at Deshpande Nagar in Hubballi, when it reopened after the nearly two-and-a-half months of lockdown, on Sunday. It reopened for considerable number of Sikh devotees, almost a week after the restrictions on religious places were relaxed. The Langar was not arranged due to safety measures and COVID-19 guidelines. The Gurudwara was closed during the lockdown. Instead of 'Langar', bread and biscuit packets were distributed to devotees, and Guru Nanak Mission Trust, which is managing the Gurudwara, would take a decision to continue this practice next Sunday or not, based on guidelines. After sanitising the entire Gurudwara premise, devotees were allowed on Sunday, as it was the day devotees come in large numbers. Regular sad-sanghat and keerthan were held, while Halva-like prasad was given. "Around 300 devotees used to come on Sundays before the lockdown, and it went down to nearly 80 on this Sunday. The number is expected to be more next Sunday. We used to conduct Langar every Sunday or special occasions, but not this Sunday," said Gurudwara priest Gyani Major Singh. Automatic hand sanitiser was arranged, devotees wore masks, and maintained social distancing also. The entire process of rituals began at 8:30 am and ended before 10:30 am, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bread-biscuits-replace-langar-at-hubballi-gurudwara-849915.html
15-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Monsoon arrives but Rajnala project in Hubballi still incomplete||It is nearly one year after the flood-like situation was caused due to overflowing Rajnala in Hubballi. But, the much talked about development of this nala into a green mobility corridor under 'Smart City' project is yet to materialise, and the plan in initial stage is now about developing just one km stretch out of 8.5 km nala. Under the City Investments to Innovate, Integrate & Sustain (CITIIS), the Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) will execute this 8.5 km nala development project at a cost of Rs 130 crore, which also includes retention walls, construction of walking track, bicycle track, and even open gym wherever possible. However at present, preparations are still being made to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) by consultants, to develop green mobility corridor for only one km stretch from Unkal Lake waste-weir, as a model one, where sufficient space is available. "As this is a very unique project in the entire country, the process to prepare the DPR has been delayed due to fixing the consultant, technical procedures to get approvals, and the lockdown. Now, the DPR for one km stretch will be prepared in next three months, and around Rs 20 crore tender would be called after the DPR gets approval from the Union Ministry of Urban Affairs," said HDSCL special officer S H Naregal. "Bathymetric survey has already been conducted at Unkal Lake to study underwater depth and volume of water when it overflows, to properly study the construction requirement of the Nala," he added. The Plan As per the plan, 10 to 12 metre of area will be the water flowing space, along with retention walls on both sides. On the banks, a walking track and bicycle track will be developed, while open gyms and butterfly parks will be set up wherever space is available. For a full-fledged green mobility corridor, 21 metre width should be available. The total project to complete 8.5 km from Unkal Lake to Gabbur may take nearly three years, Naregal said. Margin area problem According to Hubballi-Dharwad Manahagara Palike Commissioner (HDMP) Commissioner Suresh Itnal, the margin area of Rajnala is not uniform, and it has a lot of variations. Around 153 buildings adjacent to the nala mainly at Dhobighat, Pandurang Colony, and Channapet have to be shifted. The width of the nala also varies from place to place. To prevent overflowing of the nala this time, the nala is being desilted and choked gutters are being cleared, he said, adding that water hyacinth at Unkal Lake would be removed shortly. However, a few bridges across the Rajnala which were washed away last year are not yet completely constructed, and residents adjacent to the nala fear that previous year's flood-like situation may return if the rainfall this time too is heavy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/monsoon-arrives-but-rajnala-project-in-hubballi-still-incomplete-849967.html
15-06-2020||Main Article||Database of all workers||A Central minister, questioned about the poor reach of relief materials to many, said recently that “if someone is not registered in government databases, we cannot provide benefits to them”. But where are the databases?   The NGOs trying to help the needy in Bengaluru lamented that “BBMP officials did not have a database of the needy and even when NGOs gave it to them, many officials did not act on it to deliver benefits”.  The Karnataka High Court too kept questioning BBMP on its lack of an “organised and systematic” manner of distributing benefits, and based on an email from CIVIC, ordered the constitution of Ward Disaster Management Cells in all 198 wards, which BBMP had failed to constitute, though Ward Committee Rules mandated them. Despite these provisions, why did the registering officers not have a database of these lakhs of migrant workers, who became visible only when they started walking thousands of kilometres along the highways? It is also apparent that many of these workers were trafficked and were working in bonded labour-like situations.  But there is no system of inspections by a labour inspector to identify bonded labour under the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act (BLSAA).  The only mechanism foreseen in the BLSAA is that of Vigilance Committees, which are supposed to conduct surveys of bonded labour.   But shockingly, no such survey has been conducted since 2012 in Bengaluru.  The principal secretary of the Panchayat Raj Department of Karnataka wrote to Deputy Commissioners recently pointing out that Vigilance Committees had not been constituted in several districts, or had not met at all for long periods. So, in this situation, who is identifying the existence of bonded labour in the labour camps of these metros?   The Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act (UWSSA) also requires unorganised workers to register themselves through a self-affidavit with the district administration.  The district administration can entrust the task of registration of workers to the local authorities - panchayats or municipalities.    The state government is also mandated under the UWSSA to set up as many Workers’ Facilitation Centres as necessary to assist workers to register themselves.  Despite the above provisions, how is it that neither the district administration nor the panchayat raj institutions/municipalities have a data-base of the unorganized workers in an area?   Construction workers Though the state has about one crore unorganised workers, only 89,000 have been registered under the UWSSA as per data revealed after the lockdown.  This led Chief Minister Yediyurappa to ask the Labour Department to hasten registration of all unorganised workers and provide them benefits.  In the case of the Building & Other Construction Workers’ Welfare (BOCWW) Act, there were reports that there are 21 lakh registered construction workers in the state but after the lockdown, statistics reveal that only 12.4 lakh workers were given the benefit of Rs. 5,000.  The lockdown also revealed that there are lakhs of construction workers who are not registered who did not receive the Rs 5,000.  How do we overcome these deficiencies?  In many other countries, it is mandatory for every citizen to be registered with the community/municipal office in the area s/he is a resident in, and any change in his/her location has to be informed to the authorities.  So there are continuously updated lists of all residents in an area.   The time has come to make this mandatory in our country also, of course with adequate safeguards for data privacy. With a population of 1.35 billion, it is difficult to reach benefits to all the needy without these data-bases.    We need to have decentralised, digitised databases maintained by the local authorities at the panchayat/ward offices, with a separate register for temporary migrants.   In other countries, these data-bases also serve as the bases for electoral rolls, the birth and death registry, compulsory schooling of children, for employment, etc. in the GP/ward. The responsibility for identifying bonded labour needs to be shifted in our state from the revenue to the labour department, as practised in several other states.  But given the manpower shortage in the Labour Department, there is a great need to enhance it by having Labour Cells/officials in every GP/Ward which not only maintain the databases of workers, but also enforce labour laws, report bonded and trafficked labour, and monitor the living and working conditions of the workers in the GP/ward, whose deplorable conditions have been exposed during the lockdown.  The ward committees in urban areas need to be designated as task forces to assist the Vigilance Committees under the BLSAA, as already notified for the panchayats, to continuously monitor conditions of labourers in the ward.  Is it time to realise that the ‘Aatmanirbharta’ of our informal workers cannot be a substitute for the government fulfilling its obligations to them? (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/database-of-all-workers-849568.html
15-06-2020||Main Article||Teachers as healers||As teachers, what are we supposed to do when the pandemic has unsettled everything, the ‘taken-for-granted’ world has crumbled, and the prevalent bookish knowledge seems to have lost its meaning? Well, as it is said, we are ‘professionals’ and ‘paid employees’, and hence we must abide by what the competent authorities —school principals and vice chancellors — ask us to do. No wonder, we are ‘performing’ our assigned roles: conducting ‘online classes’, covering the official syllabus, asking our students to upload their assignments, and conducting weekly/monthly examinations. It seems that we are conveying a message: pandemic or no pandemic, things should go on as usual; we should remain unaffected and keep teaching/learning the same texts and the same syllabus.  And meanwhile, with the ever-expanding statistics of infections and death and associated psychic nausea and all-pervading economic and existential anxiety, the ‘normalcy’ that we pretend through our online classes reveals its hollowness. Yet, the Chapter 7 of the NCERT mathematics text has to be covered; the techno-savvy history professor must celebrate the Zoom class, and instruct her students to memorise the ten reasons for the downfall of the Mughal Empire; and a student located in a lower middle class family would miss this monologue because of poor internet connectivity. However, our policymakers and academic bosses would assure the government that in this ‘digital’ era, our education is going on smoothly; and even a three-year-old child of a ‘play school’ in Bengaluru sits in front of the laptop, and consumes the instructions given by her fancy teacher regarding the three techniques of a perfect drawing. Is it the time that some of us who have not yet missed the call of the vocation of teaching rise up, reveal the  utter insensitivity involved in this process, and plead for yet another task we ought to engage with: the role of friends, communicators and healers? True, we are ‘professionals’; we draw our salaries; but then, as teachers we are not merely the mediators between the official curriculum and students; we are also pedagogues with deep sensitivity to the prevalent ontological and existential crisis: the shared tales of pain, anguish and suffering. And the practice of meaningful education must address these issues. The existing syllabus may not be the right thing to be ‘covered’ at this moment; possibly, the existence is longing for something else. It is in this context that I wish to make two points. First, we have to see beyond the technical question. Education is not a software business; it is not a techno-managerial solution; it is not about the ‘miracle’ of Zoom. The real question is what you teach, and how you communicate at this moment when death is statistics —faceless and anonymous, surveillance is normalised in the age of ‘distancing’, fear is all-pervading, and societal cleavages are distinctively clear. If as teachers we pretend that existentially and psychologically our students and their families are ‘normal’, and the same business can go on as usual, we are deceiving ourselves. The other day a student of mine informed me that her aunt was diagnosed with coronavirus. What do I do? Do I ask her to sit in front of the laptop, and force her to listen to my monologue on ‘snowball sampling’ or other techniques of social research that I am supposed to teach as a professor of sociology? Or do I engage with her deeply and meaningfully, and converse with her on pain and suffering, prayers and redemption, and patience and endurance? Or imagine a Class 7 student in the suburb of Delhi who sees his anxiety-ridden father as he has lost his job, and experiences psychic and emotional turmoil in the family. Should the social science teacher fail him if he fails to upload the assignment on ‘fundamental rights’ and ‘directive principles’? Or should she send her a letter with the healing touch, and one day initiate a conversation with the entire class on the gap between the Constitutional ideals and the actual practice of oppression and exploitation: something which is so clear at this time when migrant workers are allowed to die in ‘Shramik Special’ trains, and the gated communities close their door for the entire brigade of ‘maids and servants’. Our students need conversations, positive vibrations and liberating education that sees life as a ‘text’. At this juncture, this is important; and there would be no harm even if they miss a series of bookish lectures.   Second, we also need to reflect on the way the vocation of teaching has been systematically destroyed and killed. Well, Paulo Friere might urge a teacher to be ‘dialogic’; Martin Buber might celebrate the relationship between the teacher and the student as a ‘communion’; or Jiddu Krishnamurti might imagine a teacher as a catalyst helping the child for inner flowering. However, our techno-managers and policymakers laugh at these ideals; they have already reduced us into cogs in a learning machine. We are robbed of our agency and reflexivity. We only ‘cover’ the syllabus, over which we have no control. Moreover, these days we are mere tabulators and data providers engaged in the act of documenting the attendance of students, the grades they get in all sorts of exams, and the ‘skills’ we teach. Tired, alienated and dreamless — we are just docile performers. And software experts, politically appointed vice chancellors, unimaginative policymakers, corporate elites and even fancy NGOs can ‘experiment’ with us, instruct us what to teach and how to teach, and give us a couple of lessons to become ‘market-friendly’, ‘smart’ and ‘efficient’. These days, education is a good business. Is it the reason that even in this stormy time of socio-existential crisis, we have failed to see beyond the official task of the hugely problematic ‘online teaching’ and ‘covering’ the syllabus?   (The writer is Professor of Sociology, JNU)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/teachers-as-healers-849968.html
15-06-2020||National||Souring ties with Nepal a setback for India’s move to re-assert leadership in South Asia||As the upper house of Nepal’s Parliament too is now set to endorse the new map its government-issued showing within its territory nearly 400 sq. km of areas claimed by India, it is now going to be difficult for New Delhi to work with Kathmandu to find a middle ground and settle the territorial dispute. The National Assembly—the upper house of Nepalese Parliament – on Sunday accepted the proposal to consider the Bill to amend the country’s Constitution to endorse the new map, which included the territory claimed by India – Lipulekh Pass, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani. The lower house – House of Representatives – already passed the Bill on Saturday. Once the National Assembly too passes the Bill early next week and President Bidya Devi Bhandari gives her ascent to it, Nepal’s boundary with India as shown in the new map will be its official claim-line, which the future governments led by the successors of Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli will find it difficult to scale back. The conflicting territorial claim is thus going to be an irritant in New Delhi’s relations with Kathmandu for quite a long time and that is what will give an advantage to China, which has since long been competing with India for geopolitical influence in Nepal. The setback for New Delhi could not have at a worse time. The stand-off along India’s disputed boundary with China in eastern Ladakh is yet to be resolved. China is likely to keep supporting Pakistan’s attempts to internationalise the dispute with India over Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), just as it tried to do after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government moved to strip the state of its special status and reorganised it into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019. Islamabad in fact already rushed to take advantage of the renewed focus on India’s border stand-off with China, accusing New Delhi of pursuing expansionist aspirations. The downslide in its ties with Nepal is also a setback for India’s recent move to reassert its leadership in the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation). Kathmandu had extended its support to New Delhi when the Modi Government had decided to opt-out of the SAARC summit in Islamabad in 2016 to protest a series of terror attacks launched from Pakistan targeting military facilities in India. During a phone-all on April 10, Oli had in fact lauded Modi for taking the initiative in coordinating the SAARC’s response to the pandemic. A month later, Nepalese Prime Minister, however, decided to ratchet up his country’s territorial dispute with India and take a hard line – apparently after being nudged by China’s envoy to Nepal, Hou Yanqi, who helped save his government and brokered a truce between him and the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s other leader, Pushpa Kamal Dahal a.k.a. Prachanda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/souring-ties-with-nepal-a-setback-for-india-s-move-to-re-assert-leadership-in-south-asia-849566.html
15-06-2020||National||Union Health Ministry relaxes guidelines on handing over bodies of suspected COVID-19 cases to families||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday relaxed the guidelines on handing over the bodies of suspected COVID-19 cases to relatives for cremation to ensure that they do not have to wait for laboratory confirmation of the infection. The ministry on Sunday wrote to the Delhi government, saying the bodies of suspected COVID-19 cases should be handed over to their relatives without waiting for laboratory confirmation but the mortal remains should be treated as per the government guidelines. The letter, signed by Directorate General of Health Services Dr Rajiv Garg and addressed to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, was posted on the Twitter handle of the health ministry's website after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held two high-level meetings on management of the worrying COVID-19 situation in Delhi on Sunday. "In a letter issued by #DGHS to #Delhi Govt, guidelines on handing over of #dead bodies of suspect #COVID19 cases to relatives for #cremation have been relaxed to ensure that families do not need to wait until the result of lab report," Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted. The first meeting was attended by Delhi's Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Vardhan and top officials of the Union Home and Health Ministries, while the second was with mayors and commissioners of Delhi's three municipal corporations. Baijal, Kejriwal and Vardhan also attended Shah's meeting with mayors and municipal commissioners. "Please refer to the issue raised regarding deaths of suspect COVID-19 patients and bodies not being handed over to the relatives pending confirmation of test report by hospitals. "I would like to clarify that the dead bodies of such suspected COVID-19 cases should be handed over to their relatives immediately and laboratory confirmation of COVID should not be awaited," Garg said in the letter. These bodies can as a matter of abundant precaution be disposed as per the guidelines on dead body management issued by the health ministry. If such cases test positive eventually then the requisite action for contact, tracking should be carried out subsequently, the letter stated. Vardhan also posted an official order according to which three teams have been constituted by the Centre to inspect Delhi hospitals to guide them on clinical management of COVID-19 cases. "Pursuant to consultations between the central government and the Delhi government it is felt that a rapid assessment should be made of the existing capacity, patient care amenities, and associated aspects of COVID-Care facilities in the Delhi government in order to inform efficient and timely decision making," the order stated. Teams of domain knowledge experts comprising doctors from AIIMS, Delhi, DGHS, Union Health Ministry and the Delhi government assisted by officers from the municipal councils have been constituted.  The teams will inspect the major dedicated COVID-19 facilities under the Delhi government and suggest specific measures for betterment of facilities and patient care services. The doctors from All India Institute Of Medical Sciences and Directorate General of Health Services are empowered to co-opt other doctors from their institutes or organisation to assist them in their endeavour, the order said. The number of COVID-19 cases has rapidly approached the 39,000-mark in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-ministry-relaxes-guidelines-on-handing-over-bodies-of-suspected-covid-19-cases-to-families-849574.html
15-06-2020||National||Maharashtra: Heavy rain floods ground floor of COVID-19 hospital||Heavy pre-monsoon showers in Maharashtra's Jalgaon district led to flooding of the ground floor of the COVID-19 hospital, forcing its staff to shift patients to upper floors in midnight, an official said on Sunday. The city in north Maharashtra started receiving downpour on Saturday late night which continued for at least two hours, said an official from the Godavari Medical College where COVID-19 patients were being treated. The patients were on the ground floor as many of them and their relatives are more than 50-year old, he said. "There were some 12 patients on the ground floor. The same floor also has an emergency ward for accident patients. The late night showers caused flooding in the ground floor and within few hours, we were standing in knee deep water," recalled the official. He said patients were shifted to upper floors while some machinery and equipment was left on the ground floor. Former Jalgaon district guardian minister Girish Mahajan of the BJP described the situation as "horrible". "Bureaucracy is clueless. There is no planning, no proper person to lead from the front, and above all the state government has a little concern towards such issues," he said. The official blamed construction of a highway near the hospital for the flooding.   "Since the height of the road is elevated, it created a slope towards the hospital," he claimed. District guardian minister Gulabrao Patil also concurred with the view of the official. "The ongoing four-laning work of the highway has led to water rushing towards the hospital. I have instructed officials to complete the work at the earliest so that similar situation does not arise again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-heavy-rain-floods-ground-floor-of-covid-19-hospital-849578.html
15-06-2020||National||India reasserts claim on PoK, Pakistan accuses it of pursuing expansionist agenda||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday re-asserted India’s claim on the territory currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan, even as Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad accused New Delhi “igniting border disputes with every neighbour”. Notwithstanding continuing stand-off along India’s disputed boundary with China and escalation of its territorial row with Nepal, Singh said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government in New Delhi would never compromise on “national pride”. He, however, added that New Delhi was keen to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between India and China through talks and so was Beijing. “Our government has been successful in sending the message that Jammu and Kashmir's development is its priority,” the Defence Minister said. He added that the Modi Government’s August 2019 move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganizing the state into two Union Territories had paved the way for speeding up development of the region. “Our effort in the next five years will be to change its face so much that people of PoK (Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir) will feel envious. They will wish that if they were part of India, then their fate too would have changed,” he said, addressing a virtual Jana-Samvad rally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Let’s wait for what happens in future. There will be demand from PoK to be freed of Pakistan's occupation and to live with India. When this happens, then Parliament’s resolution (stating that the PoK is an integral part of India) will also be fulfilled,” said the Defence Minister. His comment came on a day Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi cited the continuing stand-off along India’s disputed boundary with China in eastern Ladakh and the escalation of its territorial row with Nepal to accuse the Modi Government in New Delhi of pursuing expansionist aspirations. “Perhaps with necessary introspection, the current Indian government would be less focused on igniting border disputes with every neighbour, behaving like an expansionist nation, and more focused on serving the poor, downtrodden and minorities of India better,” Qureshi posted on Twitter on Sunday. A scuffle between Indian and Chinese soldiers on May 5 on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh led to a stand-off. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deployed a large number of soldiers along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations – and hundreds of them transgressed the line in multiple locations to enter several kilometers inside India. The Indian Army also deployed additional troops in “adequate numbers” and the build-ups by both sides escalated tension between the two nations.  Though the talks between diplomats and senior military officials of India and China led to disengagement in the Galwan Valley area over the past few days, the more-than-five-week-long stand-off on the bank of Pangong Tso continued till the latest report came in on Sunday. "This is also our effort to defuse the tussle between India and China through military and diplomatic level talks," the Defence Minister said. “I want to assure that we will not compromise with national pride under any circumstance. India has become strong in its national security. India is no longer a weak India. Our strength has risen. But this strength is not meant to frighten anyone. If we are increasing our strength we are doing so to secure our country,” said Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reasserts-claim-on-pok-pakistan-accuses-it-of-pursuing-expansionist-agenda-849591.html
15-06-2020||National||Hand over bodies of suspected COVID-19 cases to families without waiting for lab reports, Amit Shah orders||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday ordered authorities to hand over the bodies of suspected COVID-19 cases in Delhi to relatives without waiting for laboratory confirmation of infection but the mortal remains should be treated with precaution and as per the government guidelines. A home ministry spokesperson also said that three teams of four doctors each have been formed with doctors from AIIMS, and central and Delhi governments to inspect the healthcare facilities dedicated to fight the COVID-19 pandemic in the national capital. "In compliance with orders of @HMOIndia @AmitShah, @MoHFW_INDIA directs that bodies of suspected #COVID19 cases be handed over to relatives immediately without waiting for lab. confirmation; bodies to be disposed of with precaution as per Health Min guidelines dated 15.03.2020," the spokesperson tweeted. The spokesperson added that the AIIMS hospital in Delhi has set up a 24x7 COVID-19 helpline for English and Hindi callers to take OPD appointments and talk to volunteers while doctors can talk to consultants. The 'CoNTec AIIMS' helpline number is 9115444155. The CoNTeC, an acronym for COVID-19 National Teleconsultation Centre, has been conceptualised by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and has been implemented by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. "As per @HMOIndia directions, @MoHFW_INDIA has set up 3 teams of 4 doctors each from AIIMS Delhi, DGHS, MOHFW &  #GNCTD, assisted by MCD officials; teams to inspect major dedicated #COVID19 facilities proposed in Delhi & make recommendations for improvement," the spokesperson said in another tweet. The announcements were made by the Home Ministry after two high-level meetings Home Minister Shah held on management of the worrying COVID-19 situation in Delhi on Sunday. The first meeting was attended by Delhi's Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and top officials of the Union Home and Health Ministries, while the second was with with mayors and commissioners of Delhi's three municipal corporations. Baijal, Kejriwal and Vardhan also attended Shah's meeting with mayors and municipal commissioners. The number of COVID-19 cases has rapidly approached the 39,000-mark in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hand-over-bodies-of-suspected-covid-19-cases-to-families-without-waiting-for-lab-reports-amit-shah-orders-849594.html
15-06-2020||National||Centre working to stop water of India's share into Pakistan: Nitin Gadkari||Stating that water of India's share from three of six rivers in "Akhand Bharat" is flowing into Pakistan, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said the Central government is trying to stop this outflow. He said Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will get this water. Addressing virtual 'Jan Samvad' rally of Gujarat BJP from Nagpur in Maharashtra, he also said India believed in peace and non-violence and do not want to be strong by becoming an expansionist. "There were six rivers in Akhand Bharat (passing through both India and Pakistan. As per division, waters of three rivers was reserved for Pakistan, while water of other three rivers was to be used by India. Water of our share was also flowing into Pakistan," Gadkari said. He said states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh were not coming together on this issue earlier. "For the first time since 1970, I asked our (former J&K governor Satya Pal Malik and Punjab Congress CM (Amarinder Singh) to sign a treaty. We are working to stop the water from flowing into Pakistan. Now Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Himachal will get this water. Our government shows the courage to take this decision, otherwise nothing has happened since 1970," he said. He said, "Seven out of nine projects (related to division of water of rivers) where consensus had eluded states earlier have been cleared after CMs of these states were brought together to resolve the matter".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-working-to-stop-water-of-indias-share-into-pakistan-nitin-gadkari-849596.html
15-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 15, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-15-2020-edition-849611.html
15-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 15||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  3,43,131 as of June 15. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 9,912 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,69,798 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-15-849613.html
15-06-2020||National||No respite as petrol and diesel prices hiked for 9th straight day||Oil marketing companies (OMCs) on Monday increased the price of petrol and diesel for the ninth consecutive day after an 82-day break from rate revision amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic. Petrol and diesel will now cost at Rs 76.26 per litre (increase by Rs 0.48) and Rs 74.62 per litre ((increase by Rs 0.59), respectively in Delhi.  In Bengaluru, petrol will now cost 50 paise more per litre, while diesel will be costlier by 56 paise per litre.  Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. This is the ninth daily increase in rates in a row since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs, after ending an 82-day hiatus. In nine hikes, petrol price has gone up by Rs 5 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.87 a litre. The freeze in rates was imposed in mid-March soon after the government hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel to shore up additional finances. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-as-petrol-and-diesel-prices-hiked-for-9th-straight-day-849615.html
15-06-2020||National||Shashi Tharoor reacts to viral satirical video, Twitterverse picks up a dictionary||More often than not, Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor tweets a word that most do not understand. This time, it was the word 'hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia' which made the internet pick up the dictionary.  This tweet was in response to the video of comedian Saloni Gaur, also called Nazma Aapi, imitating Tharoor. She was talking about Sushmita Sen's new web series, Aarya, as she imitates the similarities between Shashi Tharoor and the character played by Chandrachur Singh. Film maker Hansal Mehta who came across this video, retweeted it, tagging Shashi Tharoor. Mehta, wrote, "This is quite brilliant. Shashi Tharoor, have you seen this?" In response, Shashi said, “Flattered by the comedic imitation. However, I would like to believe that I am not such a garrulous sesquipedalian... Clearly the artiste on the screen does not suffer from hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia!” Flattered by the comedic imitation. However, I would like to believe that I am not such a garrulous sesquipedalian... Clearly the artiste on the screen does not suffer from hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia! The tweet sent netizens in a frenzy, many replied with screenshots of what the words meant, while others turned this into an opportunity for memes.  User @jameelsjam tweeted, “Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia is one of the longest words in the dictionary — and, in an ironic twist, is the name for a fear of long words. Sesquipedalophobia is another term for the social phobia,” pointing out the irony in the usage of the word. User @folitically, tweeted a gif, with the caption, “Me trying to find the meaning of those two word” Another user, @liberalbillu, tweeted, “If anything , we're certainly getting a hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia” If anything , we're certainly getting a hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia😰 😹😹 However, this is not the first instance of Shashi Tharoor using the word 'hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia'. In 2018, when he launched his book, The Paradoxical Prime Minister, for the first time he tweeted this word evoking a similar reaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-reacts-to-viral-satirical-video-twitterverse-picks-up-a-dictionary-849642.html
15-06-2020||National||Maharashtra Police ask people not to post pictures of deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput||Maharashtra Police's cyber department has asked people to refrain from circulating online pictures of the body of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found hanging in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra area. Terming it as a "disturbing trend", it warned that circulation of such pictures could attract legal action. Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment on Sunday, sending shockwaves rippling through the Hindi film industry and elsewhere. Later, some people circulated pictures of the actor's body on social media platforms, following which the state police's cyber department said it was in "bad taste". A disturbing trend has been observed on Social Media platforms by Maharashtra Cyber that pictures of deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput are being circulated, which are disturbing and in bad taste," it tweeted late Sunday night."It is emphasised that circulation of such pictures is against legal guidelines and court directions, and are liable to invite legal action," it added. Urging netizens to refrain from posting such photos, the cyber department said the pictures already circulated should be deleted henceforth. "In the digital age, every piece of information we read or watch needs to be cross-checked, verified and we all have to be careful before believing or forwarding them," it said. After the actor's death, police said no note was found at the spot. Police sources also said they did not find any foul play in their initial investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-police-ask-people-not-to-post-pictures-of-deceased-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-849653.html
15-06-2020||National||Two officials of the High Commission of India in Islamabad missing||Two officials of the High Commission of India in Islamabad went missing on Monday. The officials went out of the premises of the High Commission of India in Islamabad for official work in the morning and have been reportedly missing since. The High Commission took up the matter with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government, sources in New Delhi said. The incident comes a fortnight after India expelled two consular officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi after they were found to be involved in espionage. New Delhi on June 4 lodged a complaint with the Pakistan Government after its diplomats in Islamabad were harassed by the agents of the neighbouring country’s military spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).   New Delhi lodged the complaint after the ISI agents on bikes aggressively followed the official car of India’s acting envoy to Pakistan, Gaurav Ahluwalia, on the streets of Islamabad. The ISI agents also surrounded the residential complex of the officials of the High Commission of India in the diplomatic enclave of the capital of Pakistan – apparently in a bid to intimidate them, sources said in New Delhi. The harassment of the India’s diplomats and consular officials in Pakistan appeared to be retaliation by the ISI after New Delhi expelled its two undercover agents. Abid Hussain and Muhammad Tahir, both ISI agents, had been living in New Delhi under the guise of consular officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in the capital of India. India had on May 31 declared both Hussain and Tahir as “Persona Non Grata” and asked Pakistan to withdraw them from India within 24 hours. They had left New Delhi early in the morning on June 1 and crossed over to Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah border between India and its western neighbour in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-officials-of-the-high-commission-of-india-in-islamabad-missing-849666.html
15-06-2020||National||Two elephants found dead inside reserve forest in Odisha||Two wild elephants have been found dead inside a reserve forest area in Odisha's Keonjhar district, with a preliminary probe suggesting that the animals were killed by poachers, officials said on Monday. The carcasses of the female and male elephants were recovered by forest officials near Gurubeda area from Baitarani (B) reserve forest on Sunday following inputs from locals, a forest official said. The tusks of the male elephant were missing and efforts are on to ascertain the actual cause of the death of the jumbos, he said. The female elephant was around 20-year-old and the carcass seemed to be lying there for more than a week. The tusker, aged around 22 years, was suspected to have died around three days ago. Preliminary investigation indicated that the animals were killed by poachers as the tusks of the male elephant were missing. However, the exact cause would be ascertained after autopsy and a thorough probe, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-elephants-found-dead-inside-reserve-forest-in-odisha-849677.html
15-06-2020||National||GSEB Gujarat HSB 12th Result 2020 declared: How to check result||The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has declared the results of HSC class 12th Arts and Commerce examinations on Monday.  A total of 3.7 lakh (3,71,771) students appeared in the exam out of which 2.83 lakh (2,83,624) became successful. The pass percentage touched at 76.29 percent. Here's how students can check the results:  2. Enter your 6-digit seat number.  3. Your result will be displayed on the screen.  Alternative websites where you can check your result: Step 2: On the homepage, select the state you desire, in this case, 'Gujarat'. Step 3: Once directed to the page, check for the Higher Secondary Education Board Class 12 'Arts and Commerce' 2020 box. Step 4: Enter your name, hall ticket number and date of birth as mentioned in your admit card. Step 5: As soon as the details are submitted, the result will appear on the screen. Step 6: Candidates are advised to take a printout for future reference. You can also save a soft copy on email. How to check result via SMS Students can also send an SMS in the format —HSC <space> SEAT NUMBER — to 56263 to get their results on their phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gseb-gujarat-hsb-12th-result-2020-declared-how-to-check-result-849678.html
15-06-2020||National||Case against NHAI after accident on potholed road||A case has been registered against the National Highways Authority of India after a person died in a bike accident on a potholed road near here, police said on Monday. The incident occurred on Sunday night when the bike on which two brothers were travelling collided with the divider. One of them was killed and another seriously injured, Kotwali police station in-charge Anil Kapervan said. The victim's kin has alleged that the accident occurred as the road had many potholes and was not repaired. Acting on a complaint, a case has been registered against the NHAI for not repairing the road, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-against-nhai-after-accident-on-potholed-road-849686.html
15-06-2020||National||Spike in cigarette smuggling during COVID-19 lockdown, says FICCI CASCADE||Industry chamber FICCI's arm on Monday said several cases of seizures by enforcement agencies of smuggled imported cigarettes reported in the last few months indicate a spike in cigarette smuggling during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. FICCI CASCADE (Committee Against Smuggling and Counterfeiting Activities Destroying the Economy), said the seizure of foreign brand cigarettes worth Rs 11.88 crore from a container at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Navi Mumbai on June 12, by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) is one of the biggest seizures since lockdown. "The trend is nationwide, with seizures intercepted via road transport, in cargo and passenger luggage," FICCI CASCADE said in a statement.  Expressing concern FICCI CASCADE Chairman Anil Rajput said, "cigarette smuggling is a big racket across the globe and India continues to remain a hot bed for this menace. Even as the country is grappling with the coronavirus crisis, the seizures of such goods remain high." Citing a recent study, FICCI CASCADE said while cigarette smuggling has now become highly lucrative activity, it has caused 3.34 lakh job losses and urged for more active vigilance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spike-in-cigarette-smuggling-during-covid-19-lockdown-says-ficci-cascade-849687.html
15-06-2020||National||11,502 more COVID-19 cases, 325 deaths in India||India saw a jump of over 11,000 novel coronavirus cases for the third consecutive day on Monday, taking the total number of infections to over 3.32 lakh, while the toll rose to 9,520 with 325 more deaths, the Health Ministry said. There are 1,53,106 active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), while 1,69,797 people have recovered and a patient has migrated, according to the ministry data updated in the morning. Therefore, 51.07 per cent of the patients have recovered so far, an official said. The number of confirmed cases rose to 3,32,424 with 11,502 new infections in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. As many as 120 out of the 325 more deaths were from Maharashtra, followed by 56 from Delhi, 38 from Tamil Nadu and 29 in Gujarat. There were 14 more fatalities in Uttar Pradesh, 12 each in West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, and 10 each in Rajasthan and Haryana. Five COVID-19 deaths were reported from Karnataka, followed by four in Jammu and Kashmir, three each in Telangana and Puducherry, and two each in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Punjab. A person each succumbed to the infection in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha. India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is in the ninth position in terms of the death toll.  Of the total 9,520 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,950 fatalities, followed 1,477 by Gujarat and 1,327 in Delhi. The toll from the pandemic rose to 475 in West Bengal, 459 in Madhya Pradesh, 435 in Tamil Nadu and 399 in Uttar Pradesh. There have been 292 COVID-19 deaths in Rajasthan and 185 in Telangana. The number of fatalities reached 88 in Haryana, 86 in Karnataka, 84 in Andhra Pradesh, and 67 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 59 COVID-19 deaths, followed by 39 in Bihar, 24 in Uttarakhand and 19 in Kerala. Odisha registered 11 coronavirus deaths so far, followed by eight each in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Assam, and seven in Himachal Pradesh. Five people have succumbed to the contagion in Chandigarh and Puducherry, and one each in Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh, the ministry said. More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, it added. The maximum number of cases are from Maharashtra with 1,07,958 infections, followed by 44,661 in Tamil Nadu, 41,182 in Delhi and 23,544 in Gujarat. The tally rose to 13,615 in Uttar Pradesh, 12,694 in Rajasthan and 11,087 in West Bengal. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 10,802 in Madhya Pradesh, 7,208 in Haryana, 7,000 in Karnataka, and 6,470 in Bihar. As many as 6,163 people have contracted the deadly disease in Andhra Pradesh, followed by 5,041 in Jammu and Kashmir, 4,974 in Telangana, 4,049 in Assam and 3,909 in Odisha. There are 3,140 cases of the pathogen in Punjab and 2,461 in Kerala, while 1,819 people have been infected in Uttarakhand and 1,745 in Jharkhand. A total of 1,662 people are afflicted with the disease in Chhattisgarh, followed by 1,076 in Tripura, 564 in Goa and 518 in Himachal Pradesh. The number of coronavirus cases rose to 458 in Manipur, 549 in Ladakh and 352 in Chandigarh. Puducherry has registered 194 COVID-19 cases so far, followed by 168 in Nagaland, 112 in Mizoram and 91 in Arunachal Pradesh. Sikkim has 68 COVID-19 cases, while there are 44 infections in Meghalaya and 38 in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Dadar and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have registered 36 COVID-19 cases so far. The figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the ministry said, adding that 6,972 cases were being reassigned to states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11502-more-covid-19-cases-325-deaths-in-india-849690.html
15-06-2020||National||Centre begins search for next Rashtriya Ispat Nigam chairman||The government has started the process to select the next chairman of steel-producer Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL), according to a Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) notification. P K Rath, the current chairman of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL) is scheduled to retire in May 2021. He assumed the position in September 2018. However, the chairman of a public sector undertaking can get an extension upon the government's approval. The PESB, under the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, is responsible for the selection and placement of chairman, managing director or chairman-cum-managing director, and functional director in public sector enterprises (PSEs) as well as in posts at any other level as may be specified by the government. According to a PESB notification, the appointee would be accountable to the company's board of directors and Government of India. The person would be responsible for the efficient functioning of the company and for achieving its corporate objectives and performance parameters. While the minimum age of an applicant should be 45, he or she must be a graduate with a good academic record from a recognised university or institution, it said. In terms of experience, the applicant should have adequate experience at a senior level of management in an organisation of repute. Applicants with experience in finance, marketing and production will have added advantage. The notification also said a person working with state PSEs or private sector companies can also apply for the post, but he or she should be working at a board-level position. While an applicant from the central government or all-India services can also apply, if he or she conveys unwillingness in joining the post after the interview is held, the person would be debarred for a period of two years for being considered for a board-level position in any central PSE. The same will happen if the person does so after issuance of the offer letter, it said. The age of superannuation is 60 years, and the last date to submit entries is August 20, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-begins-search-for-next-rashtriya-ispat-nigam-chairman-849694.html
15-06-2020||National||India sends tacit message to China, says no one can break its ties with Nepal||India on Monday sent out a tacit message to China, stating that “no power in the world” could break its bond with its northern neighbour Nepal.   Defence Minister Rajnath Singh struck a conciliatory note to soothe the ruffled feathers in Kathmandu, two days after the House of Representatives – the lower house of Nepal’s Parliament – endorsed the new map, which the government of the neighbouring country recently issued showing within its territory nearly 400 sq. km of areas claimed by India. Singh said the 80-kilometer-road New Delhi built from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to Lipulekh Pass was well within the territory of India. He, however, also acknowledged the road built by India created “some misunderstanding” in neighbouring Nepal.     “If the road from Dharchula to Lipulekh Pass created any misunderstanding in Nepal, we will resolve it through dialogue. But I want to say it with firm conviction that no Indian could have in mind any bitterness for the people of Nepal,” Singh said, addressing a virtual Jan Samvad rally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The government sources in New Delhi, however, put the onus of creating “positive and conducive atmosphere” for talks on Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s Government in Kathmandu. The sources said that Kathmandu had not responded to New Delhi’s repeated offers for talks between Foreign Secretaries of India and Nepal to settle the boundary dispute, as the two sides had agreed upon in 2014. They also said that the Oli Government had ratcheted up the India-Nepal boundary dispute for the sake of domestic political interests. The sources pointed out that by issuing Nepal’s new maps and including in its territory areas claimed by India, Oli Government had pre-judged the outcome of any bilateral engagement to settle the dispute and violated the understanding between the two sides to settle the row through dialogues.   Singh on Monday said that India and Nepal “shared not only social, geographical, historical and cultural ties, but also a spiritual relation” and “no power in the world” could break this bond between the two nations. His statement came amid suspicion in New Delhi that Beijing nudged Oli’s Government in Kathmandu to ratchet up India-Nepal territorial dispute. New Delhi suspects that Beijing’s move was apparently aimed at mounting pressure on India amid the continuing stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. He said that the road New Delhi built from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to Lipulekh Pass would make it easier for pilgrims from India to travel to Kailas Mansarovar in Tibet Autonomous Region of China. The road is one of the four New Delhi had decided to expeditiously build to link high-altitude mountain passes along the Line of Actual Control – the de facto boundary between India and China – after the June-August, 2017 stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA. The road would make it easier for the Indian Army to mobilize troops in case of a conflict situation on the disputed India-China boundary near the Lipulekh Pass.   The Defence Minister, however, on Monday did not mention the strategic significance of the new road, which he himself had inaugurated during a video-conference in New Delhi on May 8, triggering protests from Kathmandu which had alleged that the road built by India passed through the territory of Nepal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-tacit-message-to-china-says-no-one-can-break-its-ties-with-nepal-849696.html
15-06-2020||National||SC refuses to stay notification diluting rules under PCPNDT Act||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to stay the April 4 notification on mandatory registration of labs, clinics and maintenance of records relating to pre-conception, pregnancy etc during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic till June 30. A bench, presided over by Justice U U Lalit said that it won't be possible to interfere at this stage. "It is a national crisis right now and the doctors' services are required to be conserved for the pandemic," the bench said. A PIL filed by a Kerala resident, Sabu Mathews George, contended that the notification issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare was "illegal and arbitrary''. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh appeared for him. The court, however, issued notices to the Union government and others on the plea. It also granted liberty to the petitioner to raise the issue if the notification is renewed beyond June 30. The court decided to consider the matter next in the third week of July. The petitioner said the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994 (the PCPNDT Act), does not give any powers for the suspension of the Rules. He contended that the central government has arbitrarily and selectively weakened a legislation aimed at curbing the pernicious activity of sex-selection and sex-determination. "The number of girls missing at birth due to the practice of gender-biased sex selection in India has been estimated at 0.46 million girls per year for the period 2001-12, which is a total of 5.52 million girl children, missing at birth for the 12-year period."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-stay-notification-diluting-rules-under-pcpndt-act-849701.html
15-06-2020||National||China and Pakistan have more Nuclear weapons than India: Report||Asian powerhouses India and China have expanded their nuclear arsenal in the last one year, but the stockpile of the third Asian nuke nation, Pakistan remains more or less the same, says a new report from a European think-tank on disarmament. Both China and Pakistan have more N-weapons than India. India is estimated to have 150 N-weapons (as against 130-140 estimated last year) whereas Pakistan has 160 such weapons (150-160 estimated last year), according to the report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute on Monday. China on the other hand has augmented its N-weapon reserve by adding 30 more warheads from last year's estimate of 290 such weapons. The Chinese increase is due to the fact that it is in the middle of a significant modernisation of its nuclear arsenal.  The communist country is developing a so-called nuclear triad for the first time, made up of new land- and sea-based missiles and nuclear-capable aircraft.  India and Pakistan too are slowly increasing the size and diversity of their nuclear forces. Globally the nine nuclear-armed states — the USA, Russia, the UK, France, China, India, Pakistan, Israel and North Korea — together possessed an estimated 13,400 nuclear weapons at the start of 2020.  This marked a decrease from the 13,865 nuclear weapons that SIPRI estimated these states possessed at the beginning of 2019. The fissile raw material for nuclear weapons is either highly enriched uranium or separated plutonium.  China, France, Russia, the UK and the USA produce both HEU and plutonium for use in their nuclear weapons whereas India and Israel use mainly plutonium.  Pakistan primarily relies on the HEU but has begun to increase its ability to produce plutonium, says the SIPRI report. On conventional weapons, India remains the world's second largest importer. The five largest arms importers were Saudi Arabia, India, Egypt, Australia and China, which together accounted for 36 per cent of the world's total arms imports With a spending of more than $71 billion,  India became the third biggest spender on the military after the USA ($ 732 billion) and China ($ 261 billion) in 2019. Saudi Arabia fell to the fifth position from the third slot it occupied in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-and-pakistan-have-more-nuclear-weapons-than-india-report-849704.html
15-06-2020||National||PM Modi dials Haryana home minister Vij, enquires about his well-being||Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij, who is recuperating in a Mohali hospital after undergoing surgery for a fractured thigh bone, and enquired about his well-being on Monday. "In the morning at 9:44, Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned me to enquire about my well-being," Vij, who is also the state's health minister, said in a tweet. He added that all his pain went away after receiving the phone call from the prime minister. "...that you are so concerned about an ordinary worker like me, for this I express my deep gratitude," Vij said. The minister later told PTI that the prime minister spoke to him for over five minutes and wished him a speedy recovery. "He spoke to me for over five minutes. When he asked me how I slipped, I told the prime minister that I had an important official meeting scheduled later in the day and was in a hurry trying to get ready and then, suddenly this happened," Vij said over the phone. He said the prime minister told him that he should take care of his health. Vij (67) is likely to be in the hospital for about a week. The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, fractured his left thigh bone when he slipped in the bathroom of his Ambala Cantonment residence while taking a bath on Tuesday. A day later, he underwent a surgery at the hospital in Mohali. After the incident on Tuesday, the senior BJP leader was first taken to a private hospital in Ambala Cantonment, where a team of senior doctors examined him. Later, he was taken to the private hospital in Mohali. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has twice visited the Mohali hospital and enquired about Vij's health. Vij, the six-time MLA from Ambala Cantonment, had gone to the bathroom on the first floor of his residence, where he slipped and fell down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-dials-haryana-home-minister-vij-enquires-about-his-well-being-849711.html
15-06-2020||National||Significant improvement in curbing COVID-19 in MP: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has claimed there has been a significant improvement in curbing the spread of COVID-19 in the state. During a video conference on Sunday evening to review the situation and arrangements being made across Madhya Pradesh for tackling the COVID-19 crisis, Chouhan said the state stands second in the country in terms of recovery rate, and eighth in the number of cases. "All COVID-19 parameters in the state have improved significantly. On Sunday, the number of active cases came down by 151 after 300 patients recovered and went home. Now our active cases are 2,666," a public relations official quoted the chief minister as saying. "The doubling time of cases in the state has increased to 34.1 days and the recovery rate has gone up to 71.1 per cent. These are very good signs for the state," Chouhan said. Madhya Pradesh stands second in the country in terms of recovery rate after Rajasthan, which has the highest recovery rate of 75.3 per cent, he said. The recovery rate in Gujarat is 68.9 per cent, Uttar Pradesh- 60 per cent and Tamil Nadu- 54.8 per cent, he said, adding that the country's recovery rate is 50.6 per cent. Till Sunday, Madhya Pradesh reported 10,802 COVID-19 cases and 459 deaths due to the disease. The chief minister said the pace of COVID-19 spread in the state has been the slowest in the country. The doubling time of cases in Madhya Pradesh is 34.1 days, while that of the country is 18.4 days. The doubling time in Gujarat has been 30.2 days, Rajasthan 26.7 days, Maharashtra 21 days and Uttar Pradesh 18.6 days, he said. Chouhan further said the death rate in the state has to be minimised, for which best medical care should be ensured in all hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. Treatment protocols should be followed completely and special attention should be paid to every patient, he said. Following the easing of restrictions, people need to be made aware that they should take all necessary precautions, the chief minister said. Wearing masks, maintaining distance of two yards (six feet), washing hands with soap frequently, using sanitiser, and not spitting are all essential, he said, adding that public support should be taken to spread this awareness. During the meeting, a senior health official informed that Madhya Pradesh's Indore ranked 7th among the 15 cities most affected by COVID-19 in the country. The state capital Bhopal, which was earlier in the list, is not among them now, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/significant-improvement-in-curbing-covid-19-in-mp-chouhan-849712.html
15-06-2020||National||AIPEF urges PM to put Electricity Bill on hold||The All India Power Engineers Federation has appealed to the prime minister to put the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill on hold as it is against the federal structure of the country wherein electricity is a concurrent subject.  The Ministry of Power had circulated the draft bill for feedback of the stakeholders in April this year.  In a letter dated June 13 to the prime minister, the Federation said, a large number of states have raised serious objections to the proposed amendments as these are against the federal structure of the country.  The amendments seek to erode the working of Regulatory Commissions and dictate on issues of the tariff, DBT (Direct benefit Transfer), subsidy, Electricity Tribunal ECEA (Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority), payment security issues, etc, which are clearly in purview of the state policy, it stated.  Under such circumstances, the bill must be withdrawn. Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh,West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Puducherry have already expressed their strong objections, it said. In view of objections from states, the bill would certainly require extended discussion and debate in both Houses of Parliament which would not be possible under constraints of virtual participation, the All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) said.  It makes it all the more necessary and urgent that the bill must be referred to the Standing Committee on Energy so that states and stakeholders including consumer organisations and employee and engineers associations can submit their objections in detail, it said.  The amendments sought are far too draconian to be rushed through and certainly deserve the detailed feedback from states, it opined.  The amendments are further based on the agenda of privatization which is not justified for a key infrastructure such as electricity, it added.  AIPEF spokersperson V K Gupta said that on June 14 , the Federation had written to all the chief ministers urging  them to represent to the prime minister that the proposed amendments to Electricity Act 2003 are not acceptable and that the bill must be put on hold. The power ministry is trying to push through the draft amendments and acting against the spirit of democratic functioning without prior discussions, Gupta added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aipef-urges-pm-to-put-electricity-bill-on-hold-849721.html
15-06-2020||National||SC asks Andhra Pradesh HC to decide on LG Polymer's plea||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Andhra Pradesh High Court to decide by next week a plea by the LG Polymer for de-sealing of its Vizag plant, where leakage had claimed the lives of 11 and left over two dozen people seriously injured. A bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit also passed a restraint order for 10 days on disbursal of Rs 50 crore that the company deposited with the National Green Tribunal as per its interim order. The bench said as the High Court's vacation was over, it can dispose of all applications as early as possible, preferably by the end of next week. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the South Korean company LG Polymers. Among others, the company has challenged the May 8 order by the NGT taking suo motu cognisance of the leakage of hazardous gas, Styrene at the plant. The green panel had on June 1 held that it had power for taking Suo Motu cognisance. It then noted apparent failure of the company to comply with rules related to hazardous substance. The court posted the matter for consideration after two weeks. A gas leakage tragedy at LG Polymer's facility on May 7 had claimed lives of 11 people and left over two dozens grievously injured. Among others, the company challenged the NGT's order to form a fact-finding panel, headed by former judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court, B Seshasayana Reddy J to look into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-andhra-pradesh-hc-to-decide-on-lg-polymers-plea-849729.html
15-06-2020||National||Bombay High Court permits airlines to allow passengers on middle seats||The Bombay High Court on Monday permitted all flight operators to allow passengers to occupy middle seats in flights, but said they should strictly comply with guidelines of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade refused to accept the contentions raised in a petition filed by Air India pilot Deven Kanani, who said the middle seats of all international and domestic flights should be kept vacant to prevent the spread of coronavirus. "We are of the prima facie view that the safety and health of passengers on board the aircraft qua (with regard to) COVID-19 virus is adequately taken care of even if the middle seat of the aircraft is not kept vacant on account of passenger load and seat capacity, the court said. The court permitted air carriers to allow passengers to occupy the middle seat in flights, but said they should strictly comply with DGCA's guidelines on measures to be taken to prevent spread of the coronavirus. The DGCA in its May 31 circular said flight operators should try to keep the middle seat vacant but if it has been booked, then the passenger shall be provided with a wraparound gown in addition to the mask and face shield. If possible, passengers from one family or those travelling in one group could be allotted seats along with the middle seat, it said in the circular. The court in its order said it has not seen any material to show wrongdoing on part of the Air India and Air India Express or violating circulars issued by the DGCA on March 23 and endangering the lives of passengers travelling back to India from abroad in the Vande Bharat flights. The bench noted that all precautionary measures, as stipulated with regard to passengers and the crew, are complied with by all flight operators. Upon disembarkment, thermal screening of all passengers is again carried out and they are thereafter compulsorily placed under institutional quarantine for seven to 14 days. It is not established till date that any passenger, who tested positive, has been infected on board an aircraft, the court said. It further said even if the middle seat is kept vacant, the person occupying the window seat, while getting out for going to the washroom and thereafter returning to the seat, is likely to touch the person sitting on the aisle seat. The court noted that a high-level expert committee of the Ministry of Civil Aviation has specifically considered and rejected the suggestion that seats must be kept vacant between passengers. Kanani claimed theAirIndiawas violating guidelines laid down in a circular dated March 23 by the Centre, to prevent the spread of COVID-19 during air travel. TheAirIndia, however, had opposed the plea, and informed the court last month that it was following all safety precautions as prescribed by the DGCA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-high-court-permits-airlines-to-allow-passengers-on-middle-seats-849733.html
15-06-2020||National||HC seeks Delhi govt reply on Ganga Ram Hospital's plea for quashing FIR over COVID-19 norms||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the AAP government on a plea by Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) seeking quashing of an FIR lodged by Delhi Police against it for allegedly violating COVID-19 regulation norms. Justice C Hari Shankar, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, issued notice to the Delhi government and listed the matter for further hearing on August 11. On the interim plea seeking a stay on the investigation and further proceedings, the court has listed the matter for Tuesday for hearing arguments. Advocate Rohit Aggarwal, representing the hospital, said they are seeking quashing of the FIR lodged on June 5 at Rajinder Nagar police station under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and the proceedings initiated thereafter. The plea has also sought to set aside the Delhi government's June 3 order, prohibiting RT/PCR sampling for COVID- 19 suspect/contact cases with immediate effect. SGRH, a private hospital with 675 beds, was declared a COVID-19 facility by the Delhi government and told to reserve 80 per cent beds for coronavirus patients. According to the FIR, the complainant is a senior official of the Delhi Health Department, who has alleged the hospital was not using RT-PCR app while collecting COVID-19 samples. As per the guidelines, it is "mandatory" for labs to collect samples through RT-PCR app, it said. The official has also alleged that the "violation" on part of the hospital is not adhering to COVID-19 regulation norms, as specified under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. "The CDMO-cum-mission director central has mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till June 3, which is a clear violation of directions issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulation 2020 Act," the FIR said. Seeking to streamline the testing process, the Union Health Ministry launched a dedicated RT-PCR mobile-based app for labs to fill the data at the point of sample collection. Following the directives, the Delhi government made it mandatory for all lab collection and testing centres to download that app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-delhi-govt-reply-on-ganga-ram-hospitals-plea-for-quashing-fir-over-covid-19-norms-849740.html
15-06-2020||National||Modi to speak with chief ministers on Tuesday, Wednesday||Amid an unabated rise in coronavirus cases in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a fresh round of consultations with chief ministers on Tuesday and Wednesday on ways to check the spread of the virus as India exits the lockdown. On Tuesday afternoon, Modi will hold a video-conference with chief ministers, Lt governors and administrators of 21 states and Union territories. These include Punjab, Kerala, Goa, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, the northeastern states and some UTs. The prime minister will interact with chief ministers of 15 states and the LG of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. These include high case load states like Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.   The two-day virtual meet comes against the backdrop of a rising number of coronavirus cases in the country. India saw a jump of over 11,000 novel coronavirus cases for the third consecutive day on Monday, taking the total number of infections to over 3.32 lakh, while the toll rose to 9,520 with 325 more deaths. Under "Unlock 1", several relaxations have been made for public and businesses to ensure that economic activities hit by the lockdown gather momentum. Ahead of his meeting with chief ministers, the prime minister had on Saturday reviewed the steps being taken to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in areas with high case load and the road map for effective management of the situation. Modi had suggested that the home minister and the health minister convene an emergency meeting with the Delhi Lt governor and chief minister and other officials to plan a "coordinated and comprehensive response" to handle the challenge posed by rising cases of COVID-19 in Delhi. The meets suggested by the prime minister took place on Sunday. This would be the prime minister's sixth round of consultation with the chief ministers, the last being on May 11. Home Minister Amit Shah spoke with all the chief ministers over telephone in the last week of May, just before lockdown-4 was to end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-to-speak-with-chief-ministers-on-tuesday-wednesday-849743.html
15-06-2020||National||Man orders 'Communist Manifesto' online, gets copy of 'Bhagavad Gita' instead||A resident of Kolkata was in for a surprise when he opened the package of a book which he had ordered from an e-commerce website. In a comic incident he received a copy of the Bhagwat Gita instead of the Communist Manifesto which he had ordered. Narrating the hilarious incident in a social media post, Sutirtho Das said that he was not at home when the package was delivered. When he returned home from office he was surprised to see that he got a copy of Bhgwat Gita instead of the Communist Manifesto which he had ordered, books which are poles apart. Posting photos of the packed and unpacked book, he wrote in the social media post “ please read my post first and then see the photos. It will be a great laugh.” It appeared to be an abridged English version of Bhagwat Gita with 120 pages. Surprisingly, even on the invoice attached with the package the name of Communist Manifesto was written.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-orders-communist-manifesto-online-gets-copy-of-bhagavad-gita-instead-849744.html
15-06-2020||National||ICMR recommends use of rapid antigen kits for testing in containment zones, healthcare settings||As COVID-19 cases continue to surge, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the first antigen-based testing kit that could help diagnose patients much faster without rushing samples to a laboratory. The antigen test kit, developed by SD Biosensor, can deliver results within 30 minutes as against the three to four hours required for the RT-PCR test, which is considered as the most reliable diagnostic test for COVID-19. If the antigen test comes out as positive, it can be taken as a confirmation of infection, the ICMR said in an advisory issued on the use of the testing platform. However, if a person tests negative, the ICMR had recommended conducting a RT-PCR test to rule out infection. This has been advised in view of the high specificity but relatively lower sensitivity of the antigen test, the ICMR said. The research body also said that the testing kits be used for all symptomatic people with Influenza Like Illness in containment zones or hotspots, asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with co-morbidities of confirmed cases. In hospitals, the kits are to be used for all symptomatic ILI patients, asymptomatic patients who are hospitalised or seeking hospitalisation for chemotherapy and transplants or those who are over 65 years with co-morbidities. The tests have to be conducted onsite under strict medical supervision and within one hour of sample collection in the extraction buffer. The approval of the antigen test kits come in the wake of rising demands to step up testing for COVID-19 amid a surge in the confirmed cases of the highly infectious disease. As on Monday, ICMR had tested 57.74 lakh samples for COVID-19 through its network of state-run and private laboratories. On Sunday alone, the ICMR had conducted 1.15 lakh tests amid assertions that it would soon ramp up testing further. On Monday, India’s COVID-19 count increased by 11,502 to reach 3,32,424 confirmed cases of which 1,69,798 have been recovered and discharged from hospitals. The fatalities due to the disease shot up by 325 to reach 9,520.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-recommends-use-of-rapid-antigen-kits-for-testing-in-containment-zones-healthcare-settings-849749.html
15-06-2020||National||S Jaishankar to hold talks with Chinese, Russian foreign ministers on June 22||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is expected to join his Chinese and Russian counterparts at a virtual conference of the Russia-India-China trilateral on June 22, against the backdrop of a tense border standoff between Indian and Chinese militaries, diplomatic sources said on Monday. The meeting, being convened at the initiative of Russia, is expected to deliberate on a range of key issues like ways to collectively tackle the coronavirus pandemic and address common security threats, they said. It is unlikely that the the border standoff between India and China will figure in the meeting as bilateral issues are usually not discussed under the trilateral format, the sources said, citing convention. "It will be a good opportunity for all the three countries to come together and discuss regional issues in order to synchronise our views to contribute to regional stability," a senior diplomat told PTI on the condition of anonymity. Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a bitter standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in mountainous eastern Ladakh for over five weeks. Both the countries are holding talks at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the dispute. Russia has already said that India and China should resolve the border dispute through talks and that a “constructive” relationship between the two countries was important for regional stability. The trilateral meeting on June 22 was scheduled to be held in March, but had to be postponed due to the coronavirus crisis. “Constructive relationship between our Indian and Chinese friends is very important to promote regional dialogue on stability and sustainable development,” Russian Deputy Chief of Mission Roman Babushkin told PTI earlier this month. He also said that Russia was looking forward to further expanding its interaction with India and China at the upcoming meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), the BRICS and Russia-India-China trilateral forum. The three foreign ministers are also expected to deliberate extensively on the evolving political situation in Afghanistan after the US inked a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war in the country. The meeting of the RIC foreign ministers is also expected to delve into key connectivity projects in the region including the implementation of the 7,200 km-long International North–South Transport Corridor (INSTC) linking India, Iran, Afghanistan and Central Asia with Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-to-hold-talks-with-chinese-russian-foreign-ministers-on-june-22-849751.html
15-06-2020||National||PepsiCo Foundation to invest for safe water access in Maharashtra and West Bengal||PepsiCo Foundation on Monday said it will invest USD 3 million to provide safe water access to agricultural communities, and help women in high water-risk areas in West Bengal and Maharashtra in association with WaterAid. This programme aims to provide 2 lakh farmers and their families access to piped water supply for household use, and increased water resources, the company said in a statement. Besides, it will also establish community-managed water distribution systems in these communities, it added. The fresh investment in India is part of PepsiCo Foundation's new commitment to reach 100 million people with safe water access worldwide by 2030. In addition to the fresh infusion of USD 3 million, PepsiCo Foundation said it has helped more than 44 million people gain access to safe water since 2006, "far surpassing the company's goal to support 25 million people worldwide by 2025". To achieve this, PepsiCo Foundation has invested more than USD 46 million since 2005 as a founding partner or early investor in programmes with partners like Safe Water Network, Water.org, WaterAid and many other NGOs and multilateral agencies worldwide, the statement said. "As part of our company's Winning with Purpose vision, we have been working towards helping communities effectively conserve, manage, and distribute water for more than a decade," PepsiCo India President Ahmed ElSheikh said. He further said in India, the company works on several programmes that focus on water replenishment, rainwater harvesting and water supply infrastructure. "Our partnership with WaterAid helps us to achieve our goal to improve water security for communities in India," ElSheikh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pepsico-foundation-to-invest-for-safe-water-access-in-maharashtra-and-west-bengal-849753.html
15-06-2020||National||Students get exam or internal assessment options: ISCE to Bombay High Court||The Indian School Certificate Examination (ISCE) board on Monday told the Bombay High Court it would give its Class X and XII students the option to either take the pending examinations in July or have their final results determined based on internal assessment. The Maharashtra government had, however, opined that holding examinations given the current scenario was not viable. The board on Monday submitted a note to HC stating that it has decided to offer all students (in India and abroad) whose examinations are pending with an option to either take the pending exams in July or have their final results, in those subjects where exams have not been held, determined based on performance in internal assessment/pre-board examinations, results of which have already been taken from schools.  A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde was hearing a petition filed by city resident Arvind Tiwari challenging the ISCE's decision to hold its 10th standard board examinations from July 2-12 across Maharashtra. Tiwari in his petition claimed since the number of COVID-19 cases was still on the rise, it would be appropriate to declare results based on gradation and assessment of past performance in internal exams conducted by various ISCE schools. The board, in its note, said it would communicate the option to each of its affiliated schools, which in turn will be required to ascertain the option selected by the students and inform the board by June 22. The bench, after perusing the board's decision, posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. As per data submitted by ISCE, there are 226 schools in Maharashtra affiliated with it and 23,347 students are scheduled to appear for the 10th standard examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-get-exam-or-internal-assessment-options-isce-to-bombay-high-court-849754.html
15-06-2020||National||‘At least 55 journalists targeted during COVID-19 lockdown’||It's not just the COVID-19 virus but also the State that targeted journalists during the national lockdown with arrests, custodial torture, FIRs and show-cause notices, according to a report that documented at least 55 media persons facing the brunt for their reportage. The report 'India: Media’s Crackdown during COVID-19 Lockdown' said that 55 journalists "faced arrest, registration of FIRs, summons or show-causes notices, physical assaults, alleged destruction of properties and threats for reportage or exercising freedom of opinion and expression during the national lockdown" between March 25 and May 31. Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 11 journalists facing action followed by Jammu and Kashmir, five in Himachal Pradesh and four each in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha and Maharashtra, according to the report prepared by a private watchdog 'Rights and Risks Analysis Group' (RRAG). Two journalists faced trouble in Punjab, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala each while one person each from the media were targeted in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Nagaland and Telangana. Altogether, journalists faced action in 19 states and one union territory. India has 28 states and eight union territories. RRAG Director Suhas Chakma alleged that the Centre from the outset of the pandemic sought to suppress press freedom under the garb of deliberate or inaccurate reporting on COVID-19. However, he said, the Supreme Court refused to interfere when the Centre suggested so. The cases were filed for "reporting starvation faced by the migrant workers, the failure of the administration to supply rations to migrant workers...mismanagement and negligence at quarantine centres, or simply reporting a minister following the suggestions of astrologers or using certain terms against the ruling party or criticising Chief Ministers", the report said. FIRs were registered against at least 22 journalists under the Indian Penal Code, Information Technology Act, Disaster Management Act, Motors Vehicles Act and Scheduled Tribes/Scheduled Castes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Summons or show-cause notices were issued to seven journalists while at least nine journalists were subjected to beating, including two in police custody, the report said. Gujarat witnessed an online portal Face of Nation's Editor Dhaval Patel being arrested and booked for sedition on charges of publishing a speculative report on possible change in leadership in the state due to criticism over rising number of Covid-19 cases. In Punjab, the report said, Jai Singh Chibber of Punjabi Jagran was booked by the Punjab Police for writing a news report about an unnamed Congress minister following the suggestions of astrologers. The Wire Editor Siddharth Varadarajan faced an FIR for his website reporting about Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath attending a public religious event in Ayodhya on March 25 after the announcement of the lockdown. While one journalist was held hostage by a village head in Odisha, the house of another journalist was allegedly demolished because of his report" on an MLA in Telangana. A woman journalist in Arunachal Pradesh was threatened for publishing a story 'wildlife hunting on spike' during the lockdown, the report added. (ENDS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-55-journalists-targeted-during-covid-19-lockdown-849759.html
15-06-2020||National||SAT to remain closed till June 30 amidst coronavirus pandemic||Earlier, the tribunal was scheduled to remain closed till June 12. "In continuation of our earlier order dated June 1, extending the closure of the tribunal till June 12 on account of the lockdown declared by the government... the tribunal shall further remain suspended till June 30," SAT said in a notification. Besides, the tribunal will function from July 1 between 11.30 am and 4.30 pm and urgent cases will be heard during July 1-3. Also, the office of the registry will function from July 1 between 11 am and 4.30 pm until further orders. If any party desires that the appeal may be heard through video conference on the date fixed or any other date, the party may file an application in advance by adopting standard operating procedures introduced by the tribunal earlier, SAT said. The matter fixed for hearing during June 15-19 will now stand adjourned till July 28, 29, 30 and August 3, 4, respectively. Also, the matters fixed for hearing from June 22-26 June will now be fixed for hearing on August 5, 6, 10, 11 and 13, respectively. For the matters fixed for hearing on June 29-30, July 1-3 will now be adjourned till August 17, 18, 19, 20 and 24, respectively, the tribunal said in a notification on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sat-to-remain-closed-till-june-30-amidst-coronavirus-pandemic-849760.html
15-06-2020||National||Coal India trade unions plan 3-day strike next month against commercial mining||Coal India (CIL) trade unions are planning to go on a three-day strike from July 2 against the government's move to open the coal sector to private players, a union leader said. The development comes at a time when the government plans to launch the process of commercial coal mining on Thursday. On Sunday, senior leaders of central trade unions of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, INTUC, AITUC and CTU held a video conference, Nathulal Pandey, the president of Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation, told PTI. Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation is affiliated to Hind Mazdoor Sabha. "A draft strike notice for the proposed three-day strike will be sent" to the government and Coal India headquarters, he said. "Central Trade Unions, including the Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, are united as one for all future fight, particularly to prevent commercial mining to private agencies," he said. Major demands of the unions are to stop the auction of coal blocks for commercial mining, stop separation of consultancy firm CMPDIL from Coal India, ensure payment of high-power committee wages to contractor workers, increase ceiling of gratuity from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh to all workers retired between January 1, 2017, to March 28, 2018, at par with executives. The unions are also demanding that "the provisions of 9.4.0 be implemented and dependents be provided employment," he said. From Tuesday, he said, from the first shift onwards, gate meeting, sloganeering will be done jointly during all the shifts at all the mines. "Intensive wall writing will be done collectively in support of the proposed strike from 2nd July to 4th July 2020," Pandey said. In addition to five central trade unions, all other labour unions, associations (including Officers Association), businessmen and residents will be urged to make the Hartal a success," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-india-trade-unions-plan-3-day-strike-next-month-against-commercial-mining-849761.html
15-06-2020||National||Gujarat: Aftershocks rattle Kutch post earthquake||As many as 14 aftershocks were experienced in Gujarat's Kutch district, a day after an earthquake of 5.3 magnitude hit the area, officials said on Monday. No casualty or damage to property was reported, they said. On Sunday night, an earthquake was recorded with its epicentre 10 km North-North East (NNE) of Bhachau in Kutch. After that 14 aftershocks rattled the area, including an earthquake of 4.6 magnitude at 12.57 pm on Monday with its epicentre 15 km NNE of Bachau, a scientist from the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said. "We are analysing today's quake scientifically to determine whether it is an aftershock or a new earthquake on a different fault line. As of now, we are counting it and other quakes in the region as aftershocks of the last night's earthquake," ISR scientist Santosh Kumar said. Apart from the earthquake of 4.6 magnitude, an aftershock of 3.7 magnitude was recorded at 10.02 am on Monday with its epicentre six km East-North East of Bhachau, another ISR official said. At 1.01 pm, another aftershock of 3.6 magnitude was recorded with its epicentre being 11 km NNE of Bhachau. Earthquakes of various magnitudes of 3.1, 2.9, 2.5, 2.4, 1.7, 1.6 and 1.4 have been recorded till Monday afternoon, the official said. No casualty or damage to property has been reported so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-aftershocks-rattle-kutch-post-earthquake-849776.html
15-06-2020||National||Complete lockdown in Chennai, parts of 3 districts from June 19||As COVID-19 cases continue to rise rapidly, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced a complete lockdown for 12 days beginning June 19 in the state capital of Chennai and parts of three neighbouring districts that share borders with this metropolis. The announcement came hours after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami met with an expert committee of doctors that suggested tightening of restrictions in Chennai and its neighbouring districts that have been grappling with an exponential increase in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus. The complete lockdown will be implemented in the limits of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), and in certain parts in Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, and Tiruvallur districts that are either close to Chennai or share borders with the metropolis. Situation in Chennai, and parts of the aforementioned three districts is grim as they account for over 80 percent (37,352) of the total 44,661 cases that have been reported in the state as on June 14. The restrictions imposed will be similar to the first phase of the lockdown between March 25 and April 14.   “The lockdown will be in force from 12 am on June 19 to June 30 and it has been imposed under the Disaster Management Act,” Palaniswami said in a statement.  During the lockdown, taxis, private vehicles, and auto rickshaws will be banned, while there will be no restrictions on ambulance and other vehicles that are in use for emergency services. While shops and petrol pumps will be open from 6 am to 2 pm, restaurants will be allowed to operate only for ‘parcel’ from 6 am to 8 pm. Banks will function only on two days – June 29 and June 30 – while ATMs and transport of money to be loaded into the money vending kiosks will continue to function as usual.   An intensified lockdown will be implemented on June 21 and June 28 -- both Sundays -- without any relaxations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complete-lockdown-in-chennai-parts-of-3-districts-from-june-19-849778.html
15-06-2020||National||54% Indians want to go to movie theatre 15-90 days after lockdown: Survey||Has the COVID-19 lockdown demolished the movie theatre experience forever? Hardly, as a new survey has found that 54 per cent of Indian entertainment buffs are eager to get to the theatres within 15-90 days of the lockdown lifting. The rest would prefer to step out after 90 days.  Demand and consumption for on-demand net-streamed movies have exploded across multiple platforms, as the lockdown forced everyone to stay indoors. Multiplexes have shut down countrywide, but the urge to get out has always been strong. The consumer survey by BookMyShow has just confirmed that.  But the theatres would have to ensure that the experience is strictly ‘contactless’. For 98 per cent of the survey respondents, the cinema halls had to implement strict safety and hygiene measures. Titled ‘Back to Out-of-Home Entertainment,’ the survey was based on 4,000 respondents in the age group of 18-65 years across 235 cities and towns countrywide.  South Indians missed the out-of-home entertainment the most. A high 56 per cent of respondents from the region were eager to catch their favourite movie and / or concert, post-lockdown.  Interestingly, the survey revealed a decisive shift in how people would watch live entertainment amidst the COVID-19 crisis. Forty per cent of the respondents preferred attending a music concert in smaller groups. That implied more than 50 but less than 100 people. Drive-in concerts and intimate tables for 2-4 people were most preferable for many. The contact-less experience had to start right from ticket-booking. A high 85 per cent of the respondents wanted to purchase their tickets online. M-ticket and e-ticket options had to be the new normal. Physical tickets were clearly out.  So, who were among the first eager to get out? In a big surprise, the survey found that those in the 55-64 years age-group are the most keen for a movie / concert outing. As for safety, 95 per cent wanted Food & Beverages (F&B) to be absolutely hygienic. Ninety-eight per cent preferred disinfectant tunnels and thermal scanners, while 99 per cent wanted the entire theatre, seats and restrooms to be deep-cleaned after every show.  Conducted in May 2020, the surveyed elicited most of the responses (70%) from consumers in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Hyderabad, National Capital Region (NCR), Chennai, Pune, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Vijayawada and Kochi. Almost half (49%) of the respondents were in the 25-34 years age-group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/54-indians-want-to-go-to-movie-theatre-15-90-days-after-lockdown-survey-849792.html
15-06-2020||National||Forensic lab to conduct probe in Sushant Singh Rajput's death case||The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Kalina here will conduct a probe into the case of alleged suicide by Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and submit its report in 10 days, an official said on Monday. A team of four officials from the FSL, run by the home department of Maharashtra, is in the process of collecting relevant items, including material used by Rajput to commit suicide, from his residence in suburban Bandra, the official told PTI on condition of anonymity. The FSL will also conduct test on swabs of the 34-year -old actor who was found hanging at his residence on Sunday afternoon, he said. The team will submit its report in 10 days, he said. "Forensic tests will be conducted on items collected from Rajput's home to know if it was a case of suicide or homicide," the official said, adding the physics department of the lab will conduct the examination. Known for films like "Kai Po Che!", "MS Dhoni: The Untold Story", "Chhichhore", Rajput was found hanging at his Bandra home, the police said on Sunday. After the actor's death, police had said no note was found from his residence. Police sources also said they did not suspect any foul play in their initial investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forensic-lab-to-conduct-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-849796.html
15-06-2020||National||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav slapped with legal notice by Bihar minister for posting 'edited' video on social media||Bihar minister Ashok Chaudhary on Monday slapped a legal notice on Tejashwi Yadav, the leader of the opposition in the state assembly, alleging that the RJD scion had posted on social media an "edited" video and other messages which were "misleading" and aimed at destroying his image. Chaudhary, who holds the building construction portfolio in Nitish Kumar cabinet, has alleged that the RJD chief ministerial candidate shared an "edited" video of his response to queries from journalists about an open letter from Yadav's jailed father Lalu Prasad addressed to the people of Bihar a day after his 73rd birthday. The Minister, who belongs to the Dalit community, had criticised Lalu, saying the RJD chief has said in his letter that "he would continue his fight for Dalits and 'shoshit' (exploited), but he should tell the people what he actually did for them when he had power". At one point, the minister fumbled in the alleged doctored video, and a clip lasting a fraction of a second has been played several times in which an invective is purportedly heard. The social media posts were aimed at "destroying the impeccable reputation" of JD(U) leader Chaudhary in view of the upcoming elections in Bihar, the notice said, while asking Tejashwi Yadav to either make an unconditional apology or face legal proceedings. Chaudhary, who had earlier served as a minister in the cabinet headed by Prasad's wife Rabri Devi from the Congress quota, fumed at the social media posts saying "Tejashwi Yadav lacks education, having given up studies after he flunked in Class 9". "His father has set the example of gaali-galauj (abuses and invectives) which he was known to indulge in even before crowds and so the son cannot think beyond these. But those who have sufficient education do not need filthy language to inveigh against anybody," the minister said. The notice, issued by Chaudhary's advocate Kumar Shanu, seeks immediate deletion of all such social media posts by the RJD leader and unconditional apology by Tejashwi Yadav on Facebook, Twitter and "in three leading newspapers in Bihar". Yadav has been asked to do the needful "within 10 hours of receipt of the notice failing which my client shall be constrained to initiate criminal proceedings under the IPC and civil suit for damages".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rjd-leader-tejashwi-yadav-slapped-with-legal-notice-by-bihar-minister-for-posting-edited-video-on-social-media-849798.html
15-06-2020||National||Domestic manufacturers step in to meet demand for coveralls, face shields||As India emerges from the lockdown, domestic manufacturers have stepped up production of personal protection equipment such as coveralls and face shields, which have turned out to be a key line of defence to combat COVID-19. Hula Global, a Noida-based apparel manufacturer, has added capabilities to produce PPE coveralls and face shields that have a growing clientele in the transport and hospitality sectors. “The demand for facial protection is rising rapidly as the government is finally moving towards unlocking the country. Along with shielding the front-line healthcare workers, we are now receiving inquiries from other service sectors as well,” Karan Bose, Managing Director, Hula Global, said in a statement here. After the COVID-19 outbreak, Bose sensed an opportunity in manufacturing PPE coveralls and added machines to produce the much-in-demand body covers. Protective face shields are much in demand in the service industry, including restaurants, retailers, salons, grocery stores, food plants as well as the medical sector. “Our face shields have been designed to not only protect the customers but also make them feel comfortable once they step out of their homes for their respective businesses,” Bose said.  Hula has augmented its manufacturing capacities and even secured approvals for its coveralls from the governments in Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and Iran and awaiting the lifting of the export ban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-manufacturers-step-in-to-meet-demand-for-coveralls-face-shields-849800.html
15-06-2020||National||CBI alerts police in states about racketeers selling fake hand sanitiser using methanol||Acting on Interpol warnings, the CBI on Monday issued nationwide alerts on cyber criminals attempting use the COVID-19 to hoodwink vendors of Personal Protect Equipment (PPE) kits and unscrupulous elements trying to sell methanol mixed hand sanitisers that are highly toxic. The agency sent the alerts to police agencies of all state and Union territories on the inputs it received from the Interpol on online advance payment scams and use of methanol for counterfeiting hand sanitisers. On the proliferation of online advance payment scams, the CBI said it involves instances of criminals approaching as vendors of PPE and other protective equipment suppliers related to COVID-19 pandemic and entering business transactions with clients online. After receipt of payment via bank transfers, the agency said, the fraudulent vendors do not make any delivery of items. It also said Interpol has reported about instances in other countries of use of methanol for preparing spurious hand sanitisers.  "Instances have been reported in other countries where due to huge demand for hand sanitisers during COVID-19 pandemic, use of methanol was detected to produce counterfeit hand sanitisers. Methanol can be highly toxic and dangerous for the human body," the alert said. In May, the CBI acted on another Interpol alert on banking trojan 'Cerberus' that tricks smartphone users into downloading malicious links related to COVID-19 following an input from the Interpol. According to the agency, the trojan takes advantage of the pandemic and sends a text message to lure a user into downloading the link with malicious software. Once downloaded, the trojan application launches into phishing attacks, to steal data like credit card numbers and other details. The audacity and speed of cyber criminals in attempting to cash in on the pandemic was also seen soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced setting up of PM-CARES to collect funds for COVID-19 and a UPI for payment. Soon after, several fake UPI that are similar to the official ones have flooded cyberspace, prompting banks and other official channels to issue warnings. Several fraudulent websites and e-commerce platforms have mushroomed on the internet promising to sell medicines that could either prevent or cure COVID-19 while some others are being fooled to transfer money in the name of treating patients. Investigators have come across trends like scamsters sending email links to susceptible people who unwittingly share their password and other details to them. One of the main methods used by the scamsters is creating fraudulent websites, e-commerce platforms, social media accounts and emails claiming that they are delivering medical products at home and asking them to pay via bank transfer. Earlier, the Ministry of Home Affairs had issued an advisory for those working from home (WFH), asking them to take precautions to ensure that they do not fall victim to cyber criminals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-alerts-police-in-states-about-racketeers-selling-fake-hand-sanitiser-using-methanol-849805.html
15-06-2020||National||To attain 'moksha', BHU medical student takes 'Jal Samadhi' in Ganga||Hindus believe that they can attain 'moksha' (salvation) if their mortal remains were immersed in the sacred waters of the Ganga. Navin Parashar, an MBBS student at the prestigious Banaras Hindu University (BHU), however, felt that he could attain salvation by killing himself. Parashar allegedly undertook 'Jal Samadhi' (water grave) in the Ganga in the neighboring Mirzapur district, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow. The medical student had gone missing from his hostel in BHU on June eight and a report was also lodged with the police in Varanasi. His body was found floating in the river near Chillah Ghat in Mirzapur on Sunday (June 14). Police said on Monday (June 15) that preliminary investigation had revealed that Parashar had undertaken 'Jal Samadhi' in the river at a ghat near the famous Vindhyavasini Temple to attain 'salvation'. ''Parashar had turned to spirituality after coming into contact with some seers in Varanasi....he had also stopped talking to his friends and had bought religious and other books on occult sciences,'' said a senior police official in Varanasi. The official said that the student spent a few days with some 'tantriks' (exorcists) in Varanasi before leaving for Vindhyavasini Temple.  Parashar, a few hours before embarking on 'Jal Samadhi', gave the key of his motorbike to a 'panda' (priest) and asked him to keep it saying that he would not need it anymore. The CCTV footage showed him buying vermilion and some other things used in 'exorcism', the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-attain-moksha-bhu-medical-student-takes-jal-samadhi-in-ganga-849810.html
15-06-2020||National||Roof insulation for COVID-19 coaches in high temperature areas: Railways||The Railways will insulate the roofs of COVID-19 isolation coaches deployed in areas which experience high temperatures to make their interiors cooler and more comfortable for patients, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said on Monday. The Railways has so far deployed 204 isolation coaches in four states. They will work as COVID-19 care centres. The Railways’ isolation wards are all non-AC coaches. ¨In areas where the temperature is too high, roof insulation can be provided to bring down the temperature inside the coaches,” said Yadav. He also said that since May 1, the Railways has run 4,450 Shramik Special trains, carrying more than 60 lakh migrant workers home. He said that COVID-19 coaches are meant to be deployed only when states exhaust their existing infrastructure. He said suspected and confirmed cases will be kept separate.  He also said that limited suburban services were started in Mumbai -- 100 pairs in central railways, 73 pairs in western railways -- after a request from the Maharashtra government. These trains will only be run for people involved in essential services, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/roof-insulation-for-covid-19-coaches-in-high-temperature-areas-railways-849814.html
15-06-2020||National||Govt receives over 1 lakh COVID-related grievances; Jitendra Singh launches feedback call centres||As many as 1.28 lakh coronavirus-related public grievances have been filed with the central government, according to an official statement. Call centres in different cities and languages to seek feedback on such public grievances was launched on Monday by Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Jitendra Singh, who also interacted live with citizens whose grievances have been successfully redressed, it said. This is the first time that a senior minister of government has interacted live with citizens who had filed grievances related to the pandemic and also paved way for other ministries to take up citizen grievances in an effective manner along with a feedback mechanism, the statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. “The feedback call centres would seek feedback from individual citizens on citizen satisfaction on 1.28 lakh COVID-19 public grievances that have been filed on CPGRAMS (Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System) for the period March 30, 2020 to May 30, 2020,” it said. Singh complimented the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) on reaching the milestone of redressing over one lakh COVID-19 public grievances so far. He said that COVID 19 pandemic has created a world of digital opportunities to empower India’s citizens and DARPG must make best use of the crisis led reforms in coming days. Singh said that the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has inspired the government to put in a lot of effort to address grievances of common man. The DARPG has in collaboration with BSNL operationalised feedback call centres in Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Jamshedpur, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Ajmer, Guntur, Coimbatore and Guntakal with 1,406 call centre operators, the statement said. Feedback call centres would operate in several languages including Hindi, English, Gujarati, Marathi, Punjabi, Kannada, Konkani, Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Oriya, Bengali, Assamese and Rajasthani, the statement said. On the occasion, Singh interacted with four citizens whose grievances were redressed on the COVID-19 national monitor within a period of three days. Amongst the citizens who interacted with the minister were Renuka V Parasappagol resident of Bijapur, Karnataka whose grievance of a refund from Canara Bank was redressed by Department of Financial Services. Others with whom the minister interacted were Gordhanbhai Jethabhai Patel resident of Vadodara, Gujarat whose grievance of a refund of mature MIS (Monthly Investment Scheme) investment was redressed by Department of Posts. Lakshminarayanan, a resident of Delhi, had a grievance related to the treatment of his daughter with HCQ (Hydroxychloroquine) which was redressed by the AIIMS and Mrithinjayan, a resident of Chennai, Tamil Nadu, whose grievance related to acceptance of monthly instalments of deposits was approved by the Department of Posts, it said. The citizens informed Singh that they had learnt of the COVID-19 national monitor for public grievances from his tweets and statements, and thanked the government for timely redressal of their grievances. Singh said that in Modi 2.0, CPGRAMS has witnessed radical reforms and transformational governance resulting in comprehensive overhaul of grievance redressal in India. Amongst the steps taken were the implementation of CPGRAMS reforms in top 20 grievance receiving ministries/departments delineating last mile grievance officers, integration of state/union territories grievance portals with CPGRAMS and feedback call centres, the minister said. Singh said DARPG should bring out a compendium of success stories on successfully redressed public grievances which may be disseminated for restoring confidence in citizens that the government is sensitive to their issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-receives-over-1-lakh-covid-related-grievances-jitendra-singh-launches-feedback-call-centres-849817.html
15-06-2020||National||India lodges protest with Pakistan over reported arrest of 2 Indian High Commission staffers in Islamabad||India on Monday summoned the Pakistan charge d'affaires and lodged a strong protest to him over the reported arrest of two officials of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad. Pakistani media reported that two Indian staffers, who went missing on Monday morning, were arrested by Pakistani authorities for their alleged involvement in a "hit and run accident". Official sources said the Pakistan charge d'affaires (CDA) was summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs and a demarche was issued to him over the reported arrest of the two officials. In the demarche, it was made clear to the Pakistani CDA that there should be no interrogation or harassment of the Indian officials and the responsibility for their safety and security lay squarely with the Pakistani authorities, they said. The sources said the Pakistan side was asked to return the two officials along with the official car to the High Commission immediately. In the morning, the two staffers in Islamabad went missing following which India took up the matter with the Pakistan Foreign Office. The two staffers went out of the High Commission in a vehicle for official duty at around 8:30 Am (IST), but did not reach their destination, the sources said. The incident comes two weeks after India expelled two Pakistan High Commission officials here on charges of espionage. India had declared Abid Hussain and Muhammad Tahir as 'persona non grata' after they were found obtaining sensitive documents relating to movement of Indian Army troops from an Indian national, according to authorities here. Following their expulsion, Pakistani agencies started harassing a number of Indian High Commission officials in Islamabad including charge d'affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia. Ahluwalia's car was aggressively tailed by Pakistani agencies on at least two occasions following which India lodged a strong protest with the Pakistan Foreign Office. After the expulsion of the two Pakistani officials, it was expected that Pakistan would also resort to a tit-for-tat response, going by similar episodes in the past. India's expulsion of the two Pakistani officials and subsequent harassment of Indian High Commission staffers in Islamabad by Pakistani agencies came in the midst of frayed ties between the two countries over the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir by India. Pakistan had downgraded diplomatic ties by expelling the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad following India's decision to withdraw special status of Jammu and Kashmir in August last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lodges-protest-with-pakistan-over-reported-arrest-of-2-indian-high-commission-staffers-in-islamabad-849824.html
15-06-2020||National||Destruction of mangroves: NGT notice to Centre, Gujarat||The National Green Tribunal Monday sought response from Centre and others on the allegation that Deen Dayal Port Trust in Gujarat's Kutch district was not executing the directions issued by it to protect the mangroves in its vicinity from destruction. A bench comprising Justice Raghuvendra S Rathore and expert member Satyawan Singh Garbyal issued notices to Ministry of Environment and Forests, Gujarat government, Gujarat State Coastal Zone Management Authority and others while seeking their replies in two weeks. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Gujarat based Kachch Camel Breeders Association seeking execution of September 11, 2019 order of the NGT. "It has been submitted before us that none of the direction given in our judgment dated September 11, 2019 has been followed. Issue notices to the respondents by registered post/acknowledgement," the bench said. The petitioner association had alleged rampant clearing of the mangroves in Nani Chirai and Moti Chirai areas of Bhachau Taluka in Kutch district by the Deen Dayal Port Trust. "The destruction of mangroves not only violates the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 and Coastal Regulatory Zone Notification, 2011, but also deprives the indigenous Kharai camel species of its major food source, thereby affecting the livelihoods of several hundred camel breeders of the region," the petition had said. The petition, filed through advocate Sanjay Upadhyay, claimed that the "incessant destruction activities" of the respondents have diminished the cover of sparse mangroves found at the site and destroyed the habitat of the indigenous Kharai camels which has affected the livelihood of villagers dependent on the mangroves. It said these activities carried out by the Deen Dayal Trust Port were without any CRZ or Forest clearance which was causing irreversible loss of mangroves. The association had sought directions for the rehabilitation and restitution of the mangroves already destroyed and payment of a environmental compensation charge for the destruction. The NGT had last year directed that there shall be no obstruction of any kind in the creeks (a stream or minor tributary of a river) and free and continuous flow of estuarine water in the creeks will be ensured. The tribunal had ordered that Forest Department, Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Authority and revenue officials to jointly inspect the area to find out the persons who were responsible for obstruction of the creeks. "If there has been any activity in the mangroves area which are in contravention of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 or any other law, the Forest Department will immediately take action in accordance with law," the NGT had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/destruction-of-mangroves-ngt-notice-to-centre-gujarat-849825.html
15-06-2020||National||India joins GPAI as founding member to support responsible, human-centric development, use of AI||India has joined the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence (GPAI) as a founding member to support responsible and human-centric development and use of Artificial Intelligence (AI), an official release said on Monday. With this, India has joined the league of leading nations and economies including the US, the UK, EU, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, and Singapore for launch of GPAI. "GPAI is an international and multi-stakeholder initiative to guide the responsible development and use of AI, grounded in human rights, inclusion, diversity, innovation, and economic growth," the release said. The first-of-its-type initiative for evolving better understanding of challenges and opportunities around AI using the experience and diversity of participating countries, the alliance will look to bridge the gap between theory and practice by supporting advanced research and applied activities on AI-related priorities. "In collaboration with partners and international organisations, GPAI will bring together leading experts from industry, civil society, governments, and academia to collaborate to promote responsible evolution of AI and will also evolve methodologies to show how AI can be leveraged to better respond to the present global crisis around COVID-19," the release added. GPAI will be supported by a Secretariat, to be hosted by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in Paris, as well as by two Centers of Expertise -- one each in Montreal and Paris. India recently launched National AI Strategy and National AI Portal, and has also started leveraging AI across various sectors such as education, agriculture, healthcare, e-commerce, finance, telecommunications. "By joining GPAI as a founding member, India will actively participate in the global development of Artificial Intelligence, leveraging upon its experience around use of digital technologies for inclusive growth," the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-joins-gpai-as-founding-member-to-support-responsible-human-centric-development-use-of-ai-849828.html
15-06-2020||National||Average fare on Shramik trains Rs 600, says Railways; generated Rs 360 cr in revenue||The Indian Railways on Monday said the average fare per person on Shramik Special trains was Rs 600 and indicated that by carrying 60 lakh migrant workers home since May 1, it has generated a revenue of around Rs 360 crore. The transporter has run 4,450 Shramik trains so far, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said. "The average fare of Shramik Special trains is Rs 600 per passenger. One has to keep in mind that these are normal fares and not fares for special trains which are higher. We carried 60 lakh passengers, so the revenue can be calculated. We however, managed to recover only 15 per cent of cost of operations," said Yadav. Officials said the cost of operating a migrant special was between Rs 75-80 lakh. Yadav also reiterated that the cost of operating these trains is being shared by the Centre and the states in a 85-15 per cent formula respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/average-fare-on-shramik-trains-rs-600-says-railways-generated-rs-360-cr-in-revenue-849838.html
15-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Even as COVID-19 positive cases surge, Delhi CM says no plans for another lockdown||From the Newsroom, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that there was no plan for another lockdown in Delhi even as the number of novel coronavirus cases continues to spurt. Two officials of the High Commission of India in Islamabad went missing on Monday. The officials went out of the premises of the High Commission of India in Islamabad for official work in the morning and have been reportedly missing since. Asian powerhouses India and China have expanded their nuclear arsenal in the past year, but the nuclear weapon stockpile of the third Asian nuke nation, Pakistan, remains more or less the same, says a new report from a European think-tank on disarmament.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-even-as-covid-19-positive-cases-surge-delhi-cm-says-no-plans-for-another-lockdown-849841.html
15-06-2020||National||Regulate COVID-19 test fee, private hospital costs: Group urges Noida DM||A non-government body urged the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration on Monday to reduce the cost of the coronavirus test and regulate the treatment charge at private facilities. Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western Uttar Pradesh has recorded 935 COVID-19 cases so far, including 12 deaths. In a letter to District Magistrate Suhas LY, the Progressive Community Foundation (PCF), a volunteers' group working on traffic, pollution and civic issues, said, "Due to the daily increasing numbers of cases in large communities and people showing ILI (influenza-like illness) symptoms getting positive for COVID, there is an immediate need to identify people at greatest risk with respect to age, gender, comorbidities, biomarkers and specific blood parameters and prioritise them for the test and hence, increasing the testing will help identify the suspected people at an early stage." It also demanded a price reduction for COVID-19 tests, noting that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has advised the states and Union territories to negotiate with private laboratories and fix up mutually agreeable prices for the RT-PCR tests last month. The PCF also sought the DM's intervention in the "exorbitant charges" at private hospitals for the treatment COVID-19. "...a few private hospitals in the district have announced COVID treatment packages and are charging exorbitantly for it. This needs some regulation.... We request you to issue an advisory in this regard and cap the price of treatment at private hospitals," it said. Copies of the PCF letter, by office-bearers Vishnu Saini and Amit Gupta, have been sent to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister's office and to the Gautam Buddh Nagar Chief Medical Officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regulate-covid-19-test-fee-private-hospital-costs-group-urges-noida-dm-849845.html
15-06-2020||National||Elderly face neglect, abuse at home during COVID-19: Survey||COVID-19 pandemic and the national lockdown have an adverse impact on elderly population with a majority saying they faced abuse from their family members and the current situation has accentuated it, according to a survey. The survey claimed 69 per cent of around 5,000 elderly people who participated in the exercise claimed that their life has been affected adversely during the pandemic while 71 per cent felt elder abuse has increased during the lockdown period and after. The pandemic has created a "negative atmosphere" around older persons, who are "soft targets" of COVID-19, and even younger family members hesitate to come close to their own elderly family members, according to the survey conducted by 'Agewell Research and Advocacy Centre for Needs and Rights of Older Persons'. "Older persons are not only facing social restrictions but also family restrictions, imposed by their own respective families...They are not able to interact and share their worries with their friends or relatives. All this has made the life of older persons more critical and it is also affecting their health adversely," it said. The survey comes against the backdrop of June 15 being observed as World Elder Abuse Awareness Day. Dependence on family has made the elderly population "vulnerable" and women among them are the "worst affected" due to their poor financial status, increased level of dependency and longer lifespan than elderly men. According to the survey, 63.7 per cent elderly respondents felt they were facing neglect in their life while 58 per cent claimed that interpersonal relationships are the main factor responsible for the fast increasing incidence of elder abuse in families. It said 79 per cent respondents out of 2,804 respondents facing elder abuse reportedly felt that they faced mistreatment mostly due to financial reasons. Around 21 per cent elderly said that issues related to properties are the main reason behind violation of their rights. In statistics that set alarm bells ringing, 35.1 per cent claimed that elderly face domestic violence. One-fourth of the respondents said the younger generation consider them as a burden on their family. "Old people of my age find it very difficult to adjust themselves in the fast changing modern world. This causes a lot of worry in our lives and younger generations do not try to value their elderly members. They term elderly people as conservative and consider them as a burden on their life. Current COVID-19 situation has further worsened our life," the survey quoted Devender Gupta (80), who resides in Delhi's Mayur Vihar, as saying. Agewell Foundation Chairman Himanshu Rath said, "Today, most older people are going through a very bad phase in their life. In view of the COVID-19 threat, affected elderly need to be assured of all possible help and support. Their children and family members too need to be sensitised about needs and rights of their elderly family members. At the same time, elderly themselves need to be educated about facilities, support systems, legal provisions and non-formal support networks, accessible and available to them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elderly-face-neglect-abuse-at-home-during-covid-19-survey-849853.html
15-06-2020||National||Onus of creating atmosphere for talks lies with PM Oli: Sources on map row with Nepal||The onus of creating a conducive atmosphere for talks between India and Nepal lies with Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and his dispensation as its release of a new political map was part of a "myopic" agenda to score political gains, official sources said on Monday. They said the release of the new map by Oli government was an attempt to politicise the boundary issue with India and the move reflected that Kathmandu was not serious in resolving the decades-old issue through dialogue. Last month, Nepal released a new political map of the country featuring disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura which India has been maintaining as part of its territories. The communist government headed by Oli on Saturday managed to get a unanimous approval of the lower house of the country's parliament to the new map, prompting India to say that such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claim is untenable. "These actions are myopic and self serving to further a limited political agenda," a source said reflecting India's assessment of the situation. The sources said the onus is now on Prime Minister Oli to take positive and concrete steps to create a conducive atmosphere for dialogue. They said the release of the map and getting legal backing to it is a clear enough indication that the new map is a "tool for political gain" as it is neither supported by facts nor evidence. The sources said India always responded positively to proposals for talks from Nepal and even reached out to Kathmandu just before the map issue was taken up for discussion by the lower house of the country's parliament. The sources also rejected Oli's claim that there was a surge in COVID-19 cases in Nepal due to the people who had gone back to the country from India. It is a false and distorted claim, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/onus-of-creating-atmosphere-for-talks-lies-with-pm-oli-sources-on-map-row-with-nepal-849857.html
15-06-2020||National||UP: Scared of contracting COVID-19, mother refuses to accompany child to hospital||A mother refused to accompany her eight-year-old COVID-19 positive daughter to the hospital out of fear of contracting coronavirus, officials said on Monday. It was only after the doctors stepped in and counselled the woman that she agreed, they said. "On Saturday evening, a girl in Gorakhpur's Surajkund area was found corona positive and had to be hospitalised. However, her mother refused to accompany her due to fear of getting infected,” Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Gorakhpur Srikant Tiwari told reporters. “As it was difficult to admit the little girl without an attendant, our counseling team along with a lady doctor went to her home on Sunday and counselled her,” he added. “The counsellors cited several examples including that of a three-month-old child from Basti who had COVID-19 but the mother did not get infected despite breast-feeding the infant,” the CMO said. “Similarly, a woman from Badhalganj area stayed with her nine-month-old coronavirus positive baby in the hospital for more than two weeks. The baby was discharged after 15 days and the mother remained negative,” he added. According to Tiwari, the woman was assured that she would be tested every four days and trained on how to protect herself from the virus. “We were able to convince her and the child is currently undergoing treatment at the Railway Hospital,” Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-scared-of-contracting-covid-19-mother-refuses-to-accompany-child-to-hospital-849863.html
15-06-2020||National||India to witness solar eclipse on June 21||India will witness a solar eclipse on June 21 and it will be annular in some parts of the country, where sky gazers will get an opportunity to observe the "ring of fire" during the phenomenon, an official said on Monday. However, for most parts of the country, the eclipse will be partial. The path of the annular solar eclipse will start near Gharsana in Rajasthan around 10:12 am and the phase of annularity will begin around 11:49 am and end at 11:50 am, Director of the M P Birla Planetarium Debi Prasad Duari said. The ring of fire will be visible for that one minute from places such as Suratgarh and Anupgarh in Rajasthan, Sirsa, Ratia and Kurukshetra in Haryana, and Dehradun, Chamba, Chamoli and Joshimath in Uttarakhand. However, the ring of fire will not be as prominent this time as it was on December 26 last year and will be a little narrower, Duari said in a statement. "The annular solar eclipse occurs when the sun, moon and the earth come in a straight line and almost on the same plane. "At that moment, the moon must be farther away from the earth in its elliptical orbit and hence, cannot cover the disc of the sun completely, resulting in a narrow band of light around the dark silhouette of the moon, making the ring of fire visible," the statement said. But from a much wider-region country, people can observe a partial solar eclipse of a different magnitude. In Kolkata, the partial eclipse will begin at 10:46 am and end at 2:17 pm, while the timing will be from 10:20 am to 1:48 pm in New Delhi, from 10 am to 1:27 pm in Mumbai, from 10:22 am to 1:41 pm in Chennai and between 10.13 am and 1.31 pm in Bengaluru. On June 21, the annular eclipse will first start for the people of Congo in Africa and progress through South Sudan, Ethiopia, Yemen, Oman, Saudi Arabia, the Indian Ocean and Pakistan, before entering India over Rajasthan. It will then move on to Tibet, China, Taiwan, before ending at the middle of the Pacific Ocean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-witness-solar-eclipse-on-june-21-849867.html
15-06-2020||National||Two SRPF jawans among 10 test COVID-19 positive in Amravati||Ten more persons, including two SRPF jawans, tested positive for coronavirus in Amravati district of Maharashtra, taking the count here to 348 on Monday, officials said. According to an official release, the new COVID-19 patients also included two women and a married couple. Two State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans, both aged 35, have tested positive for the viral infection, the release said. One of the new patients, a 52-years-old woman from Sabanpura locality, who was admitted to a private hospital here, was shifted to a COVID-19 hospital after testing positive, it said. With the new cases, the district's coronavirus count has gone up to 348, including 17 deaths. Also, 250 patients have recovered from the disease so far, said the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-srpf-jawans-among-10-test-covid-19-positive-in-amravati-849868.html
15-06-2020||National||India evacuates 156 nationals from Sri Lanka||As many as 156 Indian nationals stranded in Sri Lanka were flown back home on Monday under the third phase of a mega evacuation exercise. National carrier Air India brought back the citizens in its AI-1202 flight from Colombo to Kochi and Bengaluru, the Indian High Commission here said in a press release. Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay met the Indian nationals at the Bandaranaike International Airport and bid them a safe journey. The flight was scheduled as part of the phase-III of ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ to repatriate Indians stranded abroad due to the international travel restrictions following the coronavirus outbreak. Over 1,000 Indians have been repatriated from Sri Lanka so far in various flights and the Indian Navy Ship INS Jalashwa since the first phase of the evacuation mission was launched on May 7. The next Air India special flight from Colombo to Delhi, Lucknow and Gaya is scheduled on June 22, the release said. Priority is being given to those who have been laid off, short-term visa holders, people with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly citizens and students, it said. The high commission urged stranded Indians to be patient and follow the updates on its website and social media. The third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission got underway on Thursday and will continue till July 2. Phase-III will have 432 international flights from 43 countries reaching 17 states and union territories. A total of 1,65,375 Indians have returned from abroad till Thursday under the evacuation mission, the first phase of which was launched on May 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-evacuates-156-nationals-from-sri-lanka-849874.html
15-06-2020||National||Virtual courts are citizen-centric, says Supreme Court judge D Y Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge, Justice D Y Chandrachud, Monday termed the virtual courts as “citizen-centric” and said it is an attempt from the judiciary to tell the citizens that "we value your time". Justice Chandrachud was speaking at the virtual inauguration ceremony for E-projects of the Kerala High Court. He said that virtual courts are being used for traffic or petty offences, and they can be expanded to cover summary trials of various kinds of offences. “Virtual courts are citizen-centric. It is an attempt from the judiciary to tell the citizens that 'we value your time'. It leads to judicial productivity. The work of 20 judges in Delhi is now being handled by one judge,” he said. He added that the virtual courts promote compliance of the rule of law and ensure that metro cities do not become accident capitals of the world. Justice Chandrachud further suggested to use artificial intelligence (AI) to translate contents of FIRs, “where FIRs are not in a particular language, let's use ICJS (Integrated Criminal Justice System) and Artificial Intelligence to translate the contents.“ “Use of AI to translate all judgements of High Courts into regional languages. Let us make the language of the courts available at the doorstep of the litigant by using information technology", said Justice Chandrachud. The e-projects will include e-modules for bail applications, land acquisition appeals, motor accident appeal cases, obtaining certified copies electronically and e-filing in district judiciary and virtual courts. “It will ensure real-time scrutiny of bail applications, which have an intrinsic connection with human liberty,” Justice Chandrachud said adding that real-time scrutiny is an important first step to be open, transparent and efficient. "Let us use online services of mediation and negotiation to help bring peace between warring parties across state and country lines," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virtual-courts-are-citizen-centric-says-supreme-court-judge-d-y-chandrachud-849875.html
15-06-2020||National||Will probe depression angle too: Anil Deshmukh on Sushant Singh Rajput's death||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said Mumbai police will take into account actor Sushant Singh Rajput's reported clinical depression while conducting a probe into his death. Rajput, 34, who was found hanging in his Bandra apartment on Sunday, was cremated here on Monday in the presence of family members and close friends from the film and TV industry. "While the post mortem report says actor @itsSSR committed suicide by hanging himself, there are media reports that he allegedly suffered from clinical depression because of professional rivalry. @MumbaiPolice will probe this angle too," the minister tweeted. Sushant starred in films such as Shuddh Desi Romance, Raabta, Kedarnath and Sonchiriya. But his most prominent role came as cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni's in the 2007 biopic, MS Dhoni: The Untold Story. His death has come as another shock for the film fraternity, still recovering from the deaths of Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor and Basu Chatterjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-probe-depression-angle-too-anil-deshmukh-on-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-849885.html
15-06-2020||National||Amid spike in COVID-19 cases, North Western Railway to rush 150 isolation coaches to Delhi||The railways have decided to provide isolation coaches in Delhi amidst an increase in the spread of coronavirus infections in the national capital, officials said on Monday. On the instructions of the Railway Board, the North Western Railway (NWR), which is headquartered in Jaipur, will be sending 150 such coaches to Delhi, the officials said. According to Chief PRO (NWR) Abhay Sharma, NWR has converted 266 coaches as isolation coaches keeping in view the spike in coronavirus cases at its different divisions in pursuance of the directions from the Board. The Railway Board has taken the initiative on the recommendation of the Delhi government, the NWR spokesperson said. “Of these, Ajmer division has converted 85 coaches, Jodhpur division 83 coaches, Bikaner division 50 coaches and Jaipur division 48 coaches into isolation coaches," he said. Apart from the first batch of 150 coaches that are being sent to Delhi, the remaining coaches will be sent as per requirement in future. Sharma said the major alterations in the regular coaches included removal of berths, redesigning the toilets, installing transparent curtains for separation and installation of fittings required for medical equipment and devices besides provisioning of other important facilities. Besides this, roof insulation has also been provisioned in these coaches with a view to reduce the heat in the coaches to be deployed in areas with high temperatures. This includes applying special heat resistant paint on the roofs or installation of canopies. Meanwhile, the NWR has rolled out 12 special train services for different destinations with a view to provide relief to the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-north-western-railway-to-rush-150-isolation-coaches-to-delhi-849888.html
15-06-2020||National||No sale and registration of BS-IV vehicle permitted in country: Supreme Court||No registration and sale of BS-IV vehicles is permitted across the country, the Supreme Court said on Monday while observing that pollution from such vehicles would be "injurious" and "further burden on human health". The apex court took umbrage over the "violation" of its March 27 order by which it had allowed sale of limited number of BS-IV vehicles for 10 days across India, except in Delhi-national capital region (NCR), after lifting of the COVID-19 induced lockdown. The top court had on March 27 this year said it was permitting sale of 10 per cent of unsold BS-IV vehicles to make up for six days lost due to the lockdown which had started from March 25. It had also allowed registration of 1.05 lakh two-wheelers, 2,250 passenger cars and 2,000 commercial vehicles which were sold but not registered across the country. The apex court had in October 2018 said no BS-IV vehicle would be sold or registered in India from April 1, 2020. In 2016, the Centre had announced that India would skip the BS-V norms and adopt BS-VI by 2020. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer, which heard the matter on Monday through video-conferencing, said it is "startling" to note that even after lifting of lockdown on May 3, "when the sales have taken place and as per our order, no registration could have been made without informing this court as to how many vehicles have been sold throughout India." "It is made clear that now no registration and sale of the BS-IV vehicles is permitted," the bench said in its order. It said that registration of vehicles, which were to be sold out of the 10 per cent, cannot be made without its permission and without giving particulars as ordered by the court in March. "There is clear cut violation of at least the second part of the order passed by this court (on March 27). An incomplete affidavit has been filed on June 13, 2020," the bench said, adding that there is "also violation" with regard to first part of its order. The bench noted that as per compliance affidavit filed regarding first part of its March 27 order, more than 2,25,000 vehicles were waiting registration as on March 31 and this exceeds the figure which was specified in the order. "Our order is very clear that the manufacturers should have been ready because of the deadline set for BS-­VI compliant vehicles, there is no justification to extend the time which was fixed long back in the year 2018," the bench noted in its order. "This court further observed that this is not something new which has occurred," it noted, adding, "It would be further injurious and further burden on human health to be caused by pollution from BS­-IV vehicles when BS­-VI vehicles are supposed to be produced by the manufactures well in advance, considering the deadline of March 31, 2020". The bench said it is not inclined to permit registration of number of vehicles which were not mentioned in its order. "Let details of the vehicles which were sold upto March 31, 2020 and on which date they were sold, be also specified, specifically giving details of two­-wheelers, cars and other commercial vehicles and the sales made after lifting of the lockdown under 10 per cent throughout India by the members of the association (of automobile dealers) as well as the persons who are not the members of the association, be also furnished," the bench said. "It be also specified whether sale of vehicle was specified on E­-Vahan portal of Government of India as on March 31, 2020," the bench said, while making it clear that no registration of BS­-IV vehicle be made without its permission. The bench asked Additional Solicitor General A N S Nadkarni, appearing for the Centre, to collect details from all the RTOs and furnish information about how many BS-IV vehicles were sold and registered after lifting of the COVID-19 induced lockdown. The bench has posted the matter for hearing on June 19. BS emission norms are standards instituted by the government to regulate output of air pollutants from motor vehicles. In March this year, the apex court was informed about the unsold inventory of BS-IV vehicles -- around seven lakh two-wheelers, 15,000 passenger cars and 12,000 commercial vehicles. It was told that there were 1,05,000 two-wheelers, 2,250 passenger cars and 2,000 commercial vehicles, which were sold but not registered through out the country. The top court had then ordered that vehicles, which were sold but not registered, be registered by the authorities by April 30. It had also asked the association of automobile dealers to furnish on affidavit the details of purchasers of these vehicles and also the details of registration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-sale-and-registration-of-bs-iv-vehicle-permitted-in-country-supreme-court-849892.html
15-06-2020||National||Condition of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon 'serious yet under control': Hospital bulletin||The condition of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon, undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, is "serious yet under control", according to a hospital bulletin. The governor is "under strict supervision of a team of critical care specialists", it said. Tandon, 85, was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Lucknow in the morning of June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever. "...he developed internal abdominal bleeding for which an emergency operation was performed. The operation was successful and he was shifted to ICU under strict supervision of medical experts. On Monday consequent to problems in his lungs, kidney and liver, he has been put on elective ventilator support and is also undergoing dialysis," the hospital said. "Though his condition is serious, yet under control. He has been kept under strict supervision of a team of critical care specialists," according to the hospital bulletin. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had visited the hospital and enquired about his health on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/condition-of-madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandon-serious-yet-under-control-hospital-bulletin-849898.html
15-06-2020||National||Modi govt prioritises national policy over politics to resolve decades-old problems, says Smriti Irani||The Narendra Modi government gives priority to national policy (rashtraniti) over politics (rajniti) for the welfare of the people and to resolve decades-old problems linked to the unity of the country, Union minister Smriti Irani said on Monday. Addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers of Himachal Pradesh, Irani said the government's efforts and Prime Minister Modi's able leadership in the fight against COVID-19 have been praised not only by various other countries but by the World Health Organization (WHO) as well. The prime minister was concerned about the common man and their welfare during this time of pandemic and therefore provided free ration and gas cylinders under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, she said, underlining that the country has full faith in his leadership. Talking about the work done by BJP workers to help the people, she said food was provided to more than 11 crore workers during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Stressing that the people are living assured as the country is led "by able leadership", Irani said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi prioritise national policy (rashtraniti) over politics (rajniti) for welfare of people and to resolve the decades-old problems linked to unity of the country." At the same time the government announced a Rs 20-lakh crore economic package to tackle the economic impact of the pandemic, she said, adding that it will inject new energy in the economy and will make the country self-reliant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-prioritises-national-policy-over-politics-to-resolve-decades-old-problems-says-smriti-irani-849900.html
15-06-2020||National||12 injured as tornado wreaks havoc in Odisha's Kendrapara||At least 12 people were injured, around 20 houses damaged and a large number of trees uprooted as a tornado tore through a cluster of seaside villages of Odisha's Kendrapara district on Monday, an official said. The windy fury that lasted for about five minutes struck three gram panchayats - Rangani, Talachua and Baghamari. Around 12 people suffered minor injuries as thatch, asbestos and other roof materials of at least 20 houses were blown away by the tornado, Rajnagar Block Development Officer Mandara Dhara Mahali said. The tree cover in the area has also suffered extensive damage, he said. A medical team besides damage assessment personnel from the local tehsil office went the area hit by the tornado. Each of the affected families was given Rs 5,000 financial assistance. Besides, relief materials such as polythene sheets, dry food and food grains were dispatched to the area, Mahali said. When contacted, Kendrapara district Collector Samarth Verma said, "We are yet to confirm the wind speed of the tornado. But it should be more than 100 kilometers per hour."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-injured-as-tornado-wreaks-havoc-in-odishas-kendrapara-849905.html
15-06-2020||National||Delhi: Married couple held for stealing valuables from cars||A married couple involved in stealing valuables from cars parked in posh areas of the national capital were arrested, police said on Monday. Rakesh (23) and his wife Vajayinti (22), both residents of south Delhi's Madangir, were involved in several cases of stealing valuables from parked cars after smashing their windows, they said. The matter came to light on May 23 after police were informed about an incident on Ashoka Road, wherein the window glass of a parked car was broken and one laptop, hard disk and other documents were stolen from the vehicle, police said. Another such attempt was made by the couple on June 1 in front of 4, Windsor Place. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said the couple was identified with the help of CCTV footage in which they were seen riding a scooter. The duo was nabbed on Saturday, when they were spotted coming from Vijay Chowk on Rajpath on their two-wheeler. They were chased by the patrolling team and caught near Dhyan Chand Stadium, he said. The police arrested the duo and seized the scooter used in the commission of crimes, an officer said, adding that raids are being conducted to recover the stolen items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-married-couple-held-for-stealing-valuables-from-cars-849909.html
15-06-2020||National||Virtual camps across country for distribution of aids and assistive devices to the disabled: Govt||Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on Monday joined via video-conferencing a camp for distribution of aids and assistive devices to the people with disabilities in Punjab amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Union Social Justice and Empowerment minister said the government has decided to organise more such virtual camps to ensure timely availability of rehabilitation aids to the beneficiaries. Gehlot urged the people with disabilities and their family members to get enrolled for unique ID cards for Divyangjan which are valid all-over India. At the camp in Talwandi Bhai block in Punjab's Firozpur district, 95 beneficiaries were provided with 166 different categories of assistive appliances valuing over Rs 12 lakh, according to an official statement. Arrangements were made at the camp keeping in mind the guidelines to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus. "Seating arrangements were planned in such a manner to maintain social distancing" and visits of the the beneficiaries and their attendants to the camp were staggered to avoid crowding, it said. "Keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has decided that now Virtual ADIP Camps will be organized nationwide for distribution of aids and assistive devices to Divyangjan," the minister was quoted as saying in the statement.  He said that 31 lakh Unique ID Cards have been delivered to people with disabilities so far. The camp in Punjab was organised under the ministry's Assistance to Disabled persons for purchasing/fitting of aids/appliances (ADIP) scheme. "The camp at Talwandi Bhai, Ferozepur (Punjab) was first of its kind where Decentralized Pattern of Distribution and Distant Addressing through virtual was attempted by ALIMCO (Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India). Based on its success, similar camps will be conducted throughout the country thereby ensuring timely availability of Rehabilitation Aid to target beneficiaries in this hour of crisis," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virtual-camps-across-country-for-distribution-of-aids-and-assistive-devices-to-the-disabled-govt-849911.html
15-06-2020||National||India supplies 25 tonnes of Malathion to Iran to curb locust menace||State-owned insecticide manufacturer HIL (India) Ltd has supplied about 25 tonnes of Malathion 95 per cent ULV to Iran to help the country control the locust menace, the government said on Monday. The consignment, which has been supplied on government-to-government basis, is expected to reach Iran by June 16, the fertiliser ministry said in a statement. "India had recently approached Iran and Pakistan for coordinated response to counter desert locust menace in the region. Iran has expressed its willingness to the proposal," it said. Accordingly, the Ministry of External Affairs placed an order with HIL to manufacture and supply 25 tonne of Malathion 95 per cent ULV to Iran. Malathion is a chemical mainly used to protect food-producing plants from insects. As per the reports of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), the hopper stage population of locust is building up in Sistan-Baluchistan region of Iran, which shall migrate to India in coming months leading to further crop devastation. India has taken an initiative to control the locust at its breeding ground itself and approached Iran for coordinated efforts, the statement said. Desert locusts after severe crop devastation in Horn of Africa, East Africa and Arabian Peninsula have entered India in March-April and affected the field crops, horticulture crops and other plantations in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The country is experiencing the worst ever locust invasion in the past 25 years. HIL (India) is also supplying Malathion 95 per cent ULV to the agriculture ministry and the Farmers' Welfare Locust Control Programme in the country. From 2019 till date, the company has supplied more than 600 tonne of this product for this programme, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-supplies-25-tonnes-of-malathion-to-iran-to-curb-locust-menace-849916.html
15-06-2020||National||EPFO launches multi location claims settlement facility||Retirement fund body Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Monday said it has launched a multi-location claim settlement facility to expedite member claims, moving away from the existing system of geographical jurisdiction for claim processing. The facility will bring a paradigm shift by allowing EPFO offices to settle online claims from any of its regional office across the country, the labour ministry said in a statement. All types of online claims i.e. provident fund, pension, partial withdrawal and claims and transfer claims can be processed under this novel initiative, it added. COVID-19 crisis has affected 135 regional offices of the EPFO with different levels of severity depending on their location. The ministry said it was observed that though many offices in Mumbai, Thane, Haryana and Chennai zones operate with even less then skeletal staff on account of COVID-19 pandemic, there has been a disproportionate increase in claim receipt due to recently introduced COVID-19 advance. Consequently, claim pendency in these offices rose to higher levels leading to delay in claim settlement cycle while other offices, working with 50 per cent workforce and with the help of recently introduced auto settlement mode could bring the claim settlement period down to three days for COVID-19 advances. To reduce the delays by uniformly distributing the claim settlement related workload nationwide, EPFO has moved away from the existing system of geographical jurisdiction for claim processing by rolling out multi-location claim settlement facility, it said. This will allow offices with lesser workload to share the burden of offices that have accumulated a higher level of pendency, due to COVID-19 restrictions. It enables fast-tracking of settlement process through most appropriate engagement of EPFO’s workforce in all its regional offices across the country. The initiative aimed at enhancing ease of living experience for its members has been achieved in record time. The first batch of multi-location claims under this path-breaking project was settled for Gurugram Region on June 10, 2020. The claims of employees pertaining to the regional office of Gurugram Region were settled by EPFO staff deployed in Chandigarh, Ludhiana and Jalandhar offices.  After settlement, the payment was made from the Gurugram office to the bank account of the individual member. Since its launch, claims pertaining to offices that fall in containment zones are being distributed to offices in other locations for expeditious processing. The ministry noted that despite its functioning being adversely impacted due to COVID-19 restrictions, EPFO’s officers and staff have been settling more than 80,000 claims amounting to Rs 270 crore per working day since April 1, 2020. With multi-location claim facility EPFO is set to achieve higher benchmarks in service delivery ensuring social security for its more than 6 crore subscribers during the time of crisis, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/epfo-launches-multi-location-claims-settlement-facility-849924.html
15-06-2020||National||NGO moves SC for stay on Rath Yatra festival in Puri from June 23||An NGO, Odisha Vikas Trust has approached the Supreme Court to stay the proposed Rath Yatra festival from June 23, saying it will greatly enhance prospect of COVID-19 spread due to gathering of a large number of people making it impossible to maintain social distancing. The petitioner contended that the alarming situation currently prevailing in Odisha is evident from the fact that the projection reflected by Union government's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Department said that the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Odisha will reach around 10,718 by July 9. It maintained that the government is duty bound to protect the Right to Health, Life and Personal Liberty and Right to Live with Dignity and Fair Treatment as enumerated under Article 21 of the Constitution of the people of Odisha including the devotees who might attend the Rath Yatra. The festival scheduled to commence on June 23 at Puri in Odisha will continue for a period of around 10-12 days. "The action of permitting the Rath Yatra by the state government will be in violation of its own guidelines of June 1 and 7 and that the Ministry of Home Affairs' May 30 for closing any cultural and religious functions and other large congregations," the plea said. Notably, the Union government's Ministry of Home Affairs, on May 7, allowed the construction of the chariots for the Rath Yatra festival. The Centre has then granted the state government's discretion to take a decision on conducting it. As on June 8, 2020, the total number of reported positive cases in Puri has risen to 108, making it a 'high risk zone'. "Due to the significant increase in the COVID-19 cases in Odisha, the months of June and July, 2020 are very much critical and if the Rath Yatra event is allowed to happen, then the infections will increase manifold which will make the task of the state government to control the spread of COVID-19 impossible," it said. Besides, after the influx of the migrants and people from outside Odisha, there has been an exponential rise in the number of positive cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-moves-sc-for-stay-on-rath-yatra-festival-in-puri-from-june-23-849926.html
15-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi's two-day interaction with CMs on COVID-19 to begin Tuesday||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two-day video conference with chief ministers starting 3 PM on June 16 to discuss the strategy to check the spike in COVID-19 cases which are now reported even from rural belts, some of the states have tightened the curbs.  Meanwhile, the Centre has refuted reports about the imposition of another nationwide lockdown. Before Tamil Nadu announced complete lockdown in three districts including Chennai from June 19 to June 30, Rajasthan sealed its borders with all states. Uttar Pradesh and Haryana sealed their border with Delhi. Punjab sealed its borders and clamped weekend curfews on Saturday and Sunday. Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Uttarakhand have also clamped weekend curfews. With Home Minister Amit Shah taking the lead, testing will be ramped up in Delhi, where the pandemic had literally exploded despite claims of preparations. Last Friday a petition filed in Delhi High Court sought extension of the lockdown in Delhi but the court declined to interfere in policy issues and pushed the ball into the courts of the central and the state governments.  The sixth meeting of Modi with CMs will focus on how to sustain the economy and livelihood without letting Covid concerns slip away. In the first round, the PM on Tuesday will interact with the CMs of 21 states and UTs, which together account for less than 5% of total cases. In the second round of meeting on Wednesday, Modi will talk to CMs of states with higher caseloads. On Saturday, Modi, during deliberations with ministers and officials, instructed the health ministry to plan strategies in consultation with the states and UTs. In a precursor to the PM's meeting with CMs, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday held confabulations with senior officials of various states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-two-day-interaction-with-cms-on-covid-19-to-begin-tuesday-849930.html
15-06-2020||National||Maharashtra government inks MoUs worth Rs 16,000 crore with 12 companies||Desperate to restart the economy which has taken a hit by coronavirus pandemic, the Maharashtra government on Monday signed MoUs worth Rs 16,000 crore with companies spanning various industries, including two Chinese units, under its "Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0" initiative. The companies are from diverse sectors like automobile, logistics, banking, engineering and mobile production, a state government official said. The business pacts were signed by Industries Minister Subhash Desai of the Shiv Sena on behalf of the state government. "We will facilitate all the companies that are willing to set up their plants in various parts of Maharashtra. They will face no hurdles in setting up their units," said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The official said representatives of 12 countries including the USA, China, Singapore and South Korea among others, were present on the occasion. "The total investment is Rs 16,030 crore. The MOU signing was part of the 'Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0' initiative," he said, adding that it was the first such programme after Thackeray became CM last November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-government-inks-mous-worth-rs-16000-crore-with-12-companies-849935.html
15-06-2020||National||Police send notice to Delhi Minority Commission chief for joining probe in sedition case||The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Monday sent a notice to Delhi Minority Commission Chairman Zafarul Islam Khan to join the probe in connection with a sedition case registered against him for his social media post in April, officials said. Following the direction of the Delhi High Court, police have sent a notice to Khan and asked him to join the probe within two days, in connection with his "controversial" social media post, they said. "On the court's directive, we have sent a notice to him to join the probe in next two days," a senior police officer said. Speaking to PTI over phone, Khan said, "I have received a notice from the special cell to join the probe. I have been asked to give some details with regard to the investigation. I will be joining the probe at their Janakpuri office tomorrow." An FIR was registered against Khan on April 30 under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth) of the IPC after police received a complaint from a resident of Vasant Kunj. This is the second notice which has been sent to Khan. Earlier in May, a notice under section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was sent to him by the special cell to hand over his device used for making the "controversial" social media post. Khan had accordingly submitted his device. In the FIR, the complainant had alleged that Khan's post was provocative and seditious and intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in society, the police said, adding that the case was being investigated by the cyber cell. However, later, Khan had also sought an apology, while the BJP demanded his removal from the commission. He had said that his tweet on April 28 thanking Kuwait for taking note of the "persecution" of Indian Muslims, in the context of the northeast Delhi violence, has "pained" some people which was never his intention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-send-notice-to-delhi-minority-commission-chief-for-joining-probe-in-sedition-case-849936.html
15-06-2020||National||Indian Railways earns Rs 360 crore in operating Shramik special trains||The Indian Railways on Monday said the average fare per person on Shramik Special train is Rs 600 and it transported 60 lakh migrant workers since May 1. With this, the national transporter earned Rs 360 crore. The railways operated 4,450 Shramik special trains since May 1 and ferried 60 lakh migrant workers. However, the railways managed to recover only 15 per cent of the cost of operating a train, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav, told reporters. Official in Rail Bhavan says operationing cost of one Shramik Special train is around Rs 80 lakh.  Of the total cost, 85 per cent borne by Railways while remaining 15 per cent shared by states. “The average fare of Shramik Special trains is Rs 600 per passenger. One has to keep in mind that these are normal fares and not fares for special trains which are higher. We carried 60 lakh passengers, so the revenue can be calculated. We however, managed to recover only 15 per cent of cost of operations,” Yadav said.  Most of the migrants have returned to their home states. Only few are left and they will be sent back. The railways is working with states to operate Shramik special trains, he said. The railways started operation of Shramik Special trains from May 1 to ferry migrant workers, students and tourists to their home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-earns-rs-360-crore-in-operating-shramik-special-trains-849937.html
15-06-2020||National||Early lockdown helped India convert exponential growth in COVID-19 cases into linear trend: Harsh Vardhan||An early lockdown imposed by the government helped India in converting the exponential growth rate of coronavirus cases into a linear trend, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday, even as the country saw a jump of over 11,000 cases for the third consecutive day and the death toll rose to 9,520. The number of confirmed cases rose to 3,32,424 with 11,502 new infections in the last 24 hours, while 325 new deaths were recorded, the health ministry said in its morning update. During the last 24 hours, 7,419 COVID-19 patients were cured, taking the total number of patients recovered so far to 1,69,797, the ministry said. The recovery rate has risen to 51.08 per cent which is indicative of the fact that more than half of positive cases have recovered from the disease, it said, adding that currently, 1,53,106 active cases are under medical supervision.   Vardhan asserted that the government is leaving no stone unturned in tackling the COVID-19 crisis. "The early lockdown that was imposed, helped India in converting the exponential growth rate into a linear trend!" he tweeted along with a graph showing the growth rate of COVID-19 cases. The graph showed that the growth rate of cases which was over 30 per cent on March 20 has been steady at around 5 per cent since first week of May. India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to the Worldometer data, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is in the ninth position in terms of death toll. Amid reports of a shortage of healthcare infrastructure in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre on Monday asked states and Union Territories to engage with the private sector for augmenting such infrastructure and provisioning critical care at reasonable rates. Being seized of the emerging scenario, the Health Ministry said it has asked the States/UTs to engage with the private healthcare providers to facilitate enhanced bed availability and critical care health facilities as well as to ensure fair and transparent charges for services provided. Meanwhile, in view of its high specificity but relatively low sensitivity, the ICMR has recommended the use of rapid antigen test kits for diagnosis of COVID-19 in containment zones and healthcare settings in combination with the RT-PCR test. The kits will allow faster diagnosis without laboratory examination. “Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit (rapid antigen test kits) is a rapid chromatographic immunoassay for qualitative detection of specific antigens to SARS-CoV-2. It has been developed by SD Biosensor, a South Korea based company,” the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in an advisory. Suspected individuals who test negative for COVID-19 by rapid antigen test should be tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection, whereas a positive test should be considered as a true positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test, ICMR said. The Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection can be interpreted as positive or negative after 15 minutes of putting the sample into the well by appearance of test and control lines, which can be read with a naked eye, requiring no specialised equipment, it said. The maximum duration for interpreting a positive or negative test is 30 minutes. After that the test strip should be discarded, it said. As many as 120 out of the 325 more deaths reported in the 24 hours till Monday morning were from Maharashtra, followed by 56 from Delhi, 38 from Tamil Nadu and 29 in Gujarat. There were 14 more fatalities in Uttar Pradesh, 12 each in West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, and 10 each in Rajasthan and Haryana. Five COVID-19 deaths were reported from Karnataka, followed by four in Jammu and Kashmir, three each in Telangana and Puducherry, and two each in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Punjab. A person each succumbed to the infection in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha. The ICMR's testing capacity for detecting the novel coronavirus in infected persons is continuously being ramped up, the ministry said. The number of government labs has been increased to 653 and private labs to 248. In the last 24 hours, 1,15,519 samples were tested. The total number of samples tested thus far is 57,74,133, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/early-lockdown-helped-india-convert-exponential-growth-in-covid-19-cases-into-linear-trend-harsh-vardhan-849954.html
15-06-2020||National||Kolkata police asks citizens of the city to dial 100 if they feel depressed||In the backdrop of the rise in the number of cases of depression due to the lockdown and the alleged suicide by Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Kolkata police have requested the people of the city to call or contact them to share their problems to beat their loneliness and overcome stress. "Speak out! Talk it out! Let the emotions flow out! There is always light at the end of the tunnel! In case of any distress #Dial100. We are there for you. #TeamKP #WeDareWeCare," Kolkata Commissioner of Police Anuj Sharma tweeted. When contacted Sharma said, "Anybody who is feeling depressed should not think they are alone. They can always call us and talk to us". The Kolkata police personnel during the initial days of lockdown were seen lending their voices to inspirational songs on the streets of Kolkata in a bid to lift the sagging spirit of the people confined in their homes by the lockdown. Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found hanging in his apartment in Mumbai on Sunday sending shockwaves through the hindi film industry and elsewhere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-police-asks-citizens-of-the-city-to-dial-100-if-they-feel-depressed-849955.html
15-06-2020||National||Madras High Court grants bail to 20 foreign nationals||The Madras High Court on Monday granted bail to20 foreign nationals arrested for allegedly engaging in religious activities in breach of visa conditions. Justice G R Swaminathan, while granting bail to the persons hailing from from Bangladesh and Indonesia, said that after their release it was open to the authorities to arrange fortheir stay at the special camp under the Foreigners Act. These people were earlier held on charges of engaging in religious activitiesin breach of visa conditions, and defying lockdown regulations and staying in religious places. The government could also consider the proposal of the Jamia QasmiyahArabi college at Washermanpet to house the petitioners there, the court said. The proceedings against the petitioners shall be concluded if they executed appropriate affidavits expressing regret for having violated the visa conditions. The Judge said it is for the petitioners to coordinate with their respective embassies and consulates and arrange for their return to their respective nations, while the Central and state governments will play the facilitator's role. The Judge said though the petitioners did not test positive for COVID-19 so far, the position may be different later. The petitioners were willing to bear the cost of the transportation and to coordinate with the embassies and arrange for their return. If the police insisted on detaining the petitioners and prosecuting them, the same can be characterised as unreasonable, unjust and unfair, the judge noted. The continuance of the criminal proceedings against the petitioners would amount to infraction of their fundamental right. Besides, they had already suffered enough for their transgression of law and with the prevalence of a medical emergency, the petitioners have the right to return to their native countries,the judge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-high-court-grants-bail-to-20-foreign-nationals-849956.html
15-06-2020||National||Seeking COVID-19 care too late responsible for recent surge in deaths: Karnataka CCSU Head||As of Monday evening, the state had recorded a total of 89 COVID-19 fatalities (excluding two suicides), since the first Covid-19 death was reported in Kalaburagi on March 10. With the onset of June, the number of deaths have risen, with 33 fatalities reported in the month so far, compared to 32 for the entire month of May. While the mortality rate due to COVID-19 remains low, the disease does kill when people with a compromised immune system turn up for hospital care too late. “The unifying factor among all the deaths so far is COVOD-positive people with pre-existing health problems turning up too late for treatment,” says Dr KV Thrilok Chandra, the head of Karnataka’s specially formed Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), in an interview with DH’s Akhil Kadidal.  Can you tell me a little about what the Critical Care Support Unit does? We track all the high-risk COVID-19 cases in the state, including those above the age of 50, plus all paediatric cases (that is, under the age of 10), and we track every case which has reported a co-morbidity, including people with diabetes, hypertension, pregnant women and any other immunity-altering conditions. How does the CCSU work? We have a team of four doctors in the state COVID War Room. We also have several interns from KIMS and another hospital who help me carry out the daily e-rounds. We have also partnered with Columbia Asia and the Manipal Group for support. In the event of an emergency, our specialists hold multiple meetings and prescribe medicines to ensure that the patient recovers. Lately, we are seeing a rising number of deaths. What is causing this spike? If you look at the data about the fatalities, a pattern can be seen. For instance, we have had nine cases where people were brought dead. We have had another 15 to 20 cases where the people expired within hours of arriving at a COVID-designated hospital. What we are seeing is that people are not coming forward to get care for Covid-19 in time. A lot of people are self-medicating or are going to private hospitals, where they get progressively worse. By the time they appear at the Covid-designated hospitals, it is usually too late. How much time do people have to report to a COVID care centre after the onset of symptoms?  In terms of days, just one or two. Instead, we are seeing people showing up between three to five days. By this stage, oxygen desaturation is already taking place in their bodies. In many cases, people are literally breathless by the time they show up at our hospitals. By this stage, hypoxia or breathlessness has set in. That makes recovery very difficult. What about pre-symptomatic individuals? If they develop a cough, for example, they might think that’ll pass. By ignoring the symptom, are they potentially risking their lives? Absolutely. As far as we are concerned, it is better for people with even basic symptoms to come in for a medical check-up. We have had many cases with severe co-morbidities, and elderly people, who are highest at-risk, whom we were able to save because these people got to the hospitals before the disease entered its late stage. It is as simple as that. The latest state COVID War Room data says that the death rate among ‘asymptomatic’ individuals is 0.3%. Please explain this. This refers to the ‘brought dead’ cases. We don’t have medical histories for them, so we are not able to verify if they had symptoms or not. Over the last two to three weeks, we are suddenly seeing a spate of young people dying of the disease. What is causing this? Again, I would have to say that delayed treatment is responsible in some cases. For instance, a 17-year-old girl died recently in Kalaburagi. She had a demyelinating brain disease which had weakened her immune system. She was taken to three different private hospitals where her status as a Covid-19 sufferer was not diagnosed. Swabs were not taken.  In some of the young COVID-19 deaths, could lifestyle choices also be responsible? Yes. In the case of a 23-year-old man who died of the disease in Bengaluru on June 12, he had juvenile diabetes. But more than that, we see the same issue that we see in other fatalities. He sought treatment at a private hospital where his condition was not diagnosed. After being classified as a suspected Covid-19 patient, he was then admitted to Bowring Hospital. But then, against all medical advice, he checked himself out. We had no option to hold him. It was his prerogative to check out if he wanted to. When his swab samples came back as positive, we had him admitted immediately to Victoria Hospital. But by then, it was too late. The common thread within all this appears to be that private hospitals are not reporting suspected COVID-19 cases as they should? What needs to be done to ensure that they do? There is a clear order to all private establishments registered under the KPME Act to report cases of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), but a majority of the institutions are not doing it. We are cracking down on them. But it is not just medical institutions not reporting cases, it is also pharmacies flouting the order. This has posed a huge challenge that we are trying to rectify.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seeking-covid-19-care-too-late-responsible-for-recent-surge-in-deaths-karnataka-ccsu-head-849972.html
15-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Rope in private hospitals and fix reasonable rates, Centre tells states||The Centre on Monday asked states to rope in the private sector to step up healthcare infrastructure at reasonable rates to overcome the shortage of hospital beds for treatment of COVID-19 patients as new cases surge every passing day. Centre has suggested to states to finalise the reasonable rates with private hospitals keeping in mind the rates offered under the Pradhan Mantri Jana Arogya Yojana and the Central Government Health Scheme besides factoring in the cost of personal protection equipment for healthcare personnel. “It has been suggested that the rates, once fixed, must be widely publicised so that both the patients and service providers are fully aware and capacities are used optimally,” a health ministry statement said. States such as Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have also capped COVID-19 testing charges. The Centre’s suggestion came against the backdrop of reports indicating an emerging shortage of healthcare infrastructure including hospitals with ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen supported beds for management of COVID-19 patients and overcharging by private hospitals. The health ministry said states have also been asked to proactively engage with the private sector health providers and consider pooling in public and private healthcare facilities, as this will help in providing prompt, good quality and reasonable health care to COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rope-in-private-hospitals-and-fix-reasonable-rates-centre-tells-states-849974.html
15-06-2020||National||Nationwide COVID-19 tally crosses 3.3 lakh; Focus on ramping up testing, treatment infrastructure||India's COVID-19 tally rose further on Monday to cross 3.3 lakh and the death toll surpassed 9,500 even as the central and state governments stepped up their focus on ramping up testing capabilities and availability of beds for treating those infected with the dreaded virus infection. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also interact with chief ministers of states and representatives of union territories on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss ways to check the pandemic as a phased lockdown exit continues across the country. Amid rising number of cases, Tamil Nadu government announced total lockdown for Chennai and its suburbs from June 19-30 when only essential services would be allowed. The decision followed suggestions from an expert panel on scaling down lockdown relaxations to check the spread of the virus in the state, which recorded 44 deaths and over 1,800 new cases to take its tally to 479 fatalities and over 46,000 confirmed cases. At the same time, Delhi and Gujarat governments said they had no plans to reimpose the lockdown again amid persistent rumours about re-imposition of the curbs, particularly in the national capital where the cases have seen a rapid increase in the recent past. The number of COVID-19 tests would be increased to 18,000 per day in the nation from June 20, the ruling AAP and the main opposition party in the Delhi BJP said after an all-party meeting held by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Besides, necessary equipment like oxygen cylinders, ventilators and pulse oximeters for treatment of COVID-19 patients will be provided by the Centre to Delhi and 37,000 beds will be arranged by the month-end for patients in Delhi. Nearly 5,000 tests per day are estimated to be done at present in Delhi, which recorded 1,647 new cases to take its tally to close to 43,000 while the death toll rose past 1,400. The Delhi government has also directed all laboratories and hospitals to work on their full potential, ramp up their COVID-19 testing capacity to meet the increased demand of processing samples and process the samples within 48 hours. Delhi's Health Minister Satyendar Jain said laboratory facilities under the Centre in the national capital are being extended to the city government. In its morning update, the Union Health Ministry said the number of confirmed cases across the country has risen to 3,32,424 after 11,502 new cases were recorded in 24 hours since Sunday 8 AM, while the death toll rose by 325 in this period to 9,520. These include nearly 1.53 active cases, as close to 1.7 lakh have recovered already to give a recovery rate of over 51 per cent, the ministry said. However, a PTI tally of figures announced by different states and UTs showed the nationwide death toll having risen further to 9,733 as of 9.45 PM, while it also showed the total number of confirmed cases having risen to close to 3.33 lakh. Several other states also announced plans for ramping their testing infrastructure and the number of beds for COVID-19 patients. In Telangana, the state government allowed private labs to conduct COVID-19 tests, while fixing the charges at Rs 2,200. It also fixed the fees for treatment in private hospitals. The Karnataka government also said private hospitals would be roped in to treat COVID-19 patients and uniform rates across the state would be fixed for everything from testing to treatment at those institutions. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, announced that classes for 9-12 standards would begin from July 1, except for in the red zone areas, while classes for 6-8 standards would begin in August. The state also saw suburban train services in Mumbai, known as the city's lifeline, resuming after nearly three months, but only for ferrying people engaged in essential services. Among other states and UTs, new cases were also detected across Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram,  Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. India is the world's fourth worst hit nation by the novel coronavirus infection in terms of total number of confirmed cases after the US, Brazil and Russia, as per the online COVID-19 tracker of Johns Hopkins University. In terms of the number of deaths, India is ranked ninth after the US, Brazil, UK, Italy, France, Spain, Mexico and Belgium. India is ranked sixth with regard to the number of recoveries, after the US, Brazil, Russia, Italy and Germany. Globally, nearly 80 lakh people have tested positive for the virus ever since it was first reported in China last December, while more than 4.34 lakh have lost their lives. However, nearly 38 lakh have recovered too worldwide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nationwide-covid-19-tally-crosses-33-lakh-focus-on-ramping-up-testing-treatment-infrastructure-849980.html
15-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Lockdown: DGCA says foreign airlines operated 870 chartered flights carrying around 2 lakh people||Aviation regulator DGCA on Monday said that foreign airlines have operated 870 chartered flights, carrying around two lakh stranded people to their destinations amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. India suspended international and domestic passenger flights on March 23 and March 25, respectively. While domestic passenger services resumed on May 25, international passenger services continue to remain suspended in the country. The Indian government started the Vande Bharat Mission on May 6 to help stranded people reach their destinations through special international flights amid the lockdown. "In addition to facilitating the Vande Bharat Mission, the DGCA granted permission to around 870 chartered flights, transporting around two lakh passengers, both inbound & outbound. Several airlines helped in the humanitarian mission of taking stranded people to their destinations," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation tweeted. "Major airlines, including Qatar Airways-81, KLM Dutch-68, Kuwait Air-41, British Airways-39, FlyDubai-38, Air France-32, Jazeera-30, Air Arabia-20, Gulf Air-19, Sri Lankan-19, Biman Bangladesh-15, Korean Air-14, Delta-13, Saudia-13 & Air Nippon-12 took part in the operations," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-dgca-says-foreign-airlines-operated-870-chartered-flights-carrying-around-2-lakh-people-849993.html
15-06-2020||National Politics||FIR against Congress leader Digvijaya Singh over 'edited' video of Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Bhopal Crime Branch has registered an FIR against Congress leader Digvijaya Singh, under multiple sections of IPC, in connection with an alleged fake video regarding CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan shared by him on social media. Earlier, the BJP had filed a complaint against him. A BJP delegation, headed by former minister Umashankar Gupta, submitted a memorandum to the crime branch of Bhopal police, seeking a case against Digvijaya Singh for sharing the "edited" video. In their complaint to the crime branch, the BJP leaders said that Chouhan had given a statement against the liquor policy of the then Kamal Nath government on January 12 this year. The Madhya Pradesh Police on Sunday had registered a case in connection with the circulation of an alleged "edited" video of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's old statement on liquor, and launched a probe in this connection. "The matter of editing an old video of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and circulating it on social media with an aim of spoiling his image has been taken seriously. The case is being investigated by registering an FIR under the Cyber Act," Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Bhopal, Irshad Wali, had said in a tweet. This 2.19-minute video was edited and a nine-second part of it was shared on Twitter by Singh to malign the image of the chief minister, the BJP leaders said in the complaint. They had demanded a case against the senior Congress leader and his associates for "conspiring to malign the CM's image". "On the basis of the complaint, a case has been registered against 12 people, including Digivijaya Singh and Avinash Kadbe (MP Congress' social media coordinator)," Additional Superintendent of Police Nishchal Jharia told PTI. They have been charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505 (2) (public mischief) and 465 (forgery), the official said. Jharia said the FIR was registered after the complaint received from BJP leaders was found to be "right" in a preliminary investigation. "Further action would be taken after the investigation," he said. Reacting to the development, Digvijaya Singh said the BJP is upset as he raised an issue of cheating in Chief Minister Chouhan's constituency. "The BJP has been fuming and is perturbed since I wrote to Chouhan that tribals in his constituency Budhni were duped of Rs 450 crore by his agents. No action was taken during Chouhans (previous) tenure. I wrote to him that if no action would be taken, I will be forced to sit on a dharna at the CM's residence, Singh told reporters. He also demanded an FIR against those who duped the tribals in Chouhan's constituency. "I don't have any objection to the FIR (against him), but it should be investigated what is the source (of video) and who edited this? The BJP and Modi-Shah bhakts edited Rahul Gandhi's video and circulated it and are running fake news. Action should also be taken against them," he said. State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath criticised the action against Digvijaya Singh. "The BJP government is continuously showing its malicious thinking by taking oppressive action against Congress leaders in the state," Nath said. He said the BJP government is setting a "wrong tradition" in the state. People associated with the BJP are constantly doing dirty politics against Congress leaders and trying to spoil their image, they have made false complaints against Digvijaya Singh over a viral video, he said, adding that action should be taken against those who created the video. The BJP accused Digvijaya Singh and his associates of "conspiring to malign the CM's image". Singh, however, deleted the tweet immediately. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fir-against-congress-leader-digvijaya-singh-over-edited-video-of-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-849639.html
15-06-2020||National Politics||Made 'political mistake' of supporting Pramod Sawant govt: Ex-Deputy CM Vijai Sardesai||Former Goa deputy chief minister Vijai Sardesai has said it was a "political mistake" on his part to support the Pramod Sawant-led state government after the demise of Manohar Parrikar in March last year. Addressing a gathering at his Fatorda Assembly constituency in South Goa district on Sunday, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) chief apologised to people for the "mistake", and accused the BJP-led state government of being "inefficient, non-transparent and having no administrative accountability". "We won't aid the establishment of such a government in future. For us, the BJP is finished after the death of Parrikar. We will never let the BJP rule this state in future," Sardesai said. After the elections in 2017 for the 40-member state Assembly, the Congress emerged as the single largest party. However, BJP veteran Parrikar, who was at that time the country's defence minister, returned to his home state Goa where he tied-up with the GFP, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Independents to form a government under his leadership. After Parrikar died last year, the GFP continued to support to the Pramod Sawant-led state government. But, Sawant dropped Sardesai and two other GFP leaders from the state Cabinet in July last year after 10 Congress MLAs switched over to the ruling BJP. "I would like to apologise to Goans for the major political mistake I have made in my career of not opting out of the government after the death of Parrikar. Today, Goans are suffering because of our mistake and we are ready to seek penance, Sardesai told the gathering. Sardesai said in future his party will work in an inclusive way to help the state government in making good laws and legislations. He also said the new party leadership must come from the grassroots, and added that a training institute would be started for young leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/made-political-mistake-of-supporting-pramod-sawant-govt-ex-deputy-cm-vijai-sardesai-849670.html
15-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams govt as fuel prices raised for 9th straight day||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday targeted the government over increase in petrol and diesel prices, saying the middle class and the poor pay for the "gifts crony capitalists get". He also used a graph to show that prices of petrol and diesel were low in May 2014 under the UPA despite high crude cost globally, but the NDA government raised the excise duty on petrol by 258.47 per cent and on diesel by 819.94 per cent as on June 15, 2020. The statement came on day oil companies raised petrol and diesel prices by 48 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise a litre. This is the ninth daily increase in rates in a row since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs. "Middle class and the poor pay for the gifts the crony capitalists get," Gandhi said on Twitter. He also used a hashtag in Hindi that translates to "Shame on a government that loots". Rahul also said that on May 16, 2014, when the Congress-led UPA was in power, the international crude oil price was USD 107.09 per barrel, while it is USD 40.66 on June 15, 2020, when the NDA is in government. Despite the crude costing USD 66.43 less per barrel, petrol and diesel prices now are higher than what they were in 2014, he said. Congress has been demanding that petrol and diesel prices be brought under the ambit of GST. The opposition party has also demanded a rollback of excise duty hikes on petrol, diesel to bring down their prices. The Congress has said the government is earning out of the pockets of the poor by imposing high taxes on petrol and diesel, depriving the common man the benefit of lower crude oil prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-as-fuel-prices-raised-for-9th-straight-day-849843.html
15-06-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah seizes moment as coronavirus pandemic jolts Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||On February 11 this year, Arvind Kejriwal was a ‘khaas’ man. He had led the Aam Aadmi Party to another resounding win in the Assembly polls. He had withstood one of the most polarising campaigns unleashed by BJP’s Amit Shah, who led from the front, and ably aided by a supporting cast that included Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath among others. Four months down the line, an invisible enemy, the coronavirus, has brought Kejriwal to his knees. The virus opened the door and the BJP and Amit Shah, waiting for a toehold in Delhi, sneaked in. On Sunday, Shah held meetings with Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and the BJP-ruled municipal corporations to devise a strategy to contain the raging pandemic. It was a clear sign that the baton of COVID-19 control in the national capital was passing into the hands of the BJP-led central government. Nothing better illustrated the change in dynamics than Shah’s visit to a Delhi government-run hospital to take stock of the hospital’s COVID-19 preparation. For Kejriwal, it was bad news since there would be a political fallout later.   With the BJP in power at the Centre as well in municipal corporations, the party will have a role in Delhi’s virus containment efforts even if it is not ruling the state. And that is a paradox, considering that the BJP lost three elections in a row to the Congress-led Sheila Dikshit in 1998, 2003 and 2008, and then was trounced by the AAP in 2013, 2015 and 2020. But the party has always had an upper hand in municipal corporation polls even before the decimation of the Congress. The status quo remains. This arrangement always contributed to the tense relationship between the state government and the administration of municipal corporations—first between the Congress and the BJP and now between AAP-BJP. Supporters of the BJP on social media also run a virtual campaign on the spread of the pandemic, reminding people that the outbreak happened just months after they rejected the BJP and brought the AAP to power. After the Supreme Court slammed the Delhi government on low testing, the BJP went to the town, dubbing Kejriwal a “failure” besides announcing that the central government “fully stands with the people of Delhi”. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra did not forget to take potshots, as he reminded the Kejriwal government to “work on the ground” and “eschew aggressive, negative politics”. Another party spokesperson and Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi earlier said the health infrastructure in Delhi had worsened under the AAP government.  The COVID-19 crisis has given some talking points to the BJP in Delhi. Though the AAP is in power, it is advantage Amit Shah right now in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-seizes-moment-as-coronavirus-pandemic-jolts-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-849913.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh police launch probe into 'edited' video of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh Police have registered a case in connection with the circulation of an alleged "edited" video of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's old statement on liquor, and launched a probe in this connection, an official said on Sunday. "The matter of editing an old video of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and circulating it on social media with an aim of spoiling his image has been taken seriously. The case is being investigated by registering an FIR under the Cyber Act," Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Bhopal, Irshad Wali, said in a tweet. Meanwhile, leaders of the ruling BJP submitted a complaint to the police demanding that an FIR be filed against Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh, who allegedly shared this video on his Twitter handle. A BJP delegation, headed by former minister Umashankar Gupta, submitted a memorandum to the crime branch of Bhopal police, seeking a case against Digvijaya Singh for sharing the "edited" video. In their complaint to the crime branch, the BJP leaders said that Chouhan had given a statement against the liquor policy of the then Kamal Nath government on January 12 this year. This 2.19-minute video was edited and a nine second part of it was shared on Twitter by Singh to malign the image of the chief minister, the BJP leaders said in the complaint. They demanded a case against the senior Congress leader and his associates for "conspiring to malign the CM's image". Gupta said that the police officials have assured them action as per the law after the investigation. BJP MLA Rameshwar Sharma also shared the screenshot of Digvijaya Singh's tweet and said that the post has now been deleted. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said that he has directed the officials to take strict legal action against the offenders, who twisted the CMs statement against the liquor mafia. The Congress has not yet reacted on this issue. "The video was shared on social media and a large number of people shared it. The police should go to the source of the video instead of making it a political issue," a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-police-launch-probe-into-edited-video-of-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-849576.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||IRS officer commits suicide in Delhi's Dwarka 'fearing he may spread COVID-19 to his family'||A 56-year-old IRS officer allegedly committed suicide by drinking an "acid-like substance" in his car in Delhi's Dwarka area on Sunday, police said. A suicide note recovered from his car mentioned that he feared that he might "spread COVID-19" to his family and does not want them to suffer because of him, they said. He had got himself tested for COVID-19 a week ago and the report came out negative but he was scared that his family might get infected of the deadly virus because of him, a senior police officer said. The incident was reported at Dwarka South police station regarding a man lying unconscious in a car, police said, adding that he was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said. Initial investigation suggested that he drank "an acid-like substance" sitting inside his car and also left a suicide note in which he mentioned that he was killing himself "as he feared that he might spread coronavirus", he said. He seemed very upset with the situation around and feared his family might get infected with the deadly virus too, the police officer said. The case is under investigation and police will talk to other family members regarding it, he added. The body will be handed over to the family on Monday after conducting post-mortem, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/irs-officer-commits-suicide-in-delhis-dwarka-fearing-he-may-spread-covid-19-to-his-family-849592.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||DMs ordered to make arrangements for 20,000 beds; Delhi govt withdraws order on nursing homes||Struggling with a shortage of beds, the Delhi government has directed district magistrates and other officials concerned to make arrangements for 20,000 additional beds to accommodate more COVID-19 patients within a week, as the national capital continued to witness an alarming spurt in COVID-19 cases. An official said that around 40 hotels and 80 banquet halls will be converted into health facilities to provide medical care to coronavirus-infected people. However, the Delhi government on Sunday night withdrew its order issued a day earlier declaring small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes in the city having 10 to 49 beds as "COVID nursing homes" to increase the bed capacity for coronavirus patients. The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) had opposed the Saturday order. On Sunday's morning, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said had the bed strength in the national capital for treating coronavirus patients will increase by 5,000 due to the decision. The DMA, in the letter, had raised concerns saying the order is going to harm healthcare needs of the non-COVID patients and will put residents of small colonies at severe risk According to the Delhi Corona app at 10 PM, the number of beds in private, centre and state run hospitals is 98,56 and of these 5,453 beds have been occupied and 4,403 are vacant. "Hotels will have 4,000 beds while banquets halls will have 11,000 beds," the official said. Official said that 5,000 beds will be set up at other establishments by the authorities in the city. Delhi recorded 2,224 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday in the highest single-day spike in the national capital, taking the infection tally to over 41,000, and the death toll mounted to 1,327, authorities said. This is the third successive day when over 2,000 cases have been reported in a day in Delhi. The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 2,137 -- was recorded on June 12. Earlier this month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that Delhi would need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31 if people from other states start coming to the national capital for treatment. There has been criticism from different quarters over the handling of COVID-19 cases in the capital, with complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals for patients and difficulty in getting the tests done in laboratories. After the Supreme Court too expressed concern, the Arvind Kejriwal government said it accepts with utmost respect and sincerity the apex court's remarks and pointed out that it was trying its best to set up better infrastructure and provide quality healthcare to all COVID-19 patients in the city. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Sunday inspected the site of a proposed 10,000-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients in South Delhi. The planned COVID-19 facility will come up under a sprawling tent on the campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas on the Delhi-Haryana border. Earlier in the day, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held meetings with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Lt Governor Baijal, Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and three mayors to review steps to combat the coronavirus. Terming his meeting with Shah as "extremely productive", Kejriwal said several key decisions were taken and the Centre and the Delhi government will fight the COVID-19 together in the national capital. In a statement, the Delhi government said that the Centre and the AAP dispensation has agreed on an immediate action plan to increase capacity of beds, increase testing and other important initiatives. Taking to Twitter after the meeting, Shah announced that the COVID-19 testing will be doubled in Delhi in the next two days and subsequently increased by three times. In view of shortage of beds for coronavirus infected patients in Delhi, the Modi government has decided to immediately provide 500 railway coaches which will be equipped with all facilities, he said. The Railways will not run any trains from Anand Vihar station from Monday and all the platforms will be used to deploy isolation coaches for coronavirus patients that the Centre will provide to the Delhi government to overcome the shortage of hospital beds, sources said Sunday. Meanwhile, the Delhi government's social welfare department has asked its officials to avoid face-to-face meetings to the extent possible to avoid becoming carriers of coronavirus. It has also prohibited visits by friends and relatives of officials. The officers have been directed to attend meetings via video and audio calls. If a face-to-face meeting becomes essential, the official concerned will have to ensure that it gets over in 15 minutes, the department said while issuing new guidelines to be followed in office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dms-ordered-to-make-arrangements-for-20000-beds-delhi-govt-withdraws-order-on-nursing-homes-849598.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt withdraws its decision to declare nursing homes as COVID-19 facilities||The Delhi government on Sunday withdrew its decision to declare small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes as "COVID nursing homes". The decision came after the Delhi Medical Association wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying the move will harm the healthcare needs of non-COVID patients. According to a new order issued by the Delhi government, the decision to declare nursing homes as COVID facilities has now been "withdrawn with immediate effect". Small and medium multi-speciality nursing homes in the city having 10 to 49 beds were declared as "COVID nursing homes" by the city government on Saturday. Only standalone exclusive eye centres, ENT centres, dialysis centres, maternity homes and IVF centres were exempted, according to its order on Saturday. "With the Delhi government's decision, over 5,000 beds will be available for coronavirus patients. In the next few days, our officials will talk to owners of each nursing home to solve their problems," Kejriwal had tweeted in Hindi earlier in the day. According to the Delhi Corona app, there are 9,856 beds available for coronavirus patients, with 5,455 beds being occupied at 10.35 pm on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-withdraws-its-decision-to-declare-nursing-homes-as-covid-19-facilities-849599.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Man killed in front of wife, daughter in Delhi's Rohini area; 1 held||A 37-year-old man was stabbed to death in front of his wife and daughter outside their house in Delhi's Rohini area, following which one person has been arrested, officials said on Sunday. The incident, which took place outside the victim's house in Aman Vihar locality on Thursday, was caught on CCTV camera, they said. In the CCTV footage, three persons can be seen stabbing the victim, identified as Bharat Bhushan, in front of his wife and 10-year-old daughter, officials said. Mukesh (31), a resident of Delhi’s Kirari Sulemen Nagar, has been arrested in connection with the killing of Bhushan, while the other two suspects -- Deepak and Suraj -- are absconding, the officials said. According to police, at 11:40 pm, Mukesh along with Deepak and his brother Suraj reached the victim's house. The three suspects called Bhushan outside and had a heated argument with him. Later, Deepak and Mukesh allegedly caught hold of Bhushan and Suraj stabbed him multiple times in front of his wife and daughter, officials said. Deepak allegedly kept on kicking the victim even after he had fallen down and later the three left the spot on their two-wheelers, they said. BK Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime), said the victim was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case of murder was registered at Aman Vihar police station, he said. "After, our team received information on Saturday that Mukesh would be coming to Japanese Park, Rohini, sometime in the evening. A trap was laid and Mukesh was apprehended. During interrogation, he disclosed that he along with Suraj and Deepak had killed Bharat Bhushan for revenge," Singh said. Mukesh is a taxi driver and Suraj and his brother Deepak are his partners. They used to meet Bhushan for playing cards and gambling, police said. Mukesh told police that Bhushan would often get into fights with them under the influence of alcohol. He told police that Bhushan and his friends had allegedly thrashed Mukesh and Deepak near Sector 20 in Rohini. Later, Deepak, Suraj and Mukesh hatched a plan to take revenge and they allegedly murdered Bhushan, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-killed-in-front-of-wife-daughter-in-delhis-rohini-area-1-held-849603.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Man planning to kill ex-lover in Punjab arrested in Delhi||A 32-year-old man who was planning to travel to Moga in Punjab to allegedly kill his ex-lover, a married woman, was arrested in outer Delhi's Samaipur Badli area, police said on Sunday. Lalit Kumar, a resident of Haryana's Panipat, was intercepted on Friday by a team of Delhi police on patrol duty and arrested him after seizing a country-made pistol and a cartridge, officials said. During interrogation, the accused revealed he was in a relationship with the married woman for two years. He used to meet all her expenses but her demands kept increasing day-by-day despite knowing about his limited income, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said. To fulfil her demands, Kumar started cheating people with his other associates. The woman left him and he was later arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with cheating cases. He remained in Dasna Jail from September 2019 to January 2020 where he came in contact with one Aman, he said. After getting out of jail, Kumar was left with very little money. He wanted to avenge the betrayal. So he contacted Aman who provided him with a country-made firearm and a live cartridge. However, before his plan could be executed, he was apprehended by the police, Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-planning-to-kill-ex-lover-in-punjab-arrested-in-delhi-849604.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||3.2 magnitude quake hits Jammu and Kashmir||An earthquake of magnitude 3.2 hit Jammu and Kashmir in the early hours of Monday, but there were no reports of any damage, officials said. The quake occurred at 4.36 am at a depth of five km. There were no reports of any damage due to the tremors, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/32-magnitude-quake-hits-jammu-and-kashmir-849647.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Railway station in Delhi transformed into medical facility to treat COVID-19 patients||For  the first time in the country, two railway stations in national capital- Anand Vihar and Shakur Basti- are being transformed as medical facility to treat COVID-19 patients as national capital witnesses surge in cases. The Indian Railways, in association with Delhi Government, has decided to deploy isolation coaches at Anand Vihar Railway Station and Shakur Basti Railway Station, said a railway official.  The Indian Railways on Monday  suspended all train operations  from busy Anand Vihar Railway Station in East Delhi and  all 5 special tabled trains operation from the staton shifted to Old Delhi Railway Station. The station has seven platforms and 170 to 180 isolation coaches will be deployed by Tuesday evening, said an official in the railways. The Railways already deployed 54 such coaches, comprising 800 beds at Shakur Basti station in Delhi. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who chaired a meeting to review the situation in Delhi on Sunday, said that 500 railway isolation coaches will be deployed in Delhi for treatment. The Delhi  Government and Indian Railways together will decide the number of coaches to be deployed at different railway station, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said. As per Union Health Ministry guidelines, once coaches deployed to the states, it will be under the control of state chief medical officer and it will be used for cases that can be categorised into “mild” or “very mild”. Each coaches will be attached to nearest COVID-19 hospital and serious patients will be shifted to hospital.  Each coach has a capacity to accomodate 16 patients. Since all isolation coaches are Non-AC, the railways will provide roof inslulation to coaches in areas where temperature is very high, Yadav said. The  COVID-19 cases are rising in Delhi as the state government scrambling to mobilise hospital beds to treat patients. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi is  the third-highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The Railways has already received demand for more than 325 isolation coaches in four states so far including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The Indian Railway converted 5231 non AC sleeper and general coaches as COVID-19 coaches to suppliment hospital isloation beds. The railways also identified 215 major stations across the country for its deployment and asked the states to utilise it to treat mild and very mild COVID-19 patients. Since no states have come forward to utilise it, the Railway Board has decided to convert around 3,100 coaches as normal and deploy it for Shramik Special trains as there is huge demand for non-AC coaches. However, around 2,131 coaches will remain as isolation coaches and will be given to states as and when they demand, said an official in the railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-station-in-delhi-transformed-into-medical-facility-to-treat-covid-19-patients-849679.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Home Minister Amit Shah holds all-party meet on COVID-19 situation in Delhi||The meeting was held in the wake of rising novel coronavirus cases in Delhi. Shah apprised the leaders of four major political parties of Delhi on the steps taken to check the coronavirus pandemic and sought their views on the issue, a Home Ministry official said. Leaders of the BJP, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the BSP have attended the meeting.  Over 41,000 people were infected with the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Delhi and it has claimed more than 1,300 lives so far. The number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi is the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. On Sunday, the home minister held two high-level meetings with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, mayors and commissioners of Delhi's three municipal corporations to strengthen the strategy to fight the coronavirus. Shah had announced that COVID-19 testing will be doubled in Delhi in the next two days and subsequently tripled. Announcing a slew of measures after the meeting, Shah said COVID-19 tests would be started at every polling station in the containment zones and a comprehensive house-to-house health survey would be conducted in the hotspots for contact tracing. In view of the shortage of beds for coronavirus patients in Delhi, the Modi government has decided to immediately provide 500 railway coaches, which will be equipped with all facilities, Shah said.  He added that a committee had been constituted under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member V K Paul to ensure the availability of 60 per cent beds by private hospitals at lower rates and fix the rate of tests and treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-minister-amit-shah-holds-all-party-meet-on-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-849681.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Police Sub-Inspector dies of cardiac failure in Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur||A 51-year-old Sub-Inspector posted at a police station here died of cardiac failure, an official said on Monday. Sub-Inspector Sachidanand Pathak, a resident of Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh, was deployed at the Kotwali police station here. "At around 5.00 pm on Sunday, Pathak complained of chest pain, following which he was immediately taken to the district hospital. ECG was conducted and it was revealed that he suffered a heart attack," Circle Officer (city) Satish Chandra Shukla said. He added that Pathak was rushed to the King George's Medical University in Lucknow, where doctors declared him dead at around 9.45 pm. The CO informed that the body will be sent to his native place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-sub-inspector-dies-of-cardiac-failure-in-uttar-pradeshs-sultanpur-849685.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports two more COVID-19 deaths||One death was reported from Udaipur besides one person from outside the state succumbed to COVID-19, they said.  Among the fresh cases, 29 were reported from Jaipur, 18 from Jhunjhunu, nine from Alwar, five each from Sriganganagar and Sawai Madhopur, four from Ajmer, two each from Kota and Bharatpur, one each from Dausa, Nagaur, Tonk and Udaipur, Health Department officials said.  Jaipur has recorded a maximum of 133 deaths and 2,561 cases followed by Jodhpur, where 2181 cases and 27 deaths have been reported.  The number of active cases in the state stood at 2,847 and 9,340 patients have been discharged from hospitals till date, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-two-more-covid-19-deaths-849697.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon still in ICU, says hospital||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon continues to be in the ICU of a private hospital here, officials said on Monday. "He is undergoing intensive treatment," Medanta Hospital Director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told PTI. Tandon, 85, was admitted to the hospital on the morning of June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever. On Sunday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited the hospital and enquired about his health. Tandon was kept under supervision of doctors and his condition improved following the treatment given by experts, the hospital said in its medical bulletin on Sunday. His COVID-19 sample report came out negative at the time of admission, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandon-still-in-icu-says-hospital-849705.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||18-year-old man becomes Jammu and Kashmir's youngest COVID-19 victim||The man, a resident of Handwara area of north Kashmir's Kupwara district, was admitted to the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital here on June 12 as a medico-legal case involving assault, the officials said. His swab sample for the novel coronavirus was taken the next day which came back positive, they said, adding that he died around 3 am.  He had serious head injuries besides bilateral pneumonia, they said. With the fresh death, the toll due to COVID-19 in the union territory has risen to 61.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/18-year-old-man-becomes-jammu-and-kashmirs-youngest-covid-19-victim-849706.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||India focussed on mitigating COVID-19's negative economic impact on talent abroad: S Jaishankar||Addressing the third edition of the Annual Conference of Protectors of Emigrants via video-conferencing, he said the protectors of emigrants must also rise to the challenge of reviving the post-COVID-19 economy and engage with the post-COVID-19 world. "Our government has accorded the highest priority to promoting the interests of Indian emigrants for the last six years," Jaishankar said. The government's focus has been to provide better opportunities and welfare measures to prospective migrants, he added. The government, therefore, has been engaged with its foreign counterparts to provide ease of travel and opportunities through migration and mobility agreements, Jaishankar said.  "We are currently focussed on ensuring that the negative economic consequences of the pandemic on our talent and skills abroad is mitigated. That is influenced not only by the quality of our various bilateral relationships but the overall helpful approach that we have displayed with regard to the health and economic requirements of our partners," he said. "It is imperative that we recover our market share as quickly as possible. The coming months will see dedicated efforts in that direction. The contribution that the protectors of emigrants (POEs) can make to facilitate this national objective is significant," Jaishankar said. He also noted that many of the Indian workers, who after long years of service abroad returned with advanced skills and abilities, would contribute to the country's development. "In fact, we are engaged in such data capture and mapping as an accompanying element of the Vande Bharat mission that is currently underway. MEA has facilitated data flows to National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) to develop 'Swadesh', a database for skilled workers. Together with E-migrate, these can become basic tools for skill job matching for migrant workers," Jaishankar said. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also addressed the conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-focussed-on-mitigating-covid-19s-negative-economic-impact-on-talent-abroad-s-jaishankar-849710.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court seeks AAP govt stand on NGO's offer to cremate COVID-19 victims||A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on the NGO's plea by June 29. The bench also gave the Delhi government time till June 29 to file an updated status report in the PIL initiated by the court on its own after coming across news reports about the lack of facilities to cremate those who have died of COVID-19 and that such bodies were piling up in the mortuaries.  An anguished high court had said if this was the correct situation then it was "highly dissatisfactory and violative of the rights of the dead". Apart from the NGO's plea, the bench also took up another petition filed by a lawyer, seeking contempt action against the AAP government and medical director of LNJP Hospital for not adhering to the undertaking given to the high court on the handling of bodies of COVID-19 patients. The high court adjourned that matter after Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and additional Delhi government standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for the health department, said the issue of disposal of COVID-19 bodies has been taken up suo motu (on its own) by the Supreme Court where they have to file a reply. The bench listed all three matters on June 29. The NGO, 'Mokshda Paryavaran Evam Van Suraksha Samiti', said in its plea filed through advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal that it has installed 16 green crematoriums in Delhi out of which six are at the Nigam Bodh ghat and they can handle 24 cremations per day. The contempt plea has been moved by advocate Avadh Kaushik, who has alleged that the bodies of the dead are lying in the same wards and corridors of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital in Delhi, where COVID-19 patients are being admitted and kept. The plea has said the officials have breached their own undertaking regarding bodies of COVID-19 patients since they have repeatedly assured the court that no bodies are lying in the ward and corridors of the hospital. The Delhi government on June 2 had told the court that its health department has issued an order on May 30 with regard to disposal of the bodies of those who died of COVID-19 and it was being adhered to. The May 30 order of the Health department has fixed the responsibility, for timely disposal of the COVID-19 positive/suspect dead bodies, on the Medical Director/ Director of the hospital where a patient died or was brought dead. "Respective municipal corporation shall make all the arrangements to cremate/bury such dead bodies," the order also said. Some other directions contained in the order are that body of a COVID-19 positive/suspect patient be sent to mortuary within 2 hours of death in a hospital, or brought dead there, and if family or relatives of the deceased contact the mortuary within 12 hours, the hospital shall schedule the cremation/burial within next 24 hours. If no family member or relative gets in touch with the mortuary in 12 hours, an intimation shall be sent to them through the area SHO regarding the date, time and place of cremation/burial so that they can attend the funeral. "The hospital must fix date and time in such a way that an effective notice of 24 hours is available to family/relatives," the department's order also said. In case of unidentified bodies of COVID positive/ suspect persons, Delhi Police has been directed by the health department to complete all legal formalities within 72 hours of death and dispose of the body in next 24 hours.  On May 29, the Delhi government had informed the court that urgent steps were taken to remedy the situation, including that LNJP Hospital being authorised to divert bodies to crematoriums at Panchkuian and Punjab Bagh, as opposed to only Nigambodh Ghat. The Delhi government had also told the court that it has now authorised wood-fired traditional cremations, in addition to electric and CNG furnaces, providing personal protection (PPE) kits for all workers at crematorium and bodies and the working hours of crematoriums are extended to 7 am -10 pm from existing 9 am - 4 pm. It had further said that the situation, based on which the court had initiated the suo motu proceedings, was a result of unavoidable circumstances like the reduced capacity of Nigambodh Ghat to handle bodies on account of snags in furnaces, workers at crematorium refusing to handle COVID-19 deceased, a sudden spike in coronavirus cases and related deaths in Delhi and relatives refusing to come forward to claim bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-seeks-aap-govt-stand-on-ngos-offer-to-cremate-covid-19-victims-849727.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: No plan for another lockdown in Delhi, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||"Many people are speculating whether another lockdown in Delhi is being planned. There are no such plans," Kejriwal tweeted. Many people are speculating whether another lockdown in Delhi in being planned. There are no such plans. It comes a day after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held meetings with Kejriwal, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and three mayors to discuss the strategy to deal with the COVID-19 situation.  On Sunday, Delhi recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,224 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to over 41,000, while the death toll mounted to 1,327.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-no-plan-for-another-lockdown-in-delhi-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-849735.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Number of COVID-19 tests to be increased to 18,000 per day in Delhi from June 20||The ruling AAP and main opposition BJP in Delhi on Monday said the battle against COVID-19 needs to be fought keeping political differences aside, while informing that the number of coronavirus tests will be increased to 18,000 per day in the city from June 20, even as the Congress hit out at the Centre and the Delhi government for the surge in the number of cases in the national capital. After a meeting held by Union Home Minister Amit Shah with the leaders of all political parties of the national capital, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and AAP's Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said the number of COVID-19 tests will be increased to 18,000 per day in the city from June 20. Singh said it was decided at the meeting that politics should be kept away in the battle against the pandemic, adding that increasing the number of beds in hospitals for coronavirus patients was also discussed.  Gupta said a central team will give a report on capping of charges in private hospitals, after which action will be taken to control the "arbitrary" rates charged by such facilities. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar said he raised the issue of surging numbers of COVID-19 patients in Delhi while holding the BJP-ruled Centre and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi responsible for it. He also demanded universal testing for COVID-19 and deploying final-year medical students in the battle against the deadly coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-covid-19-tests-to-be-increased-to-18000-per-day-in-delhi-from-june-20-849738.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||The Pakistani army on Monday violated ceasefire by unprovoked firing and shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said. The firing with small arms and mortar shelling started from across the border in Sunderbani sector at around 2.30 pm, drawing a befitting retaliation from the Indian army, the spokesman said. He said the cross-border firing between the two sides was going on when the last reports were received. There has been a spurt in Pakistani shelling along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year with over 2,027 ceasefire violations reported till June 10. Three army personnel have been killed in Pakistani firing in the twin sectors of Rajouri and Poonch in the past two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-849752.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||J&K Congress terms BJP's virtual rally a 'flop show', criticises Defence Minister's speech||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of Congress on Monday termed the BJP's 'Jan Samvad' virtual rally in the Union territory a “flop show” and claimed that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had failed to send a “loud and clear” signal to hostile neighbours including China and Pakistan. It also alleged that BJP is more concerned about political interests at the time of grave crisis following the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic besides severe external challenges. Addressing a virtual 'Jan Samvad' rally for Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, the defence minister said India never compromises on its “national pride” amid a standoff with China on the Ladakh border and asserted that its security capability has risen and it is no longer a “weak” country. Reacting to the address of the defence minister, chief spokesperson of Pradesh Congress Committee Ravinder Sharma said Singh failed to send a “loud and clear” signal to the hostile neighbours who are flexing muscles and transgressed “deep” into the Indian territory. “It was expected that he would reiterate the often repeated pledge that every inch of our territory including Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir shall be retrieved but he twice repeated that country's armed strength is for self defence only and not to terrorise any country. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised to see eye to eye with China and teach a lesson to Pakistan. Where is that promise?” the Congress leader said in a statement here. However, he said the entire country stands shoulder to shoulder with the armed forces and the government of the day to deal with “external challenges”. Describing the virtual rally a “flop show”, Sharma said it only highlighted the fulfilment of BJP's agenda about revocation of Article 370 but did not discuss the growing resentment over several post-abrogation actions adversely affecting the people, especially the youth of the region. “The top BJP leadership only talked about the fulfilment of the party agenda to abrogate special status but failed to mention a word about post-abrogation protections as promised resulting into resentment and concern among the local population, especially the youth of Jammu besides large scale anger over the disbanding and downgrading of the historical Dogra state,” he said. The PCC spokesperson said the Union minister did not speak about the promise to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir despite lapse of about 10 months, the increased graph of unemployment after BJP failed to fulfil its “hollow and false” assurances of providing over 50,000 jobs and the anti-youth recruitment policy and norms. Sharma said the new “faulty” domicile law, non-fulfilment of demands for revocation of SRO 202, restoration of 4G mobile internet services and burdening people of Jammu with toll plazas were the other issues which needed to be addressed. Taking a dig at the local BJP leaders for their failure to raise the public issues, he said they only indulged in showering praises but did not raise the plight of the local youth besides displaced people from Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJ&K) apart from border residents who are becoming soft targets on regular bases due to increased ceasefire violations by Pakistan. “BJP is more concerned about political interests at the time of grave crisis and people dying of COVID-19 besides severe external challenges but the Modi government and the ruling party is holding political rallies which are unfortunate,” he further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-congress-terms-bjps-virtual-rally-a-flop-show-criticises-defence-ministers-speech-849755.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath asks officials to focus on improving COVID-19 treatment facilities in NCR districts||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked officials to lay special emphasis on improving COVID-19 treatment facilities in districts of the state which are part of the national capital region (NCR). In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister stressed on “continued alertness” in districts like Gautam Buddh nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur and Bulandshahar, an official release issued here said. The districts have recorded a high number of coronavirus cases. The officials were directed to make sure that COVID-19 hospitals in the NCR districts have adequate beds and doctors for the patients, the release said. The chief minister said the actual meaning of unlock was discipline and it was most necessary to remain alert to break the chain of infection. Stressing on the importance of dialogue at all levels for further improving the arrangements in COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 hospitals, he asked the officials to continue to interact with senior administrative officers and specialist doctors deployed in 11 districts of the state. He also stressed that dialogue should also be held with DMs and commissioners regularly for improving the arrangements, the release said.  Adityanath further directed the officials to make sure that adequate oxygen is available in hospitals and also prepare a backup for the same. He said timely treatment is helpful in controlling the mortality rate. He also directed the officials to get a survey conducted in industrial units for exploring employment opportunities in the state. So far, 57.12 lakh labourers have got work under the MNREGS in the state which is the highest in the country, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-asks-officials-to-focus-on-improving-covid-19-treatment-facilities-in-ncr-districts-849763.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Angry bees, increase in mosquitoes driving elephants to high altitudes: Officials||An early onset of pre-monsoon rains is driving wild elephants in Uttarakhand to higher altitudes earlier than usual, forest officials say, reinforcing the research that these animals respond quickly to changes in forage and water availability. Also, the pre-monsoon showers have led to an increase in mosquitoes and bee attacks, which are very annoying for elephants, so they move up to avoid them, the officials say. Experts say bees exhibit aggressive behaviour during monsoon season when humidity levels are high. Rajaji Tiger Reserve Director Amit Verma said the annual migration of elephants usually happens in July but this year it has started early. Herds of pachyderm are forced to seek refuge on high-altitude lands where they get ideal habitat conditions in the rainy season, including a rich vegetation for food, water and a smooth living in general, Verma said. Elephants move towards the hills from the grasslands after the onset of pre-monsoon rains every year and are seen in the forests of Kanda at a height of 1,200 metres at the Corbett Tiger Reserve, CTR Director Rahul said. Going to higher altitudes is a natural tendency among elephants, he said. Experts say elephants remain in plains when vegetation activity is high, but they retreat to the evergreen forest in higher altitudes when availability of vegetation decreases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/angry-bees-increase-in-mosquitoes-driving-elephants-to-high-altitudes-officials-849766.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Bury differences, join hands to battle COVID-19 in Delhi: Shah tells all-party meet||A day after announcing a series of steps to tackle worsening COVID-19 situation in the capital, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday made a "surprise visit" to Delhi-government run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital to review its preparedness that was unprecedentedly streamed live on his YouTube channel. The visit comes hours after he held an all-party meeting on the COVID-19 situation in Delhi during which he appealed to all leaders for a united fight against the pandemic by keeping politics away and promising all help from the Centre.     Shah's pro-active interventions, including two meetings on Sunday, came after the directions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who reviewed the situation on Saturday and directed the Home Minister to hold discussions. The Home Minister's meeting came on day Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "many people are speculating whether another lockdown in Delhi is being planned. There are no such plans." During his review meeting at LNJP hospital with senior doctors and officials, Shah also directed Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev to instal CCTVs in all COVID-19 wards in hospitals for proper monitoring, setting up back-up canteens in case the existing one has to be shut and psycho-social counselling of doctors and nurses engaged in treatment of patients to ensure that they are not only physically fit but also psychologically fit too in fight against the pandemic. His visit was streamed live and during his meeting with doctors, a senior doctor was heard explaining the situation in the hospital and Shah asking for some clarifications. The meeting was streamed live for a few minutes before the cameraman was asked to leave the hall. Later, Shah’s inspection of the hospital was also streamed live. During his meeting with Delhi leaders of AAP, BJP, Congress and BSP, Shah briefed them about the decisions taken on Sunday to increase the testing by three-fold in six days and hospital beds by deploying 500 isolation coaches among others. The Home Minister assured the leaders that the Centre would take all necessary steps to prevent the pandemic and all parties must contribute to fulfilling the decisions taken. He said it was time to forget political differences and work for the benefit of the people. "A united fight by all parties will increase the confidence of the people and this fight will also get more strength and the situation in Delhi will soon be normal. We have to increase the testing of COVID-19 in Delhi," Shah said in the meeting attended by AAP's Sanjay Singh, BJP Delhi president Adesh Gupta and Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar Chaudhary among others. Soon after the meeting, Delhi Congress announced a dharna on Tuesday against the "inept" handling of the COVID-19 situation by both the Delhi and central governments. Chaudhary said people could participate in the dharna from their homes and insisted that all should adhere to social distancing. "Shah has called this all-party meeting only today. This should have happened much earlier. The Chief Minister has now left it to Amit Shah. Both the Delhi and the central governments have been exposed," he said. Chaudhary alleged that Kejriwal misled people and held private hospitals responsible for the situation. "Construction of three large hospitals, with 2,609 beds, should have been completed by December last year. What game is the Delhi government playing?" he told reporters. "Everyone should have the right to test. Treatment is possible only through testing and tracing policy followed by all countries. The Home Minister has accepted that. He has assured that under a new testing policy everyone will have the right to testing," he claimed. AAP's Singh said increasing the number of hospital beds by 1,900 in state hospitals, 2,000 in central hospitals and 1,178 in private hospitals were spoken about in the meeting. He also said a deployment of another 500 isolation coaches to the 500 coaches announced on Sunday was also raised in the meeting and this would add 16,000 beds in total. Kumar of BJP said he demanded that 50% of charges should be waived off on testing and claimed that Shah has approved it. He also said that charges at private hospitals should be fixed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bury-differences-join-hands-to-battle-covid-19-in-delhi-shah-tells-all-party-meet-849772.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Amid fear of poaching Rajasthan Congress MLAs to stay in hotels till Rajya Sabha election||Congress general secretary Avinash Pande said on Monday that the legislators who are supporting the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan would continue to stay together at a hotel till the Rajya Sabha election due to the alleged poaching threat from the BJP. Pande said the legislators had been staying like a family and various, adding that brainstorming sessions and discussion on the future roadmap for the development of the state were being held at the hotel, where the legislators have been kept after discussion with them. According to Pande, the special operations group of the Rajasthan Police is investigating the alleged attempts to poach and destabilise the state government, and the report is likely to come soon. Pande said the Independent MLAs and legislators of other parties had supported the government, which took the number to 125 (including 107 Congress MLAs) in the House of 200. "It was decided that the legislators will stay together so that the BJP's attempts, which the party did in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, could not succeed in Rajasthan," he told reporters at the JW Marriott hotel in Jaipur. "We are staying like a family and this is a blessing in disguise." Asked about the Food and Civil Supplies Minister Ramesh Meena's absence, Pande said the Sapotra MLA was away due to some "personal reasons", but he was in touch and would will follow the party directions. Meanwhile, a letter written to Pande by a MLA Bharat Singh surfaced on Monday, in which the legislator had pointed out that most of the Rajya Sabha MPs "do not even recognise" the legislators, who elect them. Singh alleged that the upper House MPs had nothing to do with anyone after the elections get over. In the letter written on June 11, the former minister said senior leaders of the party were focusing on the Rajya Sabha elections with seriousness despite the fact that two seats were sure to be won by the party. He pointed out that the Congress could win the Lok Sabha election, too, if the party leaders started working in the same manner. Asked about it, Pande acknowledged that Singh had written the letter and expressed his sentiments in a "positive way". On the cabinet expansion, Pande said discussion would be held at the right time. Government chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who filed complaints alleging attempts to destabilise the state government said he would elaborate on it once his statement is recorded by the Special Operations Group of the police. Sources said Joshi had handed over some evidence in connection with the attempts. The MLAs were taken to a luxury resort last week for discussion on the June 19 Rajya Sabha election and later they were shifted to JW Marriott on Friday. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has alleged that the BJP was conspiring to poach the MLAs in order to destabilise his government, a charge denied by the saffron party. Elections to three Rajya Sabha seats will be held on July 19 for which the Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of Independent MLAs and legislators of other parties like the Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI(M) and the Bhartiya Tribal Party, taking the number of legislators on its side to 125. The ruling Congress has more than enough majority to win two seats and the BJP, which has 72 MLAs and support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs, has the numbers to comfortably win just one seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-fear-of-poaching-rajasthan-congress-mlas-to-stay-in-hotels-till-rajya-sabha-election-849781.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Gear up for more COVID-19 testing, process samples within 48 hrs: Delhi govt to labs, hospitals||The Delhi government has directed all laboratories and hospitals to work on their full potential and ramp up COVID-19 testing capacity to meet the increased demand of processing samples. In an order issued on Sunday, Health Secretary Padmini Singla also called for processing the samples within a maximum of 48 hours. "It has been decided to scale up lab testing immediately to effectively contain COVID-19 cases in Delhi. There is no upper limit to send samples to private sector labs, provided they undertake to process the same within the stipulated time frame, that is 24 hours (preferably) and maximum within 48 hours," the order said. It also directed public and private sector laboratories "to work on their full potential and also further ramp up their testing capacity on priority to meet the increased demand of processing". "All samples in the city are to be collected strictly in adherence to the testing strategy issued by ICMR. No sample to be picked without the use of RT PCR Application," the order added. With a surge in COVID-19 cases, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had on Sunday announced that testing will be doubled in Delhi in the next two days and subsequently increased by three times.  Announcing a slew of measures to check the spread of the infection in the national capital after he held a meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Shah said COVID-19 tests will be started at every polling station in containment zones and a comprehensive house-to-house health survey will be conducted in the hotspots for contact tracing.   On Sunday, Delhi recorded 2,224 fresh coronavirus cases in the highest single-day spike, taking the tally to over 41,000 while the death toll mounted to 1,327.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gear-up-for-more-covid-19-testing-process-samples-within-48-hrs-delhi-govt-to-labs-hospitals-849795.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Prisoner's plea for implementation of enhanced wages: HC seeks AAP govt stand||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the AAP government and the jail authorities on a prisoner's plea seeking payment of daily wages as per the enhanced rates of 2019. Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and Director General, Prisons and sought their stand on the prisoner's petition which had contended that the inmates were being paid as per the 2014 rates. According to the petitioner, under the 2014 rates the wages for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled categories was Rs 361, Rs 328 and Rs 297 per day, respectively and which after deduction of maintenance cost came to Rs 171, Rs 138 and Rs 107 per day. Under the revised rates of 2019, the wages for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled categories are Rs 652, Rs 592 and Rs 538 per day, respectively, and after deduction of maintenance cost it comes to Rs 308, Rs 248 and Rs 194 per day, the petition said. Additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan, appearing for the Delhi government and prison authorities, told the court that the June 2019 decision revising the wages was before the home department which will take a decision within four weeks with regard to its implementation. Taking note of the submission, the high court gave the Delhi government time till mid-July to take a decision and place the same before it by the next date of hearing on July 24. According to the prisoner's plea, the wages once revised and a communication is issued, it comes into effect immediately. However, in the instant case, the communication was issued on June 20, 2019, but despite the passage of nearly one year the same has not been implemented. "That being the case, the inordinate delay of around one year and counting, in making the benefit of the revised rates of wages reach the petitioner and similarly situated prisoners cannot be explained in any other manner than the callous approach of the officials," the petition said. The prisoner, serving life sentence in a murder case, has further contended in his plea that the inaction of the respondents (Delhi government and prison authorities) has led to "denial of their just wages". "The action of the respondents in withholding payment of wages as per the revised wages scale of 2019 is without any basis and is resulting in grave prejudice, injustice and loss to the prisoners, including the petitioner," the plea has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prisoners-plea-for-implementation-of-enhanced-wages-hc-seeks-aap-govt-stand-849815.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Lab facilities under Centre being extended to Delhi govt for more COVID-19 testing in Delhi: Satyendar Jain||As Delhi prepares to ramp up testing for the coronavirus infection, Heath Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said laboratory facilities under the Centre in the national capital are being extended to the city government. Interacting with reporters, he also asserted that Delhi was doing "maximum testing earlier" and will continue to do more testing with whatever resources are at its disposal. "As far as increasing of testing capacity is concerned, in Delhi most of the lab facilities are under the Centre, so those are being extended to us," he said. The Delhi government had designated 42 labs for carrying out COVID-19 tests. Asked about the high-level meeting on Sunday with Union Minister Amit Shah, he said the meeting was "very fruitful". "The main outcome of it was that Centre and Delhi government will be working together to fight COVID-19 in the national capital," Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lab-facilities-under-centre-being-extended-to-delhi-govt-for-more-covid-19-testing-in-delhi-satyendar-jain-849826.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Groom fined Rs 2,100 for not wearing mask in Indore||A groom was fined Rs 2,100 on Monday after civic officials in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, the state's worst coronavirus-hit district, saw him sit in a vehicle with 12 others who were part of his marriage party, none of them wearing masks. Indore Municipal Corporation Health Officer Vivek Gangrade said Dharmendra Nirale was fined while department officials were on a routine round to see if social distancing norms were being followed in view of the outbreak. "While the administration has allowed 12 people to take part in a marriage function, in this case all 12 were sitting close inside a single vehicle, that too without wearing masks. We recovered Rs 2,100 as fine on the spot from Nirale," he said. The fine comprised Rs 1,100 for not maintaining social distance and Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks, Gangrade said. Indore has a total of 4,069 COVID-19 cases currently, and 174 people have died of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-groom-fined-rs-2100-for-not-wearing-mask-in-indore-849836.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi's efforts to pit Congress as UP CM Yogi Adityanath's main challenger||With her sharp criticism, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has kept up the heat on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and sought to pit the Congress as the main opposition to the BJP in the state. As regional outfits Bahujan Samaj Party and Samajwadi Party relegated to the margins after the Lok Sabha loss last year, Priyanka, the AICC General Secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, has put the Congress in the forefront – be it in ensuring the safe return of migrant workers home or the raising issues touching the poor and the deprived. The standoff with the UP government over deploying buses to ferry migrant workers home and the subsequent arrest of UP Congress president Ajay Singh Lallu helped the party galvanise support in the state where it ruled three decades back. Priyanka took the lead in expressing solidarity with Lallu, praising his grit and perseverance and hitting out at the Yogi government for violating all humanitarian principles by keeping him behind bars for more than three weeks. It was on her instructions that Congress workers staged demonstrations across the state demanding the release of Lallu, who was arrested on the charges of forging documents of buses the party had proposed to deploy to ferry migrant workers. Priyanka had kept up the attack on the Yogi government on issues such as farmers’ suicides and the alleged irregularities in the appointment of 69,000 teachers in the state The Congress leader’s activism has alerted the BJP leaders, who sought to dismiss her as a social media activist. “We have already named her ‘Priyanka Twitter Vadra...she tweets for two-three days and social media shows her as a prominent national leader,” Keshav Prasad Maurya, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister said recently. Maurya pointed out that Priyanka had campaigned hard for her elder brother Rahul Gandhi, but had failed to ensure his victory from Amethi. Rahul Gandhi had tried to revive the Congress in UP since his political debut in 2004 but failed to make a mark barring the odd success in the Lok Sabha elections of 2009 when the party had won 21 of the 80 seats in UP. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Priyanka and Jyotiraditya Scindia were given the task of reviving the party’s fortunes in UP, but the BJP swept the polls yet again with the then Congress president Rahul losing his family bastion of Amethi to the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhis-efforts-to-pit-congress-as-up-cm-yogi-adityanaths-main-challenger-849848.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||SP leader alleges 'top to bottom planned corruption' in Uttar Pradesh govt||Leader of Opposition in the UP Legislative Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary, on Monday alleged corruption in the functioning of the state government, saying it is being done in a ‘planned manner’ and those opposing it are being crushed. Right from tenders to appointments, corruption is going on in the state in a planned manner, he alleged. "Because of sabka sath, sabka vikas in lein-dein (corruption), no one is facing any problem in carrying out wrong deeds," he said, alleging corruption from 'top to bottom'. "There is a race for converting public funds into private ones," Chaudhary claimed. Bureaucrats are busy in corruption and harassing people and those opposing the government or exposing corruption are 'being crushed or face harassment of fake cases', the SP leader alleged. Chaudhary also equated the UP BJP government to a previous state government in this regard. "In that previous government, scams had come to light only when there was any shortcoming in payments to the persons occupying the highest post in the government. Now, some issues have come before people as a senior office-bearer (in the ruling party) is unhappy overpayments,” Chaudhary alleged without naming the person. He said people were not able to express their anger as gathering restrictions were in place under Section 144 of the CrPC in the state at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-leader-alleges-top-to-bottom-planned-corruption-in-uttar-pradesh-govt-849849.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Babri demolition: BJP leader Vinay Katiyar appears before CBI court, says falsely implicated||Deposing before a special CBI court in the Babri demolition case, BJP leader Vinay Katiyar on Monday denied allegations of conspiracy to pull down the disputed structure. “I was falsely implicated in the case as there was a Congress-led government at the Centre and due to political vendetta, I was roped in the case for ulterior reasons,” deposed Katiyar before the court. Katiyar was told to appear before the court as it started recording statements of the accused on June 4. The court has been conducting day-to-day proceedings in order to conclude the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court. Katiyar had earlier appeared before the CBI court on June 4 but due to paucity of time, his statement could not be recorded. On Monday, he appeared in the court along with his lawyer K K Mishra. To most questions, Katiyar either said he did not know or he was falsely implicated. After recording the statement of Katiyar, Special Judge S K Yadav directed other persons, who are less than 65 years of age, to appear before it on Tuesday. However, former deputy prime minister LK Advani, BJP leaders MM Joshi and Uma Bharti are already exempted from personal appearance till furthers. The special court also directed its office to write to the Sonipat District Jail superintendent in Haryana to arrange for the recording of the statement of an accused, Ram Chandra Khatri, through a video link on June 20. It asked the office to furnish the copy of the letter to the Sonipat district judge for information and necessary action. The court is at present engaged in recording statements of accused under section 313 of the CrPC, a stage in the trial which follows the completion of the examination of prosecution witnesses. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-demolition-bjp-leader-vinay-katiyar-appears-before-cbi-court-says-falsely-implicated-849861.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Facing financial crisis due to lockdown, auto driver kills self||The two-and-a-half-month lockdown is now taking its toll with more and more suicide cases being reported of late. One such suicide incident came to light on Sunday when an autorickshaw driver Pradeep Kumar hanged himself in his house where he stayed with his wife and two children here in the state capital. Pradeep’s father Vijay Singh, in his statement to the police, has said that his son was facing an extreme financial crisis due to lockdown since March-end. “He was under depression ever since he faced financial crisis due to lockdown. He hanged himself before anyone could get an inkling about it,” said the distraught father. Last month, a young couple in Bihar committed suicide after they failed to repay their loan due to extended lockdown. The tragic incident took place in Vaishali district where a 35-year-old businessman Ramesh Shah hanged himself shortly after his wife Suman set herself on fire and died. The couple had borrowed a loan of Rs 5 lakh to hire a truck. The heavy motor vehicle was used for commercial purposes and helped the couple eke out their livelihood. Suman, through her earnings from the truck, used to repay the instalment of her loan. However, ever since the lockdown came into force on March 24, her commercial activities took a nosedive. The ban on plying of vehicles (during lockdown) only added to her woes. So much so that the couple faced acute hardship in running their household. In the meantime, lenders mounted pressure for early repayment of the loan. With no money to pay the loan instalment, Suman and Ramesh had a verbal altercation. In a fit of rage, Suman set herself on fire. The husband made his best efforts to rescue her but Suman, by then, had received 90 per cent burn injuries. She succumbed while being rushed to the hospital. Shocked over his wife’s death, Ramesh hanged himself to death. The couple has left behind two kids, Prince (10) and Sunny (7).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/facing-financial-crisis-due-to-lockdown-auto-driver-kills-self-849865.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh police file FIR against Digvijaya Singh for sharing CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan's edited video||Digvijay Singh has alleged political vendetta as the Madhya Pradesh police on Monday lodged an FIR against him on the charge of sharing “edited” video of Shivraj Singh Chouhan days after the veteran Congress leader had sought in writing action in alleged duping of tribals in the chief minister’s constituency to the tune of Rs 450 crore. The police registered an FIR against Digvijay Singh and 11 others on the charge of sharing an alleged "edited" video in which the Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is purportedly exhorting excise department employees to supply liquor in abundance so that people remained drunk. According to the police, the nine-second video is edited from the chief minister’s old statement on the liquor policy of the previous Kamal Nath government. Digvijay Singh, who has deleted the video, said he had no objection to the FIR against him, but the police should also investigate the source of the video and who "edited" it. The FIR was lodged following a complaint by a group of BJP leaders who met cybercrime department officials. According to the complainants, the original video is of 2.19-minute length which was edited and a nine-second cropped part of it was shared on Twitter by Singh to malign the image of the chief minister. On the basis of the complaint, a case has been registered against 12 people, including Digivijaya Singh and Avinash Kadbe (MP Congress' social media coordinator)," Additional Superintendent of Police Nishchal Jharia said. They have been charged under IPC Sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505 (2) (public mischief) and 465 (forgery), the official said. Reacting to the development, Digvijay Singh said the BJP is upset as he raised an issue of cheating in Chief Minister Chouhan's constituency. "The BJP has been fuming and is perturbed since I wrote to Chouhan that tribals in his constituency Budhni have duped of Rs 450 crore by his agents. No action was taken during Chouhans (previous) tenure. I wrote to him that if no action would be taken, I will be forced to sit on a dharna at the CM's residence”, Singh told reporters. State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath criticised the action against Digvijay Singh. "The BJP government is continuously showing its malicious thinking by taking oppressive action against Congress leaders in the state, Nath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-police-file-fir-against-digvijaya-singh-for-sharing-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhans-edited-video-849870.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||BJP leaders know they won't return to power, trying to make money fast, alleges Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said corruption has become a "domestic industry" in Uttar Pradesh and alleged that BJP leaders are trying to make as much money as they can, knowing that they will not return to power. He hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government over alleged anomalies in the recruitment of 69,000 government teachers in the state, saying such scams are not possible without the help of people from the top. "The BJP dispensation is losing its mental balance fearing that it will not return to power. The government is misusing its power and the BJP leaders are trying to make as much money as possible," Yadav claimed. "The mastermind of the recruitment scam is said to be associated with the BJP. In the Basic Education department, there are many teachers working on fake documents," he alleged. The Special Task Force (STF) of the state police was recently asked to probe the case in which salaries worth lakhs of rupees had been withdrawn from multiple schools in the name of just one teacher -- Anamika Shukla. "There are reports that some colleges associated with Lucknow University also have such Anamikas. Such scams are not possible without any green signal from the top. As far as corruption is concerned, it has become a domestic industry," Yadav alleged. Referring to the arrest of seven persons, including two secretaries of the minister of state for animal husbandry, by the STF for duping a man of over Rs 9 crore, the SP chief said, "In the secretariat, senior officers are also running the business of cheating people in the name of getting them jobs and contracts." "A separate office was opened in the secretariat and the government had no clue about it," he said in a statement in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leaders-know-they-wont-return-to-power-trying-to-make-money-fast-alleges-akhilesh-yadav-849907.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: IB, NIA, CBI officials under treatment at CAPFs hospital in Greater Noida||Officials from premier investigative and intelligence agencies such as the CBI, NIA and IB, among others, are undergoing treatment at the CAPFs Referral hospital in Greater Noida, a latest data said. The hospital, according to the data accessed by PTI, is treating three officials each from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and one each from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) and the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) as of Monday. These are premier investigative and intelligence-gathering organisations of the central government and the officials of these agencies have been admitted to the CAPFs Referral hospital as it is a designated COVID-19 facility for central police organisations, a senior official said. The hospital is also treating about 45 personnel from the elite commando force, National Security Guard (NSG), and four from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). However, these NSG staffers are not from the combat counter-terrorist units but from various administrative wings of the "black cats" force. The NSG was raised in 1984 for specialist counter-terrorist, counter-hijack and hostage-rescue operations. The other coronavirus patients from these organisations based in Delhi and the National Capital Region are being admitted to other medical facilities in the region, besides the AIIMS in Haryana's Jhajjar, the official said. The data states that the speciality hospital is treating a total of 131 personnel from the central paramilitary forces and police organisations at present, apart from some retired personnel and a few family members of CAPF personnel. The 200-bedded facility, built at a cost of Rs 121 crore, was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in October, 2018, who was the home minister at the time, and is run by border-guarding force Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). It has a team of 153 doctors, nurses, paramedics and ward boys. Over 240 personnel of the central paramilitary forces, also known as the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), have been discharged after recovering from coronavirus.  After the ITBP and BSF chief S S Deswal recently declared that the health facilities of these two forces will also serve their veterans, the families of troops killed in action and their dependents for COVID-19, the hospital has also admitted such individuals. The doctors at this facility are treating about 11 family members of ex-CAPF personnel and veterans. The hospital boasts of a modern pathology laboratory, a radiology department, an operation theatre and different departments such as paediatrics, ophthalmology, general medicine, ENT and orthopedics, among others. According to the latest data, the five CAPFs -- CRPF, ITBP, BSF, CISF and SSB -- and two other central forces -- NSG and NDRF -- have reported over 1,880 coronavirus cases. While more than 1,220 troops have been cured or have recovered, 670 are under treatment, the data said. The first case in these forces, functioning under the Union home ministry, was detected on March 28.  These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law-and-order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations and disaster rescue and relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-ib-nia-cbi-officials-under-treatment-at-capfs-hospital-in-greater-noida-849919.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||AMU urges HRD minister to 'rectify mistake' in varsity's NIRF ranking||Claiming a fall in the university ranking due to an error in NIRF data, AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor urged Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhariyal to rectify the ‘mistake’. The university has requested that the rectification be done at the earliest since a lower-ranking would adversely hit the career prospects of its students. In a letter to the HRD minister, the Aligarh Muslim University Vice-Chancellor said a ‘serious discrepancy’ in terms of the PhD output has adversely hit the institution’s ranking announced by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). The university has 2,911 full-time research scholars while the data of the NIRF has mentioned just 33, said Shasay Kidwai, spokesperson of the university, adding that since 2016, a faulty data is being shown in the rankings. Kidwai said because of the flawed data, the ranking of the AMU has slipped from its last year’s 18th spot to 31st. Of the five parameters, the university has scored well in four.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amu-urges-hrd-minister-to-rectify-mistake-in-varsitys-nirf-ranking-849943.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Charge sheet filed in court in connection with murder of property dealer||The Delhi police on Monday filed before a court here a charge sheet in connection with the killing of a 48-year-old property dealer, who was trying to pacify the situation between the two communities during the riots in Northeast Delhi in February. The Crime Branch of the Delhi police filed the charge sheet before Metropolitan Magistrate Deepti Devesh against 16 persons in the case of alleged murder of the property dealer. Parvez, a resident of north Ghonda, Shahdara, allegedly received bullet injuries and succumbed to his injuries at the hospital, police said. The charge sheet was filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 302 (murder), 147 and 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly). The offence for murder entail a minimum punishment of life imprisonment and maximum of death penalty. According to police, on February 25, at around 7 pm, Parvez was found lying in an injured state in one of the lanes in Jaffarabad area. He received gunshot injuries on his right chest and was rushed to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, a senior police officer said. A case was registered in this regard at Jaffarabad police station, he said. During investigation, the police found that he had a .32 bore licensed revolver which had 25 rounds. However, only 13 cartridges were recovered but his revolver is still missing, he added. He was trying to intercede between the two communities when he was attacked, the police official said. The 16 persons arrested include the man who had allegedly shot Parvez, he said and added that all the accused were part of the mob inciting riots in the area. The arrests were made based on CCTV footages and Call Detail Records among other evidences. The weapon of offence used to kill him and the revolver of the Parvez have not been recovered, the police added. The riots in Northeast Delhi in February this year claimed the lives of 43 people while over 250 people were injured||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-charge-sheet-filed-in-court-in-connection-with-murder-of-property-dealer-849957.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Bareilly: SSP, 25 other policemen go into quarantine||A day after an additional superintendent of police tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, the SSP and 25 other policemen went into quarantine on Monday. Officials said while SSP Akhilesh Kumar Pandey went into home quarantine, 25 other policemen of the crime branch were quarantined at several facilities here. Bareilly DM Nitish Kumar said the infected official is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Meanwhile, Additional Chief Medical Officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said five new cases were detected on Monday, taking the total number of patients to 137. So far, two people have died of the infection in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bareilly-ssp-25-other-policemen-go-into-quarantine-849981.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Centre asks states to engage with pvt sector for provisioning critical care at reasonable rates||Amid reports of a shortage of healthcare infrastructure amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre on Monday asked states and Union Territories to engage with the private sector for augmenting such infrastructure and provisioning critical care at reasonable rates. There have been several reports indicating an emerging shortage of healthcare infrastructure, including hospitals with ICU beds, ventilators and oxygen-supported beds, for management of COVID-19 patients, the Health Ministry said. There have also been reports of overcharging by healthcare providers for COVID-19 treatment, it said in a statement. Being seized of the emerging scenario, the ministry has asked the states and UTs to engage with the private healthcare providers to facilitate enhanced bed availability and critical care health facilities as well as to ensure fair and transparent charges for services provided. In this regard, some states have already taken an initiative and have reached an agreement with the private sector on reasonable rates and arrangements to provide critical care for in-patient admissions. PMJAY package and CGHS package rates are already available with the states and the rates of CGHS are fixed area wise, the statement said. In order to ensure that patients receive prompt, good quality and care at reasonable rates, it has been suggested to states to have consultations with the local private healthcare providers and arrive at reasonable rates, while factoring in cost elements for personal safety equipment for healthcare providers, the ministry said. It has been suggested that the rates, once fixed, must be widely publicised so that both the patients and service providers are fully aware and capacities are used optimally, it said. States have also been asked to proactively engage with the private sector health providers and consider pooling in public and private healthcare facilities, as this will help in providing prompt, good quality and reasonable health care to COVID-19 patients, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-centre-asks-states-to-engage-with-pvt-sector-for-provisioning-critical-care-at-reasonable-rates-849983.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Two ITBP personnel among 44 test COVID-19 positive in Chhattisgarh||The number of COVID-19 cases in Chhattisgarh rose to 1,715 on Monday after 44 more people, including two Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, tested positive, a health official said. Besides, an elderly COVID-19 patient died at a hospital here, taking the number of fatalities in the state to nine, he said. As many as 114 patients were on Monday discharged from different hospitals across the state following recovery, he said. "Of the new cases, 16 were reported from Korba district, seven each from Raipur and Bilaspur districts, four from Mungeli, three from Balodabazar, two each from Durg, Kondagaon and Balrampur districts while one came from Koriya district, he said. "An Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) and a constable, belonging to the 29th battalion of ITBP, tested positive for the viral infection in Kondagoan, a police official said. The 53-year-old ASI and the constable, aged 32, had returned to their duty place in Kondagaon last week from their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, respectively, and were kept in a quarantine centre of the paramilitary force, he said. On Jun 11, an ITBP Sub Inspector, who was housed in the quarantine centre, had tested positive for the viral infection, he said. The ITBP has been deployed in the state for anti-Naxal operations. Earlier in the day, a 60-year-old man, who was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur, died due to co-morbidities and the viral infection, the health official said. The man, a native of Dhamtari district, was suffering from pneumonia, pleural effusion, sepsis and bed sores, and admitted to AIIMS on May 27, the official said. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on June 12, the health official said, adding he died this afternoon. The number of active cases in the state now stood at 875 as 831 people have been discharged after recovery while nine others have died of the infection so far. Chhattisgarh's COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases 1,715, new cases 44, deaths 9, discharged 831, active cases 875, people tested so far 1,07,172||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-itbp-personnel-among-44-test-covid-19-positive-in-chhattisgarh-849989.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt asks its PWD to install CCTV cameras in COVID-19 wards within 24 hours||The Delhi government Monday directed its Public Works Department to install within 24 hours CCTV cameras in COVID-19 wards of its all coronavirus-designated hospitals here. The order came soon after Union Home Minister Amit Shah directed Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev to install CCTV cameras in COVID-19 wards of every designated hospital in the national capital for proper monitoring of services and ensuring patients’ issues are resolved. "It is hereby directed that Covid wards in all COVID Hospitals of Delhi Government shall have CCTV cameras for efficient monitoring and supervision of patient care,” said the order issued by Delhi government's Health Department.. It said the PWD will install CCTV cameras in all COVID-19 wards within 24 hours and submit a compliance report through pshealth@nic.in.  After paying a surprise visit to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital here earlier in the day, Shah also suggested psychosocial counselling of doctors and nurses engaged in the service of humanity through the fight against coronavirus.   The LNJP is a Delhi government hospital and has been declared as a dedicated coronavirus facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-asks-its-pwd-to-install-cctv-cameras-in-covid-19-wards-within-24-hours-849990.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||With 182 fresh COVID-19 cases in J-K, tally rises to 5,223||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 182 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of persons infected by coronavirus in the Union Territory to 5,223, officials said. Among the 182 fresh cases, 79 are from various battalions of the CRPF posted in Kashmir, the officials said. While 28 cases have surfaced in the Jammu region, 75 people who tested positive for the virus are residents of the valley, the officials said. The cases detected on Monday included 28 persons who had returned to the Union Territory recently. Shopian district, in south Kashmir, had the highest number of fresh cases - 19, followed by Srinagar at 16, the officials said.  Four districts – Anantnag, Doda, Rajouri and Poonch – had no fresh cases. they said. Of the total 5,223 cases, 4032 are in Kashmir, while 1191 are in the Jammu region, the officials said. Sixty-two people have died due to COVID-19 in J-K so far, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-182-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-j-k-tally-rises-to-5223-849996.html
15-06-2020||North and Central||UP cops solve Anamika Shukla case, arrest three men in school recruitment scam||The Uttar Pradesh police on Monday claimed to have cracked the Anamika Shukla case, arresting three men who got aspiring teachers jobs in government schools on fake documents. The curious case involved teachers being recruited in state government schools on the basis of educational certificates of one woman -- Anamika Shukla. She had cleared the eligibility exam. The fake Anamika Shuklas drew lakhs in salaries from multiple schools, a scam for which the state government drew flak from opposition leaders including Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Last week, police handed over the investigation to its Special Task Force (STF). "Three persons including the kingpin of the gang were arrested by the STF from Gonda. They were identified as Pushpendra Singh alias Shushil of Mainpuri, Anand of Jaunpur and Ramnath of Kehri," an STF statement said. Police recovered a licensed pistol and seven cartridges, mobile phones and some documents from them, it said. Teachers got jobs in Anamika Shukla’s name at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) in Allahabad, Amethi, Raebareli,Varanasi, Baghpat, Kasganj, Sahranpur, Ambedkar Nagar and Aligarh, according to earlier reports. The probe found that the real Anamika Shukla of Gonda had applied for the post of a KGBV teacher in 2017 at Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Mirzapur, Basti and Lucknow. She got calls from Sultanpur, Jaunpur and Lucknow but due to her health she did not take the job. But her documents were misused and teachers in several districts worked in her name, the STF said. “The real Anamika had lodged an FIR in this connection in Gonda on June 11,” it said. In Kasganj, a teacher called Priya worked as Anamika Shukla. She told police that she got the job with Pushpendra’s help, the STF said. Pushpendra’s name cropped up during the probe in other districts too. Police then got a tip-off about his presence near the High Court building in Lucknow and he was arrested along with the two others. During interrogation, Pushpendra said he got Anamika Shukla’s documents from Anand in 2019. He then took Rs 2 lakh each from the candidates and got them appointment as teachers on fake documents. The three men were handed over to Gonda police, where an FIR is registered and a detailed probe will continue, the STF said. Last week, UP Minister for State for Basic Education Satish Dwivedi said the probe so far had revealed that same set of documents were used to draw Rs 12.24 lakh as salary from nine schools in several districts. As the case surfaced in the media, at least one Anamika Shukla resigned but was arrested. The real Anamika Shukla, who was jobless, was on Saturday appointed as an assistant teacher on ad hoc basis by a state-aided private school in Gonda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-solve-anamika-shukla-case-arrest-three-men-in-school-recruitment-scam-849999.html
15-06-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: Take care of doctors, health workers||There have been shameful instances like people attacking healthcare workers and preventing the burial of a doctor in Chennai who died of COVID-19 complications after he treated infected persons. Female doctors have been attacked with stones, as it happened in Indore in April. Some have been spat at and many have been abused. Relatives of patients have sometimes threatened and assaulted doctors and other hospital staff. Some have been told to quit their rented accommodation by landlords, and social distancing has sometimes turned into shunning and boycott of the company of healthcare staff. The conditions of work in many hospitals are below par and many members of the staff, especially nurses, have complained of being forced to work and live in conditions where they would contract the disease.  On top of all this, many doctors have been denied salaries for months. The Supreme Court has expressed concern over reports of non-payment of salaries and said that “the country cannot have dissatisfied soldiers in this war’’. The court told the government that it needed to do more to ensure the wellbeing of the healthcare staff. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has praised the frontline warriors of health and the government has brought in an ordinance to ensure better safety and protection for them. But the government also told the court that the final responsibility for safety lay with the health workers. It is more important that the government and society do not fail in their responsibility to the healthcare staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-take-care-of-doctors-health-workers-849572.html
15-06-2020||Opinion||Atlas once more||It saddened me, like some others, to hear about the closure of Atlas Cycles, once a brand synonymous with bicycles in India. Ironically, Atlas announced the shuttering of their iconic brand on June 3, the world bicycle day! What a tragic end for Atlas, I sighed. Then, in a fit of nostalgia, I was transported back to the ‘70s when my tryst with the humble but reliable bicycle began. Uphilll or downhill, fast or slow, on smooth or rugged surfaces, the bicycle was a trusted companion for all reasons and all seasons. Those days the bicycle was part of almost every household in Bengaluru and paradoxically enough, the king of the road! There is an age and time for everything I was told sternly by myparents.  But with three cycles at home, the temptation for a ten-year-old to learn cycling in our compound was irresistible when nobody was around. When I was twelve, I sneaked out toride on our street, but each time I committed the ‘crime’, I got a rap on the knuckles. When I was a teenager, I ventured beyond our street, ignoring the warnings of my parents, much to their chagrin. Finally, they threw in the towel and when I hit fourteen, they allowed me to go cycling to school. What a liberating moment it was! That cycle, a black Atlas was a high point at that stage of my life. The road from school to home was never a straight, direct one. It always deviated—to a friend’s house, to the library, to a cricket or hockey match. Often I was chided for reaching home late, even threatened that the cycle would be sold. I took it all in my stride. I continued cycling with friends all across town in twos and threes, cycling with one hand, at times letting off both hands! We raced as the wind blew in our hair, experiencing a sense of bliss and freedom. My romance with my cycle lasted until I was 18 when I was lucky to get a faster hand-me-down, a blue moped. Despite that, I continued my affair with the old trusty on and off. A few years hence it was sold off. Now, decades later, after I heard the news of Atlas’ closure, I dashed to a retailer.  To my luck and surprise, there was one Atlas cycle available.  I bought it to once again experience the joys of cycling. And who knows, tomorrow it may well become a museum piece, just like Nobel laureate Amartya Sen’s Atlas that adorns the walls of the Nobel Museum in Sweden.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/atlas-once-more-849969.html
15-06-2020||Panorama||Pandemic woes and behavioural shift: Need to boost private consumption||The weakening of private consumption and investment demand following the nationwide lockdown. The consequent loss of livelihood, health and economic insecurity as well as the changing behavioural pattern of consumption pinpointing to a worst-case scenario than any of the conventional economic indicators can quantify or capture. This is precisely because the revival of aggregate demand in the economy at the current state is likely to take more time than restoring supply disruptions. Delving deeper, the reason is partly due to the persisting structural issues which have been evident even before the pandemic hit while non-economic factors like the new normal lifestyles and changing consumer behaviour are at play. The pattern of public mobility, a new gauge to assess the shift in behaviour, has a strong correlation with economic activities in the days to come. With the surging cases of virus spread and easing of restrictions, the trends in public mobility gets altered. The selective relaxations improve the mobility but the pace of economic activity is expected to remain slow. A 10-day moving average of google mobility data clearly shows that during several phases of lockdown, mobility towards retail and entertainment remained low while consumers move around the place mainly for essential commodities.  While limited mobility stands as a clear indication of weakening consumption spree, the dwindling purchasing power of people stands as a significant concern. It can be ascribed to job loss, cut in salary and perks as well as other economic insecurities.  However, it is quite intriguing that deterioration in Private Consumption Expenditure (PCE) is a not a sudden fallout from the new normal lifestyle and it has been evident even before the pandemic since the first quarter of financial year 2020 (Q1FY20). There has been a notable decline in growth of PCE to 2.7% in Q4FY20 as well which dragged the growth rate to 3.1%. India’s growth path has been predominated by consumption expenditure encompassing private and government expenditure. According to a Motilal Oswal report, PCE’s share rose from 56% of GDP in FY12 to 60% in FY20 and turned out to be the key driver of economic growth in India. The country’s economic growth has been on a declining trend even before the COVID-19 pandemic unfolded and nationwide lockdown has further aggravated this, leaving less room for further increase in PCE.  In 2019 when the full-year growth rate was reported at 6.8% (now revised lower to 6.1%), that was the third instance of an economic slowdown since 2008 and 2011. During the previous episodes, the deceleration was mainly on account of exogenous factors while the recent one could be ascribed to domestic and structural factors too. By the mid of FY20, the discussions on decelerating growth centred at the ripple effects of US-China trade war tensions, uncertainty over Brexit and geo-political tensions in West Asia impacting India’s trade volumes, nosediving auto sales as well as bleak corporate earnings in H1 FY20. However, the domestic factors were more pronounced with prolonged rural distress on account of poor monsoon for consecutive years, slower pace of Minimum Support Price (MSP) increase, benign food inflation and lower budgetary allocation to MGNREGA, leading to a continuous contraction in the rural economy. Non-food inflation surpassing food inflation during the first half of FY20 highlighted the fact that income transfers happened from rural to urban area. Besides, the structural events such as demonetisation and roll out of Goods and Service Tax (GST) had considerable disruptions in the economy. All these factors led to a decrease in private consumption and one could perceive the problems of the economy was structural more than cyclical. Fiscal consolidation Why fuelling consumption, a pre-requisite for the path of recovery? Even before the pandemic, the government’s path of fiscal consolidation aggravated the concerns as there were nil multiplier effects due to contractionary fiscal policies, leaving less room for government spending. Since the recent Rs 20 lakh crores-plus stimulus package focused more on supply-side and ruled out direct entitlements boosting the demand side, the road to a swift recovery looks still bleak. No doubt, the pandemic unveiled the utmost concerns on thinning PCE.  A report appearing in Hindustan Times, titled ‘Boosting demand for key economic revival’, clearly pointed out that India’s consumption demand is skewed towards the rich and cut back in the same will definitely hurt the economy to a greater extent. Given the economic uncertainty, even the rich household postpones the consumption drive and opt saving for the future. Giving an impetus to private consumption stands the only way out for improving the aggregate demand in the economy.  While discussing PCE, it is indeed a double whammy for the Indian economy which is hit by the pandemic wave as well as the persisting structural issues that led to slowing consumption demand. Giving an extra push for revival of consumption demand becomes imperative as other components of domestic demand such as exports and investments cannot be relied upon in the current situation. The ripple effects of global shock waves have already taken a toll on exports, which plunged by 60.3% in April. A 6.5% contraction in investment in Q4FY20 also testifies the slowing trend in investments. Fuelling consumption demand needs to be viewed in light of these facts and figures.  With the pandemic lifestyles and economic circumstances refraining people from current consumption, specific measures to boost private consumption becomes crucial and a prerequisite for taking the economy back on track in the near to medium-term. (The writer is Economist-Manager, Canara Bank, Bengaluru and Part-time Research Scholar, Institute for Social and Economic Change)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/pandemic-woes-and-behavioural-shift-need-to-boost-private-consumption-849569.html
15-06-2020||Panorama||Off The Record - June 15, 2020||Speak up  Congress is harnessing its beefed-up virtual presence to hunt for spokespersons to represent the party on television debates. The grand old party has asked its faithful followers to post short videos creating awareness about issues raised by the party from time to time. The participants have to post videos on social media platforms using #SpeakUpWarriors or mail it to speakupindia@inc.in. The best videos will be posted by the Congress on its various social media accounts and consistent campaigners may even get a chance to represent the party as a media panelist on news television debates. Unmasked joy  Even as the COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh have risen above 10,000, the spread of the pandemic doesn’t seem to have deterred Jyotiraditya Scindia’s loyalists ahead of the by-elections due in September. On Friday, cabinet minister Govind Singh Rajput boisterously paraded his supporters in Sagar, flagrantly violating social distancing norms. Rajput, who quit the Congress with Scindia in March, organised a public function where his loyalists from his Surkhi assembly constituency took BJP membership. The supporters, most of them not wearing masks, jostled with one another to flash the victory sign with Rajput who was also without mask.   Mudslinging time Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal do not leave a chance to target each other. The latest bout came after Dhankar expressed anguish over a video showing COVID-19 victims’ bodies being disposed of in a disrespectfully. The Trinamool countered, saying that Dhankar was publicising fake videos shared by BJP IT Cell. They said they were only engaging because “twitter-happy, headline hungry” governor has crossed the line. TMC’s RS leader Derek O’Brien led the charge, asking why Dhankar remained silent about states like Gujarat where he claims patients were declared virus-free without tests. O’Brien answered the question claiming that Dhankar was the new spokesperson appointed by the BJP to set a new narrative in Bengal ahead of Assembly elections.  The muse Three senior Mumbai-based journalists have penned books on the same topic --the split of the BJP-Shiv Sena alliance and formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government that comprises Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. The books are “35 Days: How Maharashtra Politics Changed Forever In 2019’’ by Jitendra Dixit, “36 Days: A Political Chronicle of Ambition, Deception, Trust and Betrayal” by Kamlesh Sutar and “Checkmate: How BJP Won And Lost Maharashtra” by Sudhir Suryawanshi.   Quick decision  Soon after Election Commission of India announced the schedule for Rajya Sabha elections, the Congress high-command hurriedly announced the candidature of senior leader Mallikarjuna Kharge from Karnataka without waiting for state unit recommendation. The party top brass is suspected to have thought that former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah would recommend some other name. In fact, Siddaramaiah was batting for his loyalist and former Lok Sabha member from Bellary V S Ugrappa for Rajya Sabha. The digital age  Owing to lockdown norms, all political party meetings have also gone online, even if it the Congress or BJP or CPM. This has put many senior political party leaders, who are not familiar with the new technology, in a dilemma. Many have to depend on younger ones in the families to take part in the e-meetings. A senior Congress leader from Kerala lamented that it was for the first time in his career that he has to depend on his son for taking part in a meeting of top leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-june-15-2020-849570.html
15-06-2020||Panorama||Let Indian diaspora vote||I am one of the more than 750,000 Indian students studying abroad. Many of us, including myself, are intensely invested in politics and social issues in India. We are acutely aware that the most effective way to express our desire for change is to vote, thus playing our own small part in fashioning the India we wish for. But because we are overseas and thus likely unable to return to our home constituencies on polling day, we are denied the right to vote. This must change: Indian students overseas should be granted the right to vote by proxy or by postal ballot.  An amendment to the Representation of the People Act in 2010 has allowed NRIs to vote – but requires them to be physically present in the polling booth on the day of the vote. That essentially makes this amendment rather meaningless. It is unreasonable and unrealistic to expect Indians living abroad to have the means – financial, temporal, or otherwise – to return to their constituency to be able to vote.  The role of Indian students in our country’s politics became visible in the recent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. I too stood on my university campus and expressed my horror at the law; but I felt a kind of cynicism, knowing that many of us, in all likelihood, would have been unable to vote in the elections that brought the present government to power. Words and indignation were all we had; the tremendous power of a single vote was withheld from us. The right to vote lies at the heart of the democracy that makes India unique – but, in all practicality, we are prevented from exercising it, with the result that Indian students abroad, a diaspora that exceeds the population of Noida or Jamshedpur, is a constituency that goes almost entirely unrepresented in any Indian parliament.  I became eligible to vote on January 1, 2018. But because I am studying overseas, I was unable to return to India to vote. Thus, the governments at the Center and in my home state, Delhi, have been elected without having a chance to have my opinions heard. My interest in politics and my desire to change things in my country feel like they ring hollow, considering that I am, for all practical purposes, excluded from the electoral process that is my birthright. This is my situation and that of almost 750,000 other students – not to count the roughly 17.5m Indians working overseas. The ability to vote from overseas should eventually be extended to all NRIs; beginning with the Indian student diaspora is an ideal way to trial the process.  In India, proxy or postal voting is limited to those in government services – proving that the required mechanisms already exist, to some degree.  Proxy or postal voting is practiced successfully in multiple countries – not all of which are wealthy or have high-functioning bureaucracies: alongside the United States and most European countries, voters in Mexico, Indonesia, and the Philippines too can vote from overseas. Opposition to this proposal cannot be practical; why, then, can we not vote – and thus express our satisfaction or displeasure with the netas who, after all, are servants of the people?  When the next general election is held, there will doubtless be hundreds of thousands of Indians studying abroad. Many of us dream of using the skills we learn overseas to return home and make our country healthier, cleaner, and more just. We should not be punished, excluded from the democratic process that makes our country great, for our desire to study overseas. The privilege of studying abroad should not come at the cost of our democratic voice. Let the Indian student diaspora vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/let-indian-diaspora-vote-849973.html
15-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Wardrobe malfunction||It was her son’s wedding. The whole family was ready to leave for the kalyana mantapa with multiple suitcases packed with new saris, dresses, jewellery, return gifts to the guests. She had packed a grand designer sari with a matching blouse and jewellery to be worn at the pre-wedding reception that evening. She placed her red suitcase on the window sill so as not to be missed while loading the luggage on to the waiting van. The menfolk loaded all the luggage on the top of the van and left for the reception venue. The bridegroom’s party was welcomed with the traditional nadaswaram music, jasmine garlands,  coconut tamboolam and sugarcane juice. This was followed by a tasty tiffin.  It was time to get ready for the pre-wedding reception. Everyone disappeared into their rooms to get dressed for the grand occasion. Her hair was in an elegant hairdo, a crowning glory that increased her height by at least three inches. It was time for her to get dressed in the new sari. But where was the red suitcase? All the rooms were searched, things turned upside down but no sign! It was not possible to go back home to retrieve the red suitcase in the busy evening traffic! Luckily for her, a niece came to her rescue. “Doddamma,  here is the sari that I planned to gift you formally at the muhurtam tomorrow. Since you need one right now you please wear it.”  The sari was accepted but how to procure a matching blouse right then?  Before she lost her cool her mother-in-law had a word of advice. “Look at me. I am dressed in a Kanjeevaram sari. Can you see what colour blouse I am wearing?” she asked  “No athe. That is because you have completely covered your shoulders with the pallu of the sari,” said her daughter-in-law.  “You do the same as I have done. Nobody will realise how if the blouse does not match sari,” said the mother-in-law. “But...but...it is very old fashioned to drape the sari like that,” came the reply.  The beautician who was watching the drama unfold had the last word.  “Ma’am, the ladies of our royal families always appear in public with their shoulders fully covered by the pallu of the sari. Do they look old fashioned?  They are the personification of grace and elegance.  Why don’t you follow them?” Half an hour later she emerged from the room with royal elegance and grace.  Her faded black blouse hid beneath the rich pallu around her shoulders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/wardrobe-malfunction-849571.html
15-06-2020||Second Edit||Baghjan fire: Hold OIL brass responsible||The blowout and fire at the Baghjan oil field in Assam’s Tinsukia district has not only caused economic losses, which are yet to be estimated but serious environmental damage too. Inhabitants of neighbouring villages have fled and many have been evacuated. About 7,000 people have been put up in relief camps. Two firefighters have lost their lives. The oil well is close to the Dibru Saikhova national park and the  Maguri-Motapung wetlands. According to reports, the wetlands, which host a number of bird and fish species, have been completely destroyed. A large number of fish, dolphins and birds have already been found dead. The national park will be affected by the after-effects of the blowout and fire with chemicals settling in on it. It is estimated that it will take years for the park and wetlands to be restored to their earlier state.  Lack of necessary oversight of the operations and negligence by officials have been cited as reasons for the occurrence of the mishap and its mismanagement. The gas leak occurred in a  well on May 27. It is surprising that the Oil India Limited (OIL) did not have the technical expertise to handle the leak. It sought the help of foreign experts but by the time they arrived, it was late. While containment efforts were going on, the Baghjan well caught fire. Though it has now been brought under control, it will take some weeks for full restoration of normalcy. There have been similar mishaps in the past at other locations in Assam where oil exploration has been actively done for decades. Some of them were brought under control only after weeks and they too caused much damage and losses. It is surprising that  OIL did not have the required technical expertise to handle the blowout and the fire.  The cause of the mishap has not been determined and will be known after an investigation which is underway. Two officials have been suspended for negligence and dereliction of duty.  While individual responsibility has to be fixed for the mishap, the entire OIL establishment should be held accountable for the environmental damage. The danger of locating industrial units close to environmentally sensitive areas without safeguards has again been underlined by the mishap. Even when mishaps happen and cause environmental damage, no compensation is usually paid. The processes and procedures for that are complicated and often do not work.  In many cases, compensation is not possible, as in the case of the national park and the wetlands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/baghjan-fire-hold-oil-brass-responsible-849573.html
15-06-2020||Second Edit||Wake-up call on mental health||India is particularly vulnerable to suicide as we refuse to discuss the problem or its underlying causes. Mental disorders are taboo subjects. Mental illness is severely stigmatised; people with substance abuse problems, for instance, are simply assumed to be of ‘bad character.’ Not surprisingly, millions of people who are grappling with depression and anxiety, avoid seeking professional help. Society’s stigmatisation of mental health issues drives them into a despair and depression so deep and intense that death seems better than life. This need not be the case as many mental health disorders are treatable with medical intervention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/wake-up-call-on-mental-health-849963.html
15-06-2020||South||Facing surge in cases in 5 districts, Telangana to undertake 50,000 COVID-19 tests||The Telangana government on Sunday said it will conduct COVID-19 tests on 50,000 people in 30 assembly segments in the state capital and four adjoining districts which are witnessing a spike in new cases in a bid to contain the spread. Chairing a high-level review meeting on COVID-19, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao instructed officials to conduct the tests in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Vikarabad, Medchal and Sangareddy districts over the next ten days, an official release said here. He also asked them to prepare guidelines for the private hospitals and laboratories to conduct COVID-19 tests, treatment and the cost by following the norms, it said. We have taken a decision to conduct tests on 50,000 people as a precaution to protect Hyderabad. People should not panic. However, everyone should follow the personal hygiene and precautions. Especially the aged should remain in their homes only," the release quoted him as saying. People with other health complications should also be careful, he said adding the government was ready to offer treatment to the coronavirus patients whatever may be their numbers. Test kits, PPE Kits, ventilators, hospital beds, including in ICU, and masks were available with the government adequately, Rao said. Medical and Health Minister Etela Rajender, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and senior medical officials, medical experts took part in the meeting. The officials told the meeting that compared to other states, the spread of coronavirus was less in Telangana and there was an increase in the percentage of recoveries while the death rate has fallen, the release said. They stated that when compared to other districts in the state, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal, Sangareddy and Vikarabad districts reported more new cases. "There is a need to put an end to this. As a precautionary measure, COVID-19 detection tests would be conducted on 50,000 people from 30 Assembly segments of Hyderabad and its four neighbouring districts, Rao said. Home quarantine for those who tested positive but have no serious symptoms should be offered, he said. Besides taking measures "on a war footing" to contain the virus, the government was in all preparedness to offer medical treatment to patients with all the commitment and alertness, Rao added. Telangana witnessed a major spike in COVID-19 cases on Saturday, with as many as 253 new cases and eight deaths being reported, taking the tally of positive cases to 4,737 and fatalities to 182. Most cases are reported from the city corporation area limits and the neighbouring districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/facing-surge-in-cases-in-5-districts-telangana-to-undertake-50000-covid-19-tests-849610.html
15-06-2020||South||Kerala CM condoles Sushant Singh Rajput's death, recalls his support to state during 2018 floods||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has condoled the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and recalled his support to the state during the floods in 2018. The 34-year old Bollywood actor was found hanging at his apartment in Mumbai on Sunday. "We are deeply saddened to hear of the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. His early demise is a great loss to the Indian Film industry. Our heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and supporters," Vijayan said in a tweet. We are deeply saddened to hear of the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. His early demise is a great loss to the Indian Film industry. Our heartfelt condolences to his family, friends & supporters. "We take a moment to remember his support during the time of Kerala floods During the deluge in August, 2018, a fan had tagged him in a comment on his Instagram post and said, he don't have the money, but wanted to donate some food. The actor, who spotted the comment, replied that he will donate Rs one crore in his fan's name. Rajput donated Rs one crore to CMDRF in the name of his fan and uploaded the screenshot saying, My Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-condoles-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-recalls-his-support-to-state-during-2018-floods-849668.html
15-06-2020||South||Eight fresh COVID-19 cases in Puducherry, tally rises to 202||Eight new COVID-19 cases were reported in Puducherry on Monday taking the total number of infections in the union territory to 202, a top Health department official said. The number of fatalities remained at four with no fresh deaths being reported during the last 24 hours. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar told reporters here that all the new coronavirus patients were admitted to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College hospital in neighbouring Kadirkamam. They included a driver of the government-owned Road Transport Corporation and a worker of a private industry manufacturing masks in neighbouring Mettupalayam, from where five workers had tested positive and were admitted to hospital a few days ago.  The Director said, presently there were 103 active cases in the union territory and the patients were undergoing treatment. Of the total active cases, 97 were in Puducherry, two in Karaikal and four in Mahe regions. So far, 95 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eight-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry-tally-rises-to-202-849700.html
15-06-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan's daughter gets married||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's daughter Veena T and DYFI national president Muhammad Riyas got married in a simple ceremony at Cliff House, the official residence of the Chief Minister in Thiruvananthapuram, on Monday. Veena, who earlier worked with Oracle, now runs the IT firm Exalogic Solutions in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayans-daughter-gets-married-849709.html
15-06-2020||South||Telangana allows COVID-19 testing in private hospitals; caps test price at Rs 2,200||The Telangana government has allowed COVID-19 tests in private hospitals and labs, capping the pricing at Rs 2,200 per test. The rate for treatment in a private hospital ICU has been fixed at Rs 7,500 per day without ventilator support and Rs 9,000 with ventilator. For isolation in a private hospital, one has to pay only Rs 4,000 per day, announced health minister Etela Rajender on Monday. The state is accused of not conducting enough tests and by disallowing tests in the private sector, the Chandrasekhar Rao government faced allegations of concealing the real extent of the virus spread. As per Sunday’s COVID-19 bulletin, total people infected in Telangana is 4,974, and among them, active cases are 2412. Telangana has not been revealing the number of tests done. About three-fourth of the total COVID-19 cases are reportedly from Hyderabad. Out of 237 new cases on Sunday, 195 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation jurisdiction. With COVID-19 cases being highly concentrated in Hyderabad and surrounding areas, Chief Minister Rao has announced a plan to conduct 50,000 coronavirus tests in the 30 assembly segments falling in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Vikarabad, Medchal, and Sangareddy districts in next ten days as “a precautionary measure” to identify the infected early. Officially unconfirmed reports say that only a little over 40,000 tests are done till now, placing Telangana among the least testing states. For comparison, in neighboring Andhra Pradesh 5,67,375 tests were conducted till Monday and a total 6,456 cases were reported. However, the Rao government has been defending its strategy as “scientifically and on-ground experience driven.” “Because we have implemented the lockdown strictly, there is no community spread in Telangana as stated by the ICMR too,” Etela said, however adding that every household in Hyderabad would be surveyed for COVID-19 purpose. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar stated the additional testing “is to instill public confidence.” “The government is equipped to treat any number of patients. But if someone wants private treatment they can avail so,” the state’s top bureaucrat said. “But private hospitals should not take this as an opportunity to market tests. We would take strict action against those private medical facilities taking in patients or doing tests unnecessarily.” The announcement allowing private testing and treatment came after CM Rao’s review meeting with health officials on Sunday, where he instructed them to prepare guidelines for private labs and hospitals on conducting COVID-19 tests and treatment, and the fees that can be charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-allows-covid-19-testing-in-private-hospitals-caps-test-price-at-rs-2200-849762.html
15-06-2020||South||Kasargod's campaign for AIIMS gains fresh momentum||With the weak health infrastructure of Kasargod district being highlighted following the COVID-19 crisis, the demand for setting up an AIIMS in the North Kerala district that shares borders with Karnataka is gaining fresh momentum. Owing the lockdown norms, the fresh campaign for AIIMS has been mainly carried out through social media with the support of noted personalities. On June 27, an 'AIIMS Vilambaram' (AIIMS proclamation) campaign would be organised. People joining the campaign would stay at various locations in groups, maintaining social distance, with placards demanding the setting up of AIIMS. Ambalathara Kunhikrishnan, leader of an action council of endosulfan victims, said that coronavirus indeed helped in bringing much attention to the weak medical infrastructure of the district. Hence the campaign was initiated at this point of time. All political parties, including BJP, backed it, and the state and centre governments were now very well aware of the weak health infrastructure of the district. The ongoing campaign received support from noted personalities like poets K Sachidanandan and K G Sankara Pillai and actor Kunchacko Boban. The centre had earlier announced that it would consider setting up one AIIMS in Kerala. It would require around 200 acre. The state had proposed four locations for AIIMS, which did not included Kasargod, even as local activists said that the district have adequate land for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargods-campaign-for-aiims-gains-fresh-momentum-849775.html
15-06-2020||South||NIS wants Tamil Nadu govt to hand over city COVID-19 Care Centres, claims it can cure positive cases in three days||The National Institute of Siddha (NIS), which claims to have successfully treated 160 COVID-19 positive cases in the metro in a short span, has requested the state government to hand over all COVID-19 Care Centres in the city to it to facilitate Siddha doctors to commence treatment. Coming under the Union Ayush Ministry, NIS, which claims to have cured the 160 people within five days, is confident of flattening the curve in Chennai and convert it into a safe zone in just matter of days. NIS has requested the state government to hand over all the COVID-19 Care Centres in the city to the institute at the earliest so as to facilitate the Siddha doctors to commence treatment, a top official said. The institute, through its pilot study on the use of the traditional system of medicine, has come out with three potent combinations of Siddha drugs and is ready to use the combo to prevent the spread of the virus as well as treat the infected. "Depending upon the availability and quantity required for treating Coronavirus positive patients, we have after thorough research, come out with three different effective combinations of the Siddha preparations," Dr R Meenakumari, Director, NIS, told PTI. Moreover, the treatment cost is negligible compared to the prohibitive cost in corporate hospitals and all the Siddha medicines are locally available, she added. "We have requested the state government to hand over all the COVID-19 Care Centres (at RGGGH, Stanley GH, KMC, Omandurar GH besides those in the Chennai Corporation limits) to us and allow us to treat all the patients. Our Siddha drug combination is potent enough to convert a positive patient into Coronavirus negative in three days' time," she claimed. Her confidence stems from the fact that the Siddha doctors here have "successfully" treated 160 patients besides 23 inmates of the Puzhal Central Prison. "Initially, we treated 85 patients with SRM Medical College and Hospital and another 75 at the Greater Chennai Corporation run CCC at Saligramam. They all recovered and tested negative after five days of successful treatment," she claimed. "The combination that we have prepared will help to cure the infected patient within three days," Dr. Meenakumari who is a member of the national task force on framing guidelines for treatment protocols, said. "Siddha medicine has huge potential to treat the patients and there are possibilities to use the medicine to save precious human lives," she said. The NIS, which is all set to commence clinical trials in three days, also claims that Siddha drugs could treat persons with acute respiratory distress one of the symptoms of Coronavirus. Meanwhile, the Central Council for Research in Siddha has sent a proposal to the state government to include the traditional medicine in the treatment protocols at the state- run CCCs. "We have also urged the state government to include the Brahmananda Bhairava Mathirai a herbo-mineral preparation, which has already been approved by the Ayush ministry to treat persons with COVID-19 related fever, at all the COVID-19 wards," a senior doctor at the CCRS said. The proposal also includes providing kabasura kudineer (a herbal concoction) among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nis-wants-tamil-nadu-govt-to-hand-over-city-covid-19-care-centres-claims-it-can-cure-positive-cases-in-three-days-849808.html
15-06-2020||South||Kerala issues SOP for people coming for short stay of upto 7 days for urgent purposes||The Kerala government has issued standard operating procedures for those coming to the state on short visits, not exceeding seven days, for urgent purposes, and they will not have to undergo the mandatory home/institutional quarantine of COVID-19 pandemic. This relaxation can be availed by those visiting the state for purposes like business, official matters, trade, medical care, court cases, attending exams and property management, after obtaining entry passes through 'COVID-19 jagratha portal', according to a government order. Students coming to the state for academic purposes can stay for three days before the start of exam and three days after the exam. District Collectors, District Police chiefs and other Heads of Departments have been directed to ensure that people coming for short visits strictly follow the SOP, as per which the duration of the visit is for seven days and the visitors should leave the state on the eighth day. The travellers, while registering in the portal, should provide the details of their local itinerary along with the purpose of visit, local accommodation and contact person. Local authorities should be informed of any deviation from this with valid reasons. The District collector concerned, after verifying the details, will approve the short visit. The local contact people or company/ firm/ sponsor shall also be responsible for the visit of the person. Those coming on such visits should directly go to the hotel or place of stay without halting at any place in between. They should not meet any persons or visit any place other than the purpose for which they got the permission. They should not also visit any hospital or public places. The visitors should refrain from coming into contact with elderly people above 60 and children below 10. Students coming for examination or academic purposes should not go out of their rooms for any purpose other than the approved one. During their stay in the state, travellers should follow all COVID-19 advisories and precautions including social distancing, frequent hand-washing and wearing face masks. They should carry hand sanitiser and extra masks while travelling. They can seek room service or food delivery facilities. They should not extend their stay in the state without obtaining prior permission from the government authorities concerned. If the traveller fails to follow any of these conditions, he or she will have to undergo 14 days institutional or paid quarantine. If the traveller tests positive within 14 days after return from the state, he or she should inform the control room at once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-issues-sop-for-people-coming-for-short-stay-of-upto-7-days-for-urgent-purposes-849844.html
15-06-2020||South||Kerala reports one more COVID-19 death||A 67-year old man who died in Thiruvananthapuram on June 12 was tested to be COVID-19 positive, while 81 more fresh cases were reported and 73 recovered. According to sources, the deceased person, identified as S. Rameshan, was suffering from respiratory ailments. With his death the total COVID-19 deaths in the state reached 21, including a native of Mahe, which is part of Puducherry. Among the 81 other fresh cases, 49 came from abroad, 23 from other states and nine got infected through local contact. The COVID-19 active patients in the state now is 1,348. Meanwhile, the state government issued detailed guidelines for all commercial and non-commercial institutions that resumed function. While children below the age of ten are prevented, those aged above 60 and those suffering from various ailments were advised not to visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-one-more-covid-19-death-849876.html
15-06-2020||South||BJP says murder convict attended Kerala CM's daughter's wedding||The participation of a murder convict in Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's daughter's wedding with a DYFI national leader has triggered a row. Vijayan's daughter Veena T and DYFI national president Muhammad Riyas got married at a simple function at Cliff House, the official residence of the chief minister in Thiruvananthapuram, on Monday. Veena, who earlier worked with Oracle, is now running an IT firm Exalogic Solutions in Bengaluru. A couple of hours after the marriage, BJP spokesperson Sandeep G Varier came out with the allegation that Muhammad Hashim, who is a convict in the murder of an RSS worker in Thrissur, attended the marriage. In a social media post with a picture, he asked if it was murder case convict Muhammad Hashim, who is a CPM activist. While there was no official clarification from the CM's office, sources said that Muhamed Hashim was Muhammad Riyas's cousin and he indeed attended the wedding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-says-murder-convict-attended-kerala-cms-daughters-wedding-849890.html
15-06-2020||South||Police tracing ‘missing’ COVID-19 patients in Chennai||After over 270 coronavirus patients went 'missing' in the metropolis, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has sought the help of the Chennai Police to trace them. Most of these patients are either not staying in the addresses given by them or have mentioned the wrong address. After the issue came to light on Saturday, the Chennai Police have so far traced about 100 people and have intensified their efforts to find out the whereabouts of remaining Covid-19 positive patients. Sources in the GCC told DH that these people were not traceable despite efforts by the staff to locate them. Chennai City Police Commissioner A K Viswanathan said the Cyber Crime department was probing the issue and all efforts were being taken to ensure that every single patient who is “missing” is traced. As complaints emerged, the GCC had last week mandated all private labs to collect copies of their Aadhar cards while collecting their swab samples. Sources said the issue came to light after there was a mismatch noticed in numbers. “These are mostly asymptomatic patients and they are not traceable. Every effort to trace them by the field staff has failed,” the source said. Another source said most of these people have either given the wrong address or are not living in the address which they have mentioned in the form used to collect their swab samples. “Some seem to have left for their native places without informing anyone. Some had switched off their phone numbers as well,” the source said. The development also comes close on the heels of the GCC acting against 40 Covid-19 positive patients who jumped quarantine by stepping out of their homes. This also comes days after the Tamil Nadu government was accused of “under-reporting” COVID-19 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-tracing-missing-covid-19-patients-in-chennai-849894.html
15-06-2020||South||Woman dies after ramming into glass door in Kerala||In a strange incident, a 45-year-old woman died after she accidentally rammed into the glass door of a bank and glass pieces pierced into her body at Ernakulam district in Kerala. Beena, a native of Poovapadi near Perumbavoor on the rural parts of the district, met with the mishap at a Bank of Baroda branch in the locality on Monday. According to sources, she hurriedly walked out of the branch without noticing the clear glass door. She forcefully hit on the door. The door collapsed in the impact one sharp piece pierced into her body. Though she fell on the floor, she managed to stand up. Though she was rushed to nearby hospital, her life could not be saved. It was suspected that the glass piece caused injuries to her internal organs.  Police sources said that a case for unnatural death was registered at the Perumbavoor. From the CCTV footage, no one else was involved in the incident. However, it need to be verified if the glass door was as per the prescribed norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-dies-after-ramming-into-glass-door-in-kerala-849918.html
15-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt releases Socio Economic Survey on eve of budget session of state legislature||Breaking from tradition, the Andhra Pradesh government on Monday released the Socio-Economic Survey, estimating the Gross State Domestic Product to be Rs 9,72,782 crore at current prices in  2019-20 fiscal as per advance estimates and Rs 6,72,018 crore at constant (2011-12) prices. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy released the Socio-Economic Survey report for 2019-20 at his camp office here on Monday on the eve of the budget session of the state Legislature. As per normal practice, the SES report is tabled in the Assembly on the day the Budget is presented. According to the report, the GSDP registered an increase of 12.73 per cent at current prices and 8.16 per cent at constant prices, compared to 2018-19, as against the national growth of only five per cent. Due to "favourable seasonal conditions", the agriculture sector (Gross Value Added) grew by 18.96 per cent, horticulture sector by 11.67 per cent and livestock by 4.53 per cent, the report said. The industrial sector was expected to register a growth rate of 5.67 per cent and the services sector 9.11 per cent at constant prices in 2019-20. The Per Capita Income of Andhra Pradesh at current prices increased to Rs 1,69,519 in 2019-20 from Rs 1,51,173 in 2018- 19, marking a growth of 12.14 per cent. The All India per capita income for 2019-20 stood at Rs 1,34,432, the SES report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-releases-socio-economic-survey-on-eve-of-budget-session-of-state-legislature-849932.html
15-06-2020||South||Another MLA from the ruling TRS tests coronavirus positive||An MLA from the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi has tested COVID-19 positive on Monday, becoming the third legislator from the state and his party to be infected by the novel coronavirus. Bigala Ganesh Gupta, the MLA representing Nizamabad Urban constituency, reportedly tested positive on Monday, becoming the second legislator from the Nizamabad district to be infected. Nizamabad Rural MLA Bajireddy Govardhan was found to be positive on Sunday. The first Telangana MLA to become COVID-19 infected was Muthireddy Yadagri Reddy, Janagaon constituency, last week. Muthireddy, who was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad, was shifted to home-quarantine on Monday. “ICMR guidelines clearly state that those not showing symptoms can be treated at home. So, after examination by doctors Muthireddy is sent home,” a health department official said. Dr T Gangadhar, a nephrologist, in the state’s COVID-19 expert committee has also tested positive. He too has been sent for home quarantine from the state run Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad.   A former MLA of BJP had tested positive earlier. TRS’s Gupta did not respond to DH calls. Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan has tested negative in the tests conducted after his driver had tested positive.   Till Sunday night, Telangana has a total of 4974 infections, out of which 2412 are active.   In Andhra Pradesh, the gunman of Dharmavaram MLA Kethireddy Venkatarami Reddy has succumbed to COVID-19. According to Kethireddy, the gunman did not undergo tests even after fever, “as he feared social stigma.” “Unfortunately, he lost life by hiding his symptoms. And he infected six others including three fellow gunmen. My tests have come negative.”   Meanwhile, on Monday, Andhra Pradesh has reported a single-day new cases record till now of 304 cases. The state’s total infected cases, at present, are 6456. Total death toll stands at 86.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-mla-from-the-ruling-trs-tests-coronavirus-positive-849947.html
15-06-2020||South||SC to take up plea against Tamil Nadu Speaker's inaction on disqualification of 11 AIADMK MLAs||The Supreme Court is to consider on Tuesday a plea by DMK leader R Sakkrapani for a direction to Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker to decide forthwith upon the disqualification petition pending before him since March 20, 2017, against 11 AIADMK MLAs, including Deputy Chief Minister O Paneerselvam. On February 18, 2017, these MLAs have voted against the vote of confidence moved by their own party AIADMK leader and then Chief Minister E K Palaniswami.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna would on Tuesday take up the petition filed through advocate Amit Anand Tiwari. The petition contended that the "inaction" of Speaker P Dhanapal in not deciding the issue despite an order of the top court on February 14, 2020, was "arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 19, 164(1B), 191 and the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution". This was also in the teeth to the judgements of this court, it added. The petitioner pointed out the Speaker's inaction clearly violated the constitutional mandate as the Supreme Court in 'Keisham Meghachandra Singh's decision on January 21, 2020 has laid down the law requiring all the Speakers in the country to decide the disqualification petitions within a period of three months. By voting against the Chief Minister of the AIADMK in confidence vote by 11 MLAs had voluntarily given up the membership of the party in 2017. Their subsequent act of coming back to the party will be of no help as issue had to be decided with respect to their act, the plea submitted. The petitioner alleged the "mala fide" on the part of the Speaker was evident from his haste in disqualifying 18 MLAs on the apprehension of their voting against the motion, while taking no action with respect to the defection of 11 of these legislators, who actually voted against the motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-to-take-up-plea-against-tamil-nadu-speakers-inaction-on-disqualification-of-11-aiadmk-mlas-849988.html
15-06-2020||State||KSRTC to run inter-state buses to Andhra Pradesh starting June 17||The KSRTC will resume interstate operations to Andhra Pradesh in a phased manner starting from Wednesday. Initially, the services will begin from Bengaluru, Ballari, Raichur and Shahpur.  From Bengaluru buses will connect Ananthpur, Hindupur, Kadri, Puttaparthi, Kalyanadurga, Rayadurga, Kadapa, Prodatur, Mantralaya, Thirupathi, Chittor, Madanapalli, Nellore and Vijayawad.  From Ballari to Vijayawada, Ananthapur, Kurnool and Mantralaya. From Raichur to Mantralaya. And from Shahpur to Mantralaya and Karnool.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-to-run-inter-state-buses-to-andhra-pradesh-starting-june-17-849745.html
15-06-2020||State||Three days institutional quarantine for those coming to Karnataka from Chennai and Delhi: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said those coming to the state from Chennai and Delhi will have to undergo three days of institutional quarantine followed by 11 days of home isolation. Up till now a seven-day institutional quarantine was prescribed for those returning from Maharashtra, while there was no mandatory institutional quarantine for asymptomatic people returning to Karnataka from other states. Those returning from states other than Maharashtra were asked to quarantine themselves at home. "Those coming from Maharashtra are subjected to seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine, while those coming from Chennai and Delhi will have to go for three days of institutional quarantine and eleven days of home quarantine," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the decision has been taken following the increase in the number of coronavirus cases from these states. "It is because of returnees from other states the cases have increased, not because of the local (intra-state) movement, so we have to control people coming from outside, we have to quarantine them and have to tighten measures. We are making honest efforts in this regard," he added. Yediyurappa was speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting with top ministers and officials to discuss about the surge in COVID cases in the state. "There are no plans for any lockdown, and we will request the Prime Minister for more relaxations," the Chief Minister said in response to a question. Out of total 7,000 cases in the state 4,386 are returnees from Maharashtra and their contacts are 1,340. Those who returned from abroad comprise 216. Returnees from other states constitute- Delhi 87, Tamil Nadu 67, Gujarat 62. Noting that there are indications that the coronavirus infections are expected to increase in the days to come, Yediyurappa assured people that the government will take all precautionary measures required, and appealed to people to cooperate, follow social distancing, and wear masks. He said it has been decided to observe the coming Thursday as "mask days" by organising a walk across the state and the main event will be held at Vidhana Soudha, the state secretariat. "Strict measures will be taken against those not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing here on. Initially Rs 200 fine will be imposed, this will be throughout the state," he said. Further stating that the government has made special efforts to control the spread of COVID, he said a special COVID-19 taskforce has been constituted for Bengaluru and surrounding areas, BBMP (city civic body) commissioner and Deputy Commissioners of neighbouring districts have been asked to pay special attention. As of June 14 evening, cumulatively 7,000 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 86 deaths and 3,955 discharges. Out of 2,956 active cases in the state till last evening, 2,940 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 16 are in ICU. Yediyurappa said the state's mortality rate is 1.2 per cent while the national average is 2.8 per cent. The state's recovery rate is 56.6 per cent and the national average is 51 per cent, he said, adding that 93 per cent of the total cases are asymptomatic while the remaining seven per cent are symptomatic. In Bengaluru, there are 697 cases and out of them 330 are active. The city has reported 36 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-days-institutional-quarantine-for-those-coming-to-karnataka-from-chennai-and-delhi-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-849790.html
15-06-2020||State||3.38 lakh passengers reach home in 233 Shramik trains operated by SWR||In a span of 44-days, the South Western Railway (SWR) ran 233 Shramik special trains transporting more than 3.38 lakh passengers, majority of whom were labourers, to their home towns in 17 States and Union territories of the country. This ‘service’ has earned SWR Rs 28.9 crore. While the majority of the States receiving the trains have assured of remitting the tickets, and for those States which have not made such commitments, the Karnataka government has decided to foot the bill. Majority of the Rs 28.9 crore has not yet been paid to the SWR. “The State government’s have assured of repaying the tickets. Revenue was not the top priority for the railways during the lockdown, but the necessity to transport the stranded people to their home States,” said SWR Central Public Relations Officer E Vijaya and added that a few of the States have already deposited the ticket fares with their respective railway division office. According to the daily press release, Since May 3, when the first Shramik Express Train commenced its journey from Bengaluru railway station on June 14, SWR has operated 233 trains, majority of which began their journey from Bengaluru division. A total of 195 trains carrying 2.86 lakh passengers were transported from Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna (Bengaluru Station), Bengaluru Cantonment, Chikbanawar and Malur. This was followed by Hubballi division, which operated 21 trains from Hubballi, Hosapete, Bellari and Koppal. Mysuru division saw 12 trains carrying 16,974 passengers depart from Ashokapuram, Kabakaputtur, Hassan and Hosur (Tamil Nadu) to their home districts. Bihar received a number of trains from Karnataka. As many as 1.07 lakh passengers travelled to various destinations of Bihar in 73 trains. Uttar Pradesh received 51 trains (73,498 passengers) from SWR, followed by West Bengal (27 trains, 40,395 passengers), Jharkhand (21; 30,962), Odisha (16; 24,357), Assam (11; 16,113), while 11 other States received 26 trains with 41,188 passengers. Trains from Karnataka have reached as far as Mizoram, Nagaland and Jammu & Kashmir. On average, each train carried 1,350 passengers. However, there has also been an exception when the SWR has operated a train from Bengaluru to Guwahati, Assam on June 10 with just 287 passengers followed by Chikbanawar to Udhampur in (J&K union territory) with only 685 passengers on May 17. Whereas a train from Bengaluru cantonment to Balasore in Odisha saw 1,844 passengers travelling. On 20, May the SWR operated 14 trains to various destination across the country from the three division and transported 21,095 passengers. Similarly, on 17, May SWR had operated 12 trains (16,873 passengers) and 10 trains (13,932 passengers) on May 16. The least number of trains ran on a single day was on June 8 and 14 (one train each, 2350 combined passengers). No trains ran from SWR zone on May 6 and 7. Meanwhile, SWR received only four Sharmaik expresses from other States. Bengaluru, Hubballi, Yadgir and Vijaypur received one train each. Nearly 1,300 passengers returned to Karnataka in three of these trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/338-lakh-passengers-reach-home-in-233-shramik-trains-operated-by-swr-849880.html
15-06-2020||State||Centre asks Karnataka to expedite implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission scheme||The Centre on Monday requested Karnataka to expedite the implementation of centrally sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission, which aims to provide potable water to every rural household. The Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in his letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that since Karnataka is planning 100% household coverage by 2022-23, the state should take immediate steps to expedite the scheme to provide tap connection to each rural household. Jal Jeevan Mission, Centrally funded scheme, aims to provide 55 litres of potable water per person per day to every rural household of the country by 2024. In Karnataka out of 89.61 lakh rural households in the state, 24.41 lakh have already been provided with tap connections. In 2019-20, only 22,133 tap connections were provided. In 2020-21, the state is planning to enable 23.57 lakh households with tap water connections. The Centre focussed on retrofitting and augmentation of 3,139 existing piped water supply systems during this year, which can provide 23.57 lakh tap connections. The Union Minister requested the CM to commence the work in a ‘campaign mode’, so that the poor and marginalized people will get household tap connections, said a release from the Jal Shakti Ministry. The Centre has approved fund of Rs 1,189.40 crore for implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission in Karnataka in 2020-21, which is a considerable increase from Rs. 546.06 crore in 2019-20. With an opening balance of Rs. 80.44 crore available with the State and along with this year’s allocation of Rs. 1,189.40 crore, and considering the State matching share, a total of Rs. 2,734.03 crore will be available for implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission in Karnataka, the Minister said in his letter. The Union Minister also highlighted that if the state expedited the works in terms of physical outputs such as number of tap connections provided and commensurate financial progress, the State can avail additional funds based on the performance. The  Minister  also urged the CM to provide potable water to 3.60 lakh population of the state residing in 685 habitations affected by Arsenic and Fluoride. Focus should be on universal coverage of water scarce areas, aspirational districts, SC/ ST dominated villages and villages under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) said the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-asks-karnataka-to-expedite-implementation-of-jal-jeevan-mission-scheme-849899.html
15-06-2020||State||Virus fear grips Dharwad village; 23 contacts of a patient test positive||Fear has gripped the residents of Morab village in Navalgund taluk, Dharwad district, after 23 contacts of Patient 6222 tested positive for novel coronavirus as the district saw its biggest single-day spike of 34, in the last 24 hours (ending at 5 pm on Monday). According to official sources, Patient 6222, a 59-year-old man from Morab, has infected a total of 24 persons, which includes a nine-year-old boy who’d tested positive for the virus on Saturday. What’s more disturbing is the fact that as many as nine contacts of the super spreader (P-6222) are aged 55 and above. A 65-year-old man, said to have contracted the virus from P-6222, died at the designated Covid hospital on Sunday. Sources said, Patient 6222 had travelled to Delhi to bring his daughter back. After he returned home, he had developed Covid-19 symptoms and visited the PHC and later KIMS. His throat swab sample returned positive for Covid-19 on June 11. Four days later, an eight-year-old boy of his family tested positive. On Monday, throat swab samples of 23 of his contacts returned positive for the virus. This apart, three family members of Patient-6255 have contracted virus. Also seven interstate travellers, who are undergoing institutional quarantine, have tested positive for Covid-19. Monday’s cases have taken the district’s Covid tally to 155. Six more JSW staff test positive Meanwhile, the Covid-19 surge continued in Jindal’s Toranagallu-based steel plant and townships. Six JSW workers - four from Hosapete and one each from Ballari and Kudligi - are among the 24 fresh infections reported from Ballari district on Monday. JSW and its townships cluster alone have reported more than 100 infections in the past one week. Of the remaining cases reported in the last 24 hours, contract tracing is underway for nine cases recorded in Hosapete, four cases have interstate and inter-district travel history while three are ILI cases. With Monday’s cases, the district’s tally has shot up to 220. Kalaburagi continued to see a flurry of infections. The district recorded 48 fresh infections. Of which, 39 are Maharashtra returnees. Raichur, Yadgir and Bidar districts reported cases in double digits while Koppal saw five new cases in the last 24 hours. Dakshina Kannada reported 23 new cases on Monday. All but one are UAE returnees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/virus-fear-grips-dharwad-village-23-contacts-of-a-patient-test-positive-849941.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||North Karnataka private institutions request govt to hold final-year exam by July-end||Association of Private Management Institutions of North Karnataka has urged the government and universities to complete degree final year examinations by July end, as the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has already issued notification for applying online application from June 15, and PGCET for admission to MBA and MCA courses on August 9 itself. "If degree final year examinations are further delayed, MBA and MCA aspirants will be in great trouble. Usually, degree examinations should have begun in March itself, but they are delayed to the COVID-19 situation. We have already conveyed our demand through letters to the higher education minister, principal secretary, and vice-chancellors of universities," said the association president Vishwanath Koravi. Help-desks for students to facilitate applying online for the entrance examination till June 28, is opened at all MBA colleges. Students can fill applications from home also through http://kea.kar.nic.in, or by phone or visit to help-desks. MBA final examinations are also not yet held, and they are expected to conducted soon, Dr. Koravi noted. "Management graduates are needed to handle the crisis in all sectors, and placement already assured up to 70%," said the association vice-president Prasad Roodagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/north-karnataka-private-institutions-request-govt-to-hold-final-year-exam-by-july-end-849728.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Rajya Shivsena urges govt to start Jan-Dec academic year for schools||Karnataka Rajya Shivsena (KRS) has suggested the State Government change the academic year from existing one to January to December with a revised syllabus from next year, in the background of the COVID-19 situation, and any plan for online education this time should be dropped, as it would trouble rural students a lot. "Students should be allowed to get prepared for the next education, without online education, as the government cannot arrange smartphones for all students," Karnataka Rajya Shivsena president Kumar Hakari opined. Due to the lockdown, teachers of many private schools are in serious trouble, and therefore, special package or salary should be arranged for them, he demanded. The recent amendment to the land reforms act would help only real estate businessmen, and small landholders will disappear. This amendment should be dropped immediately, he added. "I will contest for Karnataka West Graduates Constituency elections of the Legislative Council. I have already started meeting voters and using our networks, while social media is also being used for campaigning, Hakari added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-rajya-shivsena-urges-govt-to-start-jan-dec-academic-year-for-schools-849734.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa relaunches his pet Shivamogga airport project||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa relaunched the airport project work at Sogane near Shivamogga via a video conference in Bengaluru on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, he said the airport work, which had commenced in 2007, came to standstill due to a dispute between partners in Regional Airport Holdings International (RAHI) in 2011. The successive governments did not show interest in completing the project. So now it has been decided to implement it at a cost of Rs 220 crore on 622 hectares of land. It would be implemented in two phases in one year. He said the execution of the airport project will play a vital role in the development of tourism and industrial sectors in the district. Besides, people can travel by air at an affordable price.He also claimed that the government is committed to the overall development of the state. Public Works Department Minister Govinda Karjola was also present.District-in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa, MP B Y Raghavendra and others were present at the relaunch of the airport work at Sogane. Yediyurappa had laid the foundation stone for the project in June 2008 during his tenure as Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-relaunches-his-pet-shivamogga-airport-project-849767.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka finally issues order banning online classes up to Class 5||Six days after the Karnataka State Minister for Primary and Secondary Education announced a ban on online classes up to Class 5, the department finally issued an official government order on Monday evening. The order directs all schools across the boards to stop online classes for children from kindergarten to Class 5 and not to collect fee from parents in the name of online education. "Using the powers under Karnataka Education act (1983) Section (7), we are issuing an order where schools affiliating to ICSE, CBSE, State and other international boards are not allowed to offer online classes from LKG to Class 5. If the schools have already been offering online classes for these grades, the same should be stopped immediately. Even the pre-recorded video and audio contents should not be sent to students until the government receives a report from expert committee which is constituted to look into the matter," the order stated. It can be recalled that it has been six days the minister announced a ban on online classes up to Class 5. Following the delay in issuing official order by the department, several private schools continued to offer online classes even on Monday and parents approached the helpline setup by department and filed complaint. New norms for Class 6-10 A committee headed by senior academician Prof M K Sridhar will look into the scientific ways of offering online education to kids between Class 6 to 10 according to their age. The committee consisted of other members: academicians Dr Gururaj Karjagi, Dr V P Niranjanaradhya, representatives from early brain hood association, parents and school managements representing ICSE, CBSE and state board schools, the commissioner for public instructions, pediatricians from Nimhans. Responsibilities of new committee:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-finally-issues-order-banning-online-classes-up-to-class-5-849860.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to rope in private hospitals to share COVID-19 load||With COVID-19 cases on the rise, the state government on Monday decided to rope in the private healthcare sector for treatment of those infected with the virus.  The government will also fix the cost for testing and treatment of COVID-19 across the state, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar announced after a two-hour long meeting with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to take stock of the situation.  “In a couple of days, we will fix rates for testing and treatment of COVID-19 at private hospitals,” Sudhakar told reporters. “Directions will also be issued to private nursing homes and hospitals to set up an isolation ward to treat COVID-19 patients,” he said. “The government’s infrastructure alone shouldn't be used. The government and the private sector should join hands to fight COVID-19,” Sudhakar asserted.  The decision to fix testing and treatment costs at private hospitals came amid complaints that patients are being fleeced. “During such a pandemic and crisis, we won’t allow fleecing. Otherwise, action will be taken,” Sudhakar said.  The government is also looking to bring COVID-19 treatment under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka health insurance scheme. “We will talk to the Centre about this. Private hospitals won’t do it for free. But for the poor, the government will have to pay through insurance,” he said.  Sudhakar, who is the minister in-charge of COVID-19 affairs in Bengaluru, lamented that citizens are not cooperating with the government as expected. “The virus won’t differentiate between the rich and the poor. We’ve been issuing directions from time to time. If people don’t comply, then who is responsible? Can the government monitor each and every individual? Everything can’t be done by the government. Every citizen has to support the government,” he said, urging people to wear face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-rope-in-private-hospitals-to-share-covid-19-load-849869.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Will ask PM for more relaxation in Karnataka, says BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said he would ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “more relaxation” and ruled out the possibility of the state government imposing further curbs as part of the COVID-19 containment.  “We have no such plans,” Yediyurappa said when asked about imposing a curfew or lockdown-like restriction going forward. “I will request the PM for more relaxation," he added. Under Unlock 1.0, several services and sectors such as metro, theatres, gyms, swimming polls, bars and others remained restricted.  Modi is scheduled to hold talks with chief ministers starting Tuesday. He is slated to talk to Yediyurappa on Wednesday.  “Let me tell you this...it is those coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and other states who are carrying the virus. We haven’t seen any trouble from locals moving about. The problem is with those coming from outside. We need to stop them and place them under quarantine,” Yediyurappa said.  Buttressing his point, Yediyurappa said out of 7,000 cases, 4,386 came from Maharashtra and another 1,340 from their contacts. “There are 216 foreigners, 87 from Delhi, 67 from Tamil Nadu and 62 from Gujarat,” the CM said.  Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with officials to take stock of the COVID-19 situation in Bengaluru city. A task force headed by the BBMP commissioner has been constituted that will focus on COVID-19 containment in the city’s municipal limits, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. As many as 17 sub-committees have been formed with specific focus areas such as containment, contact tracing, testing, home quarantine and so on.   “There are indications that the coronavirus (cases) may increase in the coming days. I want to assure citizens that we’re taking all measures. Citizens also should cooperate by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” he said.  Giving out statistics, Yediyurappa allayed fears that the pandemic is getting out of hand. “Karnataka’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent against the national average of 2.8 per cent. Our recovery rate is 56.5 per cent against the national 51 per cent. We have 71 labs that have tested 4.40 lakh samples. For every 10 lakh persons, we have done 7,100 tests and this is more than the ICMR guidelines. Only 16 people across the state are in the ICU,” he said.  “Karnataka has managed to control it better nationally. There’s no need for citizens to panic. We will do everything to make this right,” Yediyurappa said. New quarantine policy Karnataka decided Monday that asymptomatic travellers from Delhi and Chennai will have to spend three days in institutional quarantine followed by 11 days under home quarantine.  Till now, travellers from other states, except Maharashtra, had a 14-day home quarantine.  The 7-day institutional quarantine and 7-day home quarantine regime will continue for those coming from Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-ask-pm-for-more-relaxation-in-karnataka-says-bs-yediyurappa-849903.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka allows shooting and production of films and TV programmes||Continuing easing of restrictions under 'unlock-1,' the Karnataka government on Monday allowed shooting and production of films and television programmes in the state. In a clarification, Principal Secretary Revenue N Manjunath Prasad said, shooting and production of all films and television programmes that were stopped in between due to lockdown can be allowed. It is also allowed to continue with the post-production activities of film and television programmes after completing the shooting, it said. The permission is conditional as it is subjected to adhering of the national directives issued in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, and standard operating procedures prescribed by the Department of Information and Public Relations. The clarification said permission can be given as film and television shooting and production activities are not banned under guidelines issued by the centre and the state government recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-allows-shooting-and-production-of-films-and-tv-programmes-849923.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID: Over 4,000 total discharges in Karnataka; 213 new cases and 2 deaths||A total of over 4,000 COVID patients have been discharged in Karnataka so far, as the state on Monday reported 213 new cases of coronavirus and two related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 7,213 and the death toll to 88. On Monday alone 180 patients were discharged in the state after recovery. As of June 15 evening, cumulatively 7,213 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 88 deaths and 4,135 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of the 2,987 active cases, 2,931 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 56 are in Intensive Care Units. Among the two deaths were a 65-year-old man from Dharwad, who was the contact of another patient already tested positive. He was admitted on June 14 at a designated hospital and died the same day. The other was a 75-year-old woman from Bengaluru, diagnosed with ILI (Influenza Like Illness) A known case of Diabetes mellitus and Hypertension , she was admitted on June 13 at a designated hospital and died on June 15. Out of 213 new cases 103 are returnees from other states, a majority of them from neighbouring Maharashtra, while 23 are those who returned from other countries. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Kalaburagi accounted for 48, followed by Bengaluru urban 35, Dharwad 34, Dakshina Kannada 23, Raichur 18, Yadgir 13, Bidar 11, Ballari 10, Koppal 4, three each from Vijayapura, Bagalkote and Shivamogga, two each from Udupi, Haveri and Ramanagara, and one each from Hassan and Davangere.  Udupi district tops the list of positive cases with a total of 1,028 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 944 and Yadgir 822. Among discharges also Udupi is on top with total of 736 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 459 and Bengaluru urban 329. A total of 4,49,331 samples have been tested so far, out of which 5,362 were tested on Monday alone. So far 4,32,346 samples have been reported as negative, out of which 4,738 reported negative today, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-over-4000-total-discharges-in-karnataka-213-new-cases-and-2-deaths-849925.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister flooded with distress calls from teachers||Several teachers working with private unaided schools across the state are in distress as they are not paid for the last few months due to nationwide lockdown. Expressing their plight to primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar during the phone-in programme organised by Deccan Herald and Prajavani on Monday, a teacher even threatened to end life, if government fail to take note of their financial crisis and help. Many teachers contacted the minister and explained what they were undergoing during this pandemic as school managements are not paying them salaries since March and requested the government to announce a package. One particular teacher said, “The government which released packages to auto drivers has sidelined private school teachers. If this continues, we will have to end our lives.” Kumar said, “Teachers should not think about such extreme steps. We are aware of the problems faced by private school teachers and the same has been discussed with the Chief Minister and requested for a package. The CM also responded positively and is waiting for revival of the state’s economy.” A letter by the private school Hindi language teachers association, circulated on social media, highlighted that some teachers were suffering depression due to the financial crisis. Shivanna H, state president of the association, said, “Many teachers working with private unaided schools are suffering without salaries. Some teachers even slipped to depression. We request the government to rescue private school teachers.” As explained by teachers, some elite schools announced pay cuts for teachers as the state government banned online classes up to class 5. “I teach for primary school kids and the school was paying me considering that online classes were conducted. As the government put a restriction on the same, the school sent me an email saying 60% of my salary will be cut,” said a private school teacher from Bengaluru. Some callers requested the minister not to conduct SSLC exams, considering the health of students. But the minister convinced them by saying, “We have made all preparations to ensure the safety of children. Students and parents need not worry.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-flooded-with-distress-calls-from-teachers-849938.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||VTU among 100 top edu institutions of country||The Visvesvaraya Technological University has secured 55th position in the nationwide ranking of engineering education institutions. The ministry has come out with the fifth edition of the rankings based on the report of the National Institutional Ranking Framework. In a press release, VTU Registrar Dr A S Deshpande said that the varsity stands 55th in the list of 100 top engineering education institutions in the country. The list comprises noteworthy institutions such as IIT, IIIT, NIT etc. The varsity has secured 80th position in top 100 universities (technical and non-technical), he said. The registrar said that the ranking was a remarkable achievement for VTU, established 20 years ago. The institutions ranked on the basis of various parameters such as learning outcome, teaching methodology, research, professional conduct, social participation and public perception, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vtu-among-100-top-edu-institutions-of-country-849939.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||MLC polls: DKS faces ‘payment seat’ pressure||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar is under pressure from some party leaders, including a former minister, who are seeking the Legislative Council election ticket in exchange for money to clear off the party’s debts.  According to sources, the KPCC has an outstanding debt of Rs 9 crore raised for printing, hospitality and other things.  "Four party leaders have approached Shivakumar saying they will clear the loans in exchange for the MLC election ticket," a source close to Shivakumar told DH. "Shivakumar is still undecided on what to do with this offer made by some leaders." Elections have been announced to fill up seven MLC berths that fall vacant on June 30. The last date for candidates to file their nomination is June 18 and polls are scheduled to be held on June 29. MLAs will vote to elect these seven MLCs.  Given the current strength of the Legislative Assembly, the BJP can win four seats, the Congress two and the JD(S) one. For the two seats that it can win, the Congress is considering fielding one minority and another OBC candidate. Under the minority quota, the frontrunners are Naseer Ahmed (incumbent) and KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, who is said to be close to senior leader Ahmed Patel.  Under the OBC quota, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah is pushing for the re-election of former minister H M Revanna. It is also said that the party high command has orally suggested youth leader Nayana Jhawar's name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlc-polls-dks-faces-payment-seat-pressure-849940.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Council poll candidates: BJP sends two lists to top brass||Wary of the recent snub by the BJP central leadership during the Rajya Sabha elections, the state BJP unit is learnt to have sent two sets of names, for selecting candidates for the upcoming MLC polls. While one set of names was of those responsible for the BJP coming to power, the other set contained names of party workers, including the likes of former minister C P Yogeshwar. Speaking to reporters after the core committee meeting, BJP general secretary Aravind Limbavali said that the party leaders held a lengthy discussion regarding the names of candidates for the Legislative Council polls scheduled later this month. “We will send several names to the high command. But the final decision - I am highlighting the word final - will be taken by the central election committee,” he said. The core committee did not discuss any names, to nominate five members to the Council. Apart from elections to seven seats, the government will nominate five personalities to the Council. Sources said that some of the leaders were unhappy about the embarrassment faced by the state unit, after it sent names of candidates for the Rajya Sabha elections. Due to the same, a decision was taken to send a long list of candidates. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, according to sources, reminded the core committee of the promise made to rebels from the Congress-JD(S) coalition, who played an important role in the formation of BJP government. Names of three rebels - H Vishwanath, M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar - featured in the first of the set of candidates sent to the high command, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-council-poll-candidates-bjp-sends-two-lists-to-top-brass-849942.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Unlock: Will ask PM for more relaxation, says BSY ||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said he would ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “more relaxation” and ruled out the possibility of the state government imposing further curbs as part of the Covid-19 containment.  “We have no such plans,” Yediyurappa said when asked about imposing a curfew or lockdown-like restrictions going forward. “I will request the PM for more relaxation.”  Under Unlock 1.0, several services and sectors such as metro, theatres, gyms, swimming pools, bars and others remain restricted.  Modi is scheduled to hold talks with chief ministers starting Tuesday. He is slated to talk to Yediyurappa on Wednesday.  “Let me tell you this...it is those coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and other states who are carrying the virus. We haven’t seen any trouble from locals moving about. The problem is with those coming from outside. We need to stop them and place them under quarantine,” Yediyurappa said.  Buttressing his point, Yediyurappa said out of 7,000 cases, 4,386 came from Maharashtra and another 1,340 from their contacts. “There are 216 foreigners, 87 from Delhi, 67 Tamil Nadu and 62 Gujarat,” he said.  Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with officials to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in Bengaluru city. A task force headed by the BBMP commissioner has been constituted to focus on Covid-19 containment in the city’s municipal limits, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. As many as 17 sub-committees have been formed with specific focus areas such as containment, contact tracing, testing, home quarantine and so on.   “There are indications that the coronavirus (cases) may increase in the coming days. I want to assure citizens that we’re taking all measures. Citizens also should cooperate by wearing masks and keeping social distancing,” he said.  Dishing out statistics, Yediyurappa allayed fears that the pandemic was getting out of hand. “Karnataka’s mortality rate is 1.20% against the national average of 2.80%. Our recovery rate is 56.50% against the national 51%. We have 71 labs that have tested 4.40 lakh samples. For every 10 lakh persons, we have done 7,100 tests and this is more than the ICMR guidelines. Only 16 people across the state are in the ICU,” he said.  “Karnataka has managed to control it better nationally. There’s no need for citizens to panic. We will do everything to make this right,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unlock-will-ask-pm-for-more-relaxation-says-bsy-849944.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: JD(S) holds meet on tickets||JD(S) leaders huddled on Monday to decide on the possible candidates, ahead of nominations for the Legislative Council polls.  According to sources in the party, there were at least ten contestants who had expressed their desire to contest. The party is likely to pick three names and announce the same on Tuesday. At the moment, incumbent MLC T A Sharavana, outgoing Rajya Sabha member Kupendra Reddy and the party’s Bengaluru district president Prakash are said to be among the strong contenders. “The members held discussions and voiced their opinions at Monday’s meeting. It was decided that party supremo H D Deve Gowda should take the final call,” a source in the party said.  Rumours are also afloat that the Congress has asked a return favour from JD(S) in the Council polls, to push its own candidates. Recently, the party had backed the candidature of Gowda for the Rajya Sabha election. The election to the Legislative Council by MLAs is scheduled for June 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-jds-holds-meet-on-tickets-849945.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: KSRTC to begin operations to Andhra Pradesh amid lockdown||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resume its operations to Andhra Pradesh in a phased manner beginning Wednesday. However, only non-AC buses will ply to the neighbouring state. To begin with, KSRTC will operate buses from Bengaluru, Ballari, Raichur and Shahpur. The buses from Bengaluru will proceed to Ananthpur, Hindupur, Kadri, Puttaparthi, Kalyanadurga, Rayadurga, Kadapa, Mantralaya, Tirupati, Chittor, Madanapalli, Nellore and Vijayawada, said a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ksrtc-to-begin-operations-to-andhra-pradesh-amid-lockdown-849946.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: CM B S Yediyurappa kicks off Shivamogga airport work||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday flagged off the construction of a greenfield airport at Shivamogga, which is expected to be completed in a year’s time.  The airport will connect the Malnad region with the rest of the state. The airport is coming up at the Sogane village, about 12 km from Shivamogga city, at a cost of Rs 220 crore, and Yediyurappa said it would help boost tourism and industrial activities in the region. The construction works were inaugurated by Yediyurappa virtually from his home office Krishna. On the occasion, he also opened the divisional office of the National Highways Authority of India at Shivamogga.  “The airport work will be taken up in two phases. We expect the work to be finished in one year. There will be no compromise on quality,” he said, adding that the airport will be used to provide regional connectivity under UDAN.  In the first phase, the airport’s runway, taxiway, apron, approach roads, peripheral roads and the compound wall will be done. In the second phase, the terminal building, ATC tower, fire station and others will be completed.  Yediyurappa has been bullish on the airport project given that Shivamogga is his home district. The project has languished since 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-kicks-off-shivamogga-airport-work-849948.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tele ICU facility opened at GIMS||Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Monday remotely inaugurated the 24X7 tele Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). This is the second such unit to be inaugurated after the one at the Ramanagar district hospital a month ago. At GIMS, the tele ICU facility will consist of a team of 10 expert doctors and trained nurses, who will remotely supervise and provide round-the-clock ICU facilities to 26 patients. Ashwath Narayan said that these units were being set up using the Action Covid-19 Team (ACT-19) fund. "Using features such as Cloud Physician, it is possible to ensure that maximum number of patients get ICU treatment," he said. According to a release, tele ICUs employed RADAR and high resolution cameras to interact with patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tele-icu-facility-opened-at-gims-849949.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt issues order banning online classes, finally||Six days after the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education announced a ban on online classes up to Class 5, the department finally issued an official government order on Monday evening. The order directs all schools across the boards to stop online classes for children from kindergarten to Class 5 and not to collect fee from parents in the name of online education. “Using the powers under Karnataka Education act (1983) Section (7), we are issuing an order where schools affiliating to ICSE, CBSE, State and other international boards are not allowed to offer online classes from LKG to Class 5. If the schools have already been offering online classes for these grades, the same should be stopped immediately. Even the pre-recorded video and audio contents should not be sent to students until the government receives a report from expert committee which is constituted to look into the matter.” Due to the delay in issuing official order by the department, several private schools continued to offer online classes even on Monday and parents approached the helpline set up by the department and filed complaints. A committee headed by senior academician Prof M K Sridhar will look into the scientific ways of offering online education to kids in Class 6 to 10, according to their age. Other members of the panel are: academicians Dr Gururaj Karjagi, Dr V P Niranjanaradhya, representatives from Early Brainhood Association, parents and managements representing ICSE, CBSE and state board schools, the commissioner for public instruction, paediatricians from Nimhans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-issues-order-banning-online-classes-finally-849950.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pre-university department all set for 2nd year English exam||With just two days to go for the II PUC English exam, the Department of Pre-university Education (DPUE) has asked the district-level officials to ensure all the safety measures in place as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the Health department. The II PUC English exam is scheduled for Thursday (June 18). The department had already vacated the colleges that were used for quarantine purpose and sanitised them completely twice since Sunday evening. The department has sought to assure the students appearing for the exams that “each examination centre will have a pharmacist and an Asha worker to assist in case of emergency. Before entering the examination hall, students should get their hands sanitised and compulsorily wear masks. Students and staff will be subjected for medical check-up before entering the exam hall. Those with symptoms like cough, cold or fever will be allowed to write the exam in a separate room. The exam will be held at over 1016 centres across the state. Meanwhile, the department has also issued directions for safe transportation of answer scripts after the examinations. As per the directions, the answer scripts should be transported to the respective deputy directors office or the evaluation centre on the same day. The in-charge officials at the centre are not allowed to use two-wheeler for transportation of answer scripts. And they must get assistance from police to take the answer scripts securely to respective centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pre-university-department-all-set-for-2nd-year-english-exam-849951.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka panel for 20% cut on non-Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka COVID-19 treatment costs||A price fixation committee has placed in front of the Additional Chief Secretary of Health, rates at which Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) card holders, as well as other insurance and cash patients can avail COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals. This will be forwarded to the Cabinet sub-committee for approval. Though the committee has agreed to the below poverty line rates offered by private hospitals for treatment under AB-ArK, it wants a reduction of 20% or more in the cost to be borne by other insurance and cash patients as they’ve found it to be higher than prices in other states. For the general ward, the committee wants Rs 12,000 as opposed to Rs 15,000, for a ward with oxygen, the committee wants Rs 15,000 as against Rs 20,000, for an isolation ICU, the committee wants Rs 20,000 as against Rs 25,000, and for an isolation ICU with a ventilator, the committee wants Rs 25,000 as against the offered price of Rs 35,000. “The price fixation committee is headed by the executive director of Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) N T Abroo and has as its members Director of Medical Education Dr P G Girish, Director of Health Dr Omprakash Patil, district surgeons and doctors from various hospitals under the medical education department,” said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health. Akhtar said the fixing of rates is at an advanced stage and refused to divulge more details. The Federation of Healthcare Associations Karnataka (FHAK) has six private healthcare providers’ associations as members. Around 200 hospitals are a part of these six associations. The FHAK has offered a quotation to the government. This includes PPE costs. Dr Nagendra Swamy, principal coordinator of FHAK, told DH, “We haven’t received any official communication from the government on them wanting a 20% reduction in prices for cash and other insurance patients. By the government’s own admission, it costs Rs. 3.5 lakh to treat a Covid-19 patient and we have quoted much lesser than that. We are ready to sit with them for discussion if they communicate why they feel it is high.”  For BPL patients, the rates proposed by FHAK are Rs 5,200 for general ward, Rs. 7,000 for a ward with oxygen, Rs. 8,500 for an isolation ICU, and Rs. 10,000 for an isolation ICU with a ventilator. Dr C N Manjunath, nodal officer for COVID-19 lab testing, said, “The committee has sought a Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 reduction in non-BPL patients’ treatment rates in certain categories.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-panel-for-20-cut-on-non-ayushman-bharat-arogya-karnataka-covid-19-treatment-costs-849952.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC to consider plea to review verdict that upheld Karnataka law on quota in promotion to SC/STs||The Supreme Court would on Tuesday consider a plea to reconsider the May 10, 2019 judgement, which has upheld the validity of the Karnataka's 2018 law for granting reservation in promotion to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe employees. A bench of Justice U U Lalit and D Y Chandrachud is scheduled to take up, in chamber, the review petitions by B K Pavitra and KPTCL General Category Association and others. Over 100 general category petitioners led by B K Pavitra contended the judgement by the two-judge bench of Justices Lalit and Chandrachud has “totally upset and diluted” the settled criteria to determine the nature, extent and purpose of reservation in the entire state of Karnataka. It was also contrary to the law laid down by the Constitution benches in the Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018) cases. The verdict has sought to “re-write the law of reservation defying the reasonable balance which the Supreme Court followed for the last 70 years”, their plea has stated. The petition drawn by advocate Kumar Parimal and settled by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan stated that the court has overlooked the individual right of equality as envisaged under Article 14 and 16(1) of the Constitution by deducing the conclusion by combining together the data of representation in different groups and services.  "Hence the judgment dated 10.05.2019 delivered in B K Pavitra-II is per incurium and needs reconsideration,” they pleaded. In the petition, running over 100 page, the petitioners have said the letter and spirit of the Pavitra II and its interpretation of Articles 16, 16(4A and B), 335 of the Constitution and the concepts of “efficiency of administration”, “merit” and “transformative constitutionalism” has in fact created a mandatory duty to introduce quota reservation with “a dilution of conditionalities, abjuring balancing and abdicating the scope of judicial review”. They further contended in the Pavitra II, the references were made to premature debates of the Constitutional Assembly, irrelevant speeches of individuals in different contexts, which were "meaningless and without application of mind". “The relevance of transformative constitutionalism in the present context is entirely unclear unless it was towards a new interpretation to unsettle binding decisions. Pavitra II has done a disservice to the principles of constitutional transformation in quota reservations by invoking them as rhetoric,” they said. Among others, the petitioners stated Pavitra II totally ignored the submissions on efficiency, saying “Merit as a principle of selection between all candidates including SC and ST inter se is quite different from meritocracy. As a principle of selection, it simply underlines best person for the job.” The petitioners also maintained the principle of retrospectivity applied in the judgement was flawed, while there was a clear misunderstanding of consequential seniority. They also claimed the criteria laid down in the Nagaraj case including implication of creamy layer was not examined in considering the validity of the law. On May 10, the top court had dismissed a batch of petitiona filed by Pavitra and others against the validity of 'the Karnataka Extension of Consequential Seniority to Government Servants Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (To the Posts in the Civil Services of the State) Act, 2018', passed to “circumvent” the 2017 verdict, then delivered on petitions by Pavitra and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-to-consider-plea-to-review-verdict-that-upheld-karnataka-law-on-quota-in-promotion-to-sc/sts-849985.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Stones pelted at health workers, two injured||A team of health workers and the police personnel faced the ire of the residents of Marimanchi Tanda in Kamalapur taluk when they went to pick up COVID-19 patients. The locals greeted the health workers and policemen with stones. Two health workers were injured and three vehicles, including two ambulances, also damaged in the incident. Superintendent of Police Iada Martin Marbaniang told DH, "A total of 14 people from the Tanda tested positive for COVID on Sunday evening. The health staff, including a medical officer, went to the tanda to shift the infected to COVID Care Centre. Family members of the positive patients picked a quarrel with the staff saying they were quarantined in Maharashtra and underwent institutional quarantine till June 7 after they returned on May 29. Soon the argument took a violent turn resulting in stone pelting. While two staff were injured, window panes of two ambulance and the health department vehicle were damaged. The health workers and policemen somehow managed to convince the villagers and shifted the patients to the hospitals A complaint will be registered under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act against those involved in the stone-pelting, SP told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-stones-pelted-at-health-workers-two-injured-849992.html
15-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: No bar on movie, TV show shooting in Karnataka||The state government clarified on Monday that there was no bar on shooting movies or television shows. A clarification issued by N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary, Revenue Department (Disaster Management), said that the clarification was issued based on a petition by Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy. "We have said that they are free to shoot or work on post-production, provided they comply with the state operating procedure issued by the Department of Information and Public Relations," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-no-bar-on-movie-tv-show-shooting-in-karnataka-849994.html
15-06-2020||West||State unveils its Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 roadmap||Twelve  MoU’s with companies from across the globe including US, China, South Korea, Singapore and India will be signed on Monday in presence of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeary and Minister for Industries Subhash Desai. Global business leaders, country missions and bilateral investment agencies will join this exclusive session via video conference from 6:30 pm onwards.  The state has also been seen a significant uptick in investment intentions from countries such as Germany, Japan, Russia and other major FDI source countries for India. The investments represent a diversity of sectors including - Engineering, Automobiles, Food Processing, ESDM, IT/ITeS and many others. The Government of Maharashtra delegation will also feature Minister for Industries - Subhash Desai, Minister of state for Industries Aditi Tatkare, a senior delegation from the department of Industries including the new Sherpa for Foreign Direct Investments Bhushan Gagrani, the Principal Secretary Industries – Venugopal Reddy and the CEO of the state’s Industrial Development Corporation Dr. P. Anbalagan.  Subsequently, while global investment sentiments have suffered, this has provided the state of Maharashtra with a unique opportunity. Backed by the state’s performance across elements of Foreign Direct Investment, Export, Competitiveness, industrial ecosystem, policy and Ease of Doing Business, companies looking to diversify their supply chains across South East Asia have looked to Maharashtra as their new investment destination. As a testament to this,  the exclusive interaction will witness the signing of Realising the importance of our country partners, missions and trade bodies in the country, the interaction will also see two key bilateral investment agreements being signed during the event. Partners such as these have helped the state support existing industries in the state and will help Maharashtra set up dedicated country desks in the near term for closer handholding of new potential investments.  Lastly and most importantly, the state will reveal its Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 roadmap, featuring path-breaking initiatives such as Plug and Play infrastructure, an earmarked landbank of more than 40,000 acres, flexible rental and pricing structures, automatic permissions in 48 hours through the Maha Parwana route, specialized labour protection guidance’s and an Industry employment bureau for local skill and capacity matching for industries. The state will aim to convey its readiness for the 2020 post-pandemic world where investments are readily met with a capable ecosystem of executional excellence.  The state of Maharashtra invites Global business leaders to join the state that is #MadeForBusiness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/state-unveils-its-magnetic-maharashtra-20-roadmap-849606.html
15-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: After over two months of lockdown hiatus, Mumbai's local trains make comeback with limited services for staff||After a gap of nearly two-and-a-half months, limited suburban train services began in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) on Monday. The CR and WR together would run 450 services, according to a statement issued vy the Railways late on Sunday night.The WR will run 60 pairs of its 12 car suburban services (total 120 - 60 in Up direction and 60 in Down direction) between Churchgate and Dahanu Road, according to WR spokesperson Ravindra Bhakar. The CR will run 100 services on either side on its Main line - between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Thane, Kalyan, Karjat and Kasara and 70 services on either sides of Harbour line - Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Panvel,  according to CR spokesperson Shivaji Sutar.These trains will run between 0530 hrs to 2330 hrs according to a CR-WR joint statement.The Maharashtra government will be the nodal authority.   Approximately 1.25 lakh employees employed in essential services of state government are expected to travel by these trains. These special suburban services will not be for general passengers/public and will be strictly for essential services employees of Maharashtra government. Travelling authority will be applicable as per normal procedure over WR and CR and certain booking windows will be opened for the same. The Railways workman special trains, already running, will continue to run. The RPF will be deployed at various stations. Food stalls will not be kept open. Entry will be given at stations through ID cards of employees. Later on, the employees will be issued QR based E-passes which will also bear colour coding to enable swifter ticket checking. The state government will coordinate for this. Railways as well as the state government will ensure multiple rounds of checking to ensure only essential workers board these trains. The state government has been urged to ensure all those allowed to travel are done so after ensuring that they are medically fit and do not come from containment zones.To allow adequate social distancing in the coaches only about 700 passengers are to be allowed per train, unlike its seating capacity of 1,200 persons. Further the state government is advised to stagger the timings of its offices for workers coming from different areas to ensure there is no crowding at the stations and inside the trains."It is requested not to rush to the stations and follow medical and social protocols as mandated for COVID-19," the CR-WR joint statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-after-over-two-months-of-lockdown-hiatus-mumbais-local-trains-make-comeback-with-limited-services-for-staff-849636.html
15-06-2020||West||12 new COVID-19 cases in Nashik; district tally rises to 1,985||The number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra's Nashik district has gone up to 1,985 as 12 more people have tested positive for the disease, the district administration said on Monday. All the new patients are from Malegaon town, it said. Their reports came out positive late Sunday night, the district administration said in a release.  Out of the total coronavirus cases so far, 887 have been reported from Malegaon, 673 from Nashik city and 353 from other parts of the district. Besides, 72 patients from outside the district are also undergoing treatment in hospitals here, it said. The district has till now reported 121 deaths due to the disease, while 1,249 patients have recovered from the infection. So far, 15,139 samples from the district have been tested, the authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-new-covid-19-cases-in-nashik-district-tally-rises-to-1985-849671.html
15-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray's father-in-law passes away||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's father-in-law Madhav Patankar passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. Patankar was 78. A small-time businessman from Dombivli, his daughter Rashmi married Uddhav Thackeray, the son of late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray. Rashmi is currently the managing editor of Saamana, the mouthpiece of Shiv Sena. Supriya Sule, NCP leader, tweeted her condolences. Patankar died in the Criticare Hospital at Andheri.     Deeply Saddened to hear to about the demise of Shri. Madhav Patankar - Father of Mrs. Rashmi Uddhav Thackeray. My Heartfelt Condolences. May He rest in peace. My Thoughts and Prayers with the Patankar and Thackeray Family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackerays-father-in-law-passes-away-849689.html
15-06-2020||West||4.4 magnitude earthquake hits Kutch, Gujarat||An earthquake with a magnitude of 4.4 on the Richter Scale hit 83 km northwest of Rajkot, Gujarat at 12:57 pm, according to the National Centre for Seismology. More details to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/44-magnitude-earthquake-hits-kutch-gujarat-849702.html
15-06-2020||West||No plan to impose lockdown again in Gujarat, says CM Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday said his government does not plan to impose lockdown again in the state. Dismissing speculations being made on social media platforms about the lockdown, the chief minister urged people not to get carried away by such "unfounded rumours". Since June 1, curbs have been eased in the state following which industries, offices, shops, bus and auto- rickshaw services have resumed in non-containment zones. "Following the unlock from June 1, daily life is gradually becoming normal. Business and trade-related activities have also picked up in the state. In such a scenario, the state government does not have any plans to impose the lockdown again," Rupani said in a statement.  He said while the battle against COVID-19 pandemic is on, people are also learning to live with it. Rupani's statement came after rumours on the social media that his government may impose restrictions again as COVID-19 cases are not decreasing in the state. Since the last one month, on an average 400 new coronavirus cases are emerging in the state every day. Till Sunday, Gujarat reported 23,590 COVID-19 cases and 1,478 deaths due to the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-plan-to-impose-lockdown-again-in-gujarat-says-cm-vijay-rupani-849707.html
15-06-2020||West||Centre sanctions armed CISF cover for Surat airport||The Surat airport will soon be guarded by an armed contingent of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) after the Union Home Ministry recently approved the deployment of the central paramilitary at this facility in Gujarat, officials said on Monday. Officials said the ministry has sanctioned a strength of about 360 personnel to guard the international airport operated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Surat is the biggest diamond cutting and polishing hub of the country and as per officials the airport handles over 1.25 lakh passengers per month. "We have received the sanction. The work for deployment is in progress," CISF Special Director General and chief of airport security wing, M A Ganapathy, told PTI. A senior officer in the home ministry said the sanction for deployment of about 360 CISF personnel for guarding the Surat airport has been approved by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) last week. A security survey of the airport was completed last year. "The formal induction of the force will take place after certain procedures of signing a memorandum of understanding between the CISF and AAI is done and handover of living space for jawans and other administrative facilities is complete," the Home Ministry officer said. The airport has regular commercial flights connecting major domestic destinations like Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Bangalore among others and is being guarded by personnel of the Gujarat police and their reserve units at present. After this induction, the CISF will have 64 airports under its armed cover in the country. It last took over the Jammu airport in March. In Gujarat, the CISF already guards airports at Bhuj, Bhavnagar, Vadodara Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Porbandar. The 1.62-lakh personnel strong paramilitary force is designated as the national civil aviation security force and the government has earlier said that it will be gradually given the charge of more and more civil airports. There are about 100 operational airports in the country at present. Once inducted at the Surat airport, the CISF will provide a 24x7 armed cover to the facility and will frisk passengers at the gate, followed by comprehensive checks ahead of boarding a flight. The troops will be armed with assault rifles like the AK series and the INSAS, and will man the airport perimeter from watch towers erected at vantage positions, a senior CISF official said. The CISF will provide a "comprehensive anti-terror cover to the facility" and a deputy commandant-rank officer is expected to head the unit, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-sanctions-armed-cisf-cover-for-surat-airport-849770.html
15-06-2020||West||Outbreak situation bad as Maha did not follow Kerala: Ashish Shelar||Senior Maharashtra BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Monday said the Uddhav Thackeray government's mismanagement was responsible for the rise in COVID-19 cases in the state. Talking to reporters here through an app, Shelar said the situation would have been different and far better if the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government had followed the steps implemented by Kerala to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak. Speaking on the achievements of the Narendra Modi government, which completed one year of its second term, Shelar refuted allegations that the Centre was not giving funds to Maharashtra. The Centre had given funds to the tune of Rs 28,104 crore to Maharashtra but no one knows where all the money has gone, Shelar claimed. Pointing to the high number of COVID-19 cases in Thane district, Shelar asked if Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would replace guardian minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde as was done in the case of Mumbai where municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi was shunted out. Shelar also alleged some of the decisions taken by the state housing ministry in relation to slum rehabilitation projects were to favour the builder lobby, and in the process space for amenities in such works was being reduced. Jitendra Awhad, NCP MLA from Thane's Mumbra-Kalwa seat, is state housing minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/outbreak-situation-bad-as-maha-did-not-follow-kerala-ashish-shelar-849783.html
15-06-2020||West||Man tests COVID-19 positive after wedding; bride, 63 others quarantined||A 22-year-old man who got married three days ago tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday leading to the bride and 63 others who attended the function being quarantined in Palghar district in Maharashtra, an official said. Jawhar Tehsildar Santosh Shinde said the man is a laboratory assistant. "He got tested before marriage and the report had returned negative. However, his samples tested positive after marriage. The bride and 63 others who attended the ceremony have been quarantined," he told PTI. Palghar currently has 1,911 COVID-19 cases and 61 people have died of the infection so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-tests-covid-19-positive-after-wedding-bride-63-others-quarantined-849785.html
15-06-2020||West||National Games infra may be used as COVID-19 care centres: Goa CM||Stadiums built for the National Games to be held in Goa has come handy in the fight to contain the coronavirus outbreak and they would soon be notified as COVID care centres, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. These include the one at Navelim in south Goa, Pernem in the northern part of the state and Shyama Prasad Mookerjee stadium near Panaji, he said. The National Games were scheduled between October and November this year but the coronavirus outbreak may bring about a change in plans. Sawant asked people to not oppose setting up of COVID care centres in their areas, adding that patients must be shown love and and frontline staff respect. The plan to convert some educational institutions into temporary COVID care centres has been dropped due to exams, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/national-games-infra-may-be-used-as-covid-19-care-centres-goa-cm-849804.html
15-06-2020||West||Tata Power to develop 120 MW Solar Project in Gujarat||Tata Power on Monday said its subsidiary Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd (TPREL) will develop a 120 MW solar project for Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam. "Tata Power, India's largest integrated power company, announced that Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited (TPREL), the company's wholly owned subsidiary, has received a Letter of Award from Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) on June 12, 2020 to develop a 120 MW solar project in Gujarat," it said in a regulatory filing. The energy will be supplied to GUVNL under a power purchase agreement (PPA), valid for a period of 25 years from scheduled commercial operation date, it added. The company has won this capacity in a bid announced by the GUVNL under Phase VIII in February 2020. The project is required to be commissioned within 18 months from the date of execution of the PPA. Praveer Sinha, CEO & MD, Tata Power, said, "We are proud to announce that we have been awarded 120 MW Solar Project in Gujarat, and are thankful to the Government of Gujarat and the officials at GUVNL for this opportunity. With this award the cumulative capacity of renewables will be 3,457 MW". The plant is expected to generate about 300 MUs of energy per year and will annually offset approximately 300 Million Kg of CO2. "We are pleased to announce our win and with we continue to demonstrate our strong commitment towards renewable energy as well as project development, engineering and execution capabilities," said Ashish Khanna, President-Renewables, Tata Power. Tata Power's renewable capacity will increase to 3,457 MW, out of which 2,637 MW is operational and 820 MW is under implementation, including 120 MW won under this LOI (letter of intent).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tata-power-to-develop-120-mw-solar-project-in-gujarat-849809.html
15-06-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput cremated in presence of family and close friends||A day after he was found dead in his posh upscale rented duplex in Bandra, the last rites of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was performed on Monday. The 34-year-old was found dead in one room of his flat - and he is suspected to have died by suicide. The post-mortem was conducted at the Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital. "The provisional post-mortem report cites asphyxia as cause of death," zonal deputy commissioner of police Abhiskek Trimukhe said. The actor's family members flew down from Patna and claimed the body. His father performed the last rites at the Vile Parle auditorium. Casting director Mukesh Chhabra, who helmed Rajput's upcoming "Dil Bechara", was among the first ones to arrive at the funeral along with actor Kriti Sanon. Sanon worked with Rajput in 2017's "Raabta". Some fans also assembled outside the crematorium. Rajput's friend Rhea Chakraborty also attended the cremation after visiting the hospital. The actor's "Chhichhore" co-stars Shraddha Kapoor and Varun Sharma, along with filmmaker Abhishek Kapoor, who directed him in his big-screen debut "Kai Po Che!" and "Kedarnath", were also present. They were joined by others from the film fraternity, including producer Ekta Kapoor, actors Vivek Oberoi, Randeep Hooda, Prateik Babbar and singer Udit Narayan. According to a source, only close family members and select friends from the industry were allowed to go inside the crematorium in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Meanwhile,  Sushant's friend Rhea Chakravarty was questioned by the police. Police also spoke to Mahesh Shetty, his friend. Sushant had made the last call to him. "As we are all deeply pained and shocked to hear about Sushant Singh Rajput's untimely demise..So is Mahesh Shetty. He has lost a brother, a very dear friend and is still coming to terms with the shock and reality and is completely heartbroken. We, his team, request the media and all of you, on his behalf, to please give him some privacy and let him grieve for his loss," Shetty's team said. Team from Bandra police station, Crime Branch-CID and forensic department visited his Bandra flat. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-cremated-in-presence-of-family-and-close-friends-849811.html
15-06-2020||West||Prices of petrol and diesel increased in Gujarat by Rs 2 per litre||The Gujarat government on Monday announced an increase in the prices of petrol and diesel each by Rs 2 per litre. The new rates will come into effect from midnight tonight, said deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who also holds Finance portfolio. While the current price of petrol per litre is Rs 71.88 as on Monday in Gujarat, the price of diesel per litre is Rs 70.12. "The step is being taken in view of the state revenue dipping significantly due to coronavirus-enforced lockdown while the state expenditure going up to fight the COVID-19 crisis," he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prices-of-petrol-and-diesel-increased-in-gujarat-by-rs-2-per-litre-849839.html
15-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Classes for Stds IX, X, XII to begin from July 1||Classes for standards IX, X in schools located in non-red zone areas and junior college for XII would begin in Maharashtra from July 1, the state government said on Monday. Classes of 6th to 8th standards would begin from August, as per the government. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and attended by School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad and officials. A circular issued on Monday stated that "schools not located in red zone can commence classes of Standard 9, 10 and 12 from July 1" while "classes of 6th to 8th standards would begin from August". "Though in some areas schools could not be opened, the process of teaching cannot be stopped. The use of digital technology to reach out with students should be adopted," it said. "Classes of Standard 1 and 2 are exempted from online teaching. However, for remaining standards certain hours per week have been defined by the government. We are trying to use All India Radio (AIR) network as well to reach out to students with the curriculum," Gaikwad said. Some of the teaching can be broadcast, she added. However, some teachers' and principals' unions have demanded that all school in the state open from August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-classes-for-stds-ix-x-xii-to-begin-from-july-1-849877.html
15-06-2020||West||Maharashtra govt hiding 950 COVID-19 deaths from Mumbai: Devendra Fadnavis||The Maharashtra government has not reported as many as 950 COVID-19 deaths from Mumbai, which amounts to violation of the ICMR guidelines, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis alleged on Monday. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Fadnavis said, "Some 950 deaths due to COVID-19 are still not reported (in Mumbai). It is a very serious matter and risky as well". As on June 14, the number of COVID-19 fatalities in worst-hit Mumbai stood at 2,182, as per the state government. Fadnavis claimed 500 of the 950 deaths that had occurred in various hospitals in Mumbai were not even referred to the death audit committee. "451 deaths have been termed as non-COVID deaths by the death audit committee. However, as per guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), all these deaths had occurred due to COVID-19," the Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly alleged. We demand a clarification on under whose pressure the committee reported those deaths as non-COVID-19, he said. "The BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) has refused to follow the ICMR guidelines and certain deaths were not recorded as occurred due to COVID-19. Despite clear guidelines from the ICMR, why the audit committee showed those deaths as non-COVID-19 deaths?" questionned the former chief minister. He said the action of the committee was not only condemnable but also criminal in nature. "There is another incident where some 500 deaths that occurred in various hospitals in Mumbai were not even referred to the death audit committee. I want to know what action state is going to take," he said and demanded a stern action against the guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-hiding-950-covid-19-deaths-from-mumbai-devendra-fadnavis-849889.html
15-06-2020||West||Mumbai: Shiv Sena corporator's son hangs self at home||The 25-year-old son of a Shiv Sena corporator allegedly killed himself in Suman Nagar locality of Chembur in the metropolis, police said on Monday. Abhishek Shetye was found hanging in his house on Sunday night, an official said. "His father Shrikant Shetye is Shiv Sena corporator from Ward 155. Abhishek was found hanging from the ceiling fan in the bedroom by his brother. No suicide note has been found from the spot," he added. An accidental death report has been registered and the probe was underway to find out why he took this step, said Senior Inspector Deepak Pagare of Chunabhatti police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-shiv-sena-corporators-son-hangs-self-at-home-849891.html
15-06-2020||West||Maharashtra Governor Koshyari bags first prize in letter writing competition organised by Department of Posts||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has won the first prize in the State Level Letter Writing Competition (Inland Letter Card Category), organised by the Maharashtra & Goa Circle of the Department of Posts, for his essay on the theme ‘Dear Bapu, you are immortal’. The ‘Dhai Akhar’ letter writing competition was organised by the Department of Posts on the occasion of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The Senior Superintendent of Posts, Mumbai West Division P C Jagtap and Assistant Superintendent S D Kharat met Governor Koshyari at Raj Bhavan and presented him the first prize cheque of Rs 25,000. The competition was organised for participants upto 18 years and those above 18 years of age in the categories of ‘Inland Letter Card’ and ‘Envelope’. The Governor had participated in the event in his individual capacity and had sent in his essay on Inland Letter card to the organisers in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-koshyari-bags-first-prize-in-letter-writing-competition-organised-by-department-of-posts-849897.html
15-06-2020||West||As COVID-19 cases rise, Goa uses stadiums, schools to set up care centres||Amid political opposition to the Goa government's plans to set up 'Covid Care Centres' across the state to house asymptomatic COVID-19 patients, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant onMonday said, that the administration would requisition newly created infrastructure for the now postponed National Games for the purpose. With the number of active COVID-19 persons shooting up over the last two weeks, reaching 507 on Monday, Sawant also said, that his government was looking to set-up Covid Care Centres all across Goa's 40 assembly constituencies. "We are looking to set them (Covid Care Centres) up in various stadiums in Goa," Sawant told reporters here. The National Games which were scheduled to be held in Goa in October this year have been postponed on account of the pandemic. But over the last couple of years, the Goa government had spent considerable financial resources to build new and enhance existing sporting facilities for the major event. Sawant also urged the people of Goa against protesting the setting up of the centres. "Some people are doing politics over the location of our Covid Care Centres. If need arises, Goa may have to set up a Covid care centre in each of the 40 constituencies to handle Covid positive persons," the Chief Minister said, even as villages from assembly constituencies ruled by both the BJP as well as the Congress have opposed setting up of the centres, fearing spread of infection. The centres are being set up in existing medical facilities, as well as government school premises in the state.   Incidentally, more than a dozen persons working for the state's only designated Covid-19 facility, the Employees State Insurance hospital in Margao town as well as their family members living in the residential quarters of the medical facility have contracted the infection over the last one week. In wake of several village panchayats passing resolutions imposing lockdowns in their respective jurisdictions on their own volition has also irked Sawant, who said that such lockdowns were not legal. "Panchayats cannot impose a lockdown. They should not do it. Those who willingly want to stay at home, they can," the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-cases-rise-goa-uses-stadiums-schools-to-set-up-care-centres-849953.html
15-06-2020||West||Monsoon advances further in Gujarat; 3 killed in lightning strike||The southwest monsoon further advanced to parts of Gujarat and adjoining Union Territory of Diu, bringing moderate to heavy rains in several areas during Monday. The monsoon has covered all districts of south Gujarat, Saurashtra region, Diu and some districts of north Gujarat including Ahmedabad, Kheda, Anand, Panchamahal, Dahod and part of Kutch district till Kandla, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated in a release. The advancing monsoon brought considerable rainfall in Saurashtra region since Monday morning. Meanwhile, three persons, including two fishermen, were killed in the day, after they were hit by lightning in Gir Somnath district. As per the IMD, light to moderate rainfall would occur at several places across the state, mainly in Saurashtra and south Gujarat region, during the next two days. The Met department has also predicted "heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in Saurashtra and south Gujarat region on June 18 and 19". On Monday, between 6 am till 6 pm, several parts of Saurashtra and some parts of south Gujarat region received moderate to heavy rains. Lilia taluka of Amreli recorded 74 mm of rains, followed by Dharampur in Valsad (62 mm), Amreli in Amreli district (50 mm), Kodinar in Gir Somnath (48 mm), Bhesan in Junagadh (36 mm), Khambha in Amreli (34 mm) and Mahuva in Surat district (31 mm). Officials said lightning hit two fishermen when they were catching fish in a pond in Senjalia village in Una taluka of Gir Somnath district. Another deceased was a woman working in a field in Itavaya village of Gir-Gadhda taluka. Two others were injured in the incident, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/monsoon-advances-further-in-gujarat-3-killed-in-lightning-strike-849958.html
15-06-2020||West||Tribal man lives with son's decomposed body awaiting justice in Gujarat village||For 22 months, a man in his mid-60s has been reportedly living with the decomposed body of his son awaiting justice in a village in Banaskantha district in north Gujarat. It is reported to be the latest case of an old tribal custom in which the victim's family holds on to the body until their demand for justice is met. The man identified as Hagrabhai Taraal, a Dungari Garasiya tribe, has kept his 25-year-son's body bundled in a plastic sheet and locked in an unused toilet outside his home. The locals said that the body has been decomposed and is now a bundle of only bones, skull and a cloth that the victim was wearing. They further said that Taraal is awaiting an investigation into his son's death, which, he believes, was a case of murder. The police, however, said that Taraal's son had died a natural death and the case was closed after investigation. "Hagrabhai Taraal's son Natu was killed by a group of 10 villagers. His body was found lying in the field on the village border. But, instead of investigating the case thoroughly, the police closed it saying that it was a natural death," said Sindubhai, nephew of Taraal. He alleged that Taraal's son had left home on August 27, 2018, and days later on September 3, his dead body was found.  A recently written representation made before the district authority also mentions that Taraal's son was found dead in a farm. It says that the body had started decomposing and dogs were found eating it. Deputy Superintendent of Police Atul Zankat told reporters that "When the incident happened, it was registered as accidental death and the matter was closed. We have come to know that the dead body was never cremated and therefore we have started a probe."  When contacted, Superintendent of Police Tarun Duggal told this paper that he was inquiring about the incident. Local said that this is the latest case of tribal custom called "chadotaru" in which victims hold on to the dead body till the suspects admit and compensate for the loss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tribal-man-lives-with-sons-decomposed-body-awaiting-justice-in-gujarat-village-849961.html
15-06-2020||West||COVID19: Death toll crosses 1,500-mark in Gujarat with consistent mortality rate||Gujarat reported deaths of 28 more patients from coronavirus infection on Monday, taking the toll to 1,506, the second-highest number of deaths after Maharashtra, with a case fatality rate of over 6.2 percent which has been consistent for more than two months. Out of 28 deaths, Ahmedabad alone reported 23 fatalities, shooting its toll to 1,210 which is over 80% of total deaths (1,506) reported across the state till Monday. In terms of numbers, Ahmedabad is the second worst-hit city after Mumbai. After Ahmedabad in the state, Surat is the worst hit with over 100 deaths followed by Vadodara 43, Gandhinagar 21, Aravalli 13, among others. What surprises even doctors in Gujarat is the consistent case fatality rate for over two months now-Ahmedabad over 7% and state's over 6%. Last week, a group of expert doctors had stated in a press conference that "it is impossible to find out the exact reason behind this high mortality rate." The state government has been claiming that in majority of cases the patients were suffering from pre-existing diseases or had comorbid conditions.  Meanwhile, the state's tally of confirmed cases breached the 24,000-mark after it recorded 514 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative total to 24,104. The tally of Ahmedabad reached 16,967 after it registered 327 confirmed, out of the state's total 514. Out of 24,104 cases, 16,672 have been cured and discharged from hospital till Monday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid19-death-toll-crosses-1500-mark-in-gujarat-with-consistent-mortality-rate-849966.html
15-06-2020||West||Gujarat tally tops 24,000 with 514 coronavirus cases||Gujarat reported 514 new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the count to 24,104, while the death toll rose to 1,506 with 28 new fatalities, 23 of them in Ahmedabad, the state health department said. With 339 more patients discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, the number of recoveries in the state increased to 16,672, it said. The state now has 5,926 active cases, out of which 71 patients are on ventilator and the condition of 5,855 others is stable, the health department said. Out of the 514 new COVID-19 cases recorded in the state, Ahmedabad alone reported 327 cases, taking the total in the district to 16,967. The death toll in Ahmedabad rose to 1,210 with 23 more COVID-19 patients succumbing to the infection on Monday, the department said. Out of the remaining five deaths, Surat reported four and Aravalli one. Surat reported 64 new cases, taking its total to 2,643. In Vadodara, the coronavirus tally rose to 1,597 with the addition of 44 new cases. Among other districts, Gandhinagar reported 15 new cases, while Jamnagar and Bharuch recorded nine each and Rajkot eight. Sixteen other districts reported new COVID-19 cases on Monday, the health department said. Out of the 339 patients who were discharged on Monday, 225 were from hospitals in Ahmedabad, 58 from Surat and 24 from Gandhinagar, among others, it said. Gujarat has so far conducted tests for coronavirus on 2,92,909 samples, it said. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 24,104, new cases 514, deaths 1,506, discharged 16,672, active cases 5,926, people tested so far 2,92,909.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-tally-tops-24000-with-514-coronavirus-cases-849975.html
