16-06-2020||First Edit||Safeguards for agri land, farmers key||The Karnataka cabinet’s decision to amend the Land Reforms Act to enable non-agriculturists to buy farm land irrespective of their income from other sources is a welcome move as long as enough safeguards are put in place to ensure that the provisions are not misused by real estate sharks and speculators. With increasing input rates, crop loss due to the vagaries of nature, high labour cost and volatility in produce price, agriculture has become an unviable vocation for farmers with small holdings, often driving them to suicide when they are unable to repay debt. Besides, with cooperative farming yet to become a reality, mechanisation and use of modern technology which can boost productivity remain out of the reach of the small farmer. While distress sale is common in rural areas, the farmer has always received a pittance as the law forbade him from selling the land to non-agriculturists. The new regime will increase the bargaining power of the farmer and hopefully enable him to get the right price for his land. With increasing urban stress, many white-collared professionals are showing a keen interest in farming and their financial capacity to invest in technology should help not only in reclaiming large tracts of land that have gone fallow due to the inability of farmers to cultivate them, but also in increasing the yield of existing farms or fields. However, it is imperative that strong safeguards are built into the legislation to prevent conversion of such purchased land for commercial purposes, except for allied agricultural activities like food processing units and cold storages, which will create a second source of income other than farming for the local community. While the law should guard against creation of land banks by the real estate mafia, special attention should be given to protecting the ecological balance in the environmentally sensitive Western Ghats. Bengaluru is witness to how the green cover around the city has turned into a concrete jungle and a similar situation should not be replicated in rural areas. The guidelines should also clearly stipulate that in case of conversion for non-agricultural purposes, the land will be permanently confiscated by the government, besides initiating other punitive action When every individual is free to pursue the vocation of his choice, there is no logic in compelling a farmer to remain an agriculturist all his life. The government would also do well to study the implementation of similar laws in other states, so that all loopholes can be plugged in advance. If executed earnestly, the proposal holds a lot of promise not just for beleaguered farmers and urban professionals aspiring to return to their roots, but also for the rural economy as a whole.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/safeguards-for-agri-land-farmers-key-850409.html
16-06-2020||In Perspective||An inadequate long-term security strategy||Five years ago, India first publicly announced carrying out counter-insurgency operations on its neighbour Myanmar’s soil. Since then, India has gone ahead and executed similar operations along its western border against Pakistan in response to terror attacks. This suggests that India is now bolder in tackling attacks launched from neighbouring countries, but is that an accurate and complete representation? A seminal moment On June 9, 2015, the government’s minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore announced that Indian commandos carried out a counter-insurgency operation on Myanmar’s soil (though it is actually disputed territory). He stated that as retaliation for 20 Indian soldiers being killed by Naga militants in Manipur, the military conducted a ‘surgical strike’ on two militant camps operating along the border in another sovereign’s territory, which marked a first for the country. This action, also referred to as ‘hot pursuit’ strategy, is a departure from India’s earlier efforts. In the past, while carrying out similar operations, India claimed that it has operated “alongside” but well within its borders. Many claim that India has long carried out operations in enemy territory but never acknowledged such actions. A departure from that practice highlights a desire to publicly raise the ‘cost’ imposed on those carrying out attacks against it. However, India has not always been so bold. This was most apparent in 2002 and 2008 when India, sadly, demonstrated that no matter how significant the terror spectacle, it would make huge threats but would not follow up with action – either due to the lack of will or capacity. In December 2001, after Pakistan-backed Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists stormed the Indian Parliament, then PM Atal Behari Vajpayee signalled to the armed forces to prepare for a full-fledged war – the start of Operation Parakram. A few months later, in May 2002, at the height of a fully mobilised army, the LeT escalated tensions by striking again and killing 13 Indian soldiers as well as their family members. Yet, Pakistan managed to escape unscathed despite a prepared Indian Army with nothing more than two press statements from the then Pakistani president General Pervez Musharraf half-heartedly announcing that his country will rein in terrorists. The proof that the 10 month-long Operation Parakram did not amount to much lies in the 2008 Mumbai attacks. The 60-hour siege in the heart of India’s financial capital showcased the emboldened spirit of India’s neighbour and the reliance on use of non-state actors. Once again, we saw heightened tensions between the two, and in the end, the only way India could exact revenge was by hanging the lone surviving terrorist four years later, while mastermind Hafiz Saeed remained safe in Pakistan. Actions speak louder Both times, India may credit itself for being the more mature power – by not retaliating and starting an all-out war – but it did cut a sorry figure. Once, it moved a million soldiers without an end-goal in mind, for just a public announcement in return; the second time, while the attack may have helped remind the world that the Pakistani establishment is indeed a sponsor of terrorism, despite it assisting the US in its war on terror in Afghanistan, did India gain much more than global sympathy? The threat of retaliation from a large military power, i.e. India, has fallen on deaf ears. Political scientist Joseph Nye believes that if the threats used in coercive diplomacy are not viewed as credible, it hampers the reputation of the coercing state and breeds more resistance in the target. This underscores why India’s constant threats have not dissuaded Pakistan from continuing with its ‘thousand cuts’ strategy. Post-hot pursuit India has since tried to remedy this blunder. Soon after conducting strikes on Myanmar territory, India remarked that it was a message to those “harbouring terror intent towards India”, which quickly garnered a warning from Pakistan. Not heeding the warning, India responded to Pakistan’s penchant for supporting terrorists by retaliating against the Uri attacks in 2016 and conducting a pre-emptive airstrike on terror camps in Balakot in 2019. But we must ask the question: Is this posturing enough and does it reflect the harsh realities of South Asia? Despite the new proclivity to respond with a bang, insurgency and terrorism in India have not decreased. In fact, incursions into India have only increased, with the blessings of Pakistan. Hafiz Saeed, the co-founder of LeT, is enjoying the hiatus in legal proceedings against him in Pakistan despite being sentenced to 11 years imprisonment and a $10 million bounty on him. JeM leader Masood Azhar, on the other hand, has been declared missing by Pakistani authorities. While a stronger response to attacks on its military establishments might help boost the morale of Indian soldiers, it cannot stop Pakistan from supporting terror groups, though it does increase the cost of such operations. It cannot be used to rein in China, which is stronger than India and provides Pakistan with a security blanket that enables it to act in a brazen manner. Currently, China itself is flexing its muscles alongside and deep within Indian territory in Ladakh and the North-East. Surgical strikes on state-sponsored terrorist camps inside Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir or another other neighbouring country definitely help boost the morale of the forces and the citizenry at large. But this cannot be long-term strategy. Any effective solution will require parallel diplomatic, military and economic interventions to counter Pakistan, which is backed by a stronger-than-ever China. India’s efforts need a cogent intent all the more now when the dragon is intruding into Indian territory in Ladakh and the North-East. (The writer is visiting fellow with the Centre for Anti-Terrorism Studies at the National Security Guard campus in Manesar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/an-inadequate-long-term-security-strategy-850410.html
16-06-2020||Kalaburagi||ACB raids homes and office of D Devaraj Urs Development Corporation's manager in Karnataka's Kalaburagi||Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths raided the homes and office of Jagadevappa Muguta, D Devaraj Urs Development Corporation Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts' manager, on Tuesday. A team, led by Yadgir and Kalaburagi ACB sleuths, carried out the raids simultaneously at his house located in Pooja Colony in the City, his commercial complex, his office in Yadgir and another residence of his in Bidar.  About 40 staff were verifying the documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/acb-raids-homes-and-office-of-d-devaraj-urs-development-corporations-manager-in-karnatakas-kalaburagi-850199.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Yadgir scrambles for beds as coronavirus cases spike||According to the COVID-19 war room, Yadgir has only 747 hospital beds out of which a whopping 691 beds (93%) are reserved just for COVID-19 patients. The occupancy in these reserved beds stands at 74.67%, which is the highest in the state. To prevent the district from registering a dubious first of running out of beds, the administration has now converted three hostels into COVID care centres. Dr M S Patil, District Health Officer, Yadgir, told DH that the number of available beds for COVID-19 patients has now gone up to 1,050, including COVID care centres. In three taluks, three hostels have been converted into COVID care centres, said Patil. “Out of the five facilities for COVID, four are government-run and one, Misty Engineering College Hostel, is private. We are also converting Yadgir Taluk Hospitals and Community Health Centres into Covid facilities,” he said. As on June 12, Raichur had the second highest bed occupancy of 40.8% followed by Bidar 27.2%, Vijayapura 25.2% and Kalaburagi 23.2%. The state has prided itself on having a low bed occupancy, which means it has enough beds to treat mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in hospitals instead of sending them home. But individual districts have a different story to tell. They are already roping in college hostels, community health centres and guest houses to treat the infected, anticipating the July-August virus peak that Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar warned about a few days back. But using educational institutions for virus containment efforts poses a question: what will happen to these patients once schools and colleges are allowed to open? It is also pertinent to note that the South Western Railways has already deployed 50% of isolation coaches for Shramik Special trains as they remained unused and idle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-yadgir-scrambles-for-beds-as-coronavirus-cases-spike-850073.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||ACB raids Legal Metrology official's residence, office in Karnataka's Belagavi||Sleuths from the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided the office and residence of Legal Metrology Department Assistant Controller Subhash Uppar at Mahantesh Nagar and Rukmini Nagar respectively on Monday for allegedly amassing wealth more than known sources of income. Raids were also conducted at his ancestral home at Baswan-Kuduchi and relative's home. ACB Superintendent of Police D S Nyamgouda led the raid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/acb-raids-legal-metrology-officials-residence-office-in-karnatakas-belagavi-850138.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Protest in Karnataka's Hubbali to reopen cinema halls||Seeking permission to reopen cinema halls, with precautions like social distancing, just like lockdown relaxations for other industries and activities, Kannadapara Mahamandal staged a protest in front of Mini Vidha Soudha in Hubballi on Tuesday. "Cinema talkies and cinema industry workers are in serious trouble as many of them had no earnings during the lockdown. Cinema industry also gives crores of rupees worth revenue to Union and State governments. Therefore, cinema halls should be reopened to save 15,000 families depending on them in the state," the Mahamanadal president D Govindrao said. Protesters also submitted a memorandum to the chief minister through Tahsildar Madyal. Ningappa Morabad, Shivappa Badami, Mallesh Mulakoppad, and others took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protest-in-karnatakas-hubbali-to-reopen-cinema-halls-850220.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||CPI(M) members stage protest in Karnaaka's Hubbali criticising Union govt's on rise in COVID-19 cases||Criticising the Union Government for the spike in COVID-19 cases, and woes of migrants and others due to the lockdown, members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest in front of Mini Vidhan Soudha in Hubballi on Tuesday, and demanded Rs 7,000 per month compensation for six months for non-income tax paying families, 10 kg food grains per person for six months along with other benefits. Submitting a memorandum to the President of India through the Tahsildar's office, they also demanded that Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) work should be increased to 200 days and extended to the urban poor while unemployment allowance should also be introduced. Withdrawal of amendments to the APMC act, land reforms act, seed act, privatisation and labour laws were also among the demands of the protesters. B S Soppin, B N Pujari, and others took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cpim-members-stage-protest-in-karnaakas-hubbali-criticising-union-govts-on-rise-in-covid-19-cases-850228.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karanataka: NMPT fire personnel rescue bull from noose-like rope tied around its neck||The New Mangalore Port Trust's (NMPT) Fire Department personnel did an extraordinary act of service on Sunday by rescuing a bull from near death.A rope around the neck of the bull, allegedly tied by the cattle-lifters to drag it away, had turned into a noose. Many citizens in Panambur and Surathkal, along with the help of Animal Care Trust (ACT), had been attempting to remove the rope around the bull's neck since February. They had used animal nets, rope lasso cutters, but were unsuccessful in their attempts. On June 13, the bull was seen entering the NMPT dock area to drink water. It was aggressive and did not allow anyone to come near it. A month ago, one of the volunteers from ACT had suffered injuries in his leg while attempting to approach the bull. Well aware about the risks, the fire personnel drove the bull to an enclosed area and offered it food and water. After much pampering, the bull calmed down and allowed the fire department personnel to remove the rope from the neck on Sunday night. The tight rope had caused a wound around the bull’s neck, which would require veterinary care and treatment. NMPT Chairman A V Ramana congratulated the staff involved in the noble service. The area near the New Mangalore Port Trust is home to hundreds of stray cattle. After the rehabilitation of residents, who were residing in the harbour project area, many domesticated cattle were left behind. Thus the abandoned cattle continue to roam around the port area. The number of cattle which was around 500 had shrunk to 100.The cattle are now easy prey to cattle traffickers. ACT had recently urged police to prevent cattle-lifters from killing stray cows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karanataka-nmpt-fire-personnel-rescue-bull-from-noose-like-rope-tied-around-its-neck-850237.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Throat swab sample of Chikkamagaluru SSLC student sent for testing again||The boy tested positive for COVID-19 on June 11. The Minister said “the swab samples of all 55 primary contacts of P 6120 have tested negative. The boy’s sample, tested using the TrueNAT machine at the district hospital in Chikkamagaluru, has come negative. The samples have been sent once again for testing,” he added. The report is awaited. Earlier, a doctor from Mudigere and a pregnant woman from Tarikere who tested positive for COVID-19, tested negative after testing the swab samples once again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/throat-swab-sample-of-chikkamagaluru-sslc-student-sent-for-testing-again-850241.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man, sister set themselves ablaze in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district||A man and his sister ended their lives by pouring petrol and setting themselves ablaze at Sangabettu in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada on Monday late night. The deceased were Neelayya Shettigar (42) and Kesari (39). Both were suffering from health complications and had ended life in one of the rooms in the house after 11 pm.The incident came to light when Neelayya’s brother and sister-in-law heard crying noises from the room. They were seriously injured and rushed to Bantwal Government Hospital, where they were declared dead.Neelayya was a weaver in the past and later stopped due to health complications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-sister-set-themselves-ablaze-in-karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-district-850243.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister for planting 1 lakh saplings on Chamundi Hill||In view of increasing the green cover over Mysuru city, the Forest department should take up planting of one lakh saplings on Chamundi Hill in association with Rural Development and Panchayat Raj and other departments, said District In-charge and Cooperation Minister S T Somasekhar. He spoke about planting and their nurturing for three years, during a meeting chaired by Forest Minister Anand Singh here, on Tuesday. “Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) cardholders can be deployed for digging pits to plant the saplings. Thus, besides creating jobs, afforestation will get a boost,” he said. Singh said that the government has decided to remove all nilgiri trees on 310 hectares of forest on Chamundi Hill and they will be replaced by fruit-bearing trees like seethaphala (custard apple). “Initially, a few saplings will be planted symbolically. The officials are directed to chalk out a proper plan, to plant and nurture saplings under MGNREGA. After planting, providing nutrition and water is crucial. If they are not nurtured properly, all efforts in planting them will be wasted. So, it is decided to plant saplings on even surfaces this year and on slope surfaces next year,” he said. Officials informed about replicating a water recycling plant on Chamundi Hill, on the lines of the one established by Infosys Foundation, on the outskirts of Mysuru. If such a plant can be set up, there will be no scarcity of water throughout the year, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-for-planting-1-lakh-saplings-on-chamundi-hill-850335.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||DC appeals people to get tested for Covid-19||The district administration has appealed to all citizens of Mysuru city and district to get themselves tested for Covid-19 in case they have any influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, i.e., cold, fever, cough, sore throat, and breathlessness or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) symptoms. The test is free and is conducted at designated hospitals. According to a press note, issued by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, the Designated Covid Hospital, the District Hospital at Metagalli on KRS Road; Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC and RI); Cheluvamba Hospital of MMC and RI; Taluk Hospitals of T Narsipur, Nanjangud, HD Kote, Hunsur, KR Nagar and Periyapatna towns; and Community Health Centres of Saligrama, Hullahalli and Tagaduru. “Those who give their throat swab for testing will be advised rest at home until result is known, and no enforced quarantine policy is there for such cases. If they turn positive, they will be isolated for further treatment. This step by the Health department is to ensure that all symptomatic persons are tested. The people should cooperate and make use of this service to get themselves tested as soon as the symptoms are seen,” the appeal reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-appeals-people-to-get-tested-for-covid-19-850337.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yaduveer for timely crushing of sugarcane||Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, member of the erstwhile royal family, has expressed that he is for timely crushing of sugarcane in the interest of farmers. He has put up a post on his social media platforms stating that the resistance to reopening of the sugar factories in Mandya district, under operations and maintenance (O&M) mode, is a cause for concern, as farmers need a timely start to the crushing of sugarcane, so that they can sell their crop. “The district of Mandya is synonymous with growing sugarcane and the sugar industry. The continued resistance towards privatisation of MySugar Mill is understandable, given the heritage of the institution. However, the resistance is a cause of concern as farmers of Mandya district need a timely start to the crushing of sugarcane, so that they can sell their crop. The inability of the government to run the mill and public sentiment against complete privatisation means we have but one option, ie to run the mill under an operations and maintenance (O&M) system,” the post reads. “This middle ground will ensure that public sentiment against privatisation is satisfied. Also, the mill can once again prosper and most importantly, the sugarcane growers of Mandya don’t have to face a crisis,” the post says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yaduveer-for-timely-crushing-of-sugarcane-850339.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘No entry for Aashada Friday Utsav atop Chamundi Hill’||Cooperation and District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar said, “There will be no Aashada Friday Utsav at Sri Chamundeshwari temple, atop Chamundi Hill here, for the public in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Similarly, people cannot take part in the Vardhanthi Utsav on July 13.” The minister said that entry of people will be restricted on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, for four weeks of Aashada month, that ends on July 20. Aashada starts on June 22. It has to be recalled that Aashada Fridays have been auspicious for devotees of Chamundeshwari and they used to throng the temple in huge numbers. When S A Ramadass was district in-charge minister, he took steps to streamline the celebrations and also started bus shuttles, to avoid traffic jams on Chamundi Hill. Besides the hill, special puja is held in Chamundeshwari temples across the city on Aashada Fridays. Organisations of youth, women, workers and auto drivers also celebrate Aashada Fridays and distribute food across the city. The minister said, “The decision to bar people from festivities was taken at a meeting held with people’s representatives and officials. Aashada Fridays are on June 26, July 3, 10 and 17. The puja will be held as per tradition and customs. But, people will not be allowed atop the hill in view of maintaining social distance.” Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that the government respects the religious and spiritual feelings of devotees, but the health of the people is more important. “Children, senior citizens and pregnant women visit the temple, which is not advisable. Thus, the advise of people’s representatives and temple officials was sought, before taking a decision,” he said. “The devotees can visit the temple on normal days. But, they should follow guidelines to check the infection and spread of Covid. If the devotees are not maintaining cleanliness, hygiene and social distance, the entry will be completely restricted,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-entry-for-aashada-friday-utsav-atop-chamundi-hill-850342.html
16-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||MLC polls: DKS looks up with over 200 ticket seekers||More than 200 Congress leaders have sought the Legislative Council election ticket, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said Tuesday, leaving the final decision to the party’s high command.  Elections to fill up seven MLC berths that fall vacant will be held on June 29. The last date for candidates to file their nomination is June 18. After a meeting with Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar said the high command will take the final call. “Whoever is asking (for the ticket), we will inform the high command. Why should we snatch away their rights? Over 200 people are asking for the ticket whereas we have only two seats that we can win,” he said.  “All that we will do is to inform the high command on who is asking, based on their biodata. We won’t interfere any further,” he said.  Meanwhile, a section of Christian leaders from the party has approached the high command, signifying disgruntlement ahead of the MLC polls. “Currently, there is only one Christian in the Upper House who is retiring and this seat must be retained by the community,” a note prepared by the Christian leaders stated, referring to incumbent MLC Ivan D’Souza.  “However, the Muslims had two seats in the Upper House of which one (Rizwan Arshad) was given an MLA seat and he therefore resigned a sitting seat which was valid until 2022. Currently, there is one Muslim in the Upper House, CM Ibrahim,” they said.  While in government the Muslims had five and Christians had one. Now that there is no government, it is only fair that the lone seat the Christisans have continues. With the upcoming BBMP elections in Bengaluru coupled with the fact that the Christian community hasn’t been given a single Lok Sabha seat since 2009, it is only fair that this MLC seat be retained,” they argued.  Last year, former minister J Alexander resigned from the party’s primary membership, but was later convinced. But former top cop HT Sangliana resigned from the Congress in protest against the party’s “neglect” of the Christian community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlc-polls-dks-looks-up-with-over-200-ticket-seekers-850307.html
16-06-2020||Main Article||Philanthropy-based universities | New temples of learning?||A new breed of philanthropy-based institutions of higher learning are making their presence felt on the educational landscape of India. Some prominent ones are Azim Premji University, OP Jindal Global University, Ahmedabad University, Ashoka University, BML Munjal University, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Shiv Nadar University, and Foundation for Liberal and Management Education (FLAME), Pune. They represent an innovation in higher education in our country and seem to be in sync with the aspirations of modern India and the needs of the 21st century. It needs to be noted, however, that in the absence of detailed and reliable information in the public domain, it may not be easy to differentiate between ‘for profit’ and ‘not-for profit’ institutions. The track record of sponsors in social sector, reasonable fee structure, nature of programmes on offer, scholarships to meritorious students from disadvantaged sections of society, and promotion of scholarship on long-term social issues may be the true markers of philanthropic nature of an institution. Belief in the Gandhian idea of “trusteeship” may hold the key to doing philanthropy in higher education. In this context, it is heartening to note that Azim Premji, sponsor of Azim Premji University, has recently affirmed his faith in the theory of “trusteeship.”   While they have immense promise, they may not find it easy to attain their many laudable goals. But before reflecting on their promises and perils, it seems pertinent to say a few words about the overall context within which they have to function. Whereas lack of clarity and vacillation characterise public policy with respect to private initiatives in education, the government’s position has clearly tilted in favour of the market. In the changed circumstances, even the judiciary seems to have yielded to the view that education can also be an occupation for profit. Sadly, academic governance in our country remains bound up with the ideology of the government of the day, and regulatory bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC) have proved to be more stumbling blocks to institutional autonomy and academic freedom than facilitators. The flip side of the context is that, unlike in the past, there is now wider acceptability of private sector participation in education among academics. These new institutions have potential to create a culture of understanding and care, and of nurturing and collaboration. They can create an enabling environment that encourages experimentation with respect to academic programmes and courses, wherein one learns from one’s mistakes. These new institutions have potential to create a space on their campuses that is open and fair, and free from the structures of patronage and the manoeuvres of entrenched interests that characterise the majority of our provincial public universities. Philanthropy-based universities can make the process of recruitment open, fair, meaningful and dignified. Further, while creating an atmosphere conducive to engagement with all kinds of ideas, a culture of vigorous debate and discussion, and dissent, they are in a position to safeguard their space from being hijacked by ideologies representing political parties or movements, another pernicious trend that crippled teaching and learning and the pursuit of scholarship in some of our leading public universities, thereby closing the Indian mind. While it may be easy to start universities with philanthropic initiatives, they may not find it easy to stay independent of control from the board so steeped in business. The sponsors may betray ignorance about the specificity of a university being a social organisation, different from all other institutions and organisations of society, and try to run it like any other business entity. They may be reluctant to let go of their hold over power and try to influence the internal functioning of the institutions. They may prefer to entrust leadership into the hands of academics who, instead of feeling accountable to the academic community of the institution, feel beholden to the board and act at their behest. Still worse, they may act in a manner that undermines the position of the academic head of the institution. Such an approach will sooner or later put off talented academics and bring disrepute to an institution. Universities started with philanthropic initiatives may tend to prefer programmes and courses that have market value and neglect programmes that are basic in nature, aimed at promoting independent thinking; a healthy combination of the two is needed. While these institutions may be overenthusiastic about quality of teaching and merit, they may show complete indifference to the objectives of “inclusion” and accommodation of “diversity”. Further, the academic leadership in these institutions, instead of focusing on building relations within, may adopt a techno-managerial approach that privileges technicalities over substance and tries to quantify teaching, learning, evaluation, performance, etc. This approach will almost certainly kill the joy of learning and result in instrumentalisation of education. The biggest challenge that philanthropy-based universities in our country face is of creating bonds of trust amongst different stakeholders. The success of these institutions hinges on the nature of relationship between philanthropists and the academia. Are our great industrialists, while doing philanthropy, willing to let go of their hold over institutions and entrust their day-to-day running to the academic community? Or, they are looking for a community of pliant academics who can be lured into executing an agenda set by them? The latter will destroy the academic atmosphere in our institutions. And, are some of our great teachers willing to play the role of mediator between philanthropists and the academia and provide leadership to institutions started with philanthropic initiatives? A great deal will depend on the credibility, integrity and independence of our teachers. What is at stake is the quality and reach of education being provided in these institutions.   (The writer teaches courses in Basic Spanish and Political Science at FLAME University, Pune)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/philanthropy-based-universities-new-temples-of-learning-850411.html
16-06-2020||National||27 terrorists of JeM, LeT, Hizb killed in past 17 days: DGP||Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh on Monday said 27 terrorists have been killed by security forces in the past 17 days, causing frustration among militants who are now targeting innocent people. "Ensuring peace (in Kashmir), we have killed 27 terrorists in the past 16 to 17 days. These terrorists belonged to LeT (Lashkar-e-Taiba), JeM (Jaish-e-Mohammed) and Hizb (Hizb-ul-Mujahideen). They have been frustrated. They are now targeting innocents," Singh told reporters in Doda district. The DGP, who was in a security review meeting in Doda district, said these terrorists are hitting innocent and soft targets. This has not only annoyed the government but also the people of the Kashmir Valley, he said. On being asked about the lack of security to a Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch, who was shot dead by terrorists in Anantnag district last week, he said security is subject to the daily drill. "The concerns of the people, who feel insecure, are being addressed. Individual security is subject to the review of the security review committee of the union territory. They are examining this issue," Singh said, He said that Doda will soon be free from terrorism as only one terrorist is alive in the district. "Only one militant is surviving in Doda district. Soon we will eliminate him too and the district will become militancy free," he said. The DGP also hit out at Pakistan for aiding and abetting terrorists by infiltrating them into Jammu and Kashmir to continue violence. "Large number of militants, including top commanders, have been killed in the past five months. But they (Pakistan) try to increase the pitch of violence by carrying out infiltration into J-K,' he said. Singh said that launchpads were not even closed during winters. "They tried to infiltrate terrorists in winters too. First batch of terrorists was sent to this side in March itself from Keran. They were killed within five days. They carried out infiltration bids in Poonch-Rajouri and the International Border (IB). They too were neutralised," he said. The DGP said the security grid on the Line of Control (LoC) is perfect to foil their designs. "If anyone crosses into the hinterland, they are eliminated there," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/27-terrorists-of-jem-let-hizb-killed-in-past-17-days-dgp-850055.html
16-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 16, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-16-2020-edition-850059.html
16-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 16||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 3,54,071 as of June 16. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 11,917 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged:1,80,013 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-16-850060.html
16-06-2020||National||DH Toon | We've run out of ideas: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal's PR chief||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that there was no plan for another lockdown in Delhi even as the number of novel coronavirus cases continues to spurt. "Many people are speculating whether another lockdown in Delhi is being planned. There are no such plans," Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-weve-run-out-of-ideas-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwals-pr-chief-850061.html
16-06-2020||National||Petrol and diesel prices hiked for 10th straight day; Petrol to cost 47 paise more per litre, diesel 93 paise||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the tenth straight day on Tuesday after an 82-day break from rate revision amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic. Petrol price hiked by 47 paise per litre, diesel by record 93 paise per litre. Petrol will now cost Rs 76.73 per litre (increase by Re 0.47) and diesel will be costlier by 57 paise per litre at Rs 75.19/litre, respectively, in Delhi today. Over the past 10 days, petrol and diesel prices have gone up cumulative by Rs 5.47 and Rs 5.8, respectively. In Bengaluru, petrol will now cost 49 paise more per litre, while diesel will be costlier by 54 paise per litre. With today's hike, petrol will cost Rs 79.22 per litre, while diesel will cost Rs 71.49 per litre in Bengaluru.  Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-and-diesel-prices-hiked-for-10th-straight-day-petrol-to-cost-47-paise-more-per-litre-diesel-93-paise-850079.html
16-06-2020||National||Conservationist Dr MK Ranjitsinh writes to Karnataka govt over protection of great Indian bustard||Veteran conservationist Dr MK Ranjitsinh has written to the Karnataka government over construction activities in Siruguppa taluk in the Bellari district and urged the government to re-examine its stance to help protect the great Indian bustard. The Hachcholli-Raravi area of Siruguppa is one of the last three breeding centres of the great Indian bustards (GIBs). Dr Ranjitsinh, a former bureaucrat and an expert on wildlife and nature conservation, has shot a letter to Karnataka's principal chief forest conservator of Sanjay Mohan, in which he noted that the total world population of this bird, the state bird of Rajasthan which almost became the national bird, would now not exceed a 100 birds. Ranjitsinh, who along with other conservationists have filed a PIL in the Supreme Court, requesting an injunction to stop any power lines, windmills and other infrastructure close to the remaining critical areas of the GIB, pointed out that construction work is ongoing despite the injunction. The Supreme Court has formed a committee comprising of Dr Rahmani, Dr Dhananjay Mohan and others to apprise the Supreme Court in the matter. The Wildlife Institute of India has already delineated the critical GIB areas. "As we petitioners have to now file a rejoinder in SC, we have gone to GIB sites to ascertain the current situation regarding the ongoing construction work. It was found that around the only remaining GIB breeding site in Peninsular India in Bellari, very high watchtowers are under construction and pits are being dug along roadsides for planting trees in the forthcoming monsoon," he said. The GIB avoid wooded areas and prefer open grasslands and scrub where their excellent vision can be best put to use. "They are very shy of human presence and disturbance due to the persecution they have suffered. Looking at the pictures of the ongoing construction of tall pillars, it is very likely that the GIB will move away and perhaps try to go elsewhere to breed and will not survive," he said. "I realise that the watchtowers are being made to prevent poaching of the blackbuck. Similar towers have been put up in the Rane Bennur Blackbuck Sanctuary in Karnataka. However, the primary flagship species of Bellari is not the blackbuck but the GIB for the reasons cited above. If checkposts have to be made to prevent poaching, they can well be single-storey constructions, not high looming machans which will scare away the bird," he said. Ranjitsinh requested that the work be stopped for the moment and an expert committee comprising representatives of the Wildlife Wing of the state and impartial local bird experts who know and study the GIB and their population may be urgently sent to the spot. Stoppage of this work or its continuation could be on the basis of the recommendations of this local expert committee. He said that while in the case of the windmills, powerlines and solar panels, the havoc had been wrought by other organisations and departments of government, in the instant case, it is the Forest Department itself that is undertaking the construction and as a result of it, if the GIBs leave the area, the Forest Dept alone would be responsible for it. "I am not asking for the abandonment of the work at present, just an impartial reexamination of it," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conservationist-dr-mk-ranjitsinh-writes-to-karnataka-govt-over-protection-of-great-indian-bustard-850109.html
16-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: ICMR's sero-survey draws flak for hiding information||Even if one takes the COVID-19 figures shared by ICMR into account, there may be thousands of COVID-19 cases missed by the official reporting system, said doctors from the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum. Earlier this month, the Centre released few findings of the first part of the ICMR's serological survey that was meant to find out whether novel coronavirus-2019 was spreading silently within the community. Carried out on people from 60 districts, the survey looked for the COVID-19 antibodies in blood samples of 400 randomly selected individuals from each district. A second part of the survey in 11 hotspot cities are currently underway. While ICMR didn't publish the complete survey results, few outcomes have been made public by the government last week. Two such findings were 0.73% prevalence of COVID-19 in these districts that also have a fatality rate of 0.08%. "The presented data seeks more to hide the reality than reveal it," said the PMSF statement. The doctors argued that if the prevalence of 0.73% was extrapolated to the entire population (of these districts), it would give a figure of nearly one crore cases as of April 30, while the actual number of cases recorded till then was 33,050.Likewise, the COVID-19 fatalities would have been in the range of nearly 8,000 cases but the actual number of deaths recorded till then was 1,074. The government also shared two graphs to claim that India is having a prevalence of 20.77 cases and 0.59 deaths per lakh population respectively, which is among the lowest in a select group of countries. "The problem however is that there is no mention of the samples tested per lakh population by each country. India till date continues to have one of the lowest COVID-19 testing rates in the world. Such claims are therefore redundant for policy formulation," they said. The doctors argued that the government had released such "fallacious" data to deny the existence of community transmission in India. However, independent doctors, medical researchers, state government officials and several studies -including two by ICMR - had shown that the epidemic moved from local to community transmission in India several weeks ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-icmrs-sero-survey-draws-flak-for-hiding-information-850114.html
16-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Cases in India climb to 3,43,091; death toll 9,900||India registered over 10,000 new COVID-19 cases for the fifth day in a row pushing tally to 3,43,091 on Tuesday, while the death toll rose to 9,900 with 380 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country recorded 10,667 coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 1,53,178, while 1,80,012 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the officially updated figure at 8 am.    India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is in the eighth position in terms of the death toll.   The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.  Of the 380 new deaths, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 178 fatalities followed by Delhi at 73, Tamil Nadu at 44, Gujarat 28, Haryana 12, West Bengal 10, Rajasthan 9 and Madhya Pradesh 6. Andhra Pradesh and Punjab have reported 4 fatalities each, Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka 3 each, Telangana 2 and Bihar, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala 1 each.   Of the total 9,900 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 4,128 fatalities followed by Gujarat with 1,505 deaths, Delhi with 1,400, West Bengal with 485, Tamil Nadu with 479, Madhya Pradesh with 465, Uttar Pradesh with 399, Rajasthan with 301 and Telangana with 187 deaths. The death toll reached 100 in Haryana, 89 in Karnataka, 88 in Andhra Pradesh, and 71 in Punjab.  Jammu and Kashmir has reported 62 COVID-19 fatalities, Bihar 40, Uttarakhand 24, Kerala 20 and Odisha 11. Jharkhand, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh have registered 8 deaths each while Chandigarh has reported 6, Puducherry 5, while Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported 1 fatality each, according to the health ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths have happened due to comorbidities, the ministry said.  Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of cases at 1,10,744 followed by Tamil Nadu at 46,504, Delhi at 42,829, Gujarat at 24,055, Uttar Pradesh at 13,615, Rajasthan at 12,981 and West Bengal at 11,494, according to the health ministry's data updated in the morning. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 10,935 in Madhya Pradesh, 7,722 in Haryana, 7,213 in Karnataka and 6,650 in Bihar.  It has risen to 6,456 in Andhra Pradesh, 5,220 in Jammu and Kashmir, 5,193 in Telangana, 4,158 in Assam and 4,055 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 3,267 novel coronavirus cases so far, while Kerala has 2,543 cases.  A total of 1,845 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 1,763 in Jharkhand, 1,756 in Chhattisgarh, 1,086 in Tripura, 592 in Goa, 556 in Himachal Pradesh, 555 in Ladakh and 490 in Manipur. Chandigarh has registered 354 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry has 202 cases, Nagaland has 177, Mizoram has 117, Arunachal Pradesh has 91, Sikkim has 68, Meghalaya 44, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 41 infections so far. Dadar and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 36 COVID-19 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR's," the ministry said, adding 7,684 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-india-climb-to-343091-death-toll-9900-850120.html
16-06-2020||National||Bengal school students build 'ayurvedic sanitisation tunnel'||Students of a private school in East Burdwan district of West Bengal have built an 'ayurvedic sanitisation tunnel' to disinfect people entering the educational institute. Twelve people can be disinfected inside the tunnel at a time, a spokesperson of the Memari Crystal Model School said on Tuesday. The 'ayurvedic sanitiser' contains camphor oil, menthol, and thyme oil, he said, adding that the tunnel was built at the Technology Club workshop in the school by students under the supervision of teachers. "The herbal disinfectants will automatically be sprayed on the people entering the tunnel," the spokesperson said. Generally, sodium hypochlorite is used as a disinfectant but it can cause adverse effects on humans. Such is not the case with an herbal sanitiser, he said. An ayurvedic sanitisation tunnel was earlier installed at the Birla Industrial and Technological Museum in Kolkata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-school-students-build-ayurvedic-sanitisation-tunnel-850122.html
16-06-2020||National||SC notice to Centre, IRDA on plea to extend medical insurance for mental illness||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Centre and the IRDA on a PIL for a direction to all insurance companies to extend medical insurance for treatment of mental illnessnes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-irda-on-plea-to-extend-medical-insurance-for-mental-illness-850125.html
16-06-2020||National||Cashew nut growers in Tripura facing hard times in the absence of buyers||Around 5,000 cashew nut growers in Tripura are facing hard times as there are no buyers for their farm produce due to lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic. Even though the harvest season is on, the growers said they are not harvesting the cashew nuts as there are no buyers. "The cashew nuts in the fields are rotting and we are not harvesting them because no buyer has approached us for buying so far", said Bhajan Das, a cashew nut grower from Rajnagar village in South Tripura district, 90 km from here. Tripura has nearly 5,000 listed cashew nut growers, of which 3,000 are from Rajnagar block alone. With lockdown on, most of the growers now want the state government to purchase the nuts from them at a minimum support price (MSP) as there are no buyers. Pranab Das, another cashew nut grower of the village, said the price for cashew nuts have dropped this year due to lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic. "This year no dealer from Kolkata has come to buy our produces. We sold cashew at Rs 120 per kg wholesale rate. Our product quality is good. But with COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, none has approached us so far. Taking this opportunity some local businessmen are trying to purchase our products at a cheaper price, which is not acceptable to us," Pranab said. Rajnagar, Satchand and Rupaichari Rural Development Blocks and few adjoining localities are known for cashew nut cultivation. Among them, Rajnagar alone has 1,800 hectares of land under cashew nut cultivation. As most of the areas are upland and small hillocks, it does not favour paddy cultivation or other major cash crops. For the majority of villagers here, cashew nut cultivation is the main source of livelihood though a large section of them have shifted to rubber cultivation in the last few years due to dwindling prices and high investment in cashew nut cultivation. Rajnagar Block Development Officer Swarup Kumar Paul said most of the cashew nut growers manage their crops on their own without government benefits. "We have put forward a proposal to the department of Industries for setting up of cashew nut processing units here. It is not entirely true that raw cashew nuts arent sold. They sell, but fetch a low price to the growers", the BDO said. When contacted, local MLA and CPI(M) leader Sudhan Das said cashew nut production was encouraged during the erstwhile Left Front government. However, he claimed the cashew nut has been fetching lower rates each year since the last two crop seasons, which might have pushed many farmers to shift from cashew nut to rubber cultivation. They (growers) sold cashew nuts to traders at Rs 125 per kg in 2017. In 2018, the rate came down to Rs 60. Many of them are forced to sell their produce at Rs 35 per kg this year. The Left Front government used to fix a minimum rate to ensure the farmers didnt face loss. But since the incumbent government didnt take any step in this regard in the last two years, farmers face huge loss", Das told PTI. The CPI(M) MLA said he had written to Tripura Agriculture Minister Pranajit Singha Roy seeking his intervention to ensure a minimum price for cashew nut growers. While Singha Roy wasnt available for his comments on the subject, West Tripura Lok Sabha MP and BJP leader Pratima Bhowmik said she supports the idea of setting up a cashew nut processing factory. "The BJP-led government was formed here only two years back. I am aware of the problems related to the issue and I feel there is a need to set up a processing unit in the area. Lets see what can be done", she said. However, according to horticulture experts, cashew nuts have a much higher shelf life compared to vegetables and fruits like pineapples. "There is some problem regarding sale of cashew nuts. Its natural because lockdown has affected all trades, not only cashew nuts. The problem is global. Cashew nuts have a higher shelf life than most other easily perishable products like fruits and vegetables. "The growers can simply dry the nuts in the sun and store them at their homes for now. After condition improves, they can hopefully sell them and get higher price", said former Director of Horticulture and Chairman of Tripura Wakf Board, Baharul Islam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cashew-nut-growers-in-tripura-facing-hard-times-in-the-absence-of-buyers-850134.html
16-06-2020||National||Class 10, 12 students can skip pending board exams, to be marked as per pre-boards results: CICSE||The class 10 and 12 students of the CICSE board can choose not to appear for pending board exams and be marked as per their performance in pre-board exams or internal assessment, according to top officials. The board had also submitted the proposal before the Bombay High Court on Monday in response to a petition filed by a parent seeking directions to the authorities to cancel exams in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases. According to Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive and Secretary, Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), the students will have to communicate their option to their respective schools by June 22. The exams which were postponed due to the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, are now scheduled to be conducted from July 1 to 14. However, several parents have been demanding the exams be scrapped. "The students will be given two options---they either appear for the rescheduled exams or choose to have their results based on their performance in the pre-board exams or internal assessment. The option will be available only for the pending exams, the result of the subjects for which exams were already conducted, will be calculated as per performance in the exam only," Arathoon said. The board also clarified that the students will not be entitled to make a subject-wise choice between the two options for pending exams. Unlike the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which will only be conducting exams in 29 subjects crucial for promotion and admission to higher educational institutions, the CISCE will be conducting all pending exams. The pending CBSE exams are scheduled from July 1 to 15. The schedule for the board exams has been decided in order to ensure that they are completed before competitive examinations. While the engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains is scheduled to be held from July 18 to 23, the medical entrance exam NEET is scheduled for July 26. While the CBSE has given the option to not appear for pending board exams for differently-abled students, it has canceled the examinations for its around 250 schools situated abroad and has adopted the criteria of awarding marks on the basis of either practical exams conducted or the internal assessment marks. A group of parents has filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the CBSE to declare results on the basis of tests already conducted, and calculate the total on an average basis with internal assessment marks of the remaining subjects. Universities and schools across the country have been shut since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shut down as part of measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed. According to Home Ministry guidelines, there will be no exam centres in containment zones. "Wearing of face masks by teachers, staff and students will be mandatory. There shall be provisions of thermal screening and sanitiser at the centres and social distancing rules will have to be followed at exam centres. Special buses may be arranged by states and UTs for transportation of students to exam centres," the Home Ministry has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/class-10-12-students-can-skip-pending-board-exams-to-be-marked-as-per-pre-boards-results-cicse-850137.html
16-06-2020||National||'India, US need concerted efforts to advance business post-COVID-19'||Speaking on the occasion of the release of the report “Indian Roots, American Soil” by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) here on Monday, India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu noted that the coronavirus pandemic has given both countries new opportunities to step up bilateral cooperation. "In the post-COVID-19 world, we will need concerted and focused efforts to advance this remarkable business and people-to-people linkages between our two countries,” he said. “The current pandemic has presented us with new opportunities for cooperation and has made us recognise the need for collaborations more than ever before,” he said. Based on the survey of 155 Indian companies, the CII report highlights Indian investments across sectors and states in the US. With a presence in diverse sectors, like IT, pharma, manufacturing, automotive, energy, defence etc, these companies have invested close to $22 billion in the US and employ around 125,000 people, he said. “It is indeed praiseworthy that besides bringing in FDI, our companies through their CSR initiatives have been giving back to the local communities in which they have been welcomed,” he said, adding that they are supporting students, particularly in STEM fields, by collaborating with the US educational institutions and are focusing upon upskilling and reskilling of workers to ensure career progression.  Funding research and innovation activities in the US is another significant contribution that they have been making to strengthen and stimulate the US knowledge economy, he said. Sandhu said it is important to recognise the salient role that respective private sectors have been playing in combating the current pandemic. Indian tech companies in the US and their offices across the world have been providing behind the scene support to healthcare workers and life sciences companies. In the background, dedicated teams of technology professionals are coding, developing solutions, building the customer interface and ensuring their scalability, he said. Similarly, American companies in India have been supporting Governmental efforts to provide relief to farmers and small businesses. Indian pharma companies, which are world leaders in affordable low-cost medicines and vaccines, are also collaborating with them in vaccine development, therapeutics and diagnostics, he said. Noting that the US has traditionally been an important investment destination for Indian companies, he said the favourable business environment offered by various states in the US as well as policies attracting Indian skilled professionals have ensured the steady flow of Indian FDI into the US. At the same time, nearly every big American company has a presence in India. In fact, the two-way investment between India and the US has reached $60 billion in 2018. The US also continues to be an important education destination for Indian students. Currently, there are almost 200,000 Indian students studying in the US, of which many of them study STEM degrees and ensure that the US remains competitive in the global tech economy. In terms of tuition alone, it is estimated that students contribute more than $5 billion to the US economy. Besides adding to the innovation and competitive edge of the US tech companies, Indian high skilled professionals are also contributing in critical sectors such as health and Information Technology that provide valuable support to companies in the medical and financial services. “We believe that the young people and skilled professionals of our two countries are the driving force behind further strengthening of our ties,” he added. “India also takes immense pride in the contribution of doctors, scientists, academicians of Indian-origin, who came to the United States in the pursuit of academic excellence and have distinguished themselves in diverse fields. In fact, CEOs of some of the leading technology companies in the US were born and raised in India,” he said. Observing that trade and investment remain an important dimension of our strategic partnership, he said bilateral trade stood at $150 billion in 2019. “While this is impressive, the real potential for our bilateral trade is yet to be reached,” he said. India’s huge domestic market, high skilled workforce, existing advantages in digital services along with its competitive tax regime and low labour costs make it an attractive investment destination.  India is also the seventh-largest R&D spender in the world, with $48.1 billion R&D spendings constituting 2.7 percent of the global share. India’s food processing, renewable energy, ESDM, Pharma, oil & natural gas and retail sectors present an immense investment opportunity. “Critical reforms have been introduced recently by the Government of India to promote business and attract investment. The reforms include supply chain reforms for agriculture, rational tax system, simple and clear laws, capable human resource and a strong financial system. These are long pending reform measures in critical sectors. The idea is to transform the crisis into an opportunity,” Sandhu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-need-concerted-efforts-to-advance-business-post-covid-19-850144.html
16-06-2020||National||Duty of special court to award interim compensation in POCSO cases, says HC||The Delhi High Court has said it is the duty of the special court to award interim compensation to minor victims of sexual assault and the responsibility cannot be delegated to the legal services authority. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said there was no special scheme for grant of compensation to victims under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and National Legal Services Authority's (NALSA) scheme for victims of sexual offences was not applicable to POCSO cases. In such a situation, the NALSA scheme "is required to be considered as a guideline by the special court while awarding compensation to victims under the POCSO Act", the high court has said. The observations came on the plea seeking additional interim compensation moved by the mother of two minor girls who had alleged that their father used to physically abuse them and sexually assault them. Based on their complaint an FIR of molestation under IPC and aggravated sexual assault under section 10 of the POCSO Act was lodged. It provides for a maximum punishment of seven years in jail; for molestation, it is two years. The special court had in September 2018 granted an interim compensation of Rs 50,000 to each minor girl under the Delhi Victim Compensation Scheme. However, the mother later moved a plea seeking additional interim compensation which the special court on June 1, 2019, referred to the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) for consideration. The DSLSA after hearing the victims' side, passed an order on July 22, 2019, holding that the special court has the power to grant interim compensation. The minor girls' mother moved the high court challenging both orders. The high court, in its judgment of June 15, 2020, upheld the DSLSA order, but set aside the special court's decision and sent the matter back to it to be considered afresh in accordance with POCSO Rules 2020 and the high court's observations. Justice Bakhru said the special court has the jurisdiction to award compensation under the POCSO Act and it was not open to the special judge to delegate the power to DSLSA. The high court also noted in its judgment that there was no express bar which said special courts can grant interim compensation only once. It said an application for further interim compensation can be considered by the special court if there are sufficient grounds for the same. The high court also said that an application for further interim compensation cannot be based on the ground that earlier compensation order was erroneous or inadequate. "Such an application would be maintainable only if circumstances have subsequently arisen that were not in contemplation at the time when the special court had (first) evaluated the requirement of interim compensation," the high court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/duty-of-special-court-to-award-interim-compensation-in-pocso-cases-says-hc-850150.html
16-06-2020||National||108 fresh COVID-19 cases in Odisha; count rises to 4,163||As many as 108 people, including 16 disaster response personnel, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha, taking the state's tally to 4,163, a health department official said on Tuesday. Of the 108 new patients, 95 were housed in quarantine centres upon their return from different states while 13 others were found to be infected with the novel coronavirus during contact tracing. The fresh cases were reported in 15 districts of the state, he said. The new cases include 16 personnel of the Odisha Police Fire Service. They were placed under institutional quarantine upon their return from West Bengal, where they were sent for restoration work following cyclone Amphan, the official said. With this development, the number of disaster response personnel infected with the disease has increased to 174. Personnel of the NDRF, the ODRAF and the Fire Service had earlier tested positive for COVID-19 in different phases, he said. The highest number of fresh cases, excluding the disaster response personnel, was reported in Malkangiri district, at 21, followed by 15 in Puri, nine each in Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur, eight in Ganjam, seven each in Khurda and Gajapati, five in Keonjhar, four in Balasore, two in Sundergarh and one each in Angul, Cuttack, Bargarh, Bolangir and Kalahandi. Of the 4,163 cases, 1,295 are active, while 2,854 people have recovered. Eleven persons have died of the disease so far while three patients have died due to other ailments, the official said. The state health department has so far tested 2,05,501 samples for COVID-19, including 2,988 on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/108-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-odisha-count-rises-to-4163-850156.html
16-06-2020||National||Stop profiteering from misery of the poor: Rahul Gandhi to PM Narendra Modi on fuel price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday to stop "profiteering" from the misery of the poor as he attacked the BJP-led government for raising fuel prices. He also asked the prime minister to put money in the hands of the poor and middle class during the current crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic. "PM Modi, these tragic times dictate putting money directly in the hands of the middle class and poor. STOP profiteering from their misery," the Congress leader wrote on Twitter, using the hashtag -- "ModiStopLootingIndia". He also shared a letter from Congress president Sonia Gandhi to the prime minister, seeking a rollback of the increase in fuel prices. The former Congress chief has been targeting the government over the rise in petrol and diesel prices, and has said the middle class and poor people pay for the "gifts crony capitalists get". "Middle class and the poor pay for the gifts the crony capitalists get," Gandhi wrote on Twitter on Monday. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also wrote on the microblogging website that Sonia Gandhi has written to the prime minister demanding a rollback of the surging petrol-diesel prices that have broken the back of the common man in these challenging times. The statements came on a day oil companies raised petrol and diesel prices for the 10th day in a row, with the petrol price hiked to Rs 76.73 per litre from Rs 76.26 in Delhi and the diesel rates to Rs 75.19 a litre from Rs 74.26. Due to the 10 hikes, the petrol price has gone up by Rs 5.47 per litre and that of diesel by Rs 5.8 a litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-profiteering-from-misery-of-the-poor-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-narendra-modi-on-fuel-price-hike-850157.html
16-06-2020||National||India plans to nearly double oil refining capacity by 2030: Pradhan||India plans to almost double its oil refining capacity to 450-500 million tonnes in the next 10 years to meet the rising domestic fuel demand as well as cater to the export market, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Tuesday. Speaking at a webinar on 'Atmanirbhar Bharat: Fostering Domestic Steel Usage in Oil & Gas Sector', he said construction of a new 60 million tonnes a year west coast refinery, which is crucial to the capacity doubling plan, will start soon. "Our refining capacity will increase from about 250 million tonnes per annum now to 450-500 million tonnes in next 10 years," he said. The capacity addition will be both brownfield (expansion of existing units) and greenfield (new refineries), he said. The refining capacity of 249.9 million tonnes exceeded the fuel demand of 213.7 million tonnes in 2019-20, but the demand is likely to rise to 335 million tonnes by 2030 and 472 million tonnes by 2040. International Energy Agency (IEA) forecast that India's fuel demand will reach 458 million tonnes by 2040. As the world's third-biggest oil consumer, India imports 85 per cent of its energy requirements and is planning ahead to cater to the rise in demand. Pradhan said while a new grassroot refinery of 9 million tonnes capacity is under construction at Barmer in Rajasthan, existing units at Koyali in Gujarat, Panipat in Haryana, Paradip in Odisha, Vizag in Andhra Pradesh, Mumbai, Bina in Madhya Pradesh, Numaligarh in Assam and Chennai are being expanded. "Construction on the west coast refinery will start soon," he said, adding the refinery construction as well as laying of oil and gas pipelines and expansion of city gas distribution network will fuel demand for steel. Speaking at the webinar, Indian Oil Corp (IOC) Chairman Sanjiv Singh quoted a recent report of the Working Group on Enhancing Refining Capacity to say India's refining capacity will expand to 363 million tonnes by 2030, to 443 million tonnes by 2035 and 533 million tonnes by 2040. Also, India's India's LNG import capacity will rise by 40 million tonnes by 2030, adding to present capacity of 42.5 million tonnes. While fuel demand has fallen in recent times due to slowdown in the economy and the lockdown imposed to curb spread of coronavirus, "in two years time, we should be back to projected demand trajectory," he said. Detailing expansion planned in oil and gas sector, Singh said 78,000 petrol pumps are planned to be added to 69,109 present ones. Also, 2,207 CNG stations are to be expanded to 10,000. Oil pipeline network of 28,790 km is to be augmented by another 15,000-km and 14,239 km will be added to 16,981 km of natural gas lines. India has leapfrogged from a modest 62 million tonnes per annum refining capacity in 1998 to 232 million tonnes at end of March 31, 2016 and further to 249.9 million tonnes by March 2020. The growth in refining capacity, which has made India a leading exporter of petroleum products since 2001-02, has been possible because of the de-licensing of petroleum refining by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-plans-to-nearly-double-oil-refining-capacity-by-2030-pradhan-850159.html
16-06-2020||National||Cong says ‘shocking’ death of Indian Army officer, 2 soldiers||The Congress on Tuesday termed as “shocking” and “unacceptable” the death of an Indian Army officer and two soldiers in a violent face-off with the Chinese troops and asked Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to confirm the development. "Shocking, Unbelievable, and Unacceptable! Will the Raksha Mantri confirm," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter. An Indian Army officer and two soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night during a violent face off with the Chinese troops, the Army said. They said senior military officials of the two sides are holding a meeting in Galwan Valley to defuse tension. A large number of Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation in Galwan Valley for the last five weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-says-shocking-death-of-indian-army-officer-2-soldiers-850160.html
16-06-2020||National||Shivraj Singh Chouhan to visit ailing MP governor Lalji Tandon in Lucknow||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will be leaving for Lucknow on Tuesday to visit ailing state governor Lalji Tandon who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital there, an official said. Tandon (85) was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Lucknow on June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever. "The chief minister is leaving shortly for Lucknow to meet the governor and find out about his well-being," the official told PTI. According to a report from Lucknow, Tandon's condition is "Serious yet under control". "He (Lalji Tandon) is on ventilator since yesterday (Monday)," Medanta Hospital director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told PTI in Lucknow. As per a hospital bulletin issued on Monday, Tandon "developed internal abdominal bleeding for which an emergency operation was performed. The operation was successful and he was shifted to ICU under strict supervision of medical experts". "On 15 June, consequent to problems in his lungs, kidney and liver, he has been put on elective ventilator support and is also undergoing dialysis," the bulletin stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shivraj-singh-chouhan-to-visit-ailing-mp-governor-lalji-tandon-in-lucknow-850162.html
16-06-2020||National||Indore records 21 fresh COVID-19 cases; tally reaches 4,090||At least 21 new cases of coronavirus were detected in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district in the last 24 hours, taking the COVID-19 count in the region to 4,090, a health official said on Tuesday. Besides this, four persons, including an 82-year-old man, have died of the deadly infection in the city, the official said, without providing specific dates for these deaths. The district's COVID-19 death toll now stands at 178, he said. As many as 2,892 persons have been discharged so far from hospitals in the district following their recovery, he added. The analysis of official figures showed that the recovery rate till Tuesday morning was nearly 73 per cent, while the death rate was at 4.35 per cent. As per the official figures, although the district has seen a decline in the number of new infections in the last fortnight, the death rate in the region continues to be more than the national average.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indore-records-21-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-4090-850171.html
16-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi discusses coronavirus situation with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the economy is showing "green shoots" as the country emerges from the coronavirus lockdown and asserted that the fight against the pandemic is a fine example of cooperative federalism where the Centre and the states are working together. In his opening remarks at a meeting with chief ministers and Lt Governors of 21 states and union territories, he said one laxity can undo what has been achieved in the fight against COVID-19 and urged people not to lower their guard against the killer virus. He said as "Unlock 1" completes two weeks, it is important to review the experiences. Modi said "timing" is very important to deal with any crisis and "decisions taken at the right time have helped a lot in controlling the coronavirus infection in the country". When coronavirus was not even a topic of discussion in many countries, India started preparations to deal with it and started taking decisions. "We have worked day and night to save the lives of every Indian," the prime minister asserted. Thousands of Indians have returned to the country from abroad in the past few weeks. In the past weeks, millions of migrant workers have returned to their villages. "Rail-road, air-sea, all routes have been opened. But despite this, despite our country being so populous, coronavirus infection in India has not shown the same devastating effect that it has shown in other countries," he told the chief ministers. Experts the world over are discussing the lockdown and discipline shown by the people of India, he said. "Today, the recovery rate in India is above 50 per cent ... Death of anyone from coronavirus is tragic. For us, the death of even one Indian is discomforting. But it is also true that today India is among the countries in the world with the lowest deaths are due to coronavirus," he said. The experience of many states increases the confidence that India can move forward in this crisis of by limiting its losses and can handle its economy faster, he said. "In the last few weeks, green shoots have started appearing in our economy. The power consumption which was decreasing earlier, has started increasing now. In May, fertiliser sales have doubled compared to May last year," Modi said. This time, kharif sowing has been higher by about 12-13 per cent than the previous year. The demand and production of two-wheelers has reached nearly 70 per cent of the level before lockdown. Digital payment in retail has also reached the position before lockdown, he said. Referring to the fight against the virus, Modi said, "This period will also be remembered for how we worked together, presenting the best example of cooperative federalism." In a word of caution, he said the slightest carelessness, laxity, lack of discipline will weaken all of the fight against coronavirus. "We always have to keep in mind that the more we can stop coronavirus, the more it will stop growing, the more our economy will open, our offices will open, markets will open, transport will open, and so will new employment opportunities," he said. Modi said it is unimaginable to move out without a mask, and people to follow social distancing norms and wash hands regularly for at least 20 seconds. Chief ministers of Punjab (Amarinder Singh), Tripura (Biplab Kumar Deb), Goa (Pramod Sawant) were among those who attended the virtual meet. Home Minister Amit Shah also participated in the conference. On Wednesday, the prime minister will interact with chief ministers of 15 states, including Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and the LG of Jammu and Kashmir. These are the states where coronavirus cases are on a much higher side||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-discusses-coronavirus-situation-with-cms-850178.html
16-06-2020||National||Fact Check: Fake tweet portrays Rahul Gandhi addressing late actor Sushant Singh Rajput as 'cricketer'||In this backdrop, a screenshot that appears to Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s tweet paying last respects to Rajput has gone viral on social media where Gandhi has apparently addressed the actor as a ‘cricketer’. As per the viral screenshot, Gandhi tweeted, “I am sorry to hear about the passing of #SushantSinghRajput. A young & talented Cricketer, gone too soon. My condolences to his family, friends & fans across the world.”   In order to authenticate the viral image, Alt News visited Gandhi’s Twitter profile and found the tweet where he had extended condolences to Rajput and his family. He wrote, “I am sorry to hear about the passing of #SushantSinghRajput. A young & talented actor, gone too soon. My condolences to his family, friends & fans across the world.” Alt News compared the screenshot with the tweet posted by Gandhi. Both the tweets are identical word for word, with the exception that the viral screenshot addressed Rajput as a cricketer, with a capital C, while Gandhi’s tweet addressed him an actor. Furthermore, the time stamp of both tweets is also the same.  (This article was first published on AltNews website and was reproduced here through special arrangement.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-fake-tweet-portrays-rahul-gandhi-addressing-late-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-as-cricketer-850186.html
16-06-2020||National||India ranked 43rd on IMD's World Competitiveness Index; Singapore on top||India continues to remain ranked 43rd on an annual World Competitiveness Index compiled by Institute for Management Development (IMD) with some traditional weaknesses like poor infrastructure and insufficient education investment keeping its ranking low, the international business school said on Tuesday. Singapore has retained its top position on the 63-nation list. Denmark has moved up to the second position (from 8th last year), Switzerland has gained one place to rank 3rd, the Netherlands has retained its 4th place and Hong Kong has slipped to the fifth place (from 2nd in 2019). The US has moved down to 10th place (from 3rd last year), while China has also slipped from 14th to 20th place. Among the BRICS nations, India is ranked second after China, followed by Russia (50th), Brazil (56th) and South Africa (59th). India was ranked 41st on the IMD World Competitiveness Ranking, being produced by the business school based in Switzerland and Singapore every year since 1989, but had slipped to 45th in 2017 before improving to 44th in 2018 and then to 43rd in 2019. While its overall position has remained unchanged in the 2020 list, it has recorded improvements in areas like long-term employment growth, current account balance, high-tech exports, foreign currency reserves, public expenditure on education, political stability and overall productivity, the IMD said. However, it has moved down in areas like exchange rate stability, real GDP growth, competition legislation and taxes. Arturo Bris, Head of Competitiveness Center at IMD Business School, said India continues to struggle on the list and the recent country rating downgrade by Moody’s reflects the uncertainties regarding the economy’s future. "In our ranking this year, we again emphasize the traditional weaknesses of India -- poor infrastructure, an important deficit in education investment, and a health system that does not reach everybody. For India to follow the path of China, it must stress its intangible infrastructure," Bris said. "In a less global world, with China, USA, and Europe looking inwards, currencies like the rupee (and the Brazilian real for instance) are going to suffer and display high volatilities. "Moody’s has threatened the country with a downgrade to junk and that would put India in a terrible position to attract foreign capital. So the urgency for the government should be to fix the short-term problems—and this requires to improve the credibility of the government itself," Bris added. With the exception of Singapore, the Philippines, Taiwan and the Korean Republic, most Asian economies dropped in rankings this year, the IMD said. The reason for the Asian economies’ less stellar performance as a region, this year is partly the result of the trade frictions between China and the US, particularly because these economies are highly dependent on trade with China. About Singapore, which moved to the top rank last year, the IMD said its position is largely driven by the relative ease of setting up business, availability of skilled labour and its cutting-edge technological infrastructure. The IMD said the impact of COVID-19 on the competitiveness ranking has partially been captured by executives’ opinions about the effectiveness of the different health systems. In the ASEAN countries included in the survey, only Singapore and Thailand have a positive performance in the effectiveness of the health infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranked-43rd-on-imds-world-competitiveness-index-singapore-on-top-850193.html
16-06-2020||National||1971 war hero, MVC awardee Lt Gen Raj Mohan Vohra dies of COVID-19||Maha Vir Chakra awardee Lt Gen (retd) Raj Mohan Vohra has died due to COVID-19, senior officials said on Tuesday. The decorated officer breathed his last on June 14, they said, adding that he was 88. "He was admitted initially to a private hospital for stent procedure. He died on June 14 due to COVID-19 infection," a senior official said. His cremation was held on Sunday, the officials said. Then a lieutenant colonel, Vohra commanded the elite Hodson's Horse in the Shakargarh Sector during the Indo-Pak War of 1971 and was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra for his conspicuous bravery and leadership. During the Battle of Basantar, the regiment came under heavy fire from the enemy and faced huge resistance, but 27 enemy tanks were destroyed under his able command, the officials said. The Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) is the country's second-highest gallantry award. It is awarded for acts of conspicuous gallantry in the presence of enemy whether on land, at sea or in the air. Vohra had received the coveted award in 1972. In his long and illustrious career, he tenanted many prestigious appointments, including GOC-in-C Eastern Command and GOC 31 Armoured Division, the official said. Born in 1932 in Shimla, the veteran officer was from the pioneer course of the National Defence Academy, and was commissioned into the 14 Horse in December 1952, they said. An alumnus of the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, the officer fought in the Punjab sector during the Indo-Pak War of 1965, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1971-war-hero-mvc-awardee-lt-gen-raj-mohan-vohra-dies-of-covid-19-850200.html
16-06-2020||National||Each sign of weakness on our part makes Chinese reaction more 'belligerent': Amarinder Singh||It is time now for the Centre to take some stringent measures as each sign of weakness makes the Chinese reaction more "belligerent", Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday. His remarks came after an Army officer and two soldiers were killed in a violent confrontation with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on Monday. "The happening in the Galwan Valley is a continuation of violations by China. It is time now that the country stands up to these incursions. Our soldiers are not fair game that every few days officers and men are being killed and injured defending our borders," Singh tweeted . "It is time now for the government of India to take some stringent measures. Each sign of weakness on our part makes the Chinese reaction more belligerent. I join the nation in paying tribute to our brave martyrs. The nation stands with you in your hour of grief," he said. The Army said India lost an officer and two soldiers during the violent face-off, while there were casualties on the Chinese side as well. The extent of casualties on the Chinese side is not immediately clear. According to a senior military officer, it is the first incident involving the casualty of an Indian soldier in a violent clash with the Chinese Army after 1975 when four Indian soldiers were killed in an ambush at Tulung La in Arunachal Pradesh along the de-facto border between the two countries. Official sources said there was no firing between the two sides. On June 5, too, the chief minister had urged the Centre to take a tough stand on the continuing border stand-off with China if the neighbouring country was not responding to diplomatic efforts to resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/each-sign-of-weakness-on-our-part-makes-chinese-reaction-more-belligerent-amarinder-singh-850201.html
16-06-2020||National||No work, no wages: Domestic helps left to fend for themselves amidst coronavirus lockdown||Though a lot of restrictions have been lifted and many business have restarted operations, there is no clarity on the resumption of work by domestic helps, prolonging their misery. The Sarvashramik Sanghatna, a union of domestic workers in Maharashtra, has said that if they are not allowed to resume work, the government should give them a monthly allowance and food supplies. Most of the domestic helps got their March salaries since they had worked for 25 days. But since April, some have got half of their wages while many have not got anything, the Sarvashramik Sanghatna's president Uday Bhat told PTI.  "The maids are ready to abide by all safety norms regarding COVID-19. It is not true that if they provide a medical certificate of being free of coronavirus, the maids or their employers can't get infected at a later stage. The onus is not on the maids alone," he said. Bhat said his organisation, which has nearly 19,000 members in the state, mostly in Mumbai and Pune, earlier wrote to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to give directions to housing societies to allow domestic workers inside. The Pune civic body has issued such a circular, he said. "If that doesn't happen, the government should give them a monthly allowance directly in their bank accounts and also food supplies. The domestic helps, majority of whom are women, are the most vulnerable as many of them are the sole breadwinners of their families," he said. "We are demanding that the maids be given the status of labourer so that they can avail the benefits of social security schemes, fixed wages, and also violations of rules should attract penal action," he said. In 2010, the Maharashtra State Domestic Workers Welfare Board Act came into force. But, very few domestic workers can avail benefits of insurance cover, allowances for pregnancy leave and fund for the family in case of death, he rued. Hira, a domestic worker from Mumbai's Santacruz area, said she has been at home since the last three months. She said her son is a gym instructor, but since gymnasiums are closed he is also at home, while her daughter-in-law, who is a trained nurse, is on maternity leave. "My employers are paying me half the salary while my son is managing through his savings. How long will this last? I am worried. I keep calling my employers every month to remind them that I am ready to work. But, they say they are sorry, as no decision has been taken yet," Lad said. Sameera Kelkar, a private firm employee residing in suburban Andheri, agreed that maids are going through a lot of hardships at this time. Kelkar said she has been paying her maids half of their salary for the last two months. "We are not allowing any outsider in our society, including maids, and we are also not going out. Everyone is working from home and also doing household work. It is sad that the poor are finding it difficult to make their ends meet in such unprecedented times," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-work-no-wages-domestic-helps-left-to-fend-for-themselves-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-850204.html
16-06-2020||National||Faridabad man held for making hoax call about bomb at India Gate||The Delhi Police on Tuesday nabbed a 40-year-old man from Haryana's Faridabad for allegedly making a hoax call about an impending bomb blast at India Gate, officials said. The man was identified as Rakesh Mehta (40), a labourer who lives with his mother and two brothers in Faridabad's Deepali Enclave, they said. A call was received around 1.40 PM on Monday. The caller said that within the next five minutes, there would a bomb blast at India Gate, the police said. Within minutes, a police team along with emergency officer and PCR staff reached the spot. Since it was a critical call, bomb disposal team, water bowser and fire tenders were also alerted to reach the spot immediately, Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal. Meanwhile, the police also made several attempts to establish contact with the caller, but he could not be reached, he said. Initially, it was found that the caller lived in Govindpuri in Kalkaji area of Delhi. But when a police team reached the Govindpuri address, it found that the person had shifted to another place five-six months ago, Singhal said. The police team then managed to trace his current location to Vinay Nagar, Faridabad but he was not found there as well, he said. Later, a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell apprehended Mehta from his residence at Deepali Enclave. He was brought to Tilak Marg police station in Faridabad for a joint interrogation in the early hours of Tuesday, he added. During interrogation, it was found that Mehta was under the influence of alcohol when he made the call, the police said. It was also learnt that he was "frustrated" about "not being married" even at the age of 40, they said. Police, however, do not suspect any foul play. Preventive action under relevant sections of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) is being taken against Mehta. He was taken to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital for a medical check-up, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faridabad-man-held-for-making-hoax-call-about-bomb-at-india-gate-850207.html
16-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh reach agreement with private sector for affordable treatment||As part of efforts to provide reasonable health care to COVID-19 patients, some states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh have reached an agreement with the private sector, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Amid reports of a likely shortage of healthcare infrastructure, the ministry had on Monday asked states and UTs to proactively engage with private healthcare providers to facilitate enhanced bed availability and critical care health facilities and to ensure fair and transparent charges for services provided. "Some states like Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have already taken the initiative.  "They have negotiated and reached an agreement with the private sector on reasonable rates and arrangements to provide critical care for in-patient COVID-19 admissions,"  the ministry said. States have also been asked to proactively engage with the private sector health providers and consider pooling in public and private healthcare facilities, as this will help in providing prompt, good quality and reasonable health care to COVID-19 patients. As the virus tally reached 3,43,091 on Tuesday and the death toll rose to 9,900, the ministry also said the testing capacity for detecting COVID-19 is being continuously ramped up and it now has a capacity to test three lakh samples per day. A network of 907 labs -- including 659 labs in the government sector and 248 in the private sector ---have been created in the country as on date, the ministry said, reiterating that RT-PCR is the gold standard frontline test for diagnosis of COVID-19.  These tests require specialised laboratory facilities and take at least 2-5 hours including the time and effort to transport the sample to these high-end labs. The TRUENAT and CB NAAT being portable can be and are being used in remote areas. A  total of 59,21,069 samples have been tested for COVID-19 so far with 1,54,935 samples being tested in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. Besides, in order to enhance the testing capacity in Delhi, each of the 11 districts shall now have assigned labs for exclusively testing the samples from the respective districts, the ministry said in the statement. The samples from each district are being sent to these labs to ensure timely testing and getting the results without any delay. Currently there are 42 labs in Delhi with per day testing capacity of approximately 17,000.  In its endeavour to make testing more affordable and increase the volume of testing without losing on reliability, sensitivity and specificity, the ICMR on Monday issued an advisory recommending the use of point-of-care Rapid Antigen Detection Test. The Rapid Antigen test may be used in containment zones and hospital settings under strict medical supervision.  The Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit takes 15 minutes to show results and, therefore, will help in early detection of the disease. The antigen test can be conducted at the site of sample collection in the healthcare setting within one hour of sample collection.  Domestic manufacturing capacity of antigen test kits in the country currently is around 10 million in a month. In order to facilitate states to easily procure the Rapid Antigen test kits, the Centre is ensuring that the domestic manufactures are onboarded to the Government E-Marketplace (GEM) portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-gujarat-uttar-pradesh-reach-agreement-with-private-sector-for-affordable-treatment-850212.html
16-06-2020||National||Fight against COVID-19 fine example of cooperative federalism: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the fight against COVID-19 is a fine example of cooperative federalism in which the Centre and the states are working together to contain the spread of the deadly virus. In his opening remarks at a meeting with chief ministers and Lt Governors of 21 states and union territories, he said the economy is showing signs of improvement and encouraging us to move ahead. He said as the economy opens up, people should not down their guard to protect themselves and their loved ones from the virus. It is unimaginable to move out without a mask, Modi said urging people to follow social distancing norms. He also said any death due to the virus is tragic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fight-against-covid-19-fine-example-of-cooperative-federalism-pm-narendra-modi-850213.html
16-06-2020||National||Health Ministry appoints nodal officer to disclose list of COVID-19 hospitals||Days after the Central Information Commission's (CIC) "advise", the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has designated a nodal officer to disclose the list of COVID-19 hospitals across the country on its website. The CIC direction on June 5 to appoint a nodal officer within 15 days of its order to examine the issue and disclose the list came on a complaint filed by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak, who sought the details through an RTI query. The MoHFW issued the order appointing Deputy Secretary Saranga Dhar Nayak as the nodal officer on Monday. The ministers could not have given such details without the existence of a list but the MoHFW officials have "feigned ignorance of the facts" stated by the ministers, Chief Information Commissioner Bimal Jhulka had said in his order. "There is no reason why the list of such hospitals and treatment centres cannot be made public suo motu under Section 4(1)(b) of the RTI Act," the CIC had said. Nayak had on April 17 sought district-wise details of facilities designated as COVID-19 hospitals across the country through an RTI query with the Ministry. In his complaint to the CIC, he had pointed out that an article by Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar was posted on the website of government's media arm Press Information Bureau (PIB) on May 5, which said the country then had 700 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with over two lakh isolation beds and 15,000 ICU beds. On May 13, the MoHFW issued a statement on Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan's review meeting with Punjab government in which he was quoted as saying that the country has 900 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with 1,79,882 beds and 2,040 dedicated COVID-19 health centres with 1,29,689 beds besides with 8,708 quarantine centres and 5,577 COVID-19 Care Centres with 4,93,101 beds. In his order, Jhulka said the statements of both the ministers "presuppose the existence of a list of such hospitals and treatment centres" in the custody of MoHFW. Without such a list, he said, the Ministers would not have been able to mention the aggregate figures in their writings and discussions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-appoints-nodal-officer-to-disclose-list-of-covid-19-hospitals-850215.html
16-06-2020||National||Yogi under opposition fire over teachers' recruitment, animal husbandry scams||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath came under attack from the opposition leaders over alleged large scale irregularities in recruitment of teachers and arrest of the private secretary of a minister on charges of taking bribe for giving tenders of the animal husbandry department. Some of those arrested in connection with the teachers' recruitment and animal husbandry tender scams were alleged to be close to senior BJP leaders of the state. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday (June 16) took potshots at Adityanath and said that the UP Secretariat had turned into a ''den of corruption' and that it was 'shocking' that the latter and his ministers had no 'inkling' about what was going on under their nose raising a question mark on their functioning. ''The animal husbandry scam had exposed the corruption prevalent in this government...there is only corruption at the centre of the executive in the state,'' Priyanka said in a series of tweets. The Congress leader also took exception to the transfer of the police chief of Prayagraj district, who had taken action against those allegedly involved in the irregularities in the teachers' recruitment. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav also alleged that the BJP leaders were involved in the scams and that they were busy ''making money''. Seven persons, including the PA of a minister and three 'journalists', were arrested for allegedly extorting crores from a Madhya Pradesh trader for helping him get the tenders of the animal husbandry department.   Earlier several arrests were made after it came to light that there were large scale irregularities in the recruitment of assistant teachers in the state and that many of the candidates had paid bribes to get an appointment. Posters showing some accused persons in the twin scams with senior BJP leaders also surfaced on the walls of the VVIP Guest House near the CM residence on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-under-opposition-fire-over-teachers-recruitment-animal-husbandry-scams-850218.html
16-06-2020||National||United States hands over first shipment of 100 ventilators to India as COVID-19 assistance||The US on Tuesday handed over to India 100 ventilators, valued at about USD 1.2 million, as part of President Donald Trump's offer of assistance to New Delhi in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster handed over the first shipment of 100 ventilators to Indian Red Cross Society Secretary General R K Jain at an event at the IRCS national headquarters here. The US government, through the US Agency for International Development (USAID), donated the first shipment of 100 brand-new, state-of-the-art ventilators to India to assist its fight against COVID-19, the American Embassy said in a statement. The ventilators, produced in the United States by Massachusetts-based Zoll Medical Corporation, reflect leading-edge technology, are compact and deployable, and provide India with flexibility in treating patients affected by the virus. USAID is working closely with the Indian government's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Indian Red Cross Society, and other relevant stakeholders in India and the United States to assist in the delivery, transportation, and placement of ventilators in select health care facilities throughout the country. “The COVID-19 pandemic poses an unprecedented global health threat. It is only through partnership and cooperation that we will be able to ensure a healthy future for people across the world," Ambassador Juster said at the event. "In this spirit, the United States is pleased to provide the people of India with a donation of ventilators, made possible by the generosity of the American people and the innovation of American private industry," he was quoted as saying in the statement. The 100 ventilator units are valued at almost USD 1.2 million, it said. USAID is also funding a comprehensive package of support, which includes accompanying equipment and medical supplies, technical assistance, and service plans. This donation builds on the USD 9.5 million that USAID and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have committed to India in response to the pandemic, and this is helping to strengthen clinical care, disseminate essential health messages, improve disease surveillance, and more. For decades, the United States has been the world's largest provider of bilateral assistance in health, the statement said. Since 2009, American taxpayers have generously funded more than USD 100 billion in health assistance and nearly USD 70 billion in humanitarian assistance worldwide, it said. President Trump had announced in May that the US will donate ventilators to India to treat COVID-19 patients and help it fight the "invisible enemy". The Indian Red Cross said it extends its heartfelt thanks to the US government for gifting the ventilators to assist India's fight against COVID-19. This life-saving resource will benefit critically ill patients immensely during this pandemic, the IRCS said. The first tranche of ventilators to support India in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic arrived in the country on Monday, the USAID said. "Great to see that this 1st shipment of 100 USAID-funded ventilators produced by @MedicalZoll has reached India, another country hit hard by COVID-19. @usaid_india is working with the Indian government to see that these ventilators reach those in need," acting USAID Administrator John Barsa tweeted. An American official had said last month that the US government is planning to "donate" 200 ventilators to India as part of efforts to strengthen bilateral cooperation in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/united-states-hands-over-first-shipment-of-100-ventilators-to-india-as-covid-19-assistance-850233.html
16-06-2020||National||NHAI revamp in the offing; large-scale reforms needed: Nitin Gadkari||The government is taking steps to revamp the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and large-scale reforms are needed further, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday. NHAI has been mandated the task to develop, maintain and manage National Highways, the arterial roads of the country, for inter-state movement of passengers and goods. The total length of National Highways at present is abut 1.5 lakh km, about 2 per cent of the length of all the roads, but they carry about 40 per cent of the total traffic. "We are taking steps for revamp of NHAI....major reforms are needed in the Authority," the Road Transport and Highways Minister said addressing a webinar organised by industry body Assocham. The minister said the need of the hour is to devise bankable projects suitable for the market with acute precision and accuracy citing how NHAI devised Rs 5,000 crore highway monetisation projects under TOT (toll-operator-transfer) mode which could only be bid by foreign players. "It took six months to convince them (Authority) to come out with small Rs 500 crore packages for asset monetisation under TOT as Rs 5,000 crore package could only be bid by foreign players," Gadkari said adding "the project mode should be market driven and bankable" and not just which are taken in "boardrooms." Likewise, instead of engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode, the Authority was in favour of BOT mode for building 3,000 km of highways but tenders are not out yet, he said in the webinar on 'COVID-19 Impact and Investment Opportunities in Roads and Highways'. He recalled how once "zero tender" was the response for 17 projects on build-operate-transfer (BOT) mode by NHAI. Gadkari also cited delays in setting up road side amenities and stressed that the government is planning to set up 2,000 petrol pumps along the highways. He also expressed displeasure over NHAI seeking time from players for reconciliation of disputes adding that NHAI sought time in 22 such cases. At the same time the minister said despite decentralisation of powers and empowering project directors and regional officers of NHAI to take decisions for projects up to Rs 50 crore, a large number of such issues were being referred to the headquarters. He said all transfers in NHAI have been made digital. Last week, NHAI said that in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak it has gone fully digital with cloud-based 'Data Lake Software', becoming the first such construction sector organisation in the country. Gadkari urged industry players to turn the present crisis into opportunity by tapping global market in the current scenario. He also urged the industry to be more competitive and come out with innovative projects including the pre-cast structures for highways. Earlier, B K Goenka, Immediate Past President, Assocham stressed the need for reducing the cost of borrowing. "Though RBI is reducing the repo rate on a regular basis, this is not reflected in cost of debt. The commercial banks are not able to pass the interest rate cut to the industry....this anomaly has created negative equity returns especially in the HAM (hybrid, annuity mode) projects which are primarily dependant on NHAI for its fixed revenues," he said. Today, recovery from NHAI is at least 1.5 per cent less than borrowing rate. This has led to erosion of equity value by approximately 25 per cent, Goenka said and added there is need to change the existing structure of NHAI payment, it should be linked to SBI rate rather than RBI determined Bank Rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-revamp-in-the-offing-large-scale-reforms-needed-nitin-gadkari-850236.html
16-06-2020||National||SC notice to Goa Assembly Speaker on plea by Cong leader to disqualify defectors||The Supreme Court on Tuesday (June 16) issued notice to the Goa Assembly Speaker on a plea by state Congress president Girish Chodankar for a direction to him decide upon the disqualification of 10 party MLAs who joined the BJP.  These legislators had defected to BJP in July 2019 and the plea for disqualification against them was pending since August 2019.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna sought a response from the Speaker on a writ petition filed by Goa Pradesh Congress Committee chief. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the petitioner, sought an early date of hearing in the matter. The petitioner has relied upon the SC's recent ruling, in a separate case, that had held the Speaker should decide such disqualification plea within a maximum period of three months. On Tuesday, the court issued an early notice, seeking a reply from Speaker Rajesh Patnekar within a period of three weeks. Out of 15 Congress MLA, ten have formed a separate group and merged it with BJP, taking the tally of the ruling party in 40-member Assembly to 27. Some of the defectors were rewarded with a ministerial berth in the Pramod Sawant-led government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-goa-assembly-speaker-on-plea-by-cong-leader-to-disqualify-defectors-850240.html
16-06-2020||National||Work closely with states to mitigate COVID-19 impact on economy, Punjab CM urges PM Narendra Modi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday requested the Centre to work closely with states to mitigate the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the economy while stressing that the lockdown to limit the spread of the infection can’t continue indefinitely. In a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Punjab CM suggested to set up a group, including chief ministers, to discuss and formulate a coordinated Centre-state response to the impact of COVID on the economy and governments across the country. The prime minister is holding two-day deliberations with chief ministers to review the coronavirus situation and management strategies to deal with the crisis. PM Modi appreciated Punjab's coronavirus micro containment and house-to-house surveillance strategy, said a state government release here. Modi asked all other states to adopt the model, which was helping Punjab successfully control the spread of the pandemic to a significant extent, the release said. Taking part in the discussions, CM Amarinder Singh said while living with COVID was the new normal as the lockdown can’t continue indefinitely, the need of the hour is to take care of both lives and livelihoods, as the PM had himself said in his earlier video conference in April. Singh recalled that when in early April he had said that the coronavirus crisis could go on till September, he had been called an alarmist by some people. But with experts now warning that the pandemic could continue even beyond September, it is important to learn to co-exist with it and cope with it better, he stressed. Calling for urgent steps to mitigate Punjab's financial stress, the CM said a detailed memorandum has already been sent to the Centre. Even as he thanked the prime minister for the release of Rs 2,800 crore in GST arrears in early June, Singh said though he appreciated that the Centre was also under financial stress, he had to request for the release of the state's pending share of taxes to tide over the fiscal crisis. The crisis in Punjab is likely to be acute with around Rs 25,000-30,000 crore shortfall in revenue collection on various counts, he said. Even though Punjab's contribution to the all-India cases was less than one per cent, with a mortality rate of 2.1 per cent and recovery rate of 75 per cent, the curve is rising as a result of the inbound travellers and the easing of restrictions and more mixing of people, the CM said. Emphasising the need for more tests, despite the current 5,527 tests per 10 lakh population in Punjab being higher than the all-India average of 4,088, Singh reiterated his request for direction to central institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase their testing capacity. Singh said the state government was working on a multi-pronged strategy to fight the pandemic. Some restrictions have been imposed on weekends and holidays, and strict enforcement of all protocols was being ensured through fines. he said. The focus is currently on a micro-containment strategy to isolate small 'mohallas' or villages rather than close down larger areas, he said. A special app had also been launched for house-to-house surveillance to detect any possible cases and persons with co-morbidities to catch high-risk patients early, the CM added. The CM also urged for a relook at some of the conditions imposed on availing two per cent additional borrowing, pointing out that the borrowing was a loan that states have to repay and not a grant by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-closely-with-states-to-mitigate-covid-19-impact-on-economy-punjab-cm-urges-pm-narendra-modi-850245.html
16-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: China border issue takes a violent turn||From the Newsroom, The border issue with China takes a violent turn, North Korea blows up an inter-Korean liaison office on its side of the border and India ranks 43rd on World Competitiveness Index.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-china-border-issue-takes-a-violent-turn-850249.html
16-06-2020||National||Ahead of Rajya Sabha polls, Gujarat Congress shifts 20 of 65 MLAs to five-star hotel||Ahead of the June 19 elections to four Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat, the opposition Congress on Tuesday shifted a batch of 20 MLAs to a five-star hotel in Ahmedabad from a resort in neighbouring Rajasthan, a party spokesperson said. Other MLAs of the party from Saurashtra, central Gujarat and south Gujarat regions will reach Ahmedabad by Wednesday and could be shifted to a place near Gandhinagar, said state Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi. The 20 MLAs shifted here from Rajasthan are from north Gujarat region. Earlier this month, the Congress had divided 65 of its MLAs in four different groups as per their constituencies, and kept them at four different places in and outside Gujarat in a bid to save them from "poaching" attempts. The 20 MLAs, including Ashwin Kotwal, Geniben Thakor, Kirit Patel, Lakha Bharwad and Baldevji Thakor among others, were shifted to a five-star hotel located near Ahmedabad airport on Tuesday afternoon, Doshi said. "By tomorrow, other MLAs of Saurashtra, central Gujarat and south Gujarat regions will reach Ahmedabd. It is possible that they all would be shifted to a place in Gandhinagar ahead of the polling date," he said. State Congress president Amit Chavda has also confirmed that all the 65 MLAs of the party, including himself, will be sequestered at a place near Gandhinagar and will be given guidance about voting process through a mock poll exercise. A total of eight MLAs of the Congress have resigned since March this year, bringing down the party's strength in the 182-member House to 65. As per a standard formula, 35 votes are needed for victory of each candidate in the RS elections. The Congress needs support of at least five more MLAs if it wants to get its two candidates--Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki--elected to the Upper House of parliament. The BJP, which has 103 MLAs, has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin. The ruling party will need votes of two more MLAs if it wants to get all the three candidates elected. In this scenario, role of two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), one legislator of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Independent Jignesh Mevani has become crucial. The effective strength of the Assembly now stands at 172 due to resignations by eight MLAs of the Congress and two vacancies caused by court cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-rajya-sabha-polls-gujarat-congress-shifts-20-of-65-mlas-to-five-star-hotel-850253.html
16-06-2020||National||Will decide in July on international flights' resumption if states, aviation ecosystem onboard: Hardeep Singh Puri||India will take a decision on resumption of international passenger flights in July if coronavirus behaves in a “predictable manner” and the entire aviation ecosystem and state governments are onboard, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. The country resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months amid the coronavirus pandemic. Scheduled international passenger flights, however, continue to remain suspended in India. "I am often asked, when can you start international civil aviation? If you leave it to me, and if the ecosystem works, and if we have the predictability in terms of behaviour of the virus, I think in the coming month we should start taking the decision. But those decisions will not be taken by the Indian civil aviation ministry," Puri said. “Those decisions will be taken by the governments after looking at their domestic situation,” he said at a webinar titled ‘Reposing the Faith in Flying’ organised by the GMR group. "As we have seen recently that there is a major state in south India, after we opened up, they ordered the lockdown back. I have seen this happening in other countries. We are trying to ensure that this does not happen," the minister noted. The Tamil Nadu government had recently decided to impose lockdown in the capital city of Chennai, starting June 19 for a period of 12 days, in view of rising number of COVD-19 cases. Puri said the central government is trying to make sure that "when we take steps, they are incremental, and they are predictable, and that we increase the ways of travel domestically and that we move in the direction of opening international travel systematically without endangering and inviting a backlash". "For us to be able to receive passengers on international routes, our states must be ready. We are in a constant dialogue with them," he added. The aviation minister said a decision regarding resumption of international travel can be taken in the coming months, even earlier, when domestic air traffic would reach 50-55 per cent of its pre-COVID-19 capacity, and other states would be in the position to absorb more number of passengers coming in. "In any case, it is not our call. It is a call where all the stakeholders, including the passengers and the entire ecosystem, are ready," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-decide-in-july-on-international-flights-resumption-if-states-aviation-ecosystem-onboard-hardeep-singh-puri-850261.html
16-06-2020||National||First time in 45 years, soldiers lost lives on India-China border||India's border trouble with China runs into decades but the last time blood was spilled on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), before the latest episode, was 45 years ago when the Chinese ambushed an Assam Rifles patrol in Tulung La. India had lost four soldiers on October 20, 1975 in Tulung La, the last time bullets were fired on the India-China border though both the countries witnessed bitter stand-offs later at Sumdorong Chu valley in 1987, Depsang in 2013, Chumar in 2014 and Doklam in 2017. Beteeen 1962 and 1975, the biggest clash between India and China took place in Nathu La pass in 1967 when reports suggest that around 80 Indian soldiers were killed and many more Chinese personnel. New Delhi described the locality where the 1975 incident took place as "well within" its territory only to be rebuffed by Beijing as "sheer reversal of black and white and confusion of right and wrong". The Ministry of External Affairs had then said that the Chinese had crossed the LAC and ambushed the soldiers while Beijing claimed the Indians entered their territory and did not return despite warnings. The Indian government maintained that the ambush on the Assam Rifles' patrol in 1975 took place "500 metres south of Tulung" on the border between India and Tibet and "therefore in Indian territory". It said Chinese soldiers "penetrating" Indian territory implied a "change in China's position" on the border question but the Chinese denied this and blamed India for the incident. The US diplomatic cables quoted an Indian military intelligence officer saying that the Chinese had erected stone walls on the Indian side of Tulung La and from these positions fired several hundred rounds at the Indian patrol. "Four of the Indians had gone into a leading position while two (the ones who escaped) remained behind. The senior military intelligence officer emphasised that the soldiers on the Indian patrol were from the area and had patrolled that same region many times before," the cable said. One of the US cables showed that former US Secretary of State and National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger sought details of the October 1975 clash "without approaching the host governments on actual location of October 20 incident". He also wanted to know what ground rules were followed regarding the proximity of LAC by border patrols. A cable sent from the US mission in India on November 4, 1975 appeared to have doubts about the Chinese account saying it was "highly defensive". "Given the unsettled situation on the sub-continent, particularly in Bangladesh, both Chinese and Indian authorities have authorised stepped up patrols along the disputed border. The clash may well have ensued when two such patrols unexpectedly encountered each other," it said. Another cable from China on the same day quoted another October 1974 cable, which spoke about Chinese officials being concerned for long that "some hotheaded person on the PRC (People's Republic of China) might provoke an incident that could lead to renewed Sino-Indian hostilities. It went on to say that this clash suggested that "such concerns and apprehensions are not unwarranted". According to the United States diplomatic cables, Chinese Foreign Ministry on November 3, 1975 disputed the statement of the MEA spokesperson, who said the incident took place inside Indian territory. The Chinese had said "sheer reversal of black and white and confusion of right and wrong". In its version of the 1975 incident, they said Indian troops crossed the LAC at 1:30 PM at Tulung Pass on the Eastern Sector and "intruded" into their territory when personnel at the Civilian Checkpost at Chuna in Tibet warned them to withdraw. Ignoring this, they claimed, Indian soldiers made "continual provocation and even opened fire at the Chinese civilian checkpost personnel, posing a grave threat to the life of the latter. The Chinese civilian checkpost personnel were obliged to fire back in self defence." The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson had also said they told the Indian side that they could collect the bodies "anytime" and on October 28, collected the bodies, weapons and ammunition and "signed a receipt". The US cables from the then USSR suggested that the official media carried reports from Delhi on the October 1975 incident and they cited only Indian accounts of the incident "ridiculing alleged Chinese claims that the Indians crossed the line and opened fire first".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-time-in-45-years-soldiers-lost-lives-on-india-china-border-850264.html
16-06-2020||National||HC notice to Centre on plea for OBC quota in Tamil Nadu's share of all-India medical seats||The Madras High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a batch of petitions, including those filed by political parties ruling AIADMK and opposition DMK, seeking reservation for OBC candidates in the all-India quota for UG and PG medical courses as per Tamil Nadu law. In their submissions before a bench comprising justices R.Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy, counsels for the petitioners alleged out of 8,800 seats surrendered by states, OBCs was not given even a single seat and that all were transferred to General category "which is unjustified and unconstitutional". During the hearing through video conference, senior counsel P. Wilson for DMK argued that the Medical Council of India (MCI) was denying the reservation for OBC students which they were entitled to as per law. He further argued the MCI regulations permit adopting state reservations even in the seats that are surrendered to the all-India quota. In their public interest litigation (PIL) petitions, the AIADMK, DMK, MDMK and DK among others contended that the Union Ministry of Health and family Welfare also did not follow its own policy of 27 per cecnt reserved seats for OBCs under the 2006 Act. This had resulted in OBCs being robbed off 10,000 seats in the last three years at least and many more during the preceding years, they claimed. The Centre cannot be permitted to turn a blind eye when a significant number of meritorious OBC students were denied seats in the in All India Quota, the petitioners submitted. Issuing the notice to the Centre, the bench adjourned the hearing to June 22. The PILs have been filed after the Supreme Court had on June 11 refused to entertain pleas challenging the Centre's decision not to grant 50 per cent reservation to OBCs as per Tamil Nadu law in medical seats surrendered by the state in the All India quota for under graduate, post graduate and dental courses in 2020-21. While saying that the right to reservation is not a fundamental right, the apex court had asked the political parties to approach the high court with their pleas for grant of OBC quota in medical admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-obc-quota-in-tamil-nadus-share-of-all-india-medical-seats-850268.html
16-06-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: Man found COVID-19 positive, 86 marriage revellers quarantined||A total of 86 people, who had attended a marriage ceremony in Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur district last week, have been quarantined after one of the attendees was found to be coronavirus positive, a senior official said on Tuesday. The infected person, who had travelled to his native Madnibar village in Chhatarpur district last week from Gurugram in Haryana, attended the marriage despite being asked to remain quarantined at his home, he said. "This person not only attended the marriage of his acquaintance but also helped cooks in preparing food or guests," said District Panchayat's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Himanshu Chandra. He said officials had asked the man to remain quarantined at his home and collected his samples for testing. "His sample tested positive for coronavirus during test. But when officials reached his home on June 14 he was not present there," Chandra said. Officials later came to know that the man had gone to nearby Chandoli village to attend a marriage. "The man was subsequently sent to the isolation ward of Chhatarpur district hospital on the night of June 14, but the marriage function was not cancelled," the CEO said. After the marriage ceremony, 86 guests were shifted to a quarantine centre, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-man-found-covid-19-positive-86-marriage-revellers-quarantined-850273.html
16-06-2020||National||Supreme Court says COVID-19 situation is not improving in the country, it's getting worse||The COVID-19 situation in the country is worsening each passing day and not improving, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday while extending the parole of a Punjab based businessman accused in a drug racket case. The top court's observation came while hearing a criminal case in which the accused Jagjit Singh Chahal has sought extension of his parole ending next month. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and B R Gavai said that in a situation like this there is no point in overcrowding the prisons when some of the accused are either out on bail or are on parole. “You see...the COVID-19 situation is not getting any better with each passing day. It is only getting worse in the country," the bench told the Punjab government's counsel who opposed the plea. The bench perused the affidavit of Punjab government which said that the bail was granted to him in the case on February 19 and his appeal is coming for hearing on July 16. “The parole is to continue until the appeal is heard and finally decided provided that the petitioner cooperates and does not ask for any adjournment on any ground when the appeal comes up for hearing. The special leave petition is disposed of. Pending applications stand disposed of,” the bench said in its order. Chahal, a prominent businessman, is also accused in a money laundering case besides being booked for running a drug racket in the state. The top court had last month issued notice to Punjab government on the plea for its response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-says-covid-19-situation-is-not-improving-in-the-country-its-getting-worse-850280.html
16-06-2020||National||SC defers hearing on plea against TN Speaker's inaction on disqualification 11 AIADMK MLAs||The Supreme Court on Tuesday (June 16) deferred considering a plea by DMK leader R Sakkrapani for a direction to Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker to decide forthwith upon the disqualification petition pending before him since March 20, 2017, against 11 AIADMK MLAs, including Deputy Chief Minister O Paneerselvam. On February 18, 2017, these MLAs have voted against the vote of confidence moved by their own party AIADMK leader and then Chief Minister E K Palaniswami.  On Tuesday, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna adjourned the matter and posted it for consideration after 15 days.   Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the DMK leader. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and advocate Balaji Srinivasan represented the other side. The petition filed by advocate Amit Anand Tiwari contended that the "inaction" of Speaker P Dhanapal in not deciding the issue despite an order of the top court on February 14, 2020, was "arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 19, 164(1B), 191 and the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution". This was also in the teeth of the judgements of this court, it added. The petitioner pointed out the Speaker's inaction clearly violated the constitutional mandate as the Supreme Court in 'Keisham Meghachandra Singh's decision on January 21, 2020, has laid down the law requiring all the Speakers in the country to decide the disqualification petitions within a period of three months. By voting against the Chief Minister of the AIADMK in a confidence vote by 11 MLAs had voluntarily given up the membership of the party in 2017. Their subsequent act of coming back to the party will be of no help as the issue had to be decided with respect to their act, the plea submitted. The petitioner alleged the "mala fide" on the part of the Speaker was evident from his haste in disqualifying 18 MLAs on the apprehension of their voting against the motion, while taking no action with respect to the defection of 11 of these legislators, who actually voted against the motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-defers-hearing-on-plea-against-tn-speakers-inaction-on-disqualification-11-aiadmk-mlas-850282.html
16-06-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh holds back-to-back meetings with military brass over Ladakh situation||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held two-back-to-back meetings with top military brass on Tuesday deliberating on the situation in eastern Ladakh after an Indian Army officer and two soldiers were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley. Singh also briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the killing of the three Indian Army personnel during Monday night's clash as well as on the overall situation in the region, government sources said. The Indian Army said there have been casualties on the Chinese side as well. The killing of the Indian Army personnel is the first such incident involving fatalities after a gap of 45 years. Four Indian soldiers were killed in an ambush at Tulung La in Arunachal Pradesh along the de-facto border between the two countries in 1975. The first meeting Singh held was attended by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs, and it carried out a comprehensive review of the ground situation in eastern Ladakh as well as deliberated on India's preparedness to deal with any eventualities, the sources said. It is learnt that the government decided to further ramp up India's military strength in areas like Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. After the nearly one-hour meeting, Singh gave a briefing to Prime Minister Modi on the overall situation, they said . In the late afternoon, the defence minister held another meeting with Jaishankar, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat. The sources said Gen Naravane presented a detailed report to the defence minister covering various finer details of Monday night's clash in Galwan which continued for several hours. The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso. The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions, and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the row. In their first serious efforts to end the row, Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj Gen Liu Lin held a nearly seven-hour meeting on June 6. The meeting was followed by two rounds of Major General-level talks. The Indian side has been pitching for restoration of status quo ante and immediate withdrawal of thousands of Chinese troops from the areas which India considers on its side of the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-holds-back-to-back-meetings-with-military-brass-over-ladakh-situation-850295.html
16-06-2020||National||Now, Election Commission to act on complaints of false poll affidavits, refer 'serious' matters for probe||Seeking to tighten the noose around those filing false information in poll affidavits, the Election Commission on Tuesday decided to refer cases of "serious omission" by candidates to investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis. At its meeting, the commission decided to "robustly address" the "challenge" of false information in election affidavits "to further ensure free, fair and ethical elections in the country". In a statement, the commission said it has been receiving complaints regarding false information in affidavits filed by some candidates. Currently, one has to file such complaints in a court under section 125A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 for necessary action. "Now, the commission has reviewed this position and decided that, in pursuit of a level-playing field, it will take cognisance of complaints, which indicate serious omission on the part of the candidate, and refer such matters to the relevant investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis," it said. People can still approach courts with their complaints on such matters. The poll panel had a couple of years ago told the Supreme Court that under Section 125A of the Representation of the People Act, the total punishment for filing a false affidavit at the time of filing nomination is six months, or fine or both. It had said the punishment is well short of the requirement of minimum of two years of sentence for attracting disqualification under Section 8A of the election law. As a part of electoral reforms, the poll panel had recommended to the central government in 2011 to amend Section 125A of the Act and enhance the sentence for filing a false affidavit to two years. The matter has been pending with the Union Law Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-election-commission-to-act-on-complaints-of-false-poll-affidavits-refer-serious-matters-for-probe-850296.html
16-06-2020||National||Maharashtra govt covered up over 950 COVID-19 deaths: Devendra Fadnavis||In a serious development, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has not reported as many as 950 deaths because of COVID-19. In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has brought this to light. According to Fadnavis, there has been gross violation of ICMR guidelines. "The BMC has suppressed around 950 deaths. There have been around  3,300 COVID-19 deaths while the BMC has revealed only around 2,250 deaths," state BJP vice president Dr Kirit Somaiya said. "It is a cover-up," said Fadnavis. However, there has been no immediate reaction from the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. "Before announcing COVID-19 related deaths, it is examined by the Death Audit Committee formed by the BMC. We have noticed that there are at least 451 recent deaths that were not declared as COVID-19 deaths. As per the ICMR guidelines, these were COVID-19 deaths but the Death Audit Committee showed these as non-COVID-19 deaths," he said. Fadnavis,  a former chief minister,  also alleged that here were 500 Covid-19 deaths that were not reported to the Death Audit Committee. "So there are around 950 Covid-19 deaths that are suppressed. This is serious and criminal in nature," he said. "The State Government itself has directed to set up Death Audit Committee at every district & Municipal Corporation level. When there are clear guidelines by @WHO & @ICMRDELHI on identifying #COVID_19 & non-Covid cases,is this committee made to prevent deaths or to hide numbers?," Fadnavis tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-covered-up-over-950-covid-19-deaths-devendra-fadnavis-850299.html
16-06-2020||National||Move on to revive economy with precautions: PM Narendra Modi||Giving clear indication of no further lockdown due to COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India can move forward on the path of economic recovery, limiting harms due to the pandemic with precaution. Addressing Chief Ministers of 21 states and Union Territories on the first day of his two-day video conferring with states after completion of a fortnight of Unlock 1.0, Modi cited over 51 percent recovery rate in the country to buttress the point that even as all modes of transport are now open, lakhs of migrant labourers have travelled back to their villages and thousands of Indians have returned from abroad. Coronavirus has not assumed as life threatening a form in India as in the rest of the world, he said. “India is in the forefront of those nations, where lives of Corona infected persons are being saved. India is one of those countries, where the least number of deaths due to Corona has taken place,” Modi said. He said it is because India took timey decisions. “We have toiled day and night to save life of every Indian,” Modi said inviting suggestions from the CMs on the future course. This was his sixth meeting with Chief Ministers in the last three months, starting on March 20, four days before he had announced the first national lockdown for 21 days, which got extended to 68 days in installments till May 30. Discussing the situation emerging post Unlock 1.0 since June 1 and the strategy ahead for tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, Modi said that timely decisions taken to combat the pandemic have been effective in containing its spread in the country. Clearly indicating the government’s priority of not letting economic revival be compromised in the fight against coronavirus, Modi underscored the importance of being focused on both life and livelihood. He said that on the one hand, health infrastructure will need to be boosted with emphasis on testing and tracing, economic activity will also need to be increased on the other hand. “The decisions need to be taken keeping in view both current needs and future requirements,” he said while asking the states to continuously keep driving the fact that danger of the virus is not over yet, and the need to remain vigilant while opening up the economy. Home Minister Amit Shah said that while we have so far fought a successful battle against the pandemic, the road ahead is long and suggestions given by the Prime Minister regarding use of mask/face cover, maintaining 'do gaz doori', etc should be followed by all. The Prime Minister noted that with the efforts of the past few week, green shoots in the economy are visible, including rise in power consumption which was earlier falling, fertiliser sale in May this year sees a significant increase, a healthy increase in Kharif sowing in comparison to last year, production of two wheelers increasing, digital payment in retail reaching pre lockdown level, increase in toll collection in May and bouncing back of exports. These signals are encouraging us to forge ahead. He also dwelt on how the steps for “Atmanirbhar Bharat” will give fillip to trade and industry and the benefits set to accrue to farmers through reforms in the agriculture sector, including new avenues to sell produce, increase in income which in turn would increase demand in the economy.    Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Goa, Manipur, Nagaland, Ladakh, Puducherry, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Dadra Nagar Haveli & Daman Diu, Sikkim and Lakshadweep provided feedback about existing health infrastructure in their states and efforts for augmentation to tackle the impact of the virus. In an earlier meeting that Modi held with senior ministers and officials on June 13 to review India’s response to COVID-19 pandemic, it was flagged that out of the total cases two-thirds are in five states with an overwhelming proportion of cases in big cities. Modi will interact with CMs of five states—Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh in another batch on June 17 alongwith other states with high case-loads like Rajasthan, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh (all above 10 thousand cases).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/move-on-to-revive-economy-with-precautions-pm-narendra-modi-850303.html
16-06-2020||National||Maharashtra: Two held for killing man over property dispute||Two persons were arrested for allegedly strangling a man over a property dispute at a village in Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Tuesday. In an incident that took place on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, Jaideep Thackeray (18) was strangled and his body was dumped outside is brother's home in Gangangaon village, inspector Ajay Vasave of Talasari police station said. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim's brother, the police on Tuesday arrested Sunil Thackeray (38) and Ankush Dalvi (22), while the third accused, who is a minor, was yet to be detained, the official said. Investigations have revealed that accused Sunil Thackeray was the victim's cousin and was engaged in a property dispute with him, he said. A case has been registered against the accused under section 302 (murder) of the IPC, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-two-held-for-killing-man-over-property-dispute-850306.html
16-06-2020||National||Indian troops crossed LAC and "purposefully launched attacks": state media quotes Chinese military||China's official media on Tuesday quoted the Chinese military as claiming that it "always" owned sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region and alleged that "provocative attacks' launched by the Indian troops resulted in "severe clashes and casualties." In its first reaction on Monday's clashes between the two militaries at the Galwan Valley in Eastern Ladakh, a statement quoted by the Chinese media quoting the People's Liberation Army (PLA) Western Theatre Command Spokesperson Colonel Zhang Shuili said, "China always owns sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region." There was no immediate reaction from the Indian side to the PLA statement quoted to Col. Shuili. "The Indian troops have broken their promises and again crossed the line of actual control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley region on Monday evening and purposely launched provocative attacks, leading to severe clashes and casualties," Zhang claimed. An Indian Army officer and two soldiers were killed during a violent clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, in the first such incident involving fatalities after a gap of 45 years and signalling a massive escalation in the five-week border standoff in the sensitive region. The Army said India lost an officer and two soldiers during the violent face-off, while there were casualties on the Chinese side as well. The extent of casualties on the Chinese side is not immediately clear. While acknowledging “severe clashes and casualties”, the PLA statement quoted by the Global Times as well as China Daily was silent on the casualties on the Chinese side. "China always owns sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region," the PLA statement claimed. "The Indian border defence troops are inconsistent with their words and seriously violated the agreements both countries have reached, the consensus made during the army commander-level talks and harmed the relations of the two militaries and the feelings of the two countries' peoples”, it said. "India should stop all provocative actions, meet the Chinese side halfway and come back to the right path of solving disputes through talks”, Zhang said. The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso. The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions, and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the border row. While the Chinese officials were silent on the casualties suffered by the PLA troops, Hu Xijin, editor of the ruling Communist Party-run Global Times tabloid tweeted to say there are casualties on Chinese side too. "Chinese and Indian military personnel broke out in a severe physical conflict in the Galwan Valley. The Indian side stated that three people died in the Indian Army. According to my urgent knowledge of people familiar with the situation, there are also casualties on our side”, she said. However, the Global Times later tweeted that the "official Global Times accounts have NEVER reported the exact casualties on the Chinese side. The Global Times CANNOT confirm the number at the moment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-troops-crossed-lac-and-purposefully-launched-attacks-state-media-quotes-chinese-military-850308.html
16-06-2020||National||AP govt presents Rs 2.24 lakh crore budget for FY 2020-21; over Rs 75,000 crore earmarked for welfare schemes||The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh will dole out a staggering sum of over Rs 75,000 crore in cash to different sections of society while the state's debt will further rise to Rs 3,48,998 crore in the 2020-21 financial year as projected in the state budget presented on Tuesday. In 2019-20, the YSR Congress government distributed Rs 49,720 crore to various sections, taking the state debt to Rs 3.02 lakh crore from Rs 2,58,928 crore the previous year. Touted as welfare schemes, each carries the name of either Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy (Jagananna) or his late father Y S Rajasekhara Reddy (YSR). Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath on Tuesday presented a budget for Rs 2.24 lakh crore for the 2020-21 financial year, a decrease of 1.4 per cent over last year, with an estimated revenue deficit of Rs 18,434 crore and a fiscal deficit of a whopping Rs 48,295 crore, but harping mainly on the welfare theme. The 1.4 per cent decrease in the budget estimates was on account of major economic slowdown during the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. In addition to the direct money transfer schemes implemented in the last fiscal, at least seven others will be launched this year under the government's flagship "Navaratnalu" programme. According to the figures revealed by the Finance Minister in the 2020-21 Budget, presented to the Legislature on Tuesday, a sum of Rs 37,659 crore will be spent under the head Direct Benefit Transfer for schemes like YSR Pension Kanuka, YSR Aasara, Jagananna Amma Vodi, Jagananna Vidya Deevena, YSR Kapu Nestham, YSR Jagananna Chedodu, Jagananna Thodu, YSR Cheyuta. The same schemes, with a total outlay of Rs 37,618 crore, will also be implemented under various sub-components like SC, ST, BC, Minority and Kapu welfare for the respective communities, according to the Budget document. This apart, Rs 3,615 crore will be distributed to farmers under the Rythu Bharosa scheme towards inputs and another Rs 1,100 crore towards interest-free farm loans. For women members of self-help groups, in rural and urban areas, a sum of Rs 1,365 crore has been earmarked under the interest-free loan scheme. "Our government abhors the habit of reckless spending (of the earlier TDP regime) and focuses on targeted and impactful interventions. It is our effort to implement programmes for the benefit of all groups to enable them to participate in the mainstream development process. "Our government is committed to the welfare of all sections of society cutting across the lines of caste, religion, gender and vocation," the Finance Minister said in his Budget speech. Similarly, upgradation of public health infrastructure, across rural and urban areas, was amongst the top priorities of the government, he added. The state's debt burden increased to Rs 3.02 lakh crore at the end of March 2020,up from Rs 2,58,928a year ago. In the 2020-21 fiscal, the state's debt is further estimated to shoot up to Rs 3,48,998 crore. The state's revenue shortfall was a staggering Rs 68,000 crore as the revised estimates for 2019-20 showed receipts of only Rs 1.10 lakh crore as against the estimated Rs 1.78 lakh crore. However, the Finance Minister projected a revenue of Rs 1.61 lakh crore in the 2020-21 fiscal. He proposed an overall expenditure of Rs 2,24,789 crore during 2020-21, with revenue expenditure alone estimated at Rs 1,80,392 crore and capital expenditure, including loan repayments, at around Rs 44,396 crore. Though an expenditure of Rs 2.27 lakh crore was estimated in the last fiscal, the state could eventually accomplish only Rs 1.74 lakh crore, a large chunk of which had gone towards payment of salaries and doling out freebies. As per the revised estimate, revenue expenditure in 2019-20 was Rs 1,37,518 crore and capital expenditure Rs 12,845 crore. The Revenue Deficit for 2019-20 thus stood at Rs 26,646 crore and the Fiscal Deficit at Rs 40,493 crore, amounting to 2.47 per cent and 3.75 per cent of the GSDP respectively. "There is nothing more important to this government than the comprehensive development of AP and its positioning at the very top in terms of human development. It is the constant endeavour of our government to not just live up to the expectations of people but outgrow them by bridging the gulf between lost opportunities of the past and promises of the future," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ap-govt-presents-rs-224-lakh-crore-budget-for-fy-2020-21-over-rs-75000-crore-earmarked-for-welfare-schemes-850310.html
16-06-2020||National||Indian forces were resolute in forcing Chinese soldiers to 'retreat': BJP leader||Senior BJP leader B L Santhosh on Tuesday said Indian forces were resolute in forcing Chinese troops to "retreat" in a violent face-off in Ladakh, claiming that the loss on the adversary's side could be “still more huge". "Our forces were resolute in forcing Chinese troops to retreat. In the process yesterday we have lost 3 brave Deshbhakt soldiers. 'Veer Sadgati' to the departed souls. The picture on the Chinese side is yet to emerge. It is still more huge," the BJP general secretary (organisation) tweeted. He said Indian forces engaged in an "unprecedented" face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan valley and Pangong Tso. Indian efforts at building infrastructure in a never before scale have increased Chinese worries, he added. Santhosh said efforts are now on to defuse the situation and stated it was time to stand with “our forces and the government”. An Indian Army officer and two soldiers were killed during a violent clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, in the first such incident involving fatalities after a gap of 45 years and signalling a massive escalation in the five-week border standoff in the sensitive region. The Army said India lost an officer and two soldiers during the violent face-off, while there were casualties on the Chinese side as well. The extent of casualties on the Chinese side is not immediately clear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-forces-were-resolute-in-forcing-chinese-soldiers-to-retreat-bjp-leader-850315.html
16-06-2020||National||India summons Pakistan Charge d' Affaires over 'abduction and torture' of 2 Indian High Commission officials||India on Tuesday summoned Charge d' Affaires of Pakistan High Commission Haider Shah and lodged a strong protest with him over the "abduction and torture" of two officials of the Indian high commission in Islamabad by Pakistani agencies. The External Affairs Ministry said these two officials of the Indian High Commission were "forcibly abducted" by Pakistani agencies on Monday and kept in "illegal custody" for more than 10 hours. The two officials were detained in Islamabad on Monday in a case of alleged "hit and run" and were released after over 10 hours following a blunt message by India to Islamabad that the duo must be freed immediately. In a media statement, the MEA said the Indian officials were subjected to "interrogation, torture and physical assault resulting in grievous injuries to them". "They were released only after strong intervention by the high commission of India in Islamabad and the Ministry of External Affairs in Delhi," it said. "They were video-graphed and coerced to accept a litany of fictitious allegations and concocted charges. The vehicle of the High Commission, in which they were travelling, was extensively damaged," the MEA said. It said India strongly condemned and deplored the action of the Pakistani authorities against the duo. "This premeditated, grave and provocative action on the part of the Pakistani authorities, preceded by intensified surveillance, harassment and intimidation of high commission personnel over the past several days, was designed to obstruct and disrupt the normal functioning of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad," the MEA said. It said the attempt by Pakistani authorities to levy "false accusations and concocted charges" on the officials is rejected "in entirety". "These actions by Pakistan not only constitute an egregious violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 as also the Code of Conduct for treatment of Diplomatic / Consular personnel," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-summons-pakistan-charge-d-affaires-over-abduction-and-torture-of-2-indian-high-commission-officials-850320.html
16-06-2020||National||Violent face-off in Ladakh result of China's attempt to unilaterally change status quo in region: MEA||India on Tuesday said the violent face-off between the armies of India and China in eastern Ladakh was the result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo in the region. The Ministry of External Affairs said both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement arrived at earlier at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side. "Given its responsible approach to border management, India is very clear that all its activities are always within the Indian side of the LAC. We expect the same of the Chinese side," MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. An Indian Army colonel and two soldiers were killed during a violent clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on Monday night, the first such incident involving fatalities after a gap of 45 years. "We remain firmly convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue," Srivastava said. "At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/violent-face-off-in-ladakh-result-of-chinas-attempt-to-unilaterally-change-status-quo-in-region-mea-850325.html
16-06-2020||National||Can’t award death penalty retrospectively for crime committed prior to provision in law: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has refused to award death penalty to a convict, who committed rape and murder of a nine-year-old child last year in Telangana, nearly two months prior to the amendment of POCSO Act by Parliament prescribing extreme sentence for the heinous crime, saying that retrospective effect to the law cannot be granted. Telangana Government has moved the top court against the Hyderabad High Court order of November 12, last year by which it had commuted the death sentence of the 25-years-old youth, who committed the grave crime and awarded him life sentence till last breath. The youth, Polepaka Praveen alias Pawan, was awarded death penalty in a trial completed in record time of 48 days by the lower court after the commission of crime on June 18-19, last year. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and K M Joseph said that it is unable to persuade itself with the argument of the state government on the aspect of retrospective punishment of extreme sentence on the ground that a signal goes to the society by imposition of the death sentence. “Firstly, we fail to see how retrospective effect can be granted when the punishment is to operate prospectively and logically so. Even otherwise, the punishment of not being released till his last breath is punitive enough to send a signal to the society and it cannot be that only the death sentence can send a right signal,” the bench said. The bench said, “We are of the view that the High Court has deemed it appropriate to impose the life sentence till the last breath, this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India should not interfere only for conversion of the same into again a death sentence was imposed by the trial court” During the hearing, counsel appearing for the state submitted that the imposition of death sentence was included in the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 with effect from August 6, 2019 and the offence was committed on June 18-19, 2019. The counsel submitted that keeping in mind the intent of the Parliament; it should be given retrospective effect even though the provision is prospective in nature. The bench refused to agree with contention of the state government and dismissed the appeal against the High Court order. On August 8, last year, the trial court, in its verdict delivered within 48 days of the incident, had imposed death sentence to Praveen, who on June 18 kidnapped the infant, raped and murdered after lifting the baby from their house in Kumarpally in Hanamkonda. He was caught by the girl’s family within hours, but by then the child was murdered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-t-award-death-penalty-retrospectively-for-crime-committed-prior-to-provision-in-law-supreme-court-850346.html
16-06-2020||National||At least 20 Indian Army personnel martyred in face-off with China in Ladakh||In the first event of bloodshed on the LAC in 45 years, as many as 20 Indian soldiers including the Commanding Officer of an infantry battalion of Indian Army were martyred on Monday night in a "violent face-off" with the PLA troops disrupting the fragile peace prevailing along India's disputed border with China. Indian Army initially admitted the death of three soldiers including an officer but after several hours added that "17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries,"  taking the toll to 20. Army officials said Indian and Chinese troops had clashed on the night of June 15/16 leading to casualties on both sides. Sources said that the extent of the violence was fairly large and what had been officially admitted was only a tip of the iceberg.  The violence occurs after nearly six weeks of stand-off between Indian and People's Liberation Army troops at multiple sites in Eastern Ladakh. The two sides discussed a resolution formula on June 6 following which the disengagement process started in the Galwan valley. "On the late-evening and night of June 15, a violent face-off happened as a result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there. Both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side,"  the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. The loss of lives on the Indian side includes Col B Santosh Babu of 16 Bihar Regiment and two of his men (Hav Palni from 16 Bihar and Sepoy Kundan Ojha from an Artillery regiment).  Though the details of the casualties from the Chinese side is not available officially, unconfirmed reports indicate a casualty figure of five among the PLA troops. ANI claims 43 Chinese casualties quoting military intercepts shared by the government. Following a day long meetings at the Maj Gen level between the two armies, the troops were disengaged from the Galwan area, Army officials said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the current operational situation in Eastern Ladakh, consequent to Monday's violent faceoff on the LAC, along with the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service Chiefs.  A second high level meeting took place in the evening at the Prime Minister's Office to take stock of the situation.  Army sources said there was no firing during the entire incident, suggesting that the casualties happened as a result of hand to hand combat. In an aggressive statement, a spokesperson of People's Liberation Army's Western War Zone claimed sovereignty on the Galwan Valley and asserted that Indian troops "violated their commitments by crossing the LAC to carry out illegal activities." For decades, the Indian position is that since 1962 Galwan valley was never contested as the area is within Indian territory. "Indian Army is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation," the Army said in a statement. This is for the first time, Indian soldiers were killed along the Line of Actual Control in 45 years. It was in 1975 when such a tragedy struck India last time as four soldiers were ambushed by the PLA troops in Arunachal Pradesh.  Following the Monday night combat, Maj Gen rank officers from both sides were in talks throughout the day on Tuesday in order to defuse the situation. For more than a month troops from India and China were locked in a tense face-off at several locations in eastern Ladakh near the disputed border as well as in North Sikkim. On May 5, the CO of 11 Mahar regiment was badly injured in a skirmish with the PLA troops on the LAC, leading to a month-long face-off between the border guarding troops from both sides. Following a meeting between top military leaders on June 6,  the disengagement process was initiated in the Galwan valley but soldiers continue to be in a face-off on the northern banks of the Pangong Tso, which remains a bone of contention between the two countries for decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-20-indian-army-personnel-martyred-in-face-off-with-china-in-ladakh-850357.html
16-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 testing capacity reaches 3 lakh per day as cases surge||India has ramped up testing capacity significantly, with its network of state-run and private laboratories in a position to test three lakh samples for COVID-19 every day, even as the infectious disease continues to spread in the country. As on Tuesday, India had 34.30 lakh confirmed cases of COVID-19 of which 1.80 lakh patients had recovered, while the fatalities inched towards the 10,000-mark. According to a separate DH COVID-19 Tracker, India's confirmed cases of COVID-19 were 3,43,699 and the death toll had touched 9,922 at 7.30 pm on Tuesday. As the COVID-19 infections continued to spread, mostly through urban hotspots such as Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, health authorities have deployed a bouquet of platforms, including launching mobile laboratories to ramp up testing. “The country now has the capability to test three lakh samples per day,” the health ministry said, adding that it had a total of 534 laboratories conducting the RT-PCR tests. In addition, as many as 302 laboratories use the TrueNat platform and 71 facilities use the CBNAAT platform to conduct tests for COVID-19. Being portable platforms, TrueNat and CBNAAT based tests are being carried out in remote areas. Through this network of laboratories, the Indian Council of Medical Research has so far tested 59,21,069 samples for COVID-19, which include 1,54,935 samples tested on Monday. Health authorities also flagged off India’s first mobile testing laboratory, which was created within eight days at the Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone in Visakhapatnam. The ICMR on Monday also granted its approval to the Rapid Antigen Detection Test that gives faster results at a cheaper cost when compared with the RT-PCR test. The ICMR has advised the health ministry to deploy the rapid antigen tests in containment zones in Delhi, where 10,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported in te past week. In order to enhance the testing capacity in Delhi, each of the 11 districts shall now have assigned labs for exclusively testing the samples from the respective districts. The samples from each district are being sent to these labs to ensure timely testing and getting the results without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-testing-capacity-reaches-3-lakh-per-day-as-cases-surge-850370.html
16-06-2020||National||Health Ministry issues guide to address stigma associated with COVID-19||To address the stigma associated with coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday issued an illustrated guide, saying the pandemic is causing a difficult time and that rumours and misinformation create more stress and can "hamper COVID-19 recovery". Listing the effects of stigma and discrimination, the ministry said this can lead people to conceal symptoms, hesitate in seeking medical care and not make them adhere to interventions like home quarantine. It will also lead to a feeling of emotional isolation, guilt and anxiety, lack of self-esteem and confidence, ostracisation of healthcare workers and others involved in COVID-19, and management and worsening of pre-existing psychiatric illnesses such as depression. The ministry said coronavirus cases not being reported, or being reported late, will make management of the outbreak more difficult.  "COVID-19 pandemic is a public health emergency that is causing a stressful and a difficult time for everyone. During this crisis, rumours and misinformation create more stress and can hamper COVID-19 recovery," the document stated. Although the virus is highly contagious, the ministry said people can protect themselves by following preventive measures such as physical distancing, washing hands frequently and wearing a face cover and mask.  "Despite precautions, if a person contracts COVID-19, it is not his/her fault. Anyone is susceptible to contracting the disease, no one needs to be blamed," the document states. The guide states that the patients and their families need support and cooperation, and those who have recovered from the disease should be celebrated as "winners". They do not have the virus and there is no risk of transmission, the minister stressed. The ministry listed do's and don'ts according to which one should be appreciative and supportive of the efforts made by frontline workers, and share positive stories of those who have recovered from coronavirus. The list of dont's asks people to refrain from spreading misinformation, against labelling any individual, group or area for spread of infection, and not spreading the name, identity, locality of persons affected or under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-guide-to-address-stigma-associated-with-covid-19-850377.html
16-06-2020||National||The key dates in India-China border tensions||Asian regional superpowers India and China share a long history of mistrust and conflict along their lengthy border, and tensions flared up this week in a deadly clash between troops. The world's two most populous nations and nuclear-armed neighbours have never even agreed on the length of their "Line of Actual Control" frontier, which straddles the strategically important Himalayan region. Recent decades have seen numerous skirmishes along the border, including a brief but bloody war in 1962. Here are some key dates: India inherited its border dispute with China from its British colonial rulers, who hosted a 1914 conference with the Tibetan and Chinese governments to set the border. Beijing has never recognised the 1914 boundary, known as the McMahon Line, and currently claims 90,000 square kilometres (34,750 square miles) of territory -- nearly all of what constitutes India's Arunachal Pradesh state. The border dispute first flared up during a visit by India's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru to Beijing in 1959. Nehru questioned the boundaries shown on official Chinese maps, prompting Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai to reply that his government did not accept the colonial frontier. Chinese troops poured over the disputed frontier with India in 1962 during a row over the border's demarcation. It sparked a four-week war that left thousands dead on the Indian side before China's forces withdrew. Beijing retained Aksai Chin, a strategic corridor linking Tibet to western China. India still claims the entire Aksai Chin region as its own, as well as the nearby China-controlled Shaksgam valley in northern Kashmir. Another flashpoint was Nathu La, India's highest mountain pass in northeastern Sikkim state, which is sandwiched between Bhutan, Chinese-ruled Tibet and Nepal. During a series of clashes, including the exchange of artillery fire, New Delhi said some 80 Indian soldiers died and counted up to 400 Chinese casualties. This skirmish was the last time shots were officially reported to have been fired across the disputed border. Four Indian soldiers were ambushed and killed along the dividing line in Arunachal Pradesh. New Delhi blamed Beijing for crossing into Indian territory, a claim dismissed by China. India and China had a months-long high-altitude standoff in Bhutan's Doklam region after the Indian army sent troops to stop China constructing a road in the area. The Doklam plateau is strategically significant as it gives China access to the so-called "chicken's neck" -- a thin strip of land connecting India's northeastern states with the rest of the country. It is claimed by both China and Bhutan, an ally of India. The issue was resolved after talks. Tensions have boiled over again after several Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in a high-altitude fistfight on the border at Sikkim state in early May. Indian officials said that within days, Chinese troops encroached over the demarcation line further west in Ladakh region and India then moved in extra troops to positions opposite. Last week both countries said they would peacefully resolve the face-off after a high-level meeting between army commanders. But on Monday, India said three of its soldiers were killed in a violent clash in the strategically important Galwan Valley on the Himalayan frontier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-key-dates-in-india-china-border-tensions-850380.html
16-06-2020||National||India accuses Pakistan of flouting Vienna Convention||A day after two officials of the High Commission of India (HCI) in Islamabad were detained by police in the capital of Pakistan for more than 10 hours, New Delhi accused the government of the neighbouring country of “egregious violation” of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. The Charge d’ Affaires of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, Syed Haider Shah, was again summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi on Tuesday, when senior diplomats of India lodged a strong protest over abduction and torture of the two officials of its High Commission in Islamabad.   Shah was also summoned to the MEA on Monday after the two officials of the HCI in Islamabad – D Brahma and P Selvadhas – were detained by the police in the capital of Islamabad early on Monday. They were released after for more than 10 hours and were accused of injuring a pedestrian in a road mishap and possessing fake currencies. The incident came a fortnight after India expelled two consular officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi after they were found to be involved in espionage. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Tuesday alleged that the two officials had been “forcibly abducted” by the security agencies of Pakistan and held in illegal custody. “They were released only after strong intervention by the High Commission of India in Islamabad and the Ministry of External Affairs in Delhi. The two Indian officials were subjected to interrogation, torture and physical assault resulting in grievous injuries to them,” the MEA alleged in a statement issued in New Delhi. “They were video-graphed and coerced to accept a litany of fictitious allegations and concocted charges. The vehicle of the High Commission, in which they were travelling, was extensively damaged.” New Delhi strongly condemned and deplored the action of the authorities in Pakistan. “This premeditated, grave and provocative action on the part of the authorities in Pakistan, preceded by intensified surveillance, harassment and intimidation of High Commission personnel over the past several days, was designed to obstruct and disrupt the normal functioning of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad,” the MEA stated, adding: “The attempt by Pakistani authorities to levy false accusations and concocted charges on the officials of the High Commission is rejected in entirety.” India alleged that the harassment of the officials of the HCI Islamabad “not only constitute an egregious violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961” by Pakistan, but also went against the “Code of Conduct for treatment of Diplomatic / Consular personnel in India and Pakistan signed in 1992 and reaffirmed by both sides in March 2018”. These are also “against all established norms and practices of diplomatic conduct”. “Our grave concerns at the fact that the Pakistan agencies threatened to physically harm more officials of the Indian Mission have been shared. It has been highlighted that Pakistan is responsible for the safety and security of the Indian High Commission, its officials, staff members, their families and properties,” said the MEA spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-accuses-pakistan-of-flouting-vienna-convention-850395.html
16-06-2020||National||Election Commission to refer complaints on false affidavits to investigating agencies||The Election Commission on Tuesday decided to come down heavily on candidates furnishing false information in election affidavits, saying it is a "devious design to defeat" the right of the voter to be informed and transparency in polls. The Commission has now decided to take cognizance of complaints regarding furnishing of false information in the affidavits that indicates "serious omission" and refer it to relevant investigating agencies on a case-to-case basis in the "pursuit of a level-playing field". The decision was taken at a meeting of the Full Commission chaired by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and attended by Election Commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra. Viewing the erosion of this fundamental right as an "affront" to the democratic ideals which underpin the system of government, the Commission felt that false information in poll affidavits affects the "rights" of voters as well as impinging on the "purity" of the electoral process. "The Commission has been receiving complaints regarding furnishing of false information in the affidavits of some candidates. As per the extant provision, individuals are filing such complaints in the competent court under section 125A of the Representation of People Act, 1951. Now, the Commission has reviewed this position and decided that, in pursuit of a level-playing field, it will take cognisance of complaints, which indicate serious omission on the part of the candidate, and refer such matters to the relevant investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis," an official statement said. Citing Supreme Court judgements, the Commission said filing of false affidavits, in terms of false or incomplete information, is a "key challenge" as it undermines the rights of voters to be fully informed about their political representatives. It said the apex court had held that the "truthful" disclosure of all relevant information by a candidate as "integral" to the electoral process and any denial or false disclosure would "tantamount to vitiating the integrity" of elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-to-refer-complaints-on-false-affidavits-to-investigating-agencies-850397.html
16-06-2020||National||Moscow engages in backchannel talks with India, China to ease tension||Moscow has engaged in backchannel talks with both New Delhi and Beijing to help end the stand-off along the disputed India-China boundary, even as the violent face-off in Galwan Valley escalated tension between the two neighbouring nations. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is likely to join his Russian and Chinese counterparts, Sergey Lavrov and Wang Yi, in a video-conference on June 22. The virtual meeting is part of the existing Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral mechanism, but what has added to its significance is that it is being held at a time when the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are engaged in a stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de-facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. Moscow on Monday got in touch with both New Delhi and Beijing to make it sure that the violent face-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA, which resulted in casualties on both sides in Galwan Valley on Monday, should not derail the process initiated by the two governments to resolve the stand-off through dialogue between the diplomats and senior military officials, sources told the DH. Moscow’s deputy envoy to New Delhi, Roman Babushkin, earlier this month told journalists in New Delhi that while Russia was concerned about the situation along the LAC, it was confident that India and China would find a way to resolve the stand-off through dialogue. Russia, however, did not make any public offer to mediate between India and China – unlike the United States. New Delhi and Beijing echoed each other last month to reject the US President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate to help defuse tension along India-China border. But when Trump called Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 2, the two leaders did discuss the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA. Modi also supported Trump’s plan to expand the G-7 to G-11 – a move, which Beijing already decried as an attempt to contain China and was also opposed by Russia. Moscow is understood to have conveyed the message to Beijing that China’s aggression on its disputed boundary with India would leave it with no other option to move closer to the US. Shortly before Trump-Modi call on June 2, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and Russia’s envoy to India, Nikolay Kudashev, had a meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moscow-engages-in-backchannel-talks-with-india-china-to-ease-tension-850400.html
16-06-2020||National||China claims sovereignty in Galwan Valley, India says PLA flouted consesus||India on Tuesday blamed China for the violent face-off in Galwan Valley, saying the incident happened because the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) made an attempt to depart from the consensus to respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the area. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued a statement countering Beijing’s attempt to lay the blame on India. It said that while New Delhi remained convinced on the need to resolve differences through dialogue, it was also “strongly committed to ensuring sovereignty and territorial integrity” of India. Hours after Beijing warned the Indian Army against any move to “cross the border”, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava alleged that the face-off took place because the PLA made an attempt to “unilaterally change the status quo” in Galwan Valley. “Both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side,” said Srivastava.  Beijing earlier lodged a “strong protest” with New Delhi demanding that India strictly restrain its frontline troops and make sure that they “do not cross the border, do not take provocative acts, do not take any unilateral actions that will complicate the border situation”. New Delhi's envoy to Beijing, Vikram Misri, was summoned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Chinese Government, where the Vice Foreign Minister of the neighbouring country, Luo Zhaohui, lodged a strong protest over the alleged move by the Indian Army to cross the border in the Galwan Valley. Srivastava noted that India and China had been discussing through military and diplomatic channels the de-escalation of situation in the border area in eastern Ladakh. He also said senior officials of the Indian Army and the Chinese Army had “a productive meeting” on June 6 and “agreed on a process” for de-escalation”. “Subsequently,” he added, “the ground commanders had a series of meetings to implement the consensus reached at a higher level”. “While it was our expectation that this would unfold smoothly, the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the LAC in the Galwan Valley,” said Srivastava. His statement came shortly after a spokesperson of PLA’s Western Theater Command, Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, alleged that India had broken its promise and “again crossed the LAC in the Galwan Valley region on Monday” and “purposely launched provocative attacks, leading to severe clashes and casualties”. The PLA spokesperson said that China always owned sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region, and the border defence troops of India were “inconsistent” with words and “seriously violated” the agreements both countries had reached, the consensus made during the talks between the military army commanders”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-claims-sovereignty-in-galwan-valley-india-says-pla-flouted-consesus-850401.html
16-06-2020||National||UN chief expresses concern about reports of violence, deaths at LAC conflict between India, China||UN chief Antonio Guterres has expressed concern over reports of violence and deaths at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China and urged both sides to exercise "maximum restraint," his spokesperson said on Tuesday. Eri Kaneko, Associate Spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General, made the comments at the daily press briefing. “We are concerned about reports of violence and deaths at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China and urge both sides to exercise maximum restraint. We take positive note of reports that the two countries have engaged to deescalate the situation,” Kaneko said. Kaneko was responding to a question on the death of Indian Army personnel in a violent face-off in Ladakh's Galwan Valley amid escalating tensions at the LAC. Initially, the Indian Army said one officer and two soldiers were killed. Later in the night, an Army statement said 17 more soldiers who "were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total that were killed in action to 20." "Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of 15/16 June 2020," it said, adding that the "Indian Army is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation. China has not released any information on the casualties suffered by the People's Liberation Army soldiers during the violent face-off in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-chief-expresses-concern-about-reports-of-violence-deaths-at-lac-conflict-between-india-china-850403.html
16-06-2020||National||SC to hear PIL to quash notification for holding CBSE exams||The Supreme Court is to consider on Wednesday a PIL to quash the notification for conducting examinations by CBSE for the remaining subjects of class XII, between July 1 and 15 in view of health risk posed to millions of students due to COVID-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna would take up the plea filed by Colonel Amit Bathla and other parents. The petitioners contended that ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards in COVID-19 situation in 15,000 exam centres spread over length and breadth of the country, including in rural sectors, would not only be risking health and life of children but also would be an exercise in futility and an eyewash. "At a time when cases are rising diametrically and even if 50 per cent cases were asymptomatic, the students appearing for these exams could also be potential carriers themselves and would be posing a great risk to the other family members and themselves," they said. In the month of July where the temperature touches almost 45 degree Celsius with a high level of humidity, students wearing gloves and masks and sitting in examination centres for four hours at stretch would be a task, completely hazardous to everyone, they added. The petitioners also pointed out several prestigious institutions like Delhi University and IITs across the country and various state governments have cancelled final year examinations in view of he prevailing situation. They said the CBSE itself has cancelled examinations class X and XII in 250 odd schools situated abroad and has decided to award marks based on internal assessment or practical examinations. "It is highly regretful the authorities were showing no genuine concern about putting the lives at peril of all the students pan India and have no explanation whatsoever in insisting upon holding the said examination in India," they said. The petitioners asked the court to quash the May 18 notification and direct the CBSE to declare the results on the basis of examination already conducted and to calculate it on an average basis with the internal assessment marks of the remaining subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-pil-to-quash-notification-for-holding-cbse-exams-850404.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi writes to PM Narendra Modi opposing petrol, diesel prices hike||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding an immediate rollback in the regular increase in the prices of petrol and diesel. “I see no logic in why the government would even consider such a price increase at a time when the economic impact of COVID-19 is depriving millions of jobs and livelihoods, devastating business big and small, rapidly eroding the income of middle class, even as farmers are struggling to sow crops for the kharif season,” Gandhi said. She also reiterated the Congress demand to use government resources to put money directly into the hands of those who need it in this time of severe hardship.   Since June 7, oil marketing companies have been increasing petrol and diesel prices every day, making the fuel costliest since October 2018, when global crude prices were at a record high. In 10 hikes, the petrol price has gone up by Rs 5.47 per litre and diesel by Rs 5.8 a litre. On the contrary, global crude prices have slumped due to the COVID-19 outbreak worldwide owing to low demand. “Your government is seeking to earn an additional revenue of nearly Rs 2.60 lakh crore by these ill-advised hikes in excise duty and increases in the prices of petrol and diesel,” Gandhi said pointing out that the excise duty has been increased by 258% and 820% on petrol and diesel respectively in the last six years. The Congress President claimed that the government had earned Rs 18 lakh crore over the past six years from excise collection on diesel and petrol alone. “I urge you to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit of low oil prices directly to the citizens of the country,” she said. She said the increase in petrol and diesel prices were saddling the people with an additional burden of enormous magnitude that was neither justified nor appropriate. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the tenth straight day on Tuesday after an 82-day break from rate revision amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic. Petrol price hiked by 47 paise per litre, diesel by record 93 paise per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-opposing-petrol-diesel-prices-hike-850101.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh Secretariat has become den of corruption under BJP, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday alleged that the scam in the Animal Husbandry department of the Uttar Pradesh government has exposed the endemic corruption in the state and asked whether the chief minister had any clue about it. She said if the chief minister and other ministers were not aware of the corruption in the state, then it puts a question mark on the functioning of the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. On Sunday, the Uttar Pradesh Police's special task force had busted a tender racket and arrested four persons, including two senior government officials, for allegedly duping a man to the tune of Rs 9.72 crore. Those arrested were identified as Rajnish Dixit, chief personal secretary to the minister of state for animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development; Dheeraj Kumar, private secretary to the minister; AK Rajiv, alias Akhilesh Kumar, who claims to be a journalist; and Ashish Rai, the Uttar Pradesh Police had said in a statement. The Congress leader also alleged that the executive in Uttar Pradesh government is seeped in corruption. "The UP secretariat, the largest office in the state, has become the den of corruption under the BJP government. The Animal Husbandry Department scam has exposed the endemic corruption in the system. The UP government executive is seeped in corruption," she alleged in a tweet in Hindi. "Do the ministers and the chief minister have any clue about it? If it is so, the facts are shocking. This puts a question mark on the working of the Uttar Pradesh government," she asked. The Congress leader has been targeting the government recently over alleged scams in various departments including the recruitment of teachers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-secretariat-has-become-den-of-corruption-under-bjp-says-priyanka-gandhi-850142.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||Shivraj Singh Chouhan had shared fake video of Rahul Gandhi, will file FIR: Digvijaya Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday said he would lodge an FIR against Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for "sharing a fake video" of former AICC president Rahul Gandhi during campaigning for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A day earlier, police had registered an FIR against Singh and 11 others for allegedly circulating an "edited" clip of Chouhan's old statement on liquor policy of the previous Kamal Nath government. "I will lodge an FIR against Shivraj for sharing a fake video in a tweet at the same police station, where BJP leaders went to file an FIR against me," Singh tweeted and attached a news item containing a tweet of Chouhan dated May 16, 2019 and Rahul Gandhi's video. Chouhan's tweet reads: "What is this? Rahul ji, you have changed the Madhya Pradesh's Chief Minister for not waiving off loans of farmers on time, at least in speech. Only a great person like you can do such things in a jiffy". According to the news piece, Chouhan's reaction was to the 13-second video of Rahul Gandhi in which the latter purportedly says, "Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Bhupesh Baghel ji, Chhattisgarh's Chief Minister Hukum Singh Karada ji". The speech was reportedly given by Rahul Gandhi at a poll rally in Neemuch (MP) on May 14, 2019. The news item tagged by Singh also mentions a link of Rahul Gandhi's "original" speech in which he purportedly said, "Kamal Nath ji, Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Bhupesh Baghel ji, Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh, Hukum Singh Karada ji, PC Sharma ji". State Home Minister Narottam Mishra said Singh was raking up an old tweet to "hide" his mistake of circulating an "edited" clip of Chouhan's old statement on liquor policy of the erstwhile Kamal Nath government. "He should apologise right away. If there was such a tweet (of Chouhan) then what was he (Singh) doing at that time? Now, he is talking like this when his mistake was caught," he said. Singh, MP Congress' social media coordinator Avinash Kadbe and ten others were booked on Monday under sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505 (2) (public mischief) and 465 (forgery) on a complaint lodged by BJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shivraj-singh-chouhan-had-shared-fake-video-of-rahul-gandhi-will-file-fir-digvijaya-singh-850189.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||India, China should initiate talks to defuse tensions between two nations: Left parties||The Left parties on Tuesday said India and China should initiate talks to defuse tensions between the two countries in eastern Ladakh. Their remarks came after an Army officer and two soldiers were killed in a violent confrontation with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on Monday. The CPI(M) called on the government to come out with an "authoritative statement" to explain what happened in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley, and said that high-level talks should be initiated between the two nations to defuse the situation. "It is unfortunate that during the de-escalation process on the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, a clash has taken place at the Galwan Valley. This has taken place after the talks between the two sides at a high military-level began on June 6 to discuss the process of disengagement. Both the sides have reported casualties," a statement from the CPI (M) said. The party also expressed deep condolences at the death of an Indian Army officer and two soldiers. "It is imperative that both the governments immediately initiate high-level talks to defuse the situation and advance the process of disengagement on the basis of the agreed understanding on maintaining peace and tranquility on the border," it said. The CPI, in a separate statement, said that it is believed that the present standoff can be resolved through talks and established frame-works agreed by both the countries. "We feel that both the sides have to intensify their efforts keeping in mind their core interest to achieve mutually acceptable solution to the India-China boundary question as soon as possible. "Any military confrontation between the two major Asian countries not only impacts the cooperation and friendship between the two countries but also can jeopardise the peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-should-initiate-talks-to-defuse-tensions-between-two-nations-left-parties-850275.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena likens Congress to 'old creaking cot', says govt is stable||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday called its ally Congress an "old creaking cot" following the Sonia Gandhi-led party grumbling about not having enough say in the ruling coalition, but also asserted that there was no threat to the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. State Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said the editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana was based on the wrong information. The editorial in the 'Saamana' said that internal resentment was inevitable in an alliance of parties with different ideologies. The Congress was an old party with a historical legacy where murmurs of resentment are more, it said. "The cot is old and creaks often. The cot is very old, but has historical legacy. There are many (leaders) on the cot who change their sides...whether the Congress or NCP, both parties have seasoned politicians who know when to express resentment and when to change sides," the Marathi daily said. "There are many in the party (Congress) who can change sides. This is the reason why murmurs are being felt. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should be prepared to tolerate such murmurs in the alliance," it added. But no one should harbour the idea that the MVA government will collapse and the "gates of Raj Bhavan will be opened for them early morning once again", the Sena said. It was apparently referring to the early morning swearing-in of BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis as chief minister and NCP's Ajit Pawar as his deputy during a stand-off between the Sena and its then ally BJP over power-sharing in November. Of late, the Congress has been seeking more say in the decision-making process. Chief minister Thackeray has been holding talks with NCP chief Sharad Pawar on important issues including the coronavirus pandemic and relief for victims of cyclone Nisarga, which has created a feeling among Congress leaders that they are being left out, Congress sources have said. The Congress has also requested Thackeray to hold a meeting of the three parties at the earliest to finalise the names of 12 members for appointment to the Legislative Council in the governor's quota. Calling the Congress the "third pillar" of the alliance government, the 'Saamana' claimed that the Shiv Sena had "sacrificed the most" in the tripartite set-up. "Why are there murmurs? What does their complaint that they should be heard mean? Congress leaders and ministers Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan both have long experience of governance. They should remember that even (NCP chief) Sharad Pawar has long experience in administration. But there are no complaints from his party," the Sena said. There are complaints about the bureaucracy, but however "big" an official may be, he remains a government servant and has to obey the chief minister's orders, it said. Noting that there was also a complaint about Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta getting repeated extensions which is causing resentment in the bureaucracy, the Sena said the issue can be discussed. The 12 Council seats should be shared on the basis of the strength of each coalition partner in the Assembly, the Sena mouthpiece said. The Sena has 56 MLAs, the NCP 54 and the Congress 44 in the 288-member Assembly. "In the power-sharing, the Shiv Sena has sacrificed the most. It had to give one ministerial berth to the NCP when Sharad Pawar objected to the Congress getting the post of Assembly Speaker," the Sena said. Two additional cabinet berths were given to the Congress instead of the posts of minister of state, it said. State Congress chief Thorat, who is also revenue minister, said the editorial was based on "incomplete information" and sends out wrong message about his party. "We are with the MVA," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-likens-congress-to-old-creaking-cot-says-govt-is-stable-850285.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||India's borders will remain intact under Narendra Modi's leadership: BJP chief J P Nadda||BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday asserted that the borders of India will remain intact under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Addressing the 'Kerala Jan-Samvad' virtual rally, he referred to the India-China face-offs at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh and said during the de-escalation process a violent clash took place with Chinese Army on Monday night. "Indian Army gave a befitting reply, but unfortunately, we have lost our three army men. I pay homage to them for their sacrifice and I can assure you that under the leadership of PM Modi, India's territorial integrity will not be compromised," he said. "We now have the political will and our Army is fully equipped to take (on) any adversary. Nobody can cast an ill eye on Modi's India. This is what I would like to reiterate," he said. Nadda slammed the Congress for its conduct during the COVID-19 crisis, claiming it has been "gravely irresponsible". "I'm pained to say that the behaviour of the Opposition party has been gravely irresponsible during this crisis. We as a party work to serve the nation. But Congress intention is to serve the party only, he said. Attacking Congress president Sonia Gandhi for her statement that the price of petrol should be reduced in the country, Nadda said petrol prices were raised in Puducherry, Rajasthan, Punjab and Maharashtra after the lockdown, all of them are Congress-ruled states. "I just want to ask a question from Smt Sonia Gandhiji that why your chief ministers are not listening to you?" Nadda said. He referred to the Rs 20 lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package announced by the Prime Minister to deal with the coronavirus crisis, saying it was full of reforms. "It aims to remove bottlenecks and convert crisis into opportunity," the BJP chief said. In the last three months, a total of 80 crore people were provided free ration, eight crore families free LPG cylinders and Rs 500 was given to 20 crore women each month through Jan Dhan accounts. Nadda claimed the year 2019 was "full of achievements" and Modi was able to "bridge the gap of six decades in six years." He said Prime Minister Modi has given a new direction to the country's democracy with his far-sighted policies, dedication and the spirit of team India, and people's welfare and the country's interest were reflected in every decision of the government. This first year of the Modi government's second term will be known for its tough and big decisions and converting challenges into opportunities, Nadda said. He said Modi implemented decisions which were awaited for decades like removing Article 370 and 35A, Triple Talaq, implementation of CAA and solution to the Ram Janmbhoomi issue. "These decisions have changed the country's face," the BJP president claimed. Nadda also spoke about the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and several other acts passed by the BJP government. Taking a dig at the respective LDF and UDF governments of Kerala, the BJP President alleged that the LDF and the UDF were destroying the state's beauty and social harmony. "Both the governments are the two sides of the same coin, both the governments are inefficient and do not believe in development." The present LDF government had delayed the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Yojana, he alleged. "The benefits for the poor sent by the Centre are not utilized by the LDF government", Nadda said, adding "anti-development policies of the LDF governments failed to generate employment in Kerala." He claimed that the people in Kerala have lost faith in both LDF and UDF. "They want to say goodbye to LDF and UDF. The only alternative to the LDF and the UDF is Bharatiya Janata Party", he said. Attacking the ruling Left over the political violence in the state, Nadda said there is no place for violence in a democracy, but under the LDF government, the BJP workers are constantly being attacked and killed. "The party salutes the sacrifices of its karyakartas. Their sacrifice will not go in vain and soon the lotus will bloom in Kerala," the party chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-borders-will-remain-intact-under-narendra-modis-leadership-bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-850300.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||Killing of Indian soldiers deeply shocking: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday termed as “deeply shocking” the killing of three Indian soldiers by the Chinese troops at the Galwan Valley in Ladakh and demanded that the government take stringent measures. The party also slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for their “absolute silence” on the issue and sought immediate answers from them. "Will the prime minister and defence minister now come forward to tell the nation as to how much of our territory has been illegally occupied by the Chinese, post-April/ May 2020, and what are the circumstances that have led to the killing of our brave officer and soldiers by the Chinese," Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a statement. Surjewala questioned the amendments to the Army statement on the Galwan Valley incident to include a reference to casualties on the Chinese side. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, an army officer-turned-politician, said that it was time now for the government to take some stringent measure against China. "Each sign of weakness on our part makes the Chinese reaction more belligerent. It is time now that the country stands up to these incursions. Our soldiers are not a fair game that every few days officers and men are being killed and injured defending our borders," he said. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma termed the death of Indian soldiers in the violent clash between India and China at Galwan Valley was a matter of "serious national concern". Sharma asked the government to take the country into confidence and brief political leadership on the ground situation considering the grave implications of the developments in Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/killing-of-indian-soldiers-deeply-shocking-congress-850311.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||Left condemns petrol, diesel price hike; demands cash transfer, free foodgrains to working class||The Left parties on Tuesday protested against the hike in petrol prices as well as the policies of the government in dealing with the coronavirus crisis, putting forth a slew of demands for the working classes. In a protest held by the CPI(M) in front of its office in Delhi, the party demanded monthly cash transfer of Rs 7,500 for six months to all families outside the income tax bracket. The party also demanded free 10 kg foodgrains per individual per month for six months. “... 150 million have been rendered unemployed during lockdown. Heart rending experiences of hungry migrant workers on the roads going home has revealed the hunger that so many of our people are suffering from,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. “The government is doing everything to ensure that India is not self-reliant,” he said. “Even in this situation, the government is trying to fill its coffers by increasing excise duty and this is the 10th day that the prices of petrol and diesel have gone up. We are protesting against all these,” the CPI(M) leader added. The party also demanded that a minimum 200 days employment under MNREGA with raised wages be provided to workers and urged the government to extend the scheme to the urban poor. “Immediately announce an unemployment allowance. Stop the loot of national assets, privatisation of the public sector and stop the scrapping of labour laws,” Yechury said. The CPI announced that it will hold nationwide protests against the hike in petrol and diesel prices on June 20, marking it as ‘Anti-Fuel-Hike Protest Day’. “The Narendra Modi government with the help of the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) is raising the price of petrol and diesel on a daily basis, to cover up the government’s failure on all fronts and crisis in all vital sectors,” it said. The party calls upon all its units to strongly protest the continuing hike, which is adding to the pains of all sections of people, ignoring the fact that the hike will have a cascading effect on the prices of all essential commodities and travel costs, the Communist Party of India (CPI) added. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the 10th day in a row on Tuesday. While the price of petrol has gone up cumulatively by Rs 5.47 per litre, price of diesel has increased by Rs 5.8 per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/left-condemns-petrol-diesel-price-hike-demands-cash-transfer-free-foodgrains-to-working-class-850353.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||CWC meeting on June 23 to discuss China, COVID-19, fuel price hike||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has summoned a meeting of the Congress Working Committee to discuss the COVID-19 outbreak, the rising fuel prices and the Sino-India stand-off in Ladakh. “A meeting of the Congress Working Committee will be held on June 23,” a Congress functionary said. This will be the third meeting of the CWC in as many months to discuss the COVID-19 situation and the manner in which it has been handled by the Modi government. The first CWC on the COVID-19 outbreak was held on April 2, just a week into the lockdown announced by the government to arrest the spread of the infectious disease. The second meeting was held on April 23 as the country was in the throes of the migrant workers' crises and rising communal tensions after the incident of lynching in Palghar in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cwc-meeting-on-june-23-to-discuss-china-covid-19-fuel-price-hike-850374.html
16-06-2020||National Politics||Cong tried to topple Rajasthan's Bhairon Singh Shekhawat govt in 1996, alleges BJP||Junking allegations of horse-trading, Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia on Tuesday attacked the Congress, charging it with the bid to topple his party’s Bhairon Singh Shekhawat government in 1990s. “In order to prevent the formation of the Bhairon Singh Shekhawat government and to form a Congress government in Rajasthan in 1993, Bhajan Lal had brought 'suit cases' in a charter plane from Haryana. Ashok Gehlot was the union minister at that time,” Poonia said. Poonia said conspiracies were hatched to topple the BJP government in 1996 when Shekhawat had gone to the USA for treatment and he had to rush back. “At that time, money was offered to MLAs,” he said. “Those who are making false allegations about horse-trading have done 'elephant trading' by buying six BSP MLAs twice,” he said. Poonia alleged that independent legislators kept at the ‘Congress MLA camp’ are being intimidated. “Why is the chief minister preventing them from going out. He should answer this to the people of the state,” he said referring to the legislators’ stay at a hotel in Jaipur. Poonia said the chief minister was leveling false and baseless allegations against the BJP and was trying to establish his absolute monopoly in the government. “More than 300 people have died in the state due to coronavirus so far. Thousands of people have been infected, and the number is on the rise but the chief minister, ministers and MLAs are enjoying in the hotel,” he said. Alleging that BJP is trying to poach its MLAs before the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls, the ruling Congress has kept them at a hotel on the Delhi highway in Jaipur. The BJP also shifted its MLAs to a hotel on Tonk Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-tried-to-topple-rajasthans-bhairon-singh-shekhawat-govt-in-1996-alleges-bjp-850379.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||FIR filed against unidentified persons for pelting stones at mosque in Delhi's Dwarka||An FIR was registered against unidentified persons for allegedly pelting stones at a mosque in Dwarka sector 11, officials said on Monday. According to a complaint, some miscreants pelted stones at the mosque on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Police visited the mosque on Monday morning and found some stones there, the officials said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Section 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of the Indian Penal Code, police said. "Some stones were found at the backside of the mosque. The incident allegedly took place past 1 am on Sunday night. Security guard Chaman said he heard a 'thud' sound, suggesting that something had been thrown inside the mosque compound," a senior police officer said. The security guard then informed the muezzin and imam of the mosque about the incident, he said. CCTV cameras along the route were also being scanned to identify the culprits involved, police said. This is the second time when such an incident has been reported. On February 27, an unidentified group had allegedly pelted stones and glass bottles at the same mosque. However, police had claimed that it was a rumour and no such incident had taken place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-filed-against-unidentified-persons-for-pelting-stones-at-mosque-in-delhis-dwarka-850036.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Centre forms 3 teams to inspect COVID-19 hospitals in Delhi, suggest measures for improvement||The central government on Monday constituted three teams of experts to inspect COVID-19 care facilities and patient care services in the national capital and suggest measures to improve them. The teams have been directed to submit their report to the Secretary of the Union Health Ministry and the Delhi Chief Secretary by Wednesday. The teams will have four doctors each, drawn from the AIIMS, Director General of Health Service (DGHS), Delhi government, and municipal corporations/council. "The teams will inspect the dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in Delhi and suggest specific measures for betterment of facilities and patient care services," according to an order issued by the health department of the Delhi government. It will help in efficient and timely decision making, the order said. The doctors from AIIMS and DGHS are empowered to co-opt other doctors from their institute and organisation to assist them. The national capital has been witnessing a sharp increase in coronavirus cases since the government eased lockdown restrictions.  According to the Delhi government's estimates, the national capital is likely to record around 5 lakh cases by July end and one lakh beds will be needed for COVID-19 patients. On Monday, Delhi recorded 1,647 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 42,829 while the death toll mounted to 1,400.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-forms-3-teams-to-inspect-covid-19-hospitals-in-delhi-suggest-measures-for-improvement-850056.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in J&K's Kupwara||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing towards Indian positions along the Line of Control (LoC) in Tangdhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district on Tuesday, a defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army gave a befitting response to the Pakistani aggression, he said. "On 16 June 2020, in the morning hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked Ceasefire Violation (CFV) along the LoC in Tangdhar (in north Kashmir's Kupwara district) by firing mortars and other weapons," Defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said. There have been no reports of any casualties so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jks-kupwara-850089.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Three militants killed in encounter in J&K's Shopian||Three militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in Turkawangam area of Shopian in south Kashmir this morning after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said an encounter ensued as militants fired upon a search party and the forces retaliated. In the exchange of firing, three militants were killed, he said. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants are being ascertained. Two AK rifles and one INSAS rifle have been recovered from the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-shopian-850090.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's Shamli reports first COVID-19 death||The woman, a resident of Thana Bhawan area, died on Monday, they said. Meanwhile, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Shamli rose to 49 as one more person tested positive for the contagious respiratory disease, according to the officials.  A woman, who was admitted to Meerut medical college, died of COVID-19 on Monday. Hers is the first death due to the disease in Shamli, District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said. The tally of COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 49 as a woman tested positive for the disease last evening, the officials said. With this, there are 10 active cases in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-shamli-reports-first-covid-19-death-850105.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tests negative for COVID-19||Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain, who developed COVID-19 like symptoms, on Tuesday tested negative for the virus infection. Jain was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Monday night after he developed fever. "Due to high grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night I have been admitted to RGSSH," Jain tweeted in the morning. Later in the day, officials said Jain has tested negative for COVID-19. Last week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also tested negative for COVID-19. He had developed mild fever and sore throat following which he went into self isolation on June 7 afternoon and tested for COVID-19 on June 9. Delhi has 42,829 COVID-19 cases in the country, which is the third-highest number of cases in India. Of this, 22,985 or 53.66 per cent were reported in June so far. The death toll is at 1,400 as on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-tests-negative-for-covid-19-850113.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Indian Army officer and two soldiers killed in face-off with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh||An Indian Army officer and two soldiers have been killed in a "violent face-off" with Chinese troops last night, disrupting the fragile peace prevailing along the LAC. "During the de-escalation process underway in the Galwan Valley, a violent face-off took place on Monday night with casualties on both sides," the Indian Army said in a statement. The loss of lives on the Indian side includes an officer and two soldiers. The details of the casualties from the Chinese side is not available readily. "Senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting at the venue to defuse the situation," it added. Army sources said there was no firing during the entire incident. This is for the first time, Indian soldiers were killed along the Line of Actual Control in 45 years. It was in 1975 when such a tragedy struck India last time as four soldiers were ambushed by the PLA troops in Arunachal Pradesh.  Unconfirmed reports say there are 3-4 deaths on the Chinese sides too. A Global Times (Chinese media) reporter in Hong Kong tweeted that 5 PLA troops were killed and 11 were injured in the clash. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the current operational situation in Eastern Ladakh, consequent to Monday's violent faceoff on the LAC, along with the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three Service Chiefs.  The External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar was also present in the meeting, official sources said. Following the violence, the Chinese sides sought meetings with India. Maj Gen rank officers have been in discussions since morning in order to defuse the situation. According to a Global Times report, Indian troops on Monday violated the consensus of the two sides by illegally crossing the border twice and carrying out provocative attacks on Chinese soldiers, resulting in serious physical clashes: For more than a month, troops from India and China were locked in a tense face-off at several locations in eastern Ladakh near the disputed border. Following a meeting between top military leaders earlier this month, a disengagement process started in the Galwan valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-officer-and-two-soldiers-killed-in-face-off-with-chinese-troops-in-eastern-ladakh-850143.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Gujarat Model exposed: Rahul Gandhi slams BJP govt over high COVID-19 mortality rate in state||Gandhi has also been attacking the Centre over its handling of the coronavirus crisis. "COVID-19 mortality rate: Gujarat: 6.25 per cent, Maharashtra: 3.73 percent, Rajasthan: 2.32 percent, Punjab: 2.17 percent, Puducherry: 1.98 percent, Jharkhand: 0.5 percent, Chhattisgarh: 0.35 percent," he tweeted comparing the COVID-19 mortality rate of Gujarat with that of states where the Congress is in power.  Covid19 mortality rate: Gujarat: 6.25%Maharashtra: 3.73%Rajasthan: 2.32%Punjab: 2.17%Puducherry: 1.98%Jharkhand: 0.5%Chhattisgarh: 0.35% "Gujarat Model exposed," Gandhi said. He also tagged a media report analysing the high death rate in Gujarat. Gujarat has the fourth-highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country at 24,055 with 1,505 deaths. On Monday, taking a swipe at the government using a quote of world-renowned physicist Albert Einstein, Gandhi had said the only thing more dangerous than ignorance is arrogance. He had also shared a graph that showed how the four phases of lockdown have flattened the curve of the economy instead of COVID-19 deaths, which are rising in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarat-model-exposed-rahul-gandhi-slams-bjp-govt-over-high-covid-19-mortality-rate-in-state-850167.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Imagine how escalated situation must be: Omar on killing of Indian soldiers by Chinese army||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Tuesday said if the Chinese can "shoot dead" three Indian soldiers during the 'de-escalation process', one can imagine how serious the situation must have been in the first place. Earlier in the day, the Indian Army said an officer and two soldiers were killed in a violent confrontation with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on Monday. According to official sources, there was no firing between the two sides. "If the Chinese shoot dead an Indian army colonel and two jawans during a 'de-escalation process' imagine how escalated the situation must be in the first place," Abdullah said in a tweet.  "This is what happens when the media propagates the government line that asking questions is anti-national," he added. When pointed out by a Twitter user that there was no firing at Galwan Valley, the National Conference leader said, "So they were beaten to death? That's even more horrific." The Army said there were casualties on the Chinese side as well but the extent of it was not immediately clear. A large number of Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation in Galwan Valley and certain other areas of eastern Ladakh for the last five weeks. The incident comes days after Indian Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said both sides have begun disengaging from the Galwan Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imagine-how-escalated-situation-must-be-omar-on-killing-of-indian-soldiers-by-chinese-army-850176.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||80 people working in Uttar Pradesh CM helpline centre test positive||At least 80 people working for the Uttar Pradesh chief minister's helpline service here have tested positive for COVID-19, a senior official said on Tuesday. "The first case (among those working at the helpline) was detected around 4-5 days back," the official told PTI. The helpline service '1076' has been outsourced to a company. "We had visited the place almost a month back, and they were properly told masks and sanitisers have to be used by everyone. They (the company) forwarded us photographs and videos of people wearing masks while working," the official said. However, the official refused to comment on whether any action has been initiated against the company, which was providing the services. The Yogi Adityanath government had last year launched the chief minister's helpline number '1076'.   The 24X7 toll-free helpline number enables residents of the state to file their complaints. It was launched to establish a direct link between the people and the Chief Minister's Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/80-people-working-in-uttar-pradesh-cm-helpline-centre-test-positive-850185.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Himachal Pradesh Congress legislature party leader quarantines self at home||Journalist-turned-politician Agnihotri wrote a post on Facebook about this around 12.45 am on Tuesday.  In the post written in Hindi, he said he might have come in contact with a COVID-19-positive person while discharging his duties as a public representative.  "Though the social distance was maintained and I am feeling fully healthy, I am quarantining myself at my home till further information," Agnihotri said in the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-himachal-pradesh-congress-legislature-party-leader-quarantines-self-at-home-850194.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government transfers 14 IPS officers||The Uttar Pradesh government has transferred 14 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, a statement said on Tuesday. Deputy Inspector General/Senior Superintendent of Police of Kanpur Nagar, Anant Dev has been made Deputy Inspector General Special Task Force, Lucknow, the statement said. Dinesh Kumar P has been made the new Senior Superintendent of Police of Kanpur Nagar. He was till now posted as Senior Superintendent of Police of Saharanpur. S Channappa, who was Superintendent of Police of Shahjahanpur, has been made the new Senior Superintendent of Police of Saharanpur, it said. S Anand is the new Superintendent of Police of Shahjahanpur, while R P Singh is the new Superintendent of Police of Sitapur. L R Kumar, who was posted as Deputy Inspector General/Senior Superintendent of Police of Sitapur, has been made the new DIG Vigilance, the statement said. Vikrant Vir, who was posted as Superintendent of Police of Unnao, has been posted to Hathras in the same capacity. Gaurav Banswal is the new SP Crime at DGP Headquarters. Senior Superintendent of Police of Prayagraj Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj has been put on a waiting list, it said. Abhishek Dixit, SP Pilibhit is the new SSP of Prayagraj. Rohan P Kanai has been made the new SP of Unnao, while Jai Prakash is the new SP of Pilibhit. Ajay Kumar Singh is the new SP of Baghpat, the statement said. Pratap Gopendra Yadav, who was posted as SP Baghpat, has been transferred to DGP Headquarters in Lucknow, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-transfers-14-ips-officers-850196.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||507 fresh COVID-19 cases, 18 deaths in Uttar Pradesh; infection tally at 14,598||Uttar Pradesh reported 507 fresh COVID-19 cases and 18 deaths due to the disease on Tuesday, officials said. The death toll in the state stands at 435 as the infection tally mounted to 14,598. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 8,904 people have recovered from the disease and the state has 5,259 active coronavirus cases. He said 13,966 tests were conducted in the state on Monday, adding accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace those who have returned from other parts of the country. "ASHA workers have tracked 16.75 lakh migrant workers and among them, 1,463 were found with coronavirus symptoms,” Prasad said. The state government's 1.23 lakh surveillance teams have surveyed over 93.42 lakh homes and covered 4.76 crore population, he said, adding the Aarogya Setu mobile application is also being used to track suspected patients. "Acting on alerts generated by the application, 83,462 people were called and given advise to protect themselves from the infection," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/507-fresh-covid-19-cases-18-deaths-in-uttar-pradesh-infection-tally-at-14598-850208.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Locust swarms spotted above several Bhopal localities||Locust swarms were seen on Tuesday over several areas of Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal, including the state secretariat and the chief minister's residence, prompting the administration to spray pesticides to stamp out the menace, officials said. Eye-witnesses said locust swarms were seen above Vallabh Bhawan (state secretariat), 74 Bungalows, where Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is currently residing, Press Complex, the MP Assembly complex and Link Road number one among other areas. Superintendent of Police (Fire Brigade) RS Nigwal told PTI spraying of pesticides had begun around Vallabh Bhawan and 74 Bungalows areas, adding the situation would be controlled soon. A Madhya Pradesh Public Relations Department officials said large-scale spraying of pesticides took place to destroy locusts in Bhopal, Ujjain, Sagar and Jabalpur divisions of the state. He said the agriculture department had directed its officers in all districts to spray pesticides and destroy the locust swarms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-locust-swarms-spotted-above-several-bhopal-localities-850223.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Happy that Jyotiraditya Scindia has recovered: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday expressed happiness over BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia returning his residence after hospitalisation. "Popular leader of the country and the state and my younger brother, JM Scindia returned home after fully recovering. It is a matter of joy and happiness. I pray that health of Jyotiraditya's mother Shrimant Rajmata Gwalior improves soon," he tweeted. Scindia and his mother had reportedly tested positive for coronavirus and were admitted in a private hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/happy-that-jyotiraditya-scindia-has-recovered-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-850230.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||NGT slams Haryana government over dumping of garbage, says nothing tangible done||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Haryana government over unscientific dumping of garbage in Haryana's Sonipat district saying nothing tangible has been done by the authorities. The NGT said there was a need to fix accountability as the matter has been hanging fire for the last 20 years and concerned officers were unwilling to perform their duties. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed Haryana Chief Secretary to take steps to ensure compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. It also asked the officer to take steps for taking coercive measures against concerned officials for their failure. The tribunal took exception over the submission of Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Local Bodies Department that due to Covid-19, the compliance of the Rules could not be ensured. It said the matter has been hanging fire for the last 20 years while Covid-19 situation has emerged only now. "Moreover, the statutory time lines have expired and earlier binding orders have attained finality. Nothing tangible is shown to have been done, giving rise of incompetence and unwilling of the concerned officers to perform their duties for which their accountability has to be fixed," the bench said. The tribunal sought a report on the issue by August 25. The NGT had earlier has directed the Haryana government to instal the waste-to-energy plant in Rohtak cluster before December 2021, calling the proposed timeline "leisurely". It had noted that the waste-to-energy plant is proposed to be installed for towns falling in the Rohtak cluster by December, 2021. The tribunal, however, had said such "leisurely" timeline is not only in conflict with the rules but also at the cost of the environment. The green panel was hearing a plea filed by Haryana resident Jagdish Kumar seeking restoration of a site where garbage was dumped as it was creating air pollution, affecting public health. He alleged that the collected garbage was creating air pollution, affecting public health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-slams-haryana-government-over-dumping-of-garbage-says-nothing-tangible-done-850248.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Press Council seeks Jammu and Kashmir's reply on new media policy, says it affects functioning of free press||The Press Council of India (PCI) on Tuesday sought a reply from the Jammu and Kashmir government over its new media policy, observing that provisions in it affect the free functioning of the press. The administration of the Union Territory had earlier this month approved the ‘Media Policy-2020’ for creating a sustained narrative on the functioning of the government in the media. Taking note of provisions regarding “fake news” mentioned in the policy, whereby the Jammu and Kashmir government authorises officers to decide on the content of print, electronic and other forms of media for “fake news” and proceed against journalists and media organisations, the PCI has moved suo motu as the matter affects the free functioning of the press. Comments on the matter have also been called from the Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary and Secretary, Department of Information and Public Relations, a PCI statement said. The policy attempts to thwart misinformation, fake news and tries to develop a mechanism that will raise alarm against any attempt to use the media to vitiate public peace, sovereignty and integrity of the country, an official spokesperson of the UT’s administration had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/press-council-seeks-jammu-and-kashmirs-reply-on-new-media-policy-says-it-affects-functioning-of-free-press-850252.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||NGT directs committee to look into alleged construction of bridge for mining in Sonipat||The National Green Tribunal Tuesday formed a committee to probe into alleged construction of a temporary bridge for mining activities in Haryana's Sonipat district. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed a committee comprising the District Collector, Sonipat and the Haryana State pollution control board to conduct the probe.. The state pollution control board will nominate a representative in the committee. "Report be sent by e-mail within two months. The applicant may furnish a set of papers to the District Collector, Sonipat and the Haryana State PCB and file affidavit within one week," the bench, also comprising Justice Sheo Kumar Singh, said. The matter is posted for next hearing on September 23. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Krishan Chander, a Haryana resident, who had sought demolition of a temporary bridge allegedly constructed by M/s D.S.P Associates, Sonipat for mining activities in violation of environmental condition. He said that the policy of permitting heavy vehicles in the embankments of the Yamuna river was destructing the ecology in Sonipat district. "At the behest of mining companies, the Irrigation and Flood Control Department is not taking remedial action and permitting heavily loaded trucks to operate in the embankments of the river. A policy dated February 21, 2019 has been issued laying down procedure for using the embankments by paying fee. "Though there is a provision against operation of the vehicles from July to September, this safeguard is not being observed," the plea alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-committee-to-look-into-alleged-construction-of-bridge-for-mining-in-sonipat-850260.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: After Congress, now BJP moves its MLAs to hotel||The state BJP on Tuesday moved most of its MLAs to a hotel here ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections, much like the ruling Congress which has already taken its legislators to a resort. While the Congress has cited alleged poaching attempt as a reason for keeping their MLAs in the hotel, the BJP said they moved theirs to train them on the Rajya Sabha poll process. The BJP held a meeting of its legislators at the party office here before shifting them to a hotel in Sitapura on Tonk Road. After the meeting, State BJP president Satish Poonia told reporters,"It was decided earlier that our MLAs will stay together for two days. We have several first-time MLAs so training will be held on the Rajya Sabha election process. Also, discussions on legislative works and Aatma Nirbhar Bharat  Abhiyan will be held." The elections to three seats of the upper house of parliament from Rajasthan will be held on June 19. Targeting the ruling Congress, Poonia said the party is a brand ambassador of horse-trading. He said that it was the Congress that tried to destabilise the former Bhairon Singh Shekhawat government. Poonia also criticised Congress legislators and other MLAs, alleging they are "enjoying" themselves at the resort on Delhi highway. It will be a simple stay for BJP MLAs, he said. The BJP has moved over 60 of its 72 MLAs to the hotel. Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) legislators have also joined part of the camp. The Congress had moved their more than 100 MLAs to the hotel last Wednesday. For elections to three Rajya Sabha, the Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of independent MLAs and legislators of other parties viz. the Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI (M) and Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP). The ruling Congress can easily win two seats and the opposition BJP, which has 72 MLAs and support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAS, has the numbers to comfortably win one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-after-congress-now-bjp-moves-its-mlas-to-hotel-850291.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Railways to provide 8,000 beds to treat patients in Delhi||The Indian Railways, ready with 500 isolation coaches, is providing a total of 8,000 beds to Delhi government to treat COVID-19 patients. The Railways has already deployed 54 coaches at Shakur Basti railway station and around 300 coaches at Anand Vihar railway station. The Delhi government is holding talks with the Railways to deploy remaining coaches, said an official in the Railways. With COVID-19 cases raising in the national capital, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said that 500 isolation coaches will be provided to Delhi government as a supplementary to treat patients. "Only people with mild symptoms will be kept here. Management of coach and patient will be done by the state," said an official from the Railways. Each coach can accommodate 16 patients. 500 coaches can accommodate about 8,000 patients, said the official. To prevent summer heat affecting the coaches, the Railways will provide insulation on the roofs. The Railways had redesigned the non-AC coaches by removing middle berths, two toilets in each coach have been converted into bathrooms, making provision of hand showers, buckets and mugs in each bathroom. The Railways has also provided 220V plug points in the compartment for medical appliances. While the Railways is providing water, electricity and beddings coaches, the Delhi government have to deploy health care staff to treat the patients. The coaches will be in the control of state chief medical officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-railways-to-provide-8000-beds-to-treat-patients-in-delhi-850297.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Governor critical, cabinet expansion deferred||Long overdue expansion of Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan's cabinet has been deferred indefinitely owing to the serious illness of Governor Lalji Tandon,  who is on a ventilator in Lucknow’s Medanta hospital. Tandon, 85, fell sick on Friday at Lucknow where he was later put on ventilator as his condition deteriorated. According to the hospital superintendent Dr Rakesh Kapoor, condition of the governor is critical, though he had initially shown some signs of recovery. He is unlikely to return Bhopal any time soon. In the absence of the governor, much-awaited cabinet expansion in Madhya Pradesh has been put on hold. At present, the chief minister working with the five-member cabinet. The chief minister is under pressure from ministerial berth aspirants as well as Jyotiraditya Scindia who wants to see at least eight of his supporters in the ministry. In the 230-strong Madhya Pradesh Assembly, the chief minister can accommodate 34 ministers in the cabinet, as per parliamentary convention. Earlier, cabinet expansion was due on May 31. All preparations had been completed and list of the probable ministers had been okayed by the high command. But, at the eleventh hour, the proposed expansion was shelved, presumably due to apprehension of possible sabotage by disgruntled MLAs in the Rajya Sabha election which is due on June 19. Now the governor’s critical condition has fuelled speculation that the cabinet expansion might not take place before the by-election for 24 Assembly seats which is due sometime in September. The by-election has been necessitated by the resignation of the MLAs who resigned in support of Scindia in March to topple the Kamal Nath government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-governor-critical-cabinet-expansion-deferred-850305.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||LAC Clash: Train, which was to leave with Leh-bound workers from Jharkhand, postponed||Shortly after the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers near the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a special train, which was supposed to carry around 1,200 workers from Jharkhand and leave Dumka railway station on Tuesday evening for Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir, was postponed. Though no official explanation was given behind this abrupt deferment, sources said this could possibly be against the backdrop of simmering tensions following clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers at LAC. The special train was arranged by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) as these workers were supposed to work for BRO and help construct an all-weather road connecting Leh city with the LAC in eastern Ladakh. It is this road construction activity at LAC which has become the bone of contention between the two countries. Amid standoff, the BRO had asked the Hemant Soren government to facilitate the travel of over 11,000 workers to Leh-Ladakh who could help construct a road near LAC. The first such batch of around 1,500 workers left on June 13 when Soren flagged off the train at Dumka railway station. “Today the second batch of over 1200 workers was supposed to leave by a special train from Dumka to J-K. But it has been postponed. The next date of their travel has not been fixed yet,” the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Dumka, Rajeshwari B, told DH over the phone on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lac-clash-train-which-was-to-leave-with-leh-bound-workers-from-jharkhand-postponed-850318.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Wildlife SOS rescues 15 snakes in a week in Delhi||Soaring mercury in the national capital seems to be forcing snakes out of their natural habitat to seek shelter in cooler places. In the past week, non-profit Wildlife SOS rescued around 15 snakes, including a five foot long rat snake, from the Delhi Metro depot in Mundka, West Delhi. The snake was spotted in a storage room at the DMRC depot. A team of rescuers from the NGO rushed to the scene. After ensuring that all potential hiding places and escape routes were sealed, the team carefully transferred the snake into a safe transport container. A rat snake in Chhattarpur induced panic among people when they noticed its tail sticking out of a crack in the garden wall. Another rat snake was rescued from a house in Sainik Farms. Wildlife SOS also rescued a cobra from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Pusa campus and a wolf snake from a house in Ayanagar. Wasim Akram, Deputy Director-Special Projects, Wildlife SOS, said, “The rising temperatures often force snakes out of their natural habitat to seek shelter in cooler places.” “Since they are cold-blooded animals, their body temperature varies with that of the environment. Therefore, they are unable to self-regulate their temperature if they get too warm,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wildlife-sos-rescues-15-snakes-in-a-week-in-delhi-850331.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Three naxals, six Maoist supporters held in Chhattisgarh||Three naxals and six Maoist supporters, including three women, were arrested from separate places in Chhattisgarh's insurgency-hit Bijapur district, police said on Tuesday. While a naxal, who had escaped from a jail in neighbouring Dantewada district in 2007, was arrested from the forest between Futapalli and Nadpalli villages in Usoor police station area, two ultras were nabbed from Farsegarh police station limits, a police official said. Teams of the District Reserve Guard (DRG), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and district force were involved in these arrests that took place on Monday, he said. Karam Ganpat (38), who had allegedly carried out attacks on the police, was nabbed by a joint team of CRPF and district force personnel, the official said. Ganpat was among 299 inmates, including 110 Naxals, who had escaped from the Central Jail of Dantewada on December 16, 2007, he said. In a similar operation, a joint team of the DRG and local police nabbed Kosa Ram (24) and Poyam Somaru (27) from the forest near Chuchkonta village, he said. The duo was allegedly involved in killing a policeman in Farsegarh on April 15 this year, besides damaging roads and putting up Maoist posters in the region, the official said. Later, the same patrolling team nabbed six people, including three women, on charges of being Maoist supporters at Marrimadgu forest under Bedre police station area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-naxals-six-maoist-supporters-held-in-chhattisgarh-850333.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Last rites of some Delhi COVID-19 victims performed following Amit Shah's directive||The last rites of some COVID-19 victims were conducted by hospitals here following a directive of Home Minister Amit Shah and with the consent of their families, the Ministry of Home Affairs said on Tuesday. The last rites of 36 more coronavirus victims in the national capital will be carried out on Wednesday, it said. "Following Union Home Minister @AmitShah's directions, all hospitals in #Delhi  (Central/state/private) performed the last rites of #COVID19 deceased with consent/presence of their families/relatives," a home ministry spokesperson tweeted. The spokesperson said the last rites of remaining 36 deceased will be conducted by Wednesday as their families were not present in Delhi. There will be no delays going forward, the spokesperson said. However, it is not immediately known the total number of victims whose last rites were performed on Tuesday. The last rites were performed at cremation and burial grounds under the supervision of hospitals. The home minister swung into action to handle the coronavirus situation in the national capital after criticism in different quarters of the Delhi government's handling of the COVID-19 cases with complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals for patients and difficulty in getting the tests done in laboratories. The home minister has been leading from the front after taking charge of Delhi's fight against coronavirus. On Sunday, he held two high-level meetings with the LG Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, mayors and commissioners of Delhi's three municipal corporations to strengthen the strategy to fight the pandemic. The home minister had announced on Sunday that COVID-19 testing will be doubled in Delhi in two days from then, and subsequently increased by three times.  On Monday, Shah paid a surprise visit to the city's LNJP hosptal to take stock the facilities there and subsequently directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to install CCTV cameras in COVID-19 wards of every designated hospital in the national capital for proper monitoring, and set up alternative canteens for uninterrupted supply of food to the patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/last-rites-of-some-delhi-covid-19-victims-performed-following-amit-shahs-directive-850340.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Ladakh records 94 new coronavirus cases; tally reaches 649||As many as 94 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Ladakh on Tuesday, taking the total number of virus cases in the union territory to 649, health department officials said. While 50 new coronavirus cases were reported from Kargil district, 44 samples returned positive for COVID-19 in Leh district, the officials said. Three patients recovered and were discharged from hospital in Kargil this morning, taking the total number of recoveries in the union territory to 85, they said. Ladakh had reported one coronavirus-related death. The condition of 563 active cases in the union territory -- 453 in Kargil and 110 in Leh -- is “stable”, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-records-94-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-reaches-649-850347.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Commission asked to explore ways to create employment for migrants returning to Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday asked the Rural Development and Migration Commission to explore ways to create employment opportunities for migrants who have returned to the state after the COVID-19 lockdown was relaxed. Releasing the commission's report on Tehri district at its third meeting on Tuesday, Rawat asked its vice president S S Negi to ascertain the number of migrants willing to work within the state. Rawat said generating employment opportunities for migrants and local youths is among his top priorities and the Chief Minister Swarojgar Yojana launched recently is a step taken in that direction. People of the state will be provided with employment in different fields under the scheme, Rawat said and asked the commission to find out in which sectors are migrants more interested in taking up jobs. It should be found out in which sectors there is more scope for employment and in what ways income of people can be increased, he said. Villages which are still without road connectivity and drinking water facilities should be identified, Rawat said. Local products should not just be promoted but it should be also found out how they can be packaged and marketed in a better way, he said. Steps should be taken to ensure that women in rural areas do not face any hassles in getting bank loans for starting their own businesses. The commission has given three reports to the state government so far recommending ways to stop migration from remote hill villages. The chief minister sanctioned an amount of Rs 110 crore to district magistrates on Monday to provide self employment opportunities to migrants who have returned from different parts of the country after the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/commission-asked-to-explore-ways-to-create-employment-for-migrants-returning-to-uttarakhand-850352.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Heat wave continues in Rajasthan||Rajasthan continued to reel under heat wave conditions on Tuesday, with mercury soaring over 47 degrees Celsius in Bikaner and Jaisalmer, the MeT department said. Ganganagar, Churu and Barmer recorded their respective highs at 46.5, 45.9 and 45.5 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said. The day temperature in Jodhpur, Kota and Jaipur was 44.7, 44.3, 44.1 degrees Celsius respectively, it said. In Ajmer and Dabok (Udaipur), the maximum temperature was 42 and 39 degrees Celsius respectively, the MeT department said. Barring light rainfall at isolated areas in eastern parts, the weather in the state remained dry, it said. The MeT department said a respite from prevailing heat wave conditions in the state during the next 24 hours is unlikely. However, light rains may occur at isolated places in Bhartapur, Kota, Ajmer, Jaipur and Udaipur divisions, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heat-wave-continues-in-rajasthan-850355.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Ladakh face-off: Alert issued in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts||The Himachal Pradesh Police has issued an alert in Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts, which border China, in view of the violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, an official said on Tuesday. An Indian Army officer and two soldiers were killed during the incident on Monday. State police spokesperson Khushal Sharma said an alert and an advisory have been issued to Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts to take all precautionary measures to ensure security of local population and also to collect intelligence so as to plan the future course of action. All state intelligence units have also been alerted in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-face-off-alert-issued-in-himachal-pradeshs-lahaul-spiti-and-kinnaur-districts-850358.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Punjab reports 104 fresh coronavirus cases; senior railway engineer dies of infection||Punjab reported 104 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday taking the infection tally to 3,371 while the death toll increased to 72 with a senior railway engineer succumbing to the disease, officials said. A Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer at the Ferozepur Railway Division, who tested positive for the virus, passed away at a hospital in Ludhiana, according to a release issued by the Ludhiana district administration. The 55-year-old engineer, who belonged to Delhi, was suffering from blood pressure, asthma, pneumonia and fever, the release said. With his death, the toll in the state rose to 72, according to a bulletin. Among fresh cases, 31 were reported in Jalandhar, 22 in Ludhiana, nine each in Amritsar and Patiala, six in Pathankot, four each in Mohali, Kapurthala and Sangrur, three each in Hoshiarpur and Fazilka, two each in Gurdaspur and Ropar, and one each in Faridkot, SBS Nagar, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Fatehgarh Sahib. Of them, 14 people had travel history to other parts of the country, including Delhi, Mumbai, Haryana and Chennai. Eighteen coronavirus patients recovered from infection and were discharged from various hospitals, taking the count of cured persons to 2,461, the bulletin stated. There are 838 active cases in the state as of now. One patient is critical and is on ventilator support while 10 are on oxygen support, according to the bulletin. Amritsar continued to lead the COVID-19 tally in the state with 642 cases, followed by 409 in Ludhiana, 378 in Jalandhar,  171 in Gurdaspur, 169 in Tarn Taran, 179 in Mohali, 178 in Patiala, 162 in Sangrur, 151 in Pathankot, 144 in Hoshiarpur, 121 in SBS Nagar,  88 in Faridkot, 82 in Rupnagar, 78 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 73 in Muktsar, 71 in Moga, 57 in Bathinda, 53 in Fazilka, 52 in Ferozepur, 48 in Kapurthala, 34 in Mansa and 31 in Barnala. A total of 1,98,211 samples have been taken so far for testing in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-reports-104-fresh-coronavirus-cases-senior-railway-engineer-dies-of-infection-850373.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Maharashtra adds 1,400 COVID-19 deaths||The Maharashtra government sent COVID-19 shock waves across the country on Tuesday as it added 1,409 deaths following a comprehensive reconcilation exercise.  With the revision, the state’s toll has shot up from 4,128 to 5,537 deaths. As many as 862 deaths were added to Mumbai’s count, while 466 deaths were added to rest of the state. The revised figures are from the past three months. The development comes as a major embarrassment to the Uddhav Thackeray-led government. The revised figures are from the past three months and were delayed for various reasons, including delay in lab results. “The jump in figures is because of the reconciliation process,” Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-adds-1400-covid-19-deaths-850375.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Ministers confined to hotel, business almost as usual for Rajasthan govt||The Rajasthan government is conducting at least a part of its official business from a resort here, thanks to video conferencing. On Tuesday, several ministers attended an official meeting from JW Merriott hotel, where over 100 Congress MLAs are holed up for a week to deter alleged BJP attempts to ‘lure’ them away ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls. While Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot was at his home in the Civil Lines along with Health Minister Raghu Sharma, the others were at the hotel for the meeting on fighting coronavirus. Rajasthan’s government chief whip Mahesh Joshi said there is no restriction on the ministers' movement. He said some of them go out for work while others handle it from the hotel amid other activities like workshops. “We all are staying together and this is an opportunity for us to spend time together. There is no restriction on the movement of ministers because they have to go out for important work but generally they are handling work from the hotel,” Joshi said. Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasara too tweeted pictures showing official work being done from the hotel. “The work should not stop during political restrictions,” Dotasara said. Gehlot had also held a video conference on Friday morning at the Shiv Vilas resort, where the legislators were initially kept before being shifted to the nearby JW Marriott hotel. Meanwhile, a session on former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru was held on Tuesday at the hotel for the legislators. A musical event is also being held there. On the other hand, a state minister came under fire on Twitter for posting a picture of playing cricket. Subhash Garg, the only MLA of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), tweeted the picture saying, “Enjoyed football and cricket with cabinet members and fellow MLAs at the Hotel Marriott today.” Soon after this, he was criticised on Twitter with people arguing that while they are battling with the coronavirus crisis, ministers and MLAs are enjoying. Alleging that the BJP is trying to poach its MLAs and topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the state, the ruling Congress has kept its legislators at the hotel. The Rajasthan government has said that the state's Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Special Operations Group (SOG) of its police are also looking into the “attempts”. The BJP, however, has dismissed the developments as theatrics, “self-staged” by Ashok Gehlot and challenged the ruling party to produce evidence to back the charges. The Congress has nominated KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the Rajya Sabha polls for three seats on June 19. The BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the house of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of independent MLAs and legislators of other parties like the Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI (M) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP). The ruling party has more than enough majority to win two seats and the opposition BJP, which has 72 MLAs and support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs, has the numbers to comfortably win just one seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ministers-confined-to-hotel-business-almost-as-usual-for-rajasthan-govt-850389.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Paramedics urge Arvind Kejriwal to recruit more staff amid COVID-19 crisis in Delhi||A body representing paramedical staff in the national capital on Tuesday urged Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to recruit more paramedics considering the spike in coronavirus cases. The Delhi State Paramedical Technical Employees Federation in its letter to the chief minister said the paramedics have been working in "great anxiety" in the absence of essentials. They collect samples for testing from coronavirus patients. Many have lost their lives due to COVID-19, it said. The federation requested the Delhi government to employ more paramedics considering the spike in coronavirus cases. Medical facilities availed by government paramedical staff should also be given to contractual paramedics, it said. The federation also demanded separate OPD, indoor wards and quarantine facilities for paramedical staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/paramedics-urge-arvind-kejriwal-to-recruit-more-staff-amid-covid-19-crisis-in-delhi-850398.html
16-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi minority commission chairman questioned in sedition case over social media post||The Delhi Police on Tuesday questioned Delhi Minority Commission Chairman Zafarul Islam Khan in a sedition case registered against him for his social media post in April, officials said. This comes a day after the special cell of the Delhi Police sent Khan a notice, asking him to join the probe within two days over his "controversial" social media post related to the violence in northeast Delhi earlier this year. "I joined the probe today. I was questioned by the police for nearly 2.15 hours. They sought details regarding my social media post. I gave all the required details to them in written format," Khan told PTI over phone. The questioning took place at the Janakpuri office of the special cell, the police officials said. An FIR was registered against Khan on April 30 under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth) of the Indian Penal Code after police received a complaint from a resident of Vasant Kunj. This is the second notice sent to Khan. Earlier in May, a notice under section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was sent to him by the special cell asking him to hand over the device used for making the "controversial" social media post. Khan had accordingly submitted his device. In the FIR, the complainant had alleged that Khan's post was provocative and seditious and intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in society, the police said, adding the case was being investigated by the cyber cell. However, later, Khan had also sought an apology, while the BJP demanded his removal from the commission. He had said that his tweet on April 28 thanking Kuwait for taking note of the "persecution" of Indian Muslims in the context of the northeast Delhi violence has "pained" some people which was never his intention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-minority-commission-chairman-questioned-in-sedition-case-over-social-media-post-850399.html
16-06-2020||Opinion||Why we need a law against ‘conversion therapy’ in India||The recent suicide of a 21-year-old queer woman from Kerala has put the spotlight on practices that involve violent, invasive and traumatic methods to suppress an individual’s non-heteronormative sexual orientation The Supreme Court set a milestone for LGBTQ+ rights in India when it decriminalised consensual homosexual relations under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code. However, it is still the first step to many reforms required for the LGBTQ+ community for them to be able to lead a dignified life, like any citizen of India. In a recent case, Anjana, 21-year-old queer woman from Kerala, killed herself after her family rejected her sexual orientation and put her in a ‘conversion therapy’ institution where she was isolated and tortured into changing her sexual orientation. ‘Conversion therapy’ includes violent, invasive and traumatic methods to suppress an individual’s non-heteronormative sexual orientation. These practices often include religious indoctrination, hormonal treatments and electroconvulsive treatment. These practices have been condemned worldwide by psychiatric and mental health institutions for having no proven scientific basis to be able to change a person’s sexual orientation. Many countries, such as Australia and Germany have even gone a step further to enact laws banning and criminalising ‘conversion therapy’. Countries like Canada are in the process of moving bills to criminalise this practice. Courts and laws on mental health of the LGBTQ+ community The Supreme Court in National Legal Services Authority (Nalsa) v. Union of India, recognised the Yogyakarta Principles, which include, the right of an individual to be protected from any medical or psychological treatment or confinement to a medical facility based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. The Supreme Court also examined the mental health of members of the LGBTQ+ community in Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India and emphasized the accountability of mental health professionals who offer mental health care services to the LGBTQ+ community. While recognising that homosexuality is not a mental disorder, it stated that counselling practices should be motivated to support the LGBTQ+ community feel comfortable with their identities. The Mental Health Care Act, 2017 stipulates that no patients can be discriminated against, on the basis of gender and sexual orientation, by mental health professionals. Furthermore, ‘informed consent’ must be sought from the patients before treating them. This Act also aims to eradicate inhumane and harsh methods that are used to treat patients along with the degrading manner in which patients are kept at mental health facilities. However, it only imputes liability on medical professionals and the State. Need for a separate law Although the Mental Health Care Act can be used to grant limited protections to the LGBTQ+ community against the atrocious practice of ‘conversion therapy’, a separate law is required to address this issue. The Act has limitations because the LGBTQ+ community cannot be deemed as mental health patients under the Act just by virtue of their sexual orientation. Further, the concept of ‘informed consent’ fails to protect an individual who has been brainwashed into believing that their sexuality is a disorder and consents to undergo these torturous practices to conform to societal beliefs. A recent study on the statistical data around conversion therapy reveals that the aggressive use of this practice has a direct correlation to societal beliefs about the LGBTQ+ community and the extent of unacceptability towards them. More often, the primary perpetrators of this practice are family, relatives and non-medical professionals who do so in furtherance of religion, culture, etc. As a healthy step to societal change in the attitude towards the LGBTQ+ community, it is imperative that the responsibility is not solely put on the mental health practitioners. In the case of Anjana, her family filed a missing person's report to use the police to pressurise her into returning home. This is how state mechanisms, that tend to view a family as sacrosanct, can be manipulated to harass the LGBTQ+ community. Therefore, there is a need to criminalise these practices for the people coercing an individual to undergo ‘conversion therapy’ as well. The criminalisation of this practice creates a positive right in favour of the LGBTQ+ community that is more effectively enforceable as a protection mechanism against ‘conversion therapy’ and gives the State more scope to intervene. The individual should also be able to use this ground to file for separation from their perpetrators if it included their family. It is imperative that the State steps in by enacting specific laws that give positive rights to the LGBTQ+ community and equal opportunities to lead a dignified life. (Aparimita Pratap is recent graduate from the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences, Kolkata, and is currently practicing in the Bombay High Court) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-we-need-a-law-against-conversion-therapy-in-india-850084.html
16-06-2020||Panorama||Shareholder activism: Will the Indian landscape change?||The idea of sustainability is now part of the corporate mandate by all conventions. This is in stark contrast with the conventional mandate of corporations to only maximise the shareholder value. Even the proponents of conventional wisdom do not deny the idea of a socially responsible corporation. The debate is in the degree of that responsibility; especially when it conflicts with the shareholder interests. Perhaps, the answer lies in finding the primary purpose of the corporation somewhere between the extremes of wealth maximisation and social responsibility. There are several factors that determine that position. Of course, corporate law and policy play a significant role. But the role of shareholders is important too. The participation and activism of shareholders of the company could significantly influence the corporate purpose. After all, companies seek capital at low cost. One of the ways to do so is to keep the providers of the capital content. This way, the debt and equity holders have a stake in the corporate agenda. This is why their ideas of corporate responsibility and the manner of their engagement with the company matter. Generally, non controlling shareholders are inert and are concerned primarily with the financial outcome of their investment in the company. It may even be unreasonable to expect them to voice concerns about corporate responsibility; especially when it comes at a cost to their return on investments. These non-controlling inert shareholders are ‘rationally apathetic’ towards the broader goals of the company. They would rather exit the company than engage closely with its functioning. However, there have been instances of activist shareholders engaging closely with the companies to ensure sustainable growth of corporate interests. In 2018, two important (but not controlling) shareholders at Apple Inc.--hedge fund Jana Partners and California State Teachers’ Retirement System (CalSTRS)--collectively pushed the company for the study of iPhone addiction in children. At the time, it made news because hedge funds were known to extract value from the company in the short term. It is true that such instances of shareholder activism for corporate responsibility may still be far and few in number. It may also be true that the motivations of these investors may differ from a theoretical idea of social investment. Nevertheless, the trend is encouraging. In India, we should particularly be concerned about how such kinds of activism can be enabled. In most of the large Indian companies, issues of corporate purpose and sustainability are not debated as actively amongst the shareholders. A primary obstacle in most of the large Indian companies is that their ownership and control is concentrated. This substantially reduces the scope of active shareholder engagement in Indian companies as such engagement is less likely to succeed in companies with higher share concentrations.  Despite legal rights for minority shareholders, active stock markets, and public listing of major corporations, many of the major Indian corporations exhibit little engagement from shareholders outside of the promoter groups. Consequently, even where a few shareholders have ideas on the social responsibility of their companies, they are seldom voiced. Further, due to a lack of active shareholder engagement, the directors are not held as accountable to the shareholders on their social responsibility agenda. In this light, recent tranches of block investments into Jio by ‘outside’ shareholders are encouraging. While it may not directly and immediately address the aforesaid concerns; given the scale of investments, this could mark a significant trend. The investments at Jio could potentially signal a possibility of strong voices from ‘outside’ and minority shareholders in an entity hitherto promoted by a dominant shareholder. However, a lot will depend on the implicit and explicit terms of these investments. Since Jio is an unlisted company as of today, some details about these investments are still not in the public domain. If like the shareholders before them, the new investors at Jio decide to stay inert and leave the controlling reigns of the company to the ‘insider’ promoters, it will be business as usual. Instead, if they actively engage with the company, it could usher a new wave of active ‘outsider’ shareholders who will engage with the company to influence the corporate strategy. This could be a small but significant enabling step towards shareholder activism in India. It will be in line with earlier instances of shareholder activism in Indian companies. These include Mistry’s litigation at Tata Sons and voting against non-compete payments of Max promoters in HDFC Life-Max amalgamation. In fact, in 2017, Infosys stated shareholder activism as a risk to the company. A shift in shareholding culture is important. It will only pave way for investor activism oriented towards corporate responsibility. To be clear, I do not intend to state that the aforementioned companies are irresponsible or unsustainable businesses. I only use them as progressive examples to draw a broader inference for the general landscape of shareholder empowerment in India. (The writer is a lawyer and teaches at the School of Policy and Governance, Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/shareholder-activism-will-the-indian-landscape-change-850413.html
16-06-2020||Panorama||Telemedicine: Bridging the gap||A disturbing aspect of the lockdown since March 2020 has been the limited access of non-COVID-19 patients to doctors and hospitals. Many private and small hospitals closed temporarily until a better understanding of pandemic protocols and safety precautions emerged. Patients with chronic illnesses needing follow-up, or dialysis, patients on chemotherapy, those with mental illness and others with lifestyle disorders had nowhere to turn to, their condition worsening as they waited. Even when hospitals reopened, many patients stayed away, fearing they may be at higher risk of infection. This distress of patients, as the health system struggled to cope with the virus outbreak, could have been mitigated to some extent if patients were able to have audio and video consultations and share test results, receive counselling, reassurance or follow-up prescriptions. In a timely move, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued a notification on March 25 on telemedicine guidelines. Through the Board of Governors (MCI), this notification amended the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations 2002, adding consultation by telemedicine to Chapter 3, and the guidelines as Appendix 5 of the regulations. This is a welcome step as hospitals struggle to cope with physical distancing and concerns about the contagion during COVID-19. It allows hospitals and doctors to continue to serve patients in the safety of their homes and reduces overcrowding of hospitals already stretched by the pandemic. Even beyond the pandemic, telemedicine is likely to remain a useful option for patients, for follow-up and non-emergency consultations. Once the technology platforms are readied for online video streaming, linked to hospital information systems, electronic medical records and payment gateways, the hospital or clinic will have an outreach capability that can complement other services. Storage and retrieval of data will be critical for success of e-consultations. Data security would need robust solutions that can resist hacking and data loss; a step that would generate trust in all stakeholders. Clearly not all patients can be treated through telemedicine and this discernment ultimately rests with the doctor. If the patient needs physical examination or hospital admission, this has to be clearly explained, and the e-consult terminated. Liability for any mismanagement or negligence will be the same as with face-to-face consultations. For this reason, it is recommended that e-consultations should be limited initially to follow-up consults, geriatric care, and chronic diseases. First-time e-consultations may help to triage patients who are uncertain if they should ‘see’ a doctor. Telemedicine can also be used in emergencies for advice on immediate measures before the patient is brought to the hospital. The modalities and protocol to be adopted for e-consultations are described in some detail in the guideline but may change based on real-time experience. The choice of this option will be left to the patient and appointments would be made online, with consent recorded for every session. The duration of each consultation could vary, and prescribed tests and medications will be signed and scanned to the patient. The guideline places restrictions on drugs that can be prescribed online for safety reasons; schedule drugs with toxic side effects may only be prescribed on visit to the physician. Online physician consultation has hitherto been on offer by some private hospitals and doctor apps, but it remained a grey area of practice.  Some ethical concerns may persist, even as patients get familiar with the process and doctors build capacity to treat online. Medical training will need to include this aspect of care communication. The guidelines suggest the same consultation fees for online consultations, as patients benefit from not having to take leave or travel. This will have to be tested against the experience of patients, comfort with technology, and satisfaction levels. Entrenched perceptions of patients and their expectations of doctor-patient interaction may affect adoption levels, at least initially. In-built feedback forms would enable evaluation of the platform and ease of the process, facilitating continuous improvement. Hospitals may need to allot specific timings for these consults, adjusting the physician’s workload to prevent compromise of other clinical duties.  Given the access to technology across the population, it is fair to expect that only a fraction of patients stand to benefit from e-consults. This systemic inequality excludes a majority of patients, many of whom will continue to incur debt in order to access health services. In India, teleconsultation holds out the promise of healthcare access to rural underserved areas. ASHA workers can consult with medical experts in health centres and provide interim care before patients reach the hospital. More importantly, it can take health awareness and preventive care to every person with phone connectivity and Internet. There is hope for inclusion of the traditionally marginalized, the elderly, disabled, Dalits and women, served last in the hierarchy of health needs. In this way, telemedicine can serve both ends of the spectrum of demand, at the cutting edge of biotech innovations, as well as primary health needs, bridging the healthcare gap in this country (The writer is part of division of Health and Humanities, St Johns Research Institute)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/telemedicine-bridging-the-gap-850414.html
16-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Cheers to all the women!||“Cheers, to the women in my life,” my only brother wished five of his sisters, on International Women’s Day. Being the only son to our parents the patriarchal bug could have bitten him early on. Yet, my father set such an example because of which he knew that respecting women was sacred and unquestionable.  My brother grew up in the culture that enabled him to develop a genuine devotion to us, his sisters and to my mother. Little as he was, he must have gathered that a happy home primarily entails the happiness and progress of all women in that home. So, together with my dad, he cherished and honoured all women. Today, with two brilliant daughters, my brother continues to hold that the future of the world stands on the happiness and progress of all women! Though the debate as to which gender is fair and superior is futile, honouring women never is. To that end, it should not be something that comes and goes. Rather it should be nurtured and strengthened within the precincts of a home. Those who are apathetic of women, I have found, are those who have picked up patriarchal views from within their own families. I know of a man, who with three sons—and no daughters—would always be cynical of all women with a highly conceited attitude towards ‘girls’. He would openly encourage his sons to shun anything that is ‘girlie’. Obviously then the sons grew up considering all things ‘girlie’, from the pink colour to female superhero flicks portraying women as subjects of ridicule and joke.  There is no doubt that it is mostly with the encouragement of the elders at home that boys grow up with a retrograde attitude that they are superior to their female counterparts. Such patriarchal attitudes become deep-seated over time and stall progression. As Abhijit Naskar, the renowned neuroscientist and author to promote egalitarianism with his conscientious works of science and philosophy put it, “Any nation that does not learn to place women on the same pedestal of respect and dignity as men, will never in a thousand years attain greatness.” His words reiterate that the progress of a nation is linked to the progress of its women.  Cheers indeed to all women whose progress is a key component to the progress of every nation and of the whole human race!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/cheers-to-all-the-women-850412.html
16-06-2020||Second Edit||COVID-19: Delhi situation is alarming||The COVID-19 situation in Delhi has been steadily deteriorating, and it has now reached a stage of real and serious alarm. Terrible stories from the worst-affected countries are coming real in Delhi, raising fears of more suffering and chaos in the coming days and weeks. The number of new cases being detected is above 1,000 every day, the mortality rate is inching up, testing is low and there is a severe shortage of beds and equipment in hospitals. Patients are denied admission in hospitals and there are reports that bodies of the dead are not being disposed of in time. Reports of community spread of the virus cannot be denied any longer. The Delhi government has estimated that 5.5 lakh people are likely to contract the disease by the end of July. The city will require about 150,000 beds to handle so many patients and that is about 15 times the capacity it has now. Other facilities are also in short supply.  Union Home Minister Amit Shah has met Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to discuss the situation and, after a meeting of the state disaster management authority, announced a number of steps to deal with it. The testing rate will be doubled, more beds, including some in railway coaches, will be made available, more hospital facilities and equipment will be provided and contact tracing will be made more rigorous. There will be regulation of the rates to be charged by private hospitals as there are reports of overcharging of patients by them. All these are measures which should have been taken long ago. The Kejriwal government failed to grasp the seriousness of the COVID-19 threat and did not take timely steps to deal with it. It was credited to have improved Delhi’s public health system through efficient running of the mohalla clinics, but that system has been overwhelmed. The central government also cannot escape its responsibility for the failure because of the special status Delhi has as the national capital and a state. The BJP-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi also failed, and the collective failure has now exposed millions of residents of the city, who are a cross-section of the people of the country, to the free reign of a rampaging virus.  The immediate task is to implement the measures effectively, improve them whenever necessary, keep reviewing the situation and make a collective effort to cope with it and bring it under control. Other states can learn useful lessons from Delhi, for their own benefit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-delhi-situation-is-alarming-850408.html
16-06-2020||South||Boat with 4 fishermen reported lost in high seas||Four fishermen are missing after they set out to sea in a mechanised boat, along with 622 such vessels, on Saturday. The fleet, barring one boat with the four, returned to the shore on Sunday as was planned, assistant director of Fisheries Department Yuvaraj said here. Several fishermen searched for the lost boat and its crew but in vain, he said. The 622 boats set out for fishing after an 83-day fishing ban, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/boat-with-4-fishermen-reported-lost-in-high-seas-850020.html
16-06-2020||South||Another TRS MLA tests positive for COVID-19 in Telangana||Another ruling TRS MLA tested positive for COVID-19 in Telangana on Monday, taking the number of party legislators infected by the virus to three. The MLA had mingled with the legislator who was found positive earlier, TRS sources said. Last week, a TRS legislator from Warangal district had tested positive for COVID-19. The MLA, who had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital, was examined by doctors, who said he can be quarantined at home, official sources said. The ICMR guidelines allow treatment of asymptomatic patients at home, they said. Meanwhile, a senior doctor at a state-run hospital, who has an advisory role with the government on health matters, is also in home quarantine, the sources said. The doctor tested positive on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-trs-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-telangana-850035.html
16-06-2020||South||COVID-19 recovery rate high in Tamil Nadu, says CM K Palaniswami||In view of a slew of anti-COVID-19 initiatives being taken by the government, the recovery rate was high, he said adding adequate relief was also being provided to the poor people.    "The deaths due to COVID-19 is very low," he added. According to the Health Department data, as on June 15, the state's total COVID-19 positive cases are 46,504 and 25,344 people recovered. While 20,678 are the active cases, 479 patients, several of them with comorbidities died which puts the recovery rate at 54.49 percent. As per Centre's COVID-19 data, Rajasthan, with 12,981 total cases and 9,785 recoveries has a recovery rate of 75 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-recovery-rate-high-in-tamil-nadu-says-cm-k-palaniswami-850152.html
16-06-2020||South||Lockdown shocker to thousands in Kerala in the form of electricity bill||Thousands of electricity consumers in Kerala are literally shocked at heavy electricity bills for the lockdown days, even for vacant houses. KSEB sources said that over one lakh complaints have so far been received from consumers. The KSEB's total consumer base is around 1.27 crore. A major chunk of the domestic consumers received a comparatively higher bill after the lockdown days as the consumption at houses increased during the lockdown period. However, it appears that there were also flaws in calculating the slab-wise fares. An actor-filmmaker, Madhupal, received a bill of Rs. 5,714 even as his house in Thiruvananthapuram city remained locked during the lockdown days. After he complained, the bill was reduced to Rs. 300. However, another actor, Maniyan Pillai Raju, who complained that his charges went up to Rs. 42,000 from the usual charges of around Rs, 7,000, did not receive a reprieve yet as KSEB officials maintained that his metre reading had shown higher consumption during lockdown days.  According to sources, since door-to-door metre reading could not be carried out in many places owing to the COVID-19 situation, many bills were prepared by considering the average consumption during previous months. In cases where houses remained locked, the average consumption was considered. Hence, hundreds of consumers received a higher bill despite low consumption. While KSEB chairman N S Pillai said that all such complaints due to flaws in billing would be rectified. KSEB sources said out of the one lakh odd complaints received so far, only less than 5,000 were genuine ones. In majority of complaints the total charges have gone up as the KSEB is following a slab-wise tariff system in which the rate per unit will go up with every 50 units consumed. With the power charge hike snowballing into a major issue affecting the common man, the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front has also initiated state-wide protest over the issue on Tuesday. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala called for a ‘Lights Off Kerala’ protest on June 17 at 9 pm. Consumers have been urged to switch off their lights for three minutes as a mark of protest. An online petition has also been launched. Chennithala alleged that some consumers received the bill to the tune of Rs. 18,000, which is thrice their normal charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-shocker-to-thousands-in-kerala-in-the-form-of-electricity-bill-850231.html
16-06-2020||South||Supreme Court defers hearing on DMK's plea seeking disqualification of 11 AIADMK MLAs||The Supreme Court Tuesday took into account the prevailing COVID-19 situation and deferred hearing on DMK's petition seeking direction to the Tamil Nadu Speaker to forthwith decide its pending plea for disqualification of 11 AIADMK lawmakers who had voted against Chief Minister K Palaniswami during the 2017 confidence vote. DMK, in its fresh plea, has sought a direction to Assembly speaker P Dhanapal to decide its plea, pending since March 20, 2017, seeking disqualification of the 11 lawmakers including Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam under anti-defection law for voting against the Palaniswami government. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde briefly heard senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the DMK, and asked the counsel for the other side as to why the Speaker was not acting on the disqualification plea. Sibal, assisted by lawyer Amit Anand Tiwari, said that the COVID-19-induced lockdown happened only from March 24 and the Speaker has not taken any substantial step before that. The submission was opposed by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi. The bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna, said during the hearing conducted via video-conferencing that it will list the petition after 15 days looking at COVID-19 situation. The DMK referred to an earlier order of the top court which had disposed of the plea after taking note of the submission that the Speaker has initiated proceedings on the disqualification plea. The plea has sought a direction to hold the “deliberate action” of the Speaker in not deciding the “disqualification petition” as “arbitrary and violative” fundamental rights and constitutional schemes. “Issue a writ...directing Respondent No. 2 (Speaker) to declare that Respondent Nos. 3-13 (11 AIADMK MLAs) are disqualified or in the alternative, direct the Speaker to decide the disqualification petition forthwith,” said the plea filed through R Sakkrapani, whip of DMK in Assembly. DMK referred to an apex court order in another case in which it had ordered forthwith removal of BJP lawmaker and Manipur Forest Cabinet Minister TH Shyamkumar, restraining him from entering the Assembly till further orders. The apex court had invoked its plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to remove a cabinet minister from any government as the Assembly speaker could not decide the disqualification plea despite its specific directions. “For the last three years and 3 months, speaker (R-2) has not decided the issue. This inaction of the Respondent no 2 assumes greater significance in view of the fact that in the earlier round of litigation, before this Court vide an order dated February 14, speaker was asked to decide the disqualification petitions in accordance with law. "Despite that nothing has been done for last 4 months, whereas the law requires the Speaker to decide a petition from disqualification within an outer limit of three months,” the plea said. The speaker has “continued to sit over the issue” and the undertaking given by the Advocate General on his behalf was not followed in letter and spirit, it said. The plea has sought disqualification of Panneerselvam and 10 others for having voted against the Palaniswami government when they were in the rebel camp. It had contended that by voting against the trust motion, these MLAs violated the whip issued by the ruling party and hence attracted disqualification under the anti-defection law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-defers-hearing-on-dmks-plea-seeking-disqualification-of-11-aiadmk-mlas-850267.html
16-06-2020||South||Poor quality of glass door led to woman's death at Kerala bank||Lack of any prescribed norms for glass doors in buildings has led to the tragic death of a 45-year-old woman who accidentally ran into the glass door of a bank in Kerala's Ernakulam district on Monday. While an official in the planning department said that at present the building rules do not prescribe any specific norms for glass doors in the buildings, a leading architect in the state said that usually strong glasses are being used in glass doors so that they don't break into pieces. The Kerala State Human Rights Commission registered a case and sought a report from the police and the local body concerned, while the police were examining the quality of the glass. Family of the victim also alleged that poor quality of the glass caused the tragedy. Beena, a mother of three, met with the mishap at Bank of Baroda's Perumbavoor branch in Ernakulam district on Monday. While inside the bank, she tried to step out in a hurry to take a key from her two-wheeler. Without noticing the clear glass door, she rammed into it. The door collapsed and one sharp piece pierced into her body. Though she was rushed to a nearby hospital, her life could not be saved. Perumbavoor police station house officer said a case of unnatural death has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/poor-quality-of-glass-door-led-to-womans-death-at-kerala-bank-850313.html
16-06-2020||South||India-China tension: Soldier from Tamil Nadu who was killed in Ladakh, was to retire in a year from Army||Palani, a 40-year-old havildar with the Indian Army who was killed along with another soldier and an officer in a violent clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in the Union Territory of Ladakh on Monday night, belonged from a nondescript village in Tamil Nadu’s Ramanathapuram district. Palani, who joined the Indian Army at the age of 18 and has been in service for the past 20 years, hailed from Kadukalur village in Tiruvadanai taluk of the backward Ramanathapuram district. The army man is survived by his wife Vanathi Devi and children—Prasanna and Devi. Villagers said the deceased army man’s relative, Idhayakani who is also working with the Indian Army, conveyed the sad news to Vanathi Devi and other family members. Local media reported that Palani spoke to his wife a week ago and told her that he may not be able to call for a few days due to the situation in the area where he was posted. Idhayakani said Palani was passionate about serving the Indian Army and it was on his advice that he joined the force, albeit in the administrative department. The family is waiting for Palani’s mortal remains to reach the village for last rites. The entire political leadership of the state led by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami paid rich tributes to Palani’s sacrifices for the country with the government announcing a solatium of Rs 20 lakh to his family. Palaniswami said a family member will be provided with government job based on their qualification. Opposition Leader M K Stalin, AMMK chief T T V Dhinakaran, PMK founder S Ramadoss were among the political leaders who condoled Palani’s death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-china-tension-soldier-from-tamil-nadu-who-was-killed-in-ladakh-was-to-retire-in-a-year-from-army-850317.html
16-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 49 COVID-19 deaths in a single day, 1515 new cases||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday reported 49 COVID-19 deaths, highest in a single day, taking the toll to 528 as 1,515 new cases pushed the tally to 48,019 in the state. As many as 46 of the deceased had comorbidities which includes diabetes, hypertension and renal disease, a health department bulletin said. The state also saw the highest number of 19,242 samples tested and recoveries (1,438 people) in a single day today. Of the 1,515 new cases, Chennai accounted for 919 while three were foreign returnees. The tally of positive cases in the state stood at 48,019 out of which Chennai's count was 34,245. The active cases were 20,706. While 35 died in government hospitals, 14 others succumbed in private facilities and the deaths, which occurred over the past few days, were reported together today by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-49-covid-19-deaths-in-a-single-day-1515-new-cases-850323.html
16-06-2020||South||Reject disqualification petitions of 11 MLAs: TN CM Edappadi K Palaniswamy tells Speaker||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has written to Assembly Speaker P Dhanapal, asking him to reject petitions seeking disqualification of 11 MLAs, including Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, for voting against the Motion of Confidence moved by him on February 18, 2017. In a letter written in his capacity as leader of the AIADMK Legislature Party, Palaniswami said a whip was issued only to 122 MLAs who attended the legislature party meeting on February 14, 2017, and elected him as the head, and not to the 11 legislators who were functioning as a separate group then. The issue of disqualification of 11 MLAs has been hanging like a Damocles Sword over the head of the Palaniswami government for over three years. While six former MLAs filed a petition seeking their disqualification, a case filed by DMK with a similar prayer is also pending before the Supreme Court. The government might be in trouble if the 11 MLAs are disqualified by the speaker. If the speaker goes by the chief minister’s letter and rejects the petition, the AIADMK government will survive for the remainder of its term without any trouble. Palaniswami’s letter comes after the speaker issued notices to the MLAs and received their responses in which they are understood to have told the presiding officer that they never received any whip to vote in favour of the government. The state government had told the Supreme Court in February this year that the Speaker had issued notices to the 11 MLAs seeking their response. The 11 MLAs, including Panneerselvam, had voted against the Palaniswami government in the Tamil Nadu Assembly after the current deputy chief minister’s revolt against the then AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala. However, a few months later, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam patched up and the latter joined the former’s government as deputy chief minister.In the three-page letter written by Palaniswami on the AIADMK letterhead, the chief minister said he met the Tamil Nadu governor on February 14 on the basis of the support given in written by 122 MLAs and whip was issued only to these legislators. “…Apart from the fact that there has been no Whip to the Respondents (read OPS and 10 other MLAs) that was issued, the issue of disqualification does not arise in view of the fact that the Respondents continue to represent the AIADMK party in the Assembly and have at no point of time moved away from the ideology of the party,” Palaniswami said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reject-disqualification-petitions-of-11-mlas-tn-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswamy-tells-speaker-850328.html
16-06-2020||South||Pondicherry University cancels final semester examinations||Pondicherry University on Tuesday announced the cancellation of final semester examinations for students in the university and its affiliated colleges. A press release from the university's Controller of Examinations said all the students in the affiliated institutions would be assessed for the results of their final semester and final year courses on the basis of the internal marks and continuous internal assessment during the semester. The students in the final semester and final year classes were to sit for the examinations in April or May this year. However, the examinations could not be held due to the nation-wide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The release said the assessment is applicable to all regular papers offered during the final semester and final year and also for the arrear papers to be cleared by the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pondicherry-university-cancels-final-semester-examinations-850334.html
16-06-2020||South||Case against airline official for flouting COVID-19 norms in Kerala; 79 more positive cases||A police case was registered against an airline official on charges of flouting quarantine norms at Kannur district in Kerala. According to the Muzhakunnu police in Kannur district, the case was registered against a cabin crew of Air India based on a complaint of district medical officer. The accused, who worked in a flight under the Vande Bharat mission, was tested COVID-19 positive last month. But he claimed that he was not tested COVID-19 positive and also allegedly flouted the quarantine norms. Meanwhile, 79 more persons in Kerala were tested COVID-19 positive on Monday, while 60 got recovered, taking the number of COVID-19 active cases to 1,366. Among the fresh cases, 47 came from abroad, while 26 were from other states. Six persons, including a health worker got infected through local contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-against-airline-official-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-in-kerala-79-more-positive-cases-850336.html
16-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 49 more deaths, reports 1,515 new COVID-19 cases||For the first time in over 10 days, the number of people testing positive for coronavirus came below the 1,000-mark in Chennai on Tuesday, even as the state’s tally also registered a dip with 1,515 cases. However, Tuesday saw the state reporting the biggest single-day spike in deaths with 49 mortalities. The state’s daily numbers which were hovering at 1,900 for about a week came down to 1,843 on Monday, and further down to 1,515 on Tuesday. The reduction in the number came even as the number of samples stood at an all-time high of 19,242 on Tuesday. The day also saw a record 1,438 patients getting discharged from hospital, pushing the discharge tally to 26,782. The active cases stood at 20,706. While Chennai reported 919 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking its individual tally to 34,245, the state’s tally stood at 48,019. The cause of concern is the increasing number of deaths – 49 were reported on Tuesday alone. While 40 of the deceased were from Chennai, three each from neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, and Tiruvallur, while one each from Madurai, Kanchipuram and Ranipet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-49-more-deaths-reports-1515-new-covid-19-cases-850343.html
16-06-2020||South||Jaganmohan govt's budget focuses on welfare, despite COVID-19 affected revenue shortfall||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has presented a budget of about Rs 2.25 lakh crore for 2020-21, with a major emphasis on the welfare schemes. Several of chief minister Reddy’s pet projects like farm incentives, housing sites for the poor, full student fees reimbursement, were allocated generous funds. However, the 2020-21 budget estimates entail a 1.4 percent decline over 2019-20 “on account of the major economic slowdown because of the COVID-19 pandemic.” The estimated Revenue Deficit is around Rs 18,434 crore, said Buggana Rajendranath, Andhra Pradesh finance minister who presented his second budget on Tuesday. The state’s budget session could not be held earlier because of the COVID-19 incidence. The session began with COVID-19 screening and testing of the legislators and limited entry of everyone else including the press. The education sector is given importance with an allocation of Rs 22,604 crore for secondary and intermediate education and Rs 2,277 crore for higher education in 2020-21. For the Manabadi Nadu-Nedu scheme under which 15,715 government schools are identified in the first phase to improve facilities, an allocation of Rs 3,000 crore is made. Rs 11,419 crore is for the health sector in 2020-21. “We are setting up 11,000 Dr YSR Health Clinics at village and ward levels. In a phased manner, 15 new Medical colleges will be set up across the state. Super specialty hospitals including those with focus on cancer care and kidney-related ailments will also be executed as part of the Nadu-Nedu scheme. All 1,145 PHCs, 195 CHCs, 28 Area Hospitals, 13 District Hospitals and 11 Teaching Hospitals will be refurbished, modernized and upgraded on a need basis under this scheme,” said Buggana. For the Dr YSR Rythu Bharosa - PM Kisan scheme providing investment support of Rs 13,500 per year to farm families, including 1.58 lakh tenants, Rs 3,615.60 crore is given. Under Pedalandariki Illu, (housing for all the poor), the government intends to provide more than 30 lakh house sites at an outlay of Rs 8,000 crore and proposes to take up construction of 6.25 lakh houses during 2020-21, Buggana said. Rs 16,000 crore is provided for the YSR Pensions for the old aged etc. Rs 6,000 crore allocation for Jagananna Amma-Vodi, under which BPL family mothers sending kids to schools are given an incentive of Rs 15000. For Jagananna Vidya Deevana providing full fee reimbursement for polytechnic, ITI, engineering, medical, degree and above level courses and Jagananna Vasathi Deevana to cover student’s food, hostel expenses, Rs 5,009 crore is the funding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jaganmohan-govts-budget-focuses-on-welfare-despite-covid-19-affected-revenue-shortfall-850356.html
16-06-2020||South||Dejected but proud, says martyred Colonel's mother||Colonel Santosh Babu, who died on Monday night during a violent stand-off between the Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley, is a native of Suryapet, Telangana. The commanding officer of the 16th battalion of the Bihar Regiment is survived by his wife Santoshi, daughter Abhignya (8), and son Anirudh (4). Babu is the only son of a retired bank manager Upendar Bikkumalla. “As a mother, I am grieving but at the same time am also very proud that my only son has sacrificed his life for the nation,” said Manjula, Babu’s mother. Santosh Babu did his schooling from Korukonda Sainik School in Vizianagaram, Andhra Pradesh, from where he had joined the NDA, Pune. “We were proud that at 37 years, he was promoted as a colonel—a rare achievement,” Upendar told reporters. While conveying his condolences to the martyr’s parents, wife and children, Telangana Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao said: “Col Santosh has sacrificed his life for the nation and his sacrifice is invaluable.” Rao stated that the state government would support the family by all means. According to Babu’s relatives, he had joined the army in 2004 and Jammu was his first posting. He went on overseas assignments to Congo. Babu got married in 2010. The colonel was reportedly posted on the border for about 1.5 years now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dejected-but-proud-says-martyred-colonels-mother-850382.html
16-06-2020||State||Cop who died of cardiac arrest in Karnataka found to have COVID-19||An assistant sub-inspector of police who died of heart attack was found to be infected with coronavirus, while two of his colleagues at the police station here have also contracted the infection. Bengaluru police commissioner Bhaskar Rao said, "It's true that an ASI at VV Puram traffic police station died of COVID-19 and two others have tested positive in the police station." The ASI attached to V V Puram traffic police station has been suffering from high blood pressure since April this year, police said on Tuesday. He was on leave from May 15 to 31. Again, he joined duty on June 1 and went on leave from June 11. On June 13, he collapsed at home and was taken to a private hospital where he died of cardiac arrest. After the death, he was found positive for coronavirus, they said. Joint Commissioner of Police (traffic), Dr B R Ravikanthe Gowda told PTI that after the death of the ASI, all the staff have been home quarantined. "The police station is closed for two days for sanitisation," he said. Following the confirmation, other staff members underwent tests and two of them tested positive, police said. The police department has instructed all the stations to keep the elderly staff off field duty in order to protect them from the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cop-who-died-of-cardiac-arrest-in-karnataka-found-to-have-covid-19-850151.html
16-06-2020||State||Investigate financial irregularities by 'Wild Karnataka' makers: Hiremath||Samaj Parivartana Samudaya founder president S R Hiremath has requested the Karnataka State government for an independent enquiry into the alleged gross irregularities, illegalities and violations by the documentary makers of ‘Wild Karnataka’ and senior forest officials.  Speaking to media persons on Tuesday, he said prima facie there are enough documents to prove that documentary makers-- Sarath Champati, Kalyan Varma and Amogavarsha-- along with retired Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Vinay Luthra and serving IFS officer Vijay Mohan Raj have indulged in the act that amounts to a serious criminal conspiracy of defrauding the government and also making huge ‘ill-gotten’ money by entering into commercial ‘exploitation’ of the documentary. He said the makers of the documentary were given unlimited access to forests of Karnataka and also lodging facilities at Jungle Lodges for free of cost while making the documentary over four years since 2014. The makers and Luthra (on behalf of Karnataka Forest Department) had entered into a memorandum of understanding on November 3, 2014 stating that the ‘copyrights of the film shall vest with the KFD’. However, the remaining raw footage (of over 400 hours of video) will be co-owned by KFD and the makers (including the contributors and sponsors).  Hiremath said the total cost incurred by the KFD for making the documentary, in terms of giving access to forest, camera charges and lodging and boarding runs up to Rs 38 crore. He said, it is also learnt that one of the three makers of the documentary also managed to get Rs 25 lakh from the Eco-tourism Development Board.  While KFD has the right to use the documentary for educational purpose and others; the makers have entered into agreements with foreign private channels to broadcast the documentary, which was originally meant only as non-commercial documentary for the people of Karnataka.  Hiremath charged that the trio have entered such an agreement with channels without bringing the same to the notice of KFD. “They have earned crores of rupees by selling rights of the documentary and raw footage to the channels,” he said and added that the enquiry should also look into the aspects of money laundering and other financial criminalities involved in the case.  The memorandum signed between the makers and the KFD clearly states that the funds generated by the documentary, after recovering all the costs incurred towards the production of the film, should be donated to Tiger Foundation, and PADFs for the purpose of conservation. However, this has not been met, he charged. No violations done: Makers  Speaking to DH, Amogavarsha refuted the charges and claimed that none of the makers of the documentary have ‘made’ a single paisa from the film.  “We have provided all the documents, bank account statement and other details to the KFD for auditing. During the auditing, there was no wrongdoing found. These allegations are baseless,” he said. The MOU clearly states that after recovering the cost of production the excess funds will be utilised for conservation work and once we get that funds it will be utilised for said purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/investigate-financial-irregularities-by-wild-karnataka-makers-hiremath-850312.html
16-06-2020||State||Karnataka govt pushes for ease of buying agri land for industries||The government will now integrate software to allow sub-registrars to easily register assets that industrialists have purchased directly from farmers.  The government has issued a detailed circular on implementing ‘deemed approval’ under Section 109 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act that allows direct purchase of agricultural land from farmers for non-agricultural (industrial) use.  The circular is based on a recent amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, that exempts land for industrial purposes approved by the State High Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) or the State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) from Sections 63, 79A, 79B and 80, which imposed restrictions on non-agriculturists purchasing or owning agricultural land.  “Orders issued based on approvals given by the SHLCC or SLSWCC to proposals will be the orders applicable for Section 109 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act,” the revenue department said in the circular. “Sub-registrars are to register land based on these orders. To enable determination of date of registration, registration fee and stamp fees, the Karnataka Udyog Mitra (KUM) portal will be integrated with the Kaveri portal,” it said.  KUM is the government’s single-window platform for industries to apply for investment in the state, whereas the Kaveri portal is the property registration software maintained by the Department of Stamps & Registration.  The government has already announced that once a proposal to purchase land for industrial purposes is cleared by the SHLCC or SLSWCC, the process under Section 109 has to be completed in 30 days (it was 60 days earlier). If not, it will be deemed permitted or approved. The government has also decided to introduce a 30-day limit to authorise the conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural or industrial purposes.  According to the circular, industries that wish to purchase agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes must apply on the KUM portal. The application will be sent to the concerned deputy commissioner who should submit a report within 15 days. Irrespective of the DC's report, the application will be sent to the land audit committees. Proposals cleared by these panels will be placed before the SHLCC or SLSWCC for final approval.  Finally, companies or investors will get a digitally-signed copy of the ‘deemed’ land conversion order as soon as they pay the fees online through Bhoomi, the land records database, which will also be integrated with the KUM portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-pushes-for-ease-of-buying-agri-land-for-industries-850360.html
16-06-2020||State||Ordinance on land reforms in a week: Revenue minister||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Tuesday said that an ordinance will be issued soon to repeal some of the sections in the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961 that have become "hurdles" for industrialists. Speaking at an interactive meeting with Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (Kassia), the minister said that he had already replied to the questions raised by the Opposition over the changes in the Act. He said Sections 79 A,B and 80 of the Act prohibit the acquisition and holding of agricultural land by non-agriculturists and transfer of land to such persons. "As far as the questions of the Opposition are concerned, nobody has spoken after I gave my reply. Our stand is very clear. We have fixed the ceiling of 108 acres to ensure big industries do not acquire large parcels of land. There is no possibility of acquiring thousands of acres of land under the amendment," he said. After Kassia members and heads of various industry associations from across the state welcomed the government's move, Ashoka said: "Since the Assembly is not in session, an ordinance will be issued within a week to expedite the process of the reform. We have to change as per the time. We can't compete with other states with age-old laws," he said. In a memorandum submitted to the minister, Kassia president R Raju said that removing the restrictions on non-agriculturists purchasing land and the non-agricultural income cap  would enable entrepreneurs to directly deal with the land owners to buy land for industrial purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ordinance-on-land-reforms-in-a-week-revenue-minister-850361.html
16-06-2020||State||State conducting highest number of COVID-19 tests: CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday maintained that Karnataka was conducting the highest number of Covid-19 tests among Indian states.  He was responding to a question on why Karnataka’s testing numbers hit the lowest in the past one month with only 5,362 samples tested on Monday evening. The state tested 5,351 samples last on May 15. The testing figure for Tuesday stood at 7,936. “Testing hasn't reduced. We're doing more (tests) than expected. If there's any Indian state doing the highest number of tests, it is Karnataka,” Yediyurappa said.  He reiterated that Karnataka did not need a lockdown and that he would ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi for more relaxation. “I'll request for more relaxation so that public life can return to (full) normalcy and the economy can be revived,” he said. Yediyurappa is slated to participate in a video conference with Modi on Wednesday.  The government was doing “everything we can” to tackle the Covid-19 menace, Yediyurappa said. “We’re doing everything beyond our control. We’re keeping strict vigil and taking stern action,” he said.  On Tuesday, Yediyurappa participated in traditional Hindu rituals at the Shankara Mutt. “We're performing these rituals with a prayer that citizens live peacefully without Covid-19,” the CM said.   The government has released Rs 1,000 crore to provide Rs 2,000 incentive to farmers during the Covid-19 pandemic. This is part of the additional cash benefits the government is providing under the PM-KISAN scheme. “The Centre pays Rs 6,000 and we’re additionally giving Rs 4,000. We have already paid Rs 2,000. Now, despite the economic difficulty, we’ve released Rs 1,000 crore for 50 lakh farmers who will get another Rs 2,000,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-conducting-highest-number-of-covid-19-tests-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-850362.html
16-06-2020||State||Collegiate edu commissionerate comes into existence||The state government has merged the department of technical education with department of collegiate education. An order issued by the Higher Education department on Tuesday read: , "now on the department will be called as Karnataka state collegiate and technical education commissionerate. The commissioner of collegiate education who is an IAS officer will be head and the director Technical Education works under him. However all other cadre and recruitment norms remain the same."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/collegiate-edu-commissionerate-comes-into-existence-850363.html
16-06-2020||State||Centre asks Karnataka to expedite projects under Jal Jeevan Mission||The Centre has requested Karnataka to expedite the implementation of centrally sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission, which aims to provide potable water to every rural household. The Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in his letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said that since Karnataka was planning 100% household coverage by 2022-23, the state should take immediate steps to expedite the scheme to provide tap connection to each rural household. Jal Jeevan Mission, a Centrally funded scheme, aims to provide 55 litres of potable water per person per day to every rural household of the country by 2024. Out of 89.61 lakh rural households in Karnataka, tap connection has been provided to 24.41 lakh households.  In 2019-20, only 22,133 tap connections were provided. The state is planned to enable 23.57 lakh households with tap water connections in 2020-21. The Centre has approved Rs 1,189.40 crore for implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission in Karnataka in 2020-21, which is a considerable increase from Rs. 546.06 crore in 2019-20, the minister said in his letter. The Union Minister also highlighted that if the state expedited the works in terms of physical outputs such as number of tap connections provided and commensurate financial progress, the state can avail of additional funds based on the performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-asks-karnataka-to-expedite-projects-under-jal-jeevan-mission-850365.html
16-06-2020||State||Karnataka Govt staffer at Vikasa Soudha tests coronavirus positive||A government employee at the Vikasa Soudha turned positive for COVID-19 sending health officials scrambling to investigate on Tuesday evening. According to Dr Lokesh M, Special Commissioner, Bengaluru Bruhat Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the case is a 42-year-old stenographer working at the Food and Civil Supplies Department secretariat located at the ground floor of Vikasa Soudha.  "She is a resident of Ullal, Kengeri and began to exhibit symptoms of fever and decided to get herself tested. Her test results came positive today," he said, adding that the patient was currently at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital and was in stable condition. Dr Siddapaji, BBMP East Zone health officer said she had reportedly complained to the on-staff doctor at the Vikasa Soudha of fever on June 8. Another BBMP source said there is suspicion that she contracted the infection from external sources.  In the meantime, the BBMP said it has identified 14 primary contacts at the Vikasa Soudha.  "Contact tracing is under way at her home and neighbourhood," Dr Lokesh said. The Special Commissioner specified that none of the primary contacts is a high-ranking official. "It appears that she did not have contact with VIPs," he said. BBMP officers have sealed the room where the stenographer worked, although Dr Lokesh specified that the primary focus was on the patient’s home address, where a containment zone will be set up. Dr Vijendra Bilaguli, Chief Health Officer, BBMP said there would be no containment zone at the Vikasa Soudha. "We will start sanitisation measures within the room on Wednesday," he said. A senior officer in the Palike specified that this was in line with the standard operating procedure for government buildings. "On June 8, a private secretary of an Additional Commissioner at the Commercial Tax Office tested positive. Our protocols were much the same: sanitisation of the office space," he said. The primary contacts from Vikasa Soudha have been quarantined at a private hotel in Shivajinagar. Incidentally, it is the same hotel where a 34-year-old housekeeper contracted Covid-19 on May 5, before inadvertently spreading the virus to 45 others in his residency building in Shivajinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-staffer-at-vikasa-soudha-tests-coronavirus-positive-850366.html
16-06-2020||State||Minister Ravi launches online Kannada classes||Kannada, Culture and Tourism Minister C T Ravi on Tuesday launched online Kannada classes, in an effort to encourage non-Kannadigas in the state to learn the language. The initiative 'Kali Kannada' will be available on the minister's official Twitter account, with the first two lessons put up on Tuesday. He said the initiative was meant for non-Kannadigas in Karnataka. "They are in our state and they are our people. So it is our responsibility to teach them our language," he said. Each day, his team will post spoken Kannada lessons online, he said. The first two lessons had a list of conversational Kannada phrases which included greeting and introductions in Kannada. That apart, a list of beginners' vocabulary was also posted.  Speaking to DH, Ravi said this was an attempt to create a learning atmosphere for the language. "Today, all regional languages are under threat. We have to begin by taking small steps to keep the language alive. One cannot impose language learning on anyone. This attempt is just to generate interest among people to learn Kannada. There are many apps teaching the language. Once they pick up interest by using this twitter class, they can continue learning the language in depth by enrolling themselves on  apps or offline classes," he said. The department wanted to keep it going for at least 100 days, he added. The module for these online lessons is being developed by staff in his office.  The minister's move comes at a time when there is a statewide demand to offer government services in Kannada under the #ServiceInMyLanguage campaign. Recently, the government asked banks to offer services in Kannada and even redo their signboards, after complaints that people in rural areas were finding it hard in banks with employees not conversing in the local language. Within hours of the announcement, the minister's decision garnered much interest online with several welcoming the move and a few others expressing willingness to take part in the classes.  However, there were also demands that the government ensure that Kannada was the language of transaction in banks and that the Sarojini Mahishi report on reserving jobs for locals was implemented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-ravi-launches-online-kannada-classes-850367.html
16-06-2020||State||Karnataka's first plasma therapy recovery in Hubballi||In a first in Karnataka, a COVID-19 patient who underwent convalescent plasma therapy at the COVID-19 hospital at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi has almost totally recovered. Authorities are expected to take a decision about the date to discharge him from the hospital shortly. The 65-year-old P-2,710, a lorry driver from Hubballi who returned from Maharashtra, was admitted at the KIMS Covid-19 hospital on May 27. He had symptoms of cough, respiratory insufficiency like pneumonia, fever and weak blood. Luckily, a 64-year-old graveyard guard (P-363), who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 18, and was discharged on May 8, donated blood to extract plasma to be transfused to P-2710. He underwent plasma therapy on May 28 and 29. Symptoms came down drastically in two days, highly-placed sources in KIMS recall. About 200 ml plasma was given for two consecutive days each. He recovered considerably within a week of the plasma therapy. This was the first plasma therapy conducted on a Covid-19 patient at KIMS, which was the first institute in Karnataka to get approval for 'A Phase II, Open Label, Randomised Controlled Trial to Assess the Safety & Efficacy of Convalescent Plasma to Limit Covid-19 Associated Complications in Moderate Disease' (PLACID trial) by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Dr Ram Kaulgud, Dr Eshwar Hasabi, Dr Sachin Hosakatti, Dr Shailendra, Dr Kavita, Dr Uday Bande, and others were in the team of doctors which conducted the plasma therapy, sources added. 'No infection now' "Symptoms of P-2710 who underwent plasma therapy have almost disappeared, and he is tested negative for Covid-19 infection," confirmed a KIMS source on condition of anonimity. Official announcement by the district administration is awaited. "The District administration has provided us a Rs 25 lakh multi-purpose machine to store plasma packets of 200 ml each, where around 500 packets can be stored at a time. We have also convinced first Covid-19 patient in the district, a foreign returnee, to donate plasma, and he has already done so. We are approaching other cured patients also, and other district administrations to make arrangements for plasma donation to KIMS, for future use, the doctor said. There are some criteria for plasma donation. Blood group of plasma donor and receiver should match, a doctor added. "His condition when he arrived was such that he should have been put on ventilator in a couple of days. After one week of plasma therapy, his condition improved 50%. Now, only a small problem is seen in his X-ray report, which can be cured during home isolation. He would be probably discharged on Wednesday (June 17)," said Dr Kaulgud, who treated P-2710.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-first-plasma-therapy-recovery-in-hubballi-850368.html
16-06-2020||State||With 63 fresh cases, Kalaburagi crosses 1000-mark||Covid-19 cases crossed 1000-mark in Kalaburagi on Tuesday as the district recorded 63 fresh cases to take the total count to 1007. The number of positive cases are second highest in the state after Udupi (1035).  Kalaburagi is witnessing a flurry of positive cases after migrant workers returned from Maharashtra. Of the fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 52 are returnees from Maharashtra while three have returned from the UAE. On the bright side, a total of 15 people were discharged from the hospital post recovery, taking the total recoveries to 474. Of the two cases reported from Bidar, a male aged 49 died of Covid-19 on Monday. He was diagnosed with SARI and known case of diabetes and hypertension. The deceased was admitted to the designated hospital onJune 14. Raichur saw six fresh cases. While two are returnees from Maharashtra, contact tracing of three is underway. Virus-hotspot Yadgir too recorded six new cases and all have Maharashtra link. Meanwhile, Ballari reported 30 fresh cases on the day. The patients are from Ballari, Hosapete, Sandur, Siruguppa, Hagaribommanahalli and Kudligi. All have been admitted at Sanjeevini Covid hospital in Torangal.  Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul said that a total of 250 Covid cases had been detected in the district till now. 72 ICU admissions Covid-19 ICU admissions reached a record 72 on Tuesday from 56 on Monday. Sixteen more patients were shifted to intensive care.  A majority of the ICU patients are in Bengaluru Urban (35) and in single digit in other 10 districts. The state reported 317 new cases and seven fatalities taking the total number of infections to 7,530, and death toll to 94. 322 patients also got discharged. harwad eight, six each from Raichur, Yadgir, and Uttara Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/with-63-fresh-cases-kalaburagi-crosses-1000-mark-850378.html
16-06-2020||State||Wakf report to be tabled in session: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday directed officials to ensure that the Lokayukta inquiry report on the encroachment of Wakf properties in the state is tabled before the next session of the legislature. Yediyurappa said this during a review of the Minority Welfare Department and the Wakf Board.  “Based on the Anwar Manippady report on encroachment of Wakf properties, a Lokayukta inquiry was ordered and an interim report has been submitted. The Cabinet has already approved the tabling of this report in the legislature,” Yediyurappa said during the meeting.  Manippady, a former chairperson of the Karnataka State Minorities Commission, had charged in his report that Wakf properties to the tune of Rs 2 lakh crore had been encroached upon across the state. It was also decided in the meeting that Haj pilgrims will have their advance refunded as Saudi Arabia has not provided any information on the pilgrimage in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Yediyurappa also reviewed the textiles department and found that 18,991 weavers have applied online to receive the Rs-2,000 yearly financial aid. He asked officials to ensure the aid reached them soon.  Yediyurappa was told by officials that handloom products worth Rs 14.15 crore and powerloom products worth Rs 942.66 crore have remained unsold. Among these, sarees woven by powerlooms can be given to anganwadi workers, Yediyurappa said.  The CM also reviewed the functioning of the backward classes welfaredepartment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wakf-report-to-be-tabled-in-session-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-850381.html
16-06-2020||State||Over 200 Congress leaders seek ticket for MLC polls||More than 200 Congress leaders have sought the Legislative Council election ticket, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said here on Tuesday, leaving the final decision to the party’s high command.  Elections to fill up seven MLC berths that fall vacant will be held on June 29. The last date for the candidates to file their nomination is June 18. After a meeting with Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar said that the high command will take the final call. “Whoever is asking (for the ticket), we will inform the high command. Why should we snatch away their rights? Over 200 people are asking for the ticket whereas we have only two seats that we can win,” he said.  “All that we will do is to inform the high command on who is asking, based on their biodata. We won’t interfere any further,” he said.  Meanwhile, a section of Christian leaders from the party have approached the high command, signifying disgruntlement ahead of the MLC polls. “Currently, there is only one Christian in the Upper House who is retiring and this seat must be retained by the community,” a note prepared by the Christian leaders stated, referring to incumbent MLC Ivan D’Souza.  “However, the Muslims had two seats in the Upper House of which one (Rizwan Arshad) was given an MLA seat, and he, therefore, resigned a sitting seat which was valid until 2022. Currently, there is one Muslim in the Upper House, C M Ibrahim,” they said.  While in government the Muslims had five and the Christians had one. Now that there is no government, it is only fair that the lone seat the Christisans have, continues. With the upcoming BBMP elections in Bengaluru, coupled with the fact that the Christian community hasn’t been given a single Lok Sabha seat since 2009, it is only fair that this MLC seat be retained,” they argued.  Last year, former minister J Alexander resigned from the party’s primary membership, but was later convinced. But former top cop H T Sangliana resigned from the Congress in protest against the party’s “neglect” of the Christian community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-200-congress-leaders-seek-ticket-for-mlc-polls-850383.html
16-06-2020||State||SC declines to consider plea against SSLC exams in Karnataka||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to consider a plea against the proposed Class 10 SSLC Board examination between June 25 and July 4 in Karnataka, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat dismissed the petition filed by Smt Rajshree against the May 27 judgement of the Karnataka High Court that had declined to cancel the examinations. The court said there was no merit in the petition and the High Court's view was correct and there was sufficient protocol for the examinations, including further time to those not willing to appear. "We are in agreement with the High Court of Karnataka that the writ petition filed for cancellation of SSLC Examination for the academic Session 2019-2020 did not warrant interference," the bench said. "The High Court has issued several directions pertaining to the steps to be taken by the government for conducting the examinations scheduled. Even the students who would not be able to take the examinations have also been protected," the court noted in its order. Karnataka's Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi defended the decision to conduct the examinations. The petitioner, led by senior advocate Jayna Kothari and advocate Anandita Pujari, contended the High Court failed to appreciate that the proposed examinations would not only pose serious health risk to lives of 8.48 lakh minor students but also to 25 to 30 lakh people involved in the entire process, including travelling and gathering of large crowds. The petitioner claimed it would be a complete denial of the right to health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, despite existent Standard Operating Procedure and guidelines in place. The life and health of minor students can be protected by promoting them based on their internal assessment marks taken by the school, as many other states have done, she said. The petitioner also said the entire examination process would involve the travelling of more than 25-30 lakh people in the State. Many would come from within containment zones and would be forced to use crowded buses and transport facilities to reach the examination centres where not less than 500 people would be present and physical distancing would not be possible, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-against-sslc-exams-in-karnataka-850406.html
16-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||S M Krishna, D K Shivakumar family in marriage alliance||The families of KPCC President D K Shivakumar and Cafe Coffee Day founder Late V G Siddhartha met in the former's house on Monday, to take forward the marriage alliance between Shivakumar's daughter Aishwarya and V G Siddhartha's son Amarthya Hegde. The bride and groom to-be are said to have exchanged garlands in an intimate ceremony organised at Shivakumar's residence in Sadashivanagar. Amarthya Hegde is the grandson of former chief minister S M Krishna. The alliance was proposed before the untimely demise of V G Siddhartha and was kept on hold until now, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/s-m-krishna-d-k-shivakumar-family-in-marriage-alliance-850004.html
16-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Reports from Ladakh disturbing, PM, Defence Minister should present clear picture: HD Deve Gowda||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday termed as 'disturbing' the violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley and said the government should offer a clearer picture to the nation on the border issue. He sought to know as to how Indian soldiers lost their lives during a de-escalation process and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh should come out with a clearer picture. "Reports coming from #GalwanValley are disturbing. Why did our soldiers lose their lives during a de-escalation process? In national interest, the PM and RM should offer a clearer picture to the nation on the border issue with the Chinese. #LADAKHSTANDOFF," Gowda tweeted. An Indian Army officer and two soldiers were killed during the confrontation with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the first such incident in the last 45 years that reflected massive escalation in the five- week border row. The Army said India lost an officer and two soldiers during the violent face-off, while there were casualties on the Chinese side as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reports-from-ladakh-disturbing-pm-defence-minister-should-present-clear-picture-hd-deve-gowda-850195.html
16-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Kannada minister offers lessons for non-Kannadigas||The non-Kannada speaking population residing in Karnataka can now learn Kannada on Twitter, making use of a new initiative taken up by Minister for Kannada & Culture, CT Ravi. Ravi has put up details about the 'Kali Kannada' initiative on his Twitter account on Tuesday. Announcing the same, he said the initiative is meant for non-Kannadigas in Karnataka. "They are in our state and they are our people. So it is our responsibility to teach them our language," he said.  Each day, his team would post spoken Kannada lessons online, he said. The first lesson he posted online had a list of basic conversational Kannada phrases. The minister's move comes at a time when there is a state-wide demand to offer government services in Kannada. Recently, the state government had directed banks to offer services in Kannada and even redo their signboards, after complaints were made that people in rural areas were finding it hard in banks with employees not conversing in the local language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-kannada-minister-offers-lessons-for-non-kannadigas-850235.html
16-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ordinance on land reforms in a week, says Karnataka Revenue Minister||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Tuesday said that an ordinance will be issued soon to repeal some of the sections in the Land Reforms Act that has become "hurdles" for industrialists. Speaking at an interactive meeting with Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (Kassia), the minister said that he has already replied to questions raised by the opposition over the changes in the Act. "As far as the questions of the Opposition are concerned, nobody has spoken after I gave my reply. Our stand is very clear. We have fixed the ceiling of 108 acres to ensure large industries do not acquire large parcels of land," he said. After Kassia members from across the state welcomed the government's move, Ashoka said: "Since the Assembly is not in session, an ordinance will be issued within a week to expedite the process of the reform.  We have to change as per the time. We can't compete with other states with age old laws," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ordinance-on-land-reforms-in-a-week-says-karnataka-revenue-minister-850242.html
16-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka conducting highest number of coronavirus tests, says BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday maintained that Karnataka is conducting the highest number of COVID-19 tests among all other Indian states.  He was responding to a question on why Karnataka’s testing numbers hit the lowest in the past one month with only 5,362 samples tested on Monday evening, which can be compared with 5,351 samples tested on May 15. But the testing figure for Tuesday stood at 7,936. “Testing hasn't reduced. We're doing more (tests) than expected. If there's any Indian state doing the highest number of tests, it is Karnataka,” Yediyurappa said.  He reiterated that Karnataka did not need a lockdown and that he would ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi for more relaxation. “I'll request for more relaxation so that public life can return to (full) normalcy and the economy can be revived,” he said. Yediyurappa is slated to participate in a video conference with Modi on Wednesday.  The government is doing “everything we can” to tackle the COVID-19 menace, Yediyurappa said. “We’re doing everything beyond our control. We’re keeping strict vigil and taking stern action,” he said.  On Tuesday, Yediyurappa participated in traditional Hindu rituals at the Shankara Mutt. “We're performing these rituals with a prayer that citizens live peacefully without COVID-19,” the CM said.   The government has released Rs 1,000 crore to provide Rs 2,000 incentive to farmers during the COVID-19 pandemic. This is part of the additional cash benefits the government is providing under the PM-KISAN scheme. “The Centre pays Rs 6,000 and we’re additionally giving Rs 4,000. We have already paid Rs 2,000. Now, despite the economic difficulty, we’ve released Rs 1,000 crore for 50 lakh farmers who will get another Rs 2,000,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-conducting-highest-number-of-coronavirus-tests-says-bs-yediyurappa-850330.html
16-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka pushes for ease of purchasing agricultural land for industries||After deciding to make sweeping policy changes on purchasing agricultural land, the state government will now integrate software to allow sub-registrars to easily register assets that industrialists have purchased directly from farmers.  The government has issued a detailed circular on implementing ‘deemed approval’ under Section 109 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act that allows direct purchase of agricultural land from farmers for non-agricultural (industrial) use.  The circular is based on a recent amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, that exempts land for industrial purposes approved by the State High Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) or the State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) from Sections 63, 79A, 79B and 80, which imposed restrictions on non-agriculturists purchasing or owning agricultural land.  “Orders issued based on approvals given by the SHLCC or SLSWCC to proposals will be the orders applicable for Section 109 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act,” the revenue department said in the circular. “Sub-registrars are to register land based on these orders. To enable determination of date of registration, registration fee and stamp fees, the Karnataka Udyog Mitra (KUM) portal will be integrated with the Kaveri portal,” it said.  KUM is the government’s single-window platform for industries to apply for investment in the state, whereas the Kaveri portal is the property registration software maintained by the Department of Stamps & Registration.  The government has already announced that once a proposal to purchase land for industrial purposes is cleared by the SHLCC or SLSWCC, the process under Section 109 has to be completed in 30 days (it was 60 days earlier). If not, it will be deemed permitted or approved. The government has also decided to introduce a 30-day limit to authorise the conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural or industrial purposes.  According to the circular, industries that wish to purchase agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes must apply on the KUM portal. The application will be sent to the concerned deputy commissioner who should submit a report within 15 days. Irrespective of the DCs report, the application will be sent to the land audit committees. Proposals cleared by these panels will be placed before the SHLCC or SLSWCC for final approval.  Finally, companies or investors will get a digitally-signed copy of the ‘deemed’ land conversion order as soon as they pay the fees online through Bhoomi, the land records database, which will also be integrated with the KUM portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-pushes-for-ease-of-purchasing-agricultural-land-for-industries-850348.html
16-06-2020||West||Former Goa minister Achyut Usgaonkar dies at 92||Former Goa minister Achyut Kashinath Sinai Usgaonkar died at a hospital near here on Tuesday following age-related ailments, family sources said. He was 92. Usgaonkar was a leader of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), the oldest regional outfit in Goa. He served as a cabinet minister from August 13, 1977, to April 27, 1979, in the then Shashikala Kakodkar government of Goa, Daman and Diu. "Usgaonkar died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (located near Panaji) around 7.30 am," his son-in-law Dinar Tarcar told PTI. He is survived by three daughters, including noted film actor Varsha Usgaonkar. Before serving as a minister, Achyut Usgaonkar was the deputy speaker of Goa during the Dayanand Bandodkar-led government. Bandodkar was the first chief minister of the coastal state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-goa-minister-achyut-usgaonkar-dies-at-92-850104.html
16-06-2020||West||Maharashtra government misreporting COVID-19 deaths: BJP||In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis brought this to light. According to Fadnavis, there has been gross violation of ICMR guidelines. "The BMC has suppressed around 950 deaths. There have been around  3,300 COVID-19 deaths while the BMC has revealed only around 2,250 deaths," state BJP vice president Dr Kirit Somaiya said. "It is a cover up," said Fadnavis. However, there has been no immediate reaction from the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. "Before announcing a COVID-19 related death, it is examined by the Death Audit Committee formed by the BMC. We have noticed that there are at least 451 recent deaths that were not declared as COVID-19 deaths. According to the ICMR guidelines, these were COVID-19 deaths but the Death Audit Committee showed these as non-COVID-19 deaths," he said. Former Chief Minister Fadnavis, also alleged that there were 500 COVID-19 deaths that were not reported to the Death Audit Committee." So there are around 950 COVID-19 deaths that are suppressed. This is serious and criminal in nature," he said. "The State Government itself has directed setting up Death Audit Committee at every district & Municipal Corporation level. When there are clear guidelines by @WHO & @ICMRDELHI on identifying #COVID_19 & non-Covid cases,is this committee made to prevent deaths or to hide numbers?," Fadnavis tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-misreporting-covid-19-deaths-bjp-850132.html
16-06-2020||West||'Saamana' editorial sends wrong message about Congress, says Balasaheb Thorat||The Congress, which is one of the ruling parties in the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government, on Tuesday said the editorial published in daily 'Saamana' is based on "incomplete information" and sends out a wrong message about the party. The editorial has equated the Congress with an "old creaking cot", saying there are more murmurs of resentment in that party. "There are many in the party (Congress) who can change sides. This is the reason why murmurs are being felt. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should be prepared to tolerate such murmurs in the alliance," the Shiv Sena mouthpiece said. Ahead of a meeting of Congress leaders with Thackeray, state Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat told reporters on Tuesday that his party wants to discuss issues concerning people and not bureaucratic transfers with the chief minister. "The chief minister is the head of the alliance and the government. When the hears us out, he too will be satisfied. The 'Saamana' should write another editorial. Today's piece is based on incomplete information which sends out a wrong message about us. We are with the MVA," he said. Replying to questions about 'Saamana' suggesting that upcoming nominations to the Legislative Council from Governor's quota be based on the proportion of numbers of each party in the Assembly, Thorat said allocation of ministries had been done on that basis. Senior Congress leaders like Thorat and his ministerial colleague Ashok Chavan had spoken about resentment in the Congress. Chavan had reportedly said that there was a growing feeling among Congress leaders and ministers that the party wasn't getting its due as a partner. Nominations for a total of 12 seats, which will be up for grabs in the state Legislative Council, seems to have emerged as a fresh trigger for resentment in the Congress. Senior Congress leaders have been reportedly insisting that the three parties (the Congress, the Sena and the NCP) get one-third share--4 nominations per party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/saamana-editorial-sends-wrong-message-about-congress-says-balasaheb-thorat-850174.html
16-06-2020||West||In Maharashtra's latest political tussle, it is Congress vs Shiv Sena||The rift in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government came out in open with Shiv Sena and Congress trading charges against each other. Maharashtra Congress president and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and public works minister Ashok Chavan are expected to meet CM Uddhav Thackeray. The MVA comprises of Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar-led NCP, Congress and smaller parties and independents. The Congress's charge is that their issues and complaints are being ignored and a section of bureaucracy is trying to create a "rift" within the MVA. Senior Congress leaders said that Thackeray is regularly consulting Pawar, the NCP supremo, on different issues but not senior Congress leaders. In an editorial in Saamana, the Shiv Sena, referred to the Congress as an "old cot" that makes noises -- a statement that has not gone down well with the Congress leadership. "Congress is doing good in the state. But every once in a while the old cot (Congress) makes noises.... It has now been decided that the two ministers will meet the chief minister. Why is the old cot (Congress) making a noise," the editorial said.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader and Saamana's executive editor, said: "It is not a jibe at the Congress. It is the writing style of Saamna." "The coordination in the government is present, all the issues will be resolved after they meet the chief minister, such issues happen at times. Some Congress ministers, especially Ashok Chavan, have said that the officers do not listen to them, they will talk to the chief minister."Meanwhile, Thorat said: "What has been written in Saamana is not based on full information...we would meet the chief minister."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maharashtras-latest-political-tussle-it-is-congress-vs-shiv-sena-850190.html
16-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Konkan division gets Rs 109 cr to combat COVID-19||Maharashtra's Konkan division has been allotted Rs 109 crore by the state government to fight the novel coronavirus pandemic, of which Rs 35 crore will be utilised in Thane district that has the highest number of cases in the state after Mumbai. Thane Guardian Minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde issued a release on Tuesday stating that Konkan division had been given Rs 109 crore while Aurangabad division got Rs 20 crore. The release said of the Rs 35 crore, Thane city gets Rs 5 crore, while Mira Bhayander, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai get Rs 10 crore each. Neighbouring Palghar has got Rs 4 crore, Raigad Rs 5 crore, BMC Rs 60 crore and Vasai-Virar Rs 5 crore, the release informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-konkan-division-gets-rs-109-cr-to-combat-covid-19-850214.html
16-06-2020||West||42 Maharashtra Police personnel died of COVID-19 so far: Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||At least 3,661 police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra so far and of them, 42 have died of the deadly infection, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday. Till now, 2,248 police personnel have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, he said. As many as 3,661 personnel of the Maharashtra Police contracted COVID-19 and 42 succumbed to the disease, the minister said in a series of tweets. So far, 6,17,242 people have been quarantined and of these, 730 were found violating the quarantine norms, he said. The state government is running 134 relief camps where 4,437 migrant labourers have been given refuge and provided food and other necessities, Deshmukh said. Since the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, the police have registered 1,30,396 offences under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), leading to 26,887 arrests and seizure of 82,344 vehicles, he said. The police also collected fines worth over Rs 7.65 crore from offenders during the lockdown, he said. Besides, nearly 1,333 offences have been registered for illegal transport in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/42-maharashtra-police-personnel-died-of-covid-19-so-far-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-850276.html
16-06-2020||West||SC refuses relief to Gujarat Bar leader in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to consider a plea by senior advocate and Gujarat High Court Bar leader, Yatin Oza against criminal contempt action initiated against him for his scurrilous remarks against the High Court and its registry. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna told senior advocates A M Singhvi and Arvind Datar, who wanted a stay on the proceedings, that the petitioner should raise his grievance before the  High Court only. Singhvi said the High Court issued the notice in anger without any basis. The bench, however, said that there were allegations that he brought disrepute to the High Court. As Singhvi contended injustice had been done to him, the bench said he should not make such allegations and raise his contention before the High Court. On this, the counsel preferred to withdraw the special leave petition. Oza, president of Gujarat HC Advocates Association, challenged validity of the High Court's order of June 9, issuing contempt notice to him after he made certain allegations in a Facebook live press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-refuses-relief-to-gujarat-bar-leader-in-contempt-case-850302.html
16-06-2020||West||SC notice to Goa Assembly Speaker over disqualification petition case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Goa Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on a plea by state Congress president Girish Chodankar for a direction to him to decide on the disqualification of 10 party MLAs who joined the BJP.  Chodankar's petition filed with the Goa Speaker seeks disqualification of 10 former Congress MLAs, who joined the BJP from the Congress last year. These legislators had defected to BJP in July 2019 and the plea for disqualification against them was pending since August 2019. The petitioner has relied upon the SC’s recent ruling, that had held that Speaker should decide such disqualification plea. In his plea to the Supreme Court, Chodankar had sought that directions be given to the Goa Speaker to dispose the disqualification petition in question, within one month. The Court has directed the Speaker of the Goa legislative assembly to respond to its notice within three weeks. "We have inter-alia prayed in petition that direction be issued to the Goa Speaker to decide the pending disqualification petitions within 1 month and during this time, till the time petition is decided by the Speaker, the 10 MLAs concerned be restrained to officiate as MLAs and Ministers," the state Congress president said, after the SC issued notice to the Goa Speaker. "The petition also relies on another Supreme Court order concerning Manipur where due to the delay by the Speaker in deciding the disqualification petition, the Supreme Court had declared that an MLA would cease to be a Minister," Chodankar also said. In March this year, the Supreme Court had heard a petition filed by the Congress party, seeking disqualification of Thounaojam Shyamkumar Singh, who had switched over to the BJP from the Congress. In July last year, 10 Congress MLAs had split from the Congress and switched over to the BJP. Chodankar had filed the disqualification petition with the Speaker soon after the split and has repeatedly complained that the Speaker was delaying proceedings related to the disqualification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-notice-to-goa-assembly-speaker-over-disqualification-petition-case-850349.html
16-06-2020||West||Maharashtra's coronavirus death toll crosses 5,000||In a shocking and serious development, the COVID-19 death toll in Maharashtra jumped by 1,328 after the government concluded a comprehensive updation and reconciliation exercise on Tuesday. With this, the state's toll has shot up from 4,128 to staggering 5,000 plus to touch 5,456 deaths. While 862 deaths were added in Mumbai's toll, rest 466 was from across the state. The figures have accumulated for a three-month period for various reasons including delay in results for labs. On Monday,  the toll stood at 4,128 and positive cases at 56,049 - and the updated figure does not include fresh deaths that are reported on Tuesday. The development comes a day ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video-conference with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. Meanwhile,  leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP has alleged that the government is trying to hide and suppress death toll. The development comes as a major embarrassment to the Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. "The jump in figures is because of the reconciliation process," chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said. Last Saturday, principal secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas had ordered all district collectors and municipal commissioners to update records by Monday. "It is my sincere request to the State Government that please don’t ignore this entire episode of criminal negligence in the name of reconciliation of numbers.These figures were suppressed for last 3months. We demand strict action against all those who are responsible for this," charged Fadnavis,  a  former chief minister. In a letter to Thackeray,  Fadnavis has asked for a probe. According to Fadnavis,  there has been gross violation of ICMR and WHO guidelines. "It is a cover up," said Fadnavis. "Before announcing COVID-19 related deaths, it is examined by the Death Audit Committee formed by the BMC. We have noticed that there are at least 451 recent deaths that were not declared as COVID-19 deaths. As per the ICMR guidelines, these were COVID-19 deaths but the Death Audit Committee showed these as non-COVID-19 deaths," he said. Fadnavis,  a former chief minister,  also alleged that here were 500 COVID-19 deaths that were not reported to the Death Audit Committee. " So there are around 950 COVID-19 deaths that are suppressed. This is serious and criminal in nature," he said. "The State Government itself has directed to set up Death Audit Committee at every district & Municipal Corporation level. When there are clear guidelines by @WHO & @ICMRDELHI on identifying #COVID_19 & non-Covid cases,is this committee made to prevent deaths or to hide numbers?," Fadnavis tweeted. According to Mehta,  according to ICD-19 guidelines based on recommendations form WHO,  ICMR and National Centre for Disease Control,  a reconcilation exercise is a must and accordingly it was carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-coronavirus-death-toll-crosses-5000-850386.html
