17-06-2020||First Edit||Take firm stand to deal with China||The brutal killing of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh by the Chinese army on Monday night has set the LAC on fire and escalated the tense and fraught situation that has prevailed there in the past few weeks. This is the deadliest face-off between Indian and Chinese forces in over five decades and has reminded the country of a face of China hardly seen since 1962. The events leading up to the confrontation spell out a betrayal by the Chinese, as they acted with treachery after the two sides had only days ago agreed to withdraw their forces in the Valley. When Indian soldiers went to verify if the PLA had indeed pulled back as agreed, the Chinese ambushed them and beat them to death with clubs and spiked iron rods. The savagery is most distressing, and it happened amid ongoing talks between military officials to defuse the tension along the LAC. Only a few days ago, the Indian government had claimed that the “entire situation” along the LAC was “under control.” Monday’s events underscore that it was not.  China has been working systematically to alter the LAC by force. In early May, its soldiers crossed into the territory on the Indian side in the Galwan Valley and at Pangong Tso and Hot Springs. Not only have such intrusions grown in frequency and depth but the PLA has dug into these areas by setting up tents and building bunkers. In the Galwan Valley, the LAC had been accepted by the two sides but China has taken its occupation further, and on Tuesday, it claimed it had “always” held sovereignty over the area. India has made it clear to the Chinese that the creeping occupation of the Indian territory would not be tolerated. New Delhi must act on the talk politically, diplomatically and if necessary, by action on the ground. China must be made to realise that aggression will not go unchallenged. It must back off.  The escalation of violence on the LAC underscores how fragile the relations between the two countries are. Just a spark is enough to get a conflagration going and both countries cannot afford an escalation of the conflict. But India cannot also afford to compromise on its security and territorial integrity. It must ensure that the Galwan Valley issue is resolved on this basis only. The incident should be an eye-opener and should prompt India to shed some illusions. The Narendra Modi government must take a firm stand, and involve the Opposition to build a consensus on the LAC crisis to deal with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/take-firm-stand-to-deal-with-china-850714.html
17-06-2020||In Perspective||Make MSMEs earn profit, sell them off||The COVID-19 shock has been massive. Aggregate supply and demand have shifted inwardly causing huge loss of output and staggering unemployment.  Businesses must be supported because instead of flattening the COVID curve, the GDP growth curve has got flattened, as industrialist Rajiv Bajaj has said. The GDP is expected to go into a tailspin making it a very tough year going forward with bankruptcies becoming the norm, sparing neither big companies nor micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The government, with its Rs 20 lakh crore package, is focused on preventing companies from bankruptcies. The Reserve Bank of India has become a lender of last resort, injecting liquidity, enforcing moratoriums,  and along with the government, guaranteeing different types of loans besides strengthening financial systems. Among myriad announcements, the equity infusion fund of Rs 50,000 crore for MSMEs has the potential to be a winner. Equity infusion through a “Fund of Funds”, operated via a mother fund and few daughter funds, will enable firms to survive, develop business scale and increase employment, encouraging them to get listed on the stock exchanges.  Equity infusion and taking over the boards of defaulting companies is not new to India. In early 2001, when the Unit Trust of India (UTI) had sunk into a crisis, the government created the Specified Undertaking of UTI (SU-UTI) to take over UTI’s large corporate shareholdings, including blue-chip companies like L&T, ITC and Axis Bank. In 2009, during the  Satyam saga, the government superseded the company board. The new board organised a strategic sale stake resulting in Tech Mahindra acquiring control. The Yes Bank Limited story—where the  RBI took control and reconstructed the board—is a recent example of government intervention in times of crisis. With a terrible year ahead, with rating agencies predicting a negative 5% GDP growth, the mega-recession will surely sink thousands of MSMEs, possibly even corporate giants. Banks cannot keep rescuing these companies with loans that will never get repaid — the banks themselves will get compromised.   The right option will be to take over the boards of these companies akin to UTI, Satyam or Yes Bank through equity infusion, at low prices, nursing them through the crisis period and selling them back into the private ecosystem at a profit. There are two problems with this approach. Firstly, as Prof Jeremy Stein of Harvard University puts it, the government, acting as a lender of last resort, in this environment of high uncertainty, will no doubt provide aid for firms to stay alive for a few months but will be risking significant losses if the business turns sour. Naturally, there are very few safe loans to be offered in this period. Family silver  Secondly, government takeovers in India are mainly one way, reselling a company once purchased and turned profitable, is akin to selling the family silver. Once the government owns an asset, politicians and other vested interests will cry hoarse and prevent privatisation. Think of the privatisation of PSUs — BPCL, SCI or BEML — and of the vested interests doing everything possible to thwart their sale. Although the government has rarely resold the turned-around companies, this path has proved rewarding as in the case of the price of SU-UTI  shares which rose considerably (only a small proportion of SU-UTI shares has been sold so far - the government is reluctant to sell the balance). Yes Bank has been kept alive through equity infusion from the State Bank of India and other PSU banks with new management working towards profitability. In a  mega recessionary environment, flooding the financial system with money to revive companies suffering from illiquidity, may not be sufficient. This is why the government’s equity infusion fund of Rs 50,000 crore for MSMEs is a momentous first step. This will be a significant step towards stemming mass bankruptcies. Not only deep pockets, but the government will also need sufficient patience and willingness to inject further massive amounts of equity to save the firms and put them on the path to profitability.  What next?  How does the government compulsorily resell and put the MSME back into the private ecosystem? The government funding of the rescued MSMEs should not make politicians feel that they own these assets and thwart eventual re-privatisation.  One solution would be for the RBI to form an independent entity to be entrusted with takeovers and given sufficient leeway for ensuring a hitch-free subsequent sale. We know that the mega-recession is going to kill many enterprises. The government should freely nationalise ailing MSMEs through an injection of fresh equity and allot shares at ultra-low prices. We must follow the route of equity infusion— what we need is for the government to buy MSMEs like it was done for UTI, Satyam, YES Bank, and then compulsorily selling them later. Our politicians and the business ecosystem must get used to this process of reprivatisation of entities picked up during the Covid turmoil. Difficult times call for difficult solutions. (The writer is a former director on the Board of BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/make-msmes-earn-profit-sell-them-off-850717.html
17-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||47 buses to ferry Dakshina Kannada students from Kerala border for II PU exam||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has made arrangements for the KSRTC and school buses to help students from Kerala, studying in Dakshina Kannada, to write their II PU English exam on June 18. A total of 47 buses will ferry 1,043 students from the border areas of Kerala to the respective examination centres. The students have been asked to be present at a designated place to board the bus at 7 am and have to get their hall ticket and identity card, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh.  All the students should mandatorily wear masks and use sanitisers before entering the examination centres. The principals of colleges, where students from Kerala, are studying have been asked to deploy staff to make arrangements to ensure that students reach the examination centres on time and get back home after the exam.   Twenty-two KSRTC buses and 11 schools buses have been arranged from Talapady toll gate near Mariyashrama Church, two each KSRTC buses from Punyakoti Nagara in Mudipu, Bayar and Anekal in Vittal border, one KSRTC bus from Pathur in Kurnadu border, three KSRTC buses from Saradka in Vittal border, school buses from Kayar Padav in Puttur border, Panjikallu in Sullia border, Karike in Sullia border and Alatti Baddadka have been arranged. A total of 26,942 students will write the PU Exam in Dakshina Kannada district. As many as 6322 students from DK district have chosen to write their exam in the centres near to their hometown, following the COVID-19 pandemic, said officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/47-buses-to-ferry-dakshina-kannada-students-from-kerala-border-for-ii-pu-exam-850513.html
17-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Yoga on terrace to mark Yoga Day'||MLA S A Ramadass said that the International Yoga Day will be observed in a significant manner and this time, yoga will be performed on the terrace of houses due to the outbreak of Covid-19 on June 21. Due to Covid-19, the International Yoga Day celebration committee has decided for ‘Virtual Yoga Terrace’. In this, new concept the participant will perform yoga on their house terrace. On June 21, the participants will perform yoga for 45 minutes between 7 am and 7.45 am. The video link will be sent to the mobile phones of the participants. In addition, the information about performing yoga will be shared on Facebook live. The participants must wear white T-shirt and black cotton pant. The photographs of yoga performance must be uploaded on https://yoga.ayush.gov.in/yoga/. The authorities will issue certificates to the participants. GSS Yoga Institute head D Srihari said, “400 schools and colleges have joined hands to celebrate the day. The institutions will ask the students and their parents to participate in the event. The authorities have planned to shoot terrace yoga performance, using a helicopter.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yoga-on-terrace-to-mark-yoga-day-850707.html
17-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Give priority for frontline workers, says Mandya MP Sumalatha||MP A Sumalatha said, “Priority should be given to frontline workers, fighting against coronavirus, and ensure that there is sufficient supply of medical equipment, including PPE kits, masks, sanitisers and others.” Chairing a meeting to review the progress of Central-sponsored schemes, organised under District Infrastructure Scheme Advisory Committee (DISHA) in Mandya on Wednesday, Sumalatha said that it is a crime to neglect corona warriors. “People from Mumbai and parts of Maharashtra are returning to Mandya district in large numbers. Thousands of people have applied on Seva Sindhu portal. The Health department should gear up to face the situation,” she said. Committee member Aruna Kumari complained that there is no proper distribution of masks to frontline workers. Asha workers, who visit villages, are working in fear. Health department officials should provide information on the number of masks distributed to each Asha worker, she said. District Health Officer Dr H P Manchegowda said that it is not possible to provide information on masks distributed to individual worker. But, masks are supplied to taluks and from there they are distributed to workers. Around 86,346 masks have been distributed to taluk hospitals. If required, more masks would be supplied, he said. The DHO explained that the Health department is ready to tackle migrants. In all, 4,014 beds have been identified for patients at Covid and taluk hospitals. The lab in the district hospital is capable of testing 300 samples per day. Pointing out that Kanakapura taluk in Ramanagar district, is identified under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (Act) in the national level, Sumalatha asked, “Why is it not possible to achieve the same in Mandya?” Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh explained, priority is given for construction of check dams in Ramanagar district. They have constructed check dams across streams and rivers. Besides, the workers have been utilised for other works. If gram panchayat development officers and presidents plan and execute works, the scheme would be effective in Mandya district, he said. Sumalatha expressed disappointment over the delay in construction of houses under Rajiv Gandhi Awas yojana. “It was a dream project of late Ambareesh. The negligence of officials has resulted in the snail’s pace of works. The officials should not give any excuse and 1,335 houses should be completed before March 2021,” she said. She said that the officials concerned should take action against private educational establishments collecting fee from parents. Sumalatha directed the ZP CEO K Yalakkigowda to issue notices to those who are absent for the meeting in future. ZP president Nagarathna Swamy was present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-give-priority-for-frontline-workers-says-mandya-mp-sumalatha-850709.html
17-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Education dept ready for SSLC exams: DDPI||Amid Covid-19 fear, the District Education department is all prepared to conduct SSLC examination from June 25. Deputy Director for Public Instructions (DDPI) Panduranga informed about the preparation during Karnataka Development Programmes (KDP) review meeting, chaired by Zilla Panchayat president Parimala Shyam, at Regional Commissioner’s Office here, on Wednesday. The DDPI said, 39,822 students have enrolled for SSLC examination. The examination will be held at 139 centres and an additional 12 centres are kept ready. Separate rooms will be allotted for students suffering from fever, cough and other health issues, he said. The department has roped in TV channels to conduct revision classes for students. President and ZP Chief Executive Officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra charged the Panchayat Raj Engineers for not repairing the classrooms, which were damaged due to floods, last year. The classrooms of 418 schools were damaged and Rs 2 lakh was sanctioned per school. Only 50% of the works have been completed, the DDPI informed. However, the engineers claimed that due to Covid-19, there is shortage for construction materials. The CEO warned them of suitable action, if they failed to complete the works soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/education-dept-ready-for-sslc-exams-ddpi-850711.html
17-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah slams PM Modi, Rajnath Singh for 'silence' on border dispute with China||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday dubbed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'silence' on violent clashes along the Sino-Indian border "seditious" and "anti-people". He also levelled similar allegations against Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on the Indo-China conflict. Following the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan valley in Ladakh, in which 20 Indian soldiers were martyred, Siddaramaiah in a series of tweets said that the Prime Minister did not give any official statement about the developments unfolding on the border. "It's almost seven weeks since the border disputes started with China. However, till now the Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Defence Minister Rajnath Singh did not give any official statement. The silence of the rulers is not only anti-people but also seditious," Siddaramaiah tweeted. He added that it was not the government but the country, which fights against the enemy nation and that the dispensation was answerable to the people of the country. "It is the people of the country who have reposed their trust on the Central government. It is the responsibility of the government to take people into confidence," Siddaramaiah stated in his tweet. The former chief minister said the Congress was always committed to the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country. He stressed that the supreme sacrifice of the soldiers should not go waste and called upon people to pay tribute to the valorous soldiers who laid down their lives. He also appealed to the people to condemn China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-slams-pm-modi-rajnath-singh-for-silence-on-border-dispute-with-china-850561.html
17-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Congress picks Hariprasad, Naseer for Council elections||The Congress high command on Wednesday sprang a surprise by announcing the candidature of senior leader and four-time Rajya Sabha member B K Hariprasad, along with sitting MLC Naseer Ahmed for the biennial election to the Legislative Council scheduled on June 29. Congress president Sonia Gandhi approved the candidatures of Hariprasad and Ahmed for the Karnataka Legislative Council elections, said a statement by party general secretary Mukul Wasnik. The term of Hariprasad as Rajya Sabha member ends on June 25. Ahmed's term as MLC ends on June 30. In the elections to seven seats of the Council, the Congress can win two seats with its strength of 68 members in the Assembly. It is said that the party top brass did not bother to consult the state unit, while announcing the candidatures of Kharge for the Rajya Sabha elections earlier and that of Hariprasad for the Council elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-picks-hariprasad-naseer-for-council-elections-850694.html
17-06-2020||National||Deeply anguished and pained: Sonia Gandhi on killing of soldiers in border clash||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said she was "deeply anguished and pained" over the killing of Indian Army personnel in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. "My tributes to their undaunting courage and condolences to the bereaved families. We stand together in defending our security and territorial integrity," she said in a statement. "Deeply anguished and pained by the reports of martyrdom of the brave officer and jawans of our Army in Galwan Valley, Ladakh," she said. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in the fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. The Army initially said on Tuesday that an officer and two soldiers were killed. But in a late evening statement it revised the figure to 20 saying 17 others who "were critically injured in the line of duty and exposed to sub-zero temperatures at the standoff location succumbed to their injuries." Government sources said the Chinese side too suffered "proportionate casualties" but chose not to speculate on the number.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deeply-anguished-and-pained-sonia-gandhi-on-killing-of-soldiers-in-border-clash-850416.html
17-06-2020||National||Stand-off on 70th anniversary of India-China relations||The stand-off on the India-China disputed boundary and the violent face-off between the soldiers of the two nations ironically came in a year New Delhi and Beijing were planning to hold a series of events to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the establishment of bilateral diplomatic relations. India and China established diplomatic relations on April 1, 1950. The two sides had planned to hold 70 events in 2020-21 to commemorate its 70th anniversary. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their second “informal summit” in Chennai, they had discussed about the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. “India and China are two ancient civilizations, with a long history of mutually beneficial exchanges over centuries,” Modi had written to Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on April 1 last. “Today, we are two large developing countries and emerging economies who are increasingly playing an important role on the global landscape. As such, good relations between India and China are conducive not only for our respective countries, but are also important from the perspective of peace, stability and prosperity of our region and the world," he added. Li had written to Modi that China was ready to join hands with India to build on the momentum created by this 70th anniversary (of establishment of diplomatic relations) to work for new progress in strategic and cooperative partnership between the two nations. Xi had also sent a message to President Ram Nath Kovind, noting that India and China had established a strategic and cooperative partnership for peace and prosperity and were working to build a closer developmental partnership. Kovind had written to Xi that the India and China had made considerable progress especially in the last few years in enhancing bilateral engagement in a number of areas, including political, economic and people-to-people ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stand-off-on-70th-anniversary-of-india-china-relations-850439.html
17-06-2020||National||Pakistan should stop systematic persecution of its religious minorities: India at UNHRC||India on Tuesday described Pakistan as "epicentre of global terrorism" and asked Islamabad to exercise “good neighbourliness” and stop systematic persecution of its religious minorities. In India's Right to Reply at the 43rd Session of UN Human Rights Council here, First Secretary at the Ministry of External Affairs, Vimarsh Aryan, said the pathetic situation of minorities in Pakistan is well known where the systematic misuse of blasphemy laws has condemned their lives utterly miserable. "A country that categorizes its minority communities into second or third tiers of citizenship is evoked with sudden sympathy for minorities in other countries," Aryan said as he rejected all the untenable and unsolicited remarks made by Pakistan against India. Noting that Pakistan set up a minority commission after more than 60 years of its existence, he said that no minorities can represent themselves in the so-called minority commission. Pakistan "should practise tolerance towards their minorities and good neighbourliness towards us so that the South-Asian region sees eternal peace the absence of which can mostly be attributed to Pakistani deep state,” he said. Referring to the death sentences meted out regularly under the blasphemy laws in Pakistan, he said the country has the distinction of having more cases under the controversial law than the rest of the world combined together in the last decade. "Systematic socio-economic discrimination, onslaught against religious and ethnic minorities with the full state support are manifested in organized attacks on Churches in Punjab, denial of last rites for Hindu community in Sindh, religious apartheid against Ahmadis, burning of houses belonging to Hindu Bheel community in Sindh, abduction of minor Hindu girls for sexual exploitation in Sindh, abduction of a Christian girl in Lahore...," he said. "One can only advise this country to stop looking others but rather rectify its ongoing structural discrimination and policies against its minorities,” the Indian diplomat said. "This epicentre of global terrorism very irresponsibly harps on self-determination of the already democratic Jammu and Kashmir," he said. Aryan said India’s decision in Jammu and Kashmir is "within our sovereign right and is an internal matter of India. Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India." Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir's special status on August 5 and bifurcating it into two Union territories. India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda. "Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will continue to be an integral part of India, and Pakistan should cease to covet it," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-should-stop-systematic-persecution-of-its-religious-minorities-india-at-unhrc-850443.html
17-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi, his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau talk about strengthening multilateral institutions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau on Tuesday emphasised the need to strengthen multilateral institutions, including the WHO, and agreed to work together at various international fora on health, social, economic and political issues. During their telephonic conversation, the two also agreed that the India-Canada partnership can be a force for good in the post-COVID-19 world, including for advancing humanitarian values in the global discourse. According to an official statement, the leaders updated each other about the evolving situation related to the COVID-19 pandemic in their countries and discussed the possibilities of international collaboration to address the health and economic crisis. "The leaders emphasised the need to strengthen multilateral institutions, including the WHO, and agreed to work closely together at various international fora, on health, social, economic and political issues," the statement said. Prime Minister Modi appreciated the assistance extended by Canadian authorities in recent days to the Indian citizens there and for facilitating their repatriation to India. Trudeau expressed happiness at the facilitation offered for the return of Canadian citizens from India. The two leaders agreed to continue their mutual consultations in coming days. "They agreed that as large economies wedded to democratic values, India and Canada have a natural convergence on many global issues," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-his-canadian-counterpart-justin-trudeau-talk-about-strengthening-multilateral-institutions-850445.html
17-06-2020||National||What made China covet Galwan Valley again after six decades?||China’s renewed interest in taking back the control of the Galwan Valley from India apparently has its origin in its recalibrated strategic plan to secure its National Highway 219, which runs through the disputed Aksai Chin region and links its two trouble-spots – Xinjiang and Tibet. The Galwan Valley has been unaffected by the occasional flashpoints along the disputed India-China boundary for several decades, after a post of the Indian Army in the area was overrun by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in November 1962. The area remained under India’s effective control without any challenge from China for several decades. The lull ended last month, when the Chinese PLA deployed a large number of soldiers in response to what Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party of China, reported as construction of defence facilities by the Indian Army. The valley saw a violent face-off between Indian Army and the Chinese PLA late at night on Monday, although it was where the diplomats and the military officials of the two sides had agreed to start the disengagement from.  A spokesperson of the Chinese PLA’s Western Theater Command on Tuesday asserted China’s sovereignty over Galwan Valley fully negating the claim of India.      The Galwan River Valley is named after Ghulam Rassul Galwan, who in the 19th century guided expeditions by western explorers into what are now known as the Tibet Autonomous Region and Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China. China has been ruthlessly crushing protests by the Uyghurs and the Tibetans against its rule in Xinjiang and Tibet over the past decades. Yet President Xi Jinping’s regime in Beijing remains paranoid about the two troubling fringes of the Middle Kingdom, even as its repression and blatant human rights violation in both the region drew international flak. Xinjiang and Tibet are linked by a highway which was built between 1951 and 1957. The highway – now known as G219 – runs through Aksai Chin, an area of 38000 sq kms, which is currently administered by China, but claimed by India. The highway was one of the triggers for the India-China conflict in 1962. What renewed China’s interests in Galwan Valley after almost six decades was India’s August 5, 2019 move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganize the state into two Union Territories. China joined Pakistan in opposing the initiative by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, not only as a mark of solidarity with its “iron brother”, but also because it was worried over the implication of the New Delhi’s move on its own boundary dispute with India. Beijing perceived New Delhi’s decision to separate Ladakh from Jammu and Kashmir and declare it as a new Union Territory as a move to bolster its claim on Aksai Chin. It publicly accused India of “undermining” China’s sovereignty by “unilaterally changing its domestic laws”. What also raised hackles in Beijing was Home Minister Amit Shah's statement in the Lok Sabha on August 6, 2019 that just as the entire J&K state had remained an integral part of India, the two new UTs too would include, not only India's territory currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan, but also areas Pakistan had illegally ceded to China in 1963 as well as Aksai Chin – a territory east of Ladakh claimed by both India and China. When External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had held a meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Beijing on August 12, 2019, he had sought to allay the concerns of the communist country stating that New Delhi’s move on J&K had been India’s internal matter of India and not aimed at making new territorial claims along its disputed boundary with China. New Delhi also repeatedly conveyed to Beijing over the past few months that it remained committed to finding a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution to India-China boundary question” through talks between the Special Representatives of the two Governments. Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Wang are currently leading the India-China talks on boundary as Special Representatives of the respective governments. They had held the 22nd round of talks in New Delhi in December 2019. Beijing, however, seems to have remained suspicious about New Delhi’s intent and Indian Army’s moves on the Western Sector of the LAC, particularly for building infrastructure in eastern Ladakh. This is what perhaps explains the Chinese Army’s renewed interest in controlling the Galwan Valley, which is important for it to thwart any future threat to its Xinjiang-Tibet highway in particular and Aksai Chin in general. Beijing remains paranoid about the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan Government-in-Exile based in Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh and thousands of Tibetans, who live in India. Tibet continues to be a card for India to hold against China. Beijing also remains concerned over growing United States’ support to the Tibetans and the Uyghurs, who are running global campaigns against China’s occupation over their homelands – Xinjiang and Tibet. And, when China did its routine threat analysis and recalibrated its strategic plan in response to New Delhi’s August 5, 2019 move on J&K and Ladakh, it surely took into account expanding security and defence cooperation between India and the US. No wonder, it made China’s military planners once again realize the importance of keeping the Indian Army as far away as possible from the Xinjiang-Tibet highway and Aksai Chin. One of the ways to do so for China was to change the status quo in Galwan Valley and wrest it back from India. And, this is what the Chinese PLA has been doing over the past few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-made-china-covet-galwan-valley-again-after-six-decades-850446.html
17-06-2020||National||Bangladeshi cattle smuggler killed by BSF at Indo-Bangla border||A Bangladeshi cattle smuggler was shot dead by the Border Security Force (BSF) at the Indo-Bangla border in Malda district of West Bengal, officials said on Tuesday. According to BSF officials, the smuggler has been identified as Sheikh Ibrahim, 25, a resident of Rajshahi district of Bangladesh. The incident happened in Habibpur area of the district on Monday when a few smugglers from Bangladesh were trying to smuggle cattle from India, a senior BSF official of the South Bengal Frontier said. When a BSF patrol party spotted them, they attacked the patrol party, following which the BSF jawans retaliated, resulting in the death of one of the smugglers, he said. The body was sent to Malda Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladeshi-cattle-smuggler-killed-by-bsf-at-indo-bangla-border-850448.html
17-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 17, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-17-2020-edition-850466.html
17-06-2020||National||The Lead: Reality of child marriage in India||The Lead from Deccan Herald Podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In this episode, DH Journalist Dhanyata M Poovaiah speaks to Nodal director of ChildLine Vasudeva Sharma about the social evil child marriage, which is still prevalent in the country.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-reality-of-child-marriage-in-india-850467.html
17-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 17||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 3,65,874 as of June 17. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 12,225 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged:1,80,013 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-17-850468.html
17-06-2020||National||DH Toon | Fuel price hike: Govt wants to show life is returning to normal||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the tenth straight day on Tuesday after an 82-day break from rate revision amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic. Petrol price hiked by 47 paise per litre, diesel by record 93 paise per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-fuel-price-hike-govt-wants-to-show-life-is-returning-to-normal-850469.html
17-06-2020||National||At 14,000 ft on border: 10 things to know about the India-China standoff in Galwan Valley||In the first event of bloodshed along the LAC in 45 years, a violent clash took place between the Indian, Chinese armies on Tuesday. Tensions between India and China over the LAC escalated after 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Casualties were also reported on the Chinese side. The troops disengaged after day-long talks between the Major Generals of two countries. Among the 20 Indian soldiers, a Commanding Officer of an infantry battalion was martyred on Monday night in a "violent face-off" with China's PLA troops disrupting the fragile peace prevailing along India's disputed border with China.  The stand-off between the two nations at the borders has been in news for quite some time, but the recent clash has intensified it further. Here are 10 things you should know about the India-China standoff in Galwan Valley: 1. Army officials said Indian and Chinese troops had clashed on the night of June 15 and 16 leading to casualties on both sides. As many as 20 Indian soldiers including the Commanding Officer of an infantry battalion of Indian Army were martyred on Monday night, while ANI claimed, quoting military intercepts shared by the government, that there were 43 Chinese casualties. 2. Army sources said there was no firing during the entire incident, suggesting that the casualties happened as a result of hand to hand combat. 3. Following day-long meetings at the Major General level between the two armies, the troops were disengaged from the Galwan area, Army officials said. 4. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the current operational situation in Eastern Ladakh, consequent to Monday's violent faceoff olong the LAC, with the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service Chiefs. A second high-level meeting took place in the evening at the Prime Minister's Office to take stock of the situation. 5. In an aggressive statement, a spokesperson of People's Liberation Army's Western War Zone claimed sovereignty on the Galwan Valley and asserted that Indian troops "violated their commitments by crossing the LAC to carry out illegal activities." 6. For decades, the Indian position has been that since 1962, Galwan valley was never contested as the area is within Indian territory. "Indian Army is firmly committed to protecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation," the Army said in a statement. 7. This is for the first time, Indian soldiers were killed along the Line of Actual Control in 45 years. It was in 1975 last when such a tragedy struck India as four soldiers were ambushed by the PLA troops in Arunachal Pradesh.  8. For more than a month troops from India and China were locked in a tense face-off at several locations in eastern Ladakh near the disputed border as well as in North Sikkim. On May 5, the CO of 11 Mahar regiment was badly injured in a skirmish with the PLA troops on the LAC, leading to a month-long face-off between the border guarding troops from both sides. 9. Following a meeting between top military leaders on June 6,  the disengagement process was initiated in the Galwan valley but soldiers continue to be in a face-off on the northern banks of the Pangong Tso, which remains a bone of contention between the two countries for decades. 10. What renewed China’s interests in Galwan Valley after almost six decades was India’s August 5, 2019 move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganize the state into two Union Territories. China joined Pakistan in opposing the initiative by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, not only as a mark of solidarity with its “iron brother”, but also because it was worried over the implication of the New Delhi’s move on its own boundary dispute with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-14000-ft-on-border-10-things-to-know-about-the-india-china-standoff-in-galwan-valley-850476.html
17-06-2020||National||DH Deciphers | Why are India and China fighting at the border?||Why are India and China fighting at the border? The ongoing border standoff between India and China has claimed the lives of Indian soldiers for the first time since 1975. The standoff began on the northern bank of Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh on May 5. Chinese soldiers built a bunker, denying Indian soldiers access to an area they regularly patrolled earlier. China then accused of India trespassing on its territory in the Galwan Valley, a little north up, and building “defence facilities”. While both the sides decided to move away from Galwan Valley, the disengagement process took a fatal turn on June 15, killing an Indian army colonel and two soldiers. What explains these violent skirmishes amid the pandemic?   What is the India-China boundary dispute all about? India claims that China is illegally occupying about 38,000 sq km of its territory in Aksai Chin, which borders eastern Ladakh. Pakistan also ceded to China about 5,180 sq km of the Indian territory in 1963. China also claims approximately 90,000 sq km of Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh and about 2,000 sq km in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. What's happening in eastern Ladakh? The two sides have deployed additional troops along the disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh, and the build-ups resulted in escalation of tension over the past few weeks. While the two sides decided to withdraw troops from the Galwan Valley, the violent faceoff took place when the disengagement process was on. The standoff in the Pangong Tso area hasn't been resolved. Where are Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso? Galwan River flows from Aksai Chin to Ladakh. China claims the area to the west of the river as its territory. India claims that the entire Aksai Chin belongs to it. Pangong Tso is the highest saltwater lake in the world, located at an altitude of 4,350 metres and spread over an area of over 600 square kilometres. It extends from eastern Ladakh in India to Tibet in China. Why is Pangong Tso a trouble spot in India-China border areas? India and China do not have a mutually accepted boundary between them. The Line of Actual Control serves as the de facto border on the western side but the two sides have differences in perception about the alignment of the LAC. The LAC cuts through Pangong Tso, but the two sides do not agree where exactly the line goes through. The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of Pangong Tso jut towards the lake like a palm with the protrusions looking like fingers. They are, in fact, demarcated on the maps as Fingers, with Finger 1 at the western end and Finger 8 at the eastern end. China claims that the LAC, after cutting through Pangong Tso, goes through Finger 4. India, on the other hand, claims that the line goes through Finger 8. What triggered China’s aggression? What apparently rattled the Chinese was a road and a bridge Indian army built recently — linking the forward positions on the bank of Pangong Tso with another 255-kilometre-long road, which is known as DSDBO road and which connects Darbuk and Shyok with its military base in Daulat Beg Oldie. The construction of infrastructure by India closer to the LAC was perceived by the Chinese army as preparations by the Indian army for a military move towards Aksai Chin. China has been wary of New Delhi’s intent in the region ever since Home Minister Amit Shah reasserted India’s claim on Aksai Chin while speaking in the Lok Sabha on August 6, 2019 — a day after the government initiated a move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. How did India-China relations come to such a pass despite the recent bonhomie? The first "informal summit" between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Wuhan in April 2018 brought about a thaw in India-China relations after the 72-day-long military face-off in Doklam Plateau the previous year. But while New Delhi went the extra miles to avoid hurting the sensitivities of China on issues like Tibet and Taiwan, Beijing continued with its China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project which passes through areas India accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-why-are-india-and-china-fighting-at-the-border-850489.html
17-06-2020||National||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in J&K’s Naugam sector||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the Line of Control in Naugam sector of Jammu and Kashmir by firing mortar shells towards Indian positions, a defence spokesman said on Wednesday. "On 16 June 2020, in the late evening hours, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Naugam Sector by firing mortars and other weapons," the spokesman said. He said Indian Army gave a befitting response to the ceasefire violation. There were no casualties reported in the incident, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jk-s-naugam-sector-850492.html
17-06-2020||National||Why is PM silent? Opposition parties demand truth of Galwan Valley attack||Opposition parties on Wednesday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence over the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in violent clashes with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. “Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what happened,” the former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. “How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land,” Rahul said. Why is the PM silent?Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened. How dare China kill our soldiers?How dare they take our land? “In a Parliamentary democracy, it is expected of the government to brief the leadership of the political parties of the ground situation, considering the grave implications,” senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Anand Sharma had said. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said had the Prime Minister focused on national security instead of political rallies and toppling governments led by opposition parties, Chinda would not have dared to take such a step. “At least come out or Twitter and break your silence, when will the Prime Minister speak up,” Surjewala said. BJP’s former ally Shiv Sena said the entire nation would back the government in this time of crisis, but the Prime Minister should come out with the truth of the Galwan Valley incident. “How many Chinese troops were killed? Has China encroached on our land? Mr Prime Minister, the entire nation is with you in these challenging times, but what is the truth,” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said. “Speak up. Speak up something. The nation wants to know the truth,” Raut said and added that he was confident that the nation would avenge the Chinese actions under the leadership of the “warrior” Prime Minister. “Incredible how BJP won 2019 by tomtomming ‘surgical strikes’ of which we never saw any actual proof & now that 20 real faces of our dead soldiers stare at us, the PM is silent,” Trinamool leader Mahua Moitra said. AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra China had threatened India’s sovereignty and wondered whether the government was going to remain mum. “India deserves the truth. It deserves a leadership that is willing to do anything before allowing its land to be taken. Show up Narendra Modi ji, it’s time to stand up to China,” Priyanka said. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau also asked the government to come out with an authoritative statement on what actually happened. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda said in national interest, the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister should offer a clearer picture to the nation on the border issue with the Chinese.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-pm-silent-opposition-parties-demand-truth-of-galwan-valley-attack-850496.html
17-06-2020||National||COVID-19: India registers highest-ever spike of 2,003 deaths, number of cases rise to 3,54,065||India registered the highest-ever spike of 2,003 COVID-19 fatalities, pushing country's death toll to 11,903, while the number of cases rose to 3,54,065, with 10,974 infections being reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry data.    The number of active cases stands at 1,55,227, while 1,86,934 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the officially updated figure at 8 am.    "Thus, around 52.79 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. India registered over 10,000 cases for the sixth day in a row. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.   Of the 2,003 new deaths, Maharashtra accounts for the highest 1,409 fatalities followed by Delhi at 437, Tamil Nadu at 49, Gujarat 28, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana 18 each, Madhya Pradesh 11, West Bengal 10, Rajasthan 7, Karnataka 5 and Telangana 4. Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Punjab, Puducherry and Uttarakhand have reported one death each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-registers-highest-ever-spike-of-2003-deaths-number-of-cases-rise-to-354065-850506.html
17-06-2020||National||Indian military canteen stores orders for Pernod, Diageo dry up, say sources||Pernod Ricard and Diageo, two of the world's biggest spirit makers, have stopped receiving orders for their imported brands from India's defence canteen stores where they were sold at concessional prices, industry sources told Reuters. The move is seen as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "vocal for local" campaign in which he has called for promotion of indigenous products to make India self-reliant during the coronavirus pandemic, a government measure that critics have called protectionist and against foreign businesses. India's defence canteens provide access to both local and imported products such as liquor and electronics at less-than-market rates to soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families. But Pernod Ricard India, whose brands include Chivas and Glenlivet scotch whisky, received no orders in May for imported spirits, compared with average monthly orders of 4,500-5,000 cases by defence stores, one source said. One case typically holds six, nine or 12 bottles of liquor. Diageo India too has not received any orders since May for its imported brands such as the popular Johnnie Walker Black Label whisky and Talisker single malt, a second source said. Pernod Ricard declined to comment and Diageo did not respond to queries. The defence ministry did not respond. While no written order has been issued, a senior government official said a formal decision in the matter was imminent. "We want to encourage indigenous products ... with the PM's campaign, it gets more priority," said the official. A bottle of Johnnie Walker Black Label costs 3,600 rupees ($47) in Maharashtra state's defence canteens, a third lower than the 5,500 rupees ($72) retail customers pay there. "Drinking scotch has become a habit, this move is going to hurt our pockets," said a retired Indian army official who said he purchases five scotch bottles each month for himself and his family. While imported liquor sales at defence stores generate only about $17 million in annual sales, the channel generates regular demand for top foreign brands. The canteens sell about $450 million worth of liquor each year, mostly Indian-made beer, whisky, rum and other spirits, industry sources said. A formal order to restrict purchases of imported liquor by defence stores will signal an unfriendly business environment, and will be "protectionism when there is nothing to protect," said an executive working at a foreign liquor company in India. "You can't make scotch in India," said the executive. In May and June, the defence ministry asked liquor firms to provide details of their brands, the country where they are manufactured and details of imported ingredients used. The ministry had also sought similar answers from other non-liquor firms, the sources said, but it was not immediately clear which other orders had been halted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-military-canteen-stores-orders-for-pernod-diageo-dry-up-say-sources-850525.html
17-06-2020||National||India-China Face-off: Kohli, Rohit, Bhutia pay tribute to Indian soldiers killed in Galwan clash||India's leading sportspersons, including cricket captain Virat Kohli and former football skipper Bhaichung Bhutia, have paid tributes to the 20 Army personnel killed during a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. The clash at the Galwan valley was the biggest Indo-China military confrontation in over five decades and escalated the volatile border standoff in the region. "Salute and deepest respect to the soldiers who sacrificed their lives to protect our country in the Galwan Valley. NO one is more selfless and brave than a soldier. Sincere condolences to the families. I hope they find peace through our prayers at this difficult time," Kohli wrote on his twitter page. His white ball deputy Rohit Sharma also mourned the death of the soldiers. "Salute to our REAL HEROES who laid their lives protecting and honouring our border. May god give their families utmost strength," Rohit tweeted. Bhutia, who has also dabbled in politics, termed the attack a "planned one". "China had asked all its citizens to leave India few weeks back. The killing of our soldiers in LAC was a I think a planned one. "We completely condemn this cowardly act of China. Indian Govt should take strong necessary action and not bow down to Chinese aggression," Bhutia wrote on the micro-blogging site. Olympic bronze medal winning duo of wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt and shuttler Saina Nehwal and cricketer Shikhar Dhawan were also among the notable athletes to pay tributes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-face-off-kohli-rohit-bhutia-pay-tribute-to-indian-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-clash-850527.html
17-06-2020||National||China claims sovereignty over Galwan Valley; refuses to comment on Chinese casualties||China on Wednesday claimed that the sovereignty of the Galwan Valley area in Ladakh "always belonged to it," a day after the armies of the two countries were engaged in a violent face-off. The External Affairs Ministry on Tuesday said the violent confrontation between armies of India and China in eastern Ladakh was the result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo in the region. The ministry said both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement arrived earlier at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side. At a briefing at the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Spokesman Zhao Lijian refused to comment on reports of 43 casualties on the Chinese side during the face-off in the Galwan Valley on Monday night. "The border troops are dealing with relevant matter," he said. When pointed out that the India has released the number of casualties and why Beijing was not providing the number for Chinese side, he said, "I I have stated that Chinese and Indian border troops are now jointly dealing with the relevant matter on the ground. I have nothing to add at the moment." On the situation at the China-India border both sides are having close communication with each other resolving this through diplomatic and military channels, Zhao said. "The over all border situation is stable and controllable," he told correspondents to a volley of questions. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel, were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff between the two countries. A large number of Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation in Galwan Valley and certain other areas of eastern Ladakh for the last five weeks, including in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-claims-sovereignty-over-galwan-valley-refuses-to-comment-on-chinese-casualties-850536.html
17-06-2020||National||Suspended website promoting e-pharmacies on Aarogya Setu app, Centre informs HC||The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that it has suspended a website which was linked to the official mobile application Aarogya Setu and promoting sale of medicines through e-pharmacies. The Centre’s submission came on a plea seeking to de-link from Aarogya Setu mobile app, the website -- www.aarogyasetumitr.in -- as it was acting as a marketing tool for e-pharmacies only. In view of the Centre’s stand, Justice Navin Chawla disposed of the petition filed by South Chemists and Distributors Association. The order, passed on Tuesday, was made available on the court’s website on Wednesday. The Aarogya Setu application makes use of bluetooth and GPS to alert users who may have encountered people who later test positive for the coronavirus.  During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, representing the Centre, submitted that the operation of www.aarogyasetumitr.in has been suspended. She further said that if at all the website is to be re-launched, the authorities shall keep in mind the issues raised by the petitioners in the petition. The plea has said the website, is linked to the Aarogya Setu app in a “highly illegal, arbitrary and discriminatory manner”. It has said that the homepage of the website states “here are some essential healthcare services you can avail from the safety and comfort of your home” and then lists only the e-pharmacies. “There is no mention that medicines can also be procured by the local pharmacy stores which operate offline. It is submitted that the respondents (authorities) cannot be allowed to mislead the users of a government developed and mandated mobile application to believe that the drugs for treatment of COVID – 19 or to contain the spread of the disease are available only through the e-pharmacies,” said the plea, filed through senior advocate Sudhir Nandrajog and lawyers Amit Gupta and Mansi Kukreja. The Centre had earlier opposed the plea and said these are extraordinary circumstances and the website has been developed for easy accessibility of medicines to COVID-19 patients. The petition has said there is absolutely no basis for a government owned platform be used to promote private commercial ventures. It has sought direction to the Ministry of Electronics and IT, National Informatics Centre and Niti Aayog to take steps so that the name 'aarogya setu' or any identical/ deceptively similar name is not mis-used to sponsor the commercial interests of arbitrarily hand picked entities. It has further sought to take steps for immediate closure of the website. The has plea said the authorities have allowed government developed mobile application 'Aarogya setu', which has been launched with a salient feature of limiting the spread of COVID-19, to be used for the benefit of selected handpicked companies “The mobile application 'Aarogya setu' itself gives a link to website http://www.aarogyasetumitr.in/ which gives a wrong and misleading impression to a user that the website as well as the information made available on it is also government mandated and approved,” it has said. It has claimed that the similarity in the names of the mobile application and the website is “intentional” and the website seeks to take advantage of the name and goodwill which has been generated by Aarogya setu, even though the website is not government owned. The plea has said the criteria for getting listed as a vendor on the website is that the entity should be an e-pharmacy, which is “arbitrary, without any intelligible differentia, wholly illegal and discriminatory”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-website-promoting-e-pharmacies-on-aarogya-setu-app-centre-informs-hc-850550.html
17-06-2020||National||India-China border tension: PM Modi to hold all-party meet on LAC standoff||Amid demands from Opposition parties that he should break the silence on the Galwan valley violence that killed 20 Indian soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called an all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas. Presidents of various political parties would take part in the deliberations with the Prime Minister at 5 PM on Friday, a decision that was announced by the Prime Minister in wake of mounting attacks from parties, particularly Congress, on the government on its handling of neighbourhood countries and particularly the stand-off with China in which such a large number of Indian soldiers lost their lives. There also reports that the Prime Minister could address the nation on May 21 but there is no official confirmation so far. International Yoga Day falls on June 21 when the Prime Minister usually addresses the nation. The Prime Minister's Office tweeted about the all-party meeting four hours after former Congress President Rahul Gandhi lashed out at Modi asking "Why is the PM silent. Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened. How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take away our land?.' Congress has coupled its aggressive attack on the government after the soldiers' killing on Indo-China with BJP leaders' remarks prior to the 2014 Lok Sabha polls attacking the UPA government for its alleged weak response to China and Pakistan. Other Opposition parties have sought an explanation from the government with CPI-M on Tuesday asking the Centre to make an authoritative statement explaining what actually happened and RJD asking "What did our nationalist government do? '' Oldest NDA ally-turned-opposition Shiv Sena asked the government to come out with the truth of the Galwan valley incident. Besides being a major national security concern, the issue has snowballed into a major political row in the country. Given the background, the all-party meeting is set to be a stormy affair, where the Opposition parties could post tough questions before the government even as steadfastly backing the Armed forces.Earlier also the Modi government had briefed the Opposition leaders during the During Doklam standoff with China on the tri-junction of India-China Bhutan border in July and August 2017. In the last week of August 2017, the then External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had dialled former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and other senior Congress leaders and briefed them about the Doklam situation while in July that year Opposition leaders were briefed about the scenario at the Home Minister Rajnath Singh's residence. The Doklam stand-off was also discussed in meetings of the Standing Committee of Parliament. on External Affairs in which the then Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale and the then Defence Secretary Sanjya Mitra had given a detailed briefing to the MPs in 2018. In past during Depsang Bulge standoff in 2013, UPA II government led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh also briefed the Opposition leaders-- the then Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-tension-pm-modi-to-hold-all-party-meet-on-lac-standoff-850553.html
17-06-2020||National||Puducherry closes borders with TN to contain COVID-19||Fearing the further spread of Coronavirus from Tamil Nadu, which is grappling with over 48,000 confirmed patients, the Union Territory of Puducherry on Wednesday closed its borders with the neighbouring state. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said the decision to close the borders with Villupuram and Cuddalore districts of Tamil Nadu was taken to prevent further spread of Covid-19 in the tiny Union Territory, whose Coronavirus tally as on Tuesday was 202. “Tamil Nadu has been witnessing a massive surge in the number of Coronavirus cases in the past one month. We are clear that the number is increasing only because of people who come from outside. And to prevent the further outbreak, we have decided to seal the borders and restrict the entry of people,” Narayanasamy told DH. The Chief Minister said the e-pass issued by the Tamil Nadu government will not be valid in Puducherry and that people coming from Chennai and other parts of the neighbouring states will be stopped at the border. However, he added that those who are coming to the Union Territory of Puducherry from Tamil Nadu for availing medical treatment will be allowed provided they have necessary documents to prove their purpose of visit. Puducherry is home to JIPMER, one of the finest hospitals in the region, that attracts people from several districts of Tamil Nadu.  The development will pose difficulties for people who travel from Chennai to Cuddalore, Chidambaram and other places like Kumbakonam, and Nagapattinam. However, UT officials said the move was felt necessary after the number of people testing positive in Villupuram and Cuddalore districts is increasing every single day. The two districts alone account for 1,026 cases with Villupuram reporting 18 fresh cases and Cuddalore 10 new patients on Tuesday. “People who go to Cuddalore from Chennai take the route that passes through Puducherry. We have decided to close the borders and not let anyone come inside the UT from other states. If they come for treatment, they will be allowed,” a senior official said. Puducherry has been keeping the Covid-19 at “lowest possible” numbers with “strict enforcement of rules” like social distancing and wearing of masks, Narayanasamy said. He also said, in a video message on Tuesday, that the government has decided to levy heavy fines on shop owners who do not follow social distancing norms and people who do not wear masks in public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-closes-borders-with-tn-to-contain-covid-19-850557.html
17-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi interacts with 14 states on day 2 of consultations on coronavirus crisis||Continuing with his consultations with state governments on ways to check the spread of coronavirus during 'unlock 1.0', Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday is holding interaction with chief ministers and representatives of 14 states and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. His virtual interaction on day two of his consultations with states is attended by the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujara, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar among others, and assumes importance as some of these states account for a majority of the cases in the country. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is not participating in the meet as her name was reportedly missing from the list of speakers. On Tuesday too, he had interacted with chief ministers, LGs and administrators of 21 states and UTs on opening up the economy and at the same time preventing a surge in coronavirus cases. The meeting comes on a day the country registered the highest-ever spike of 2,003 COVID-19 fatalities pushing the death toll to 11,903 after Maharashtra and Delhi added earlier deaths that were not attributed to the disease. Of the 2,003 new deaths, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 1,409 fatalities taking its COVID-19 death tally to 5,537, while coronavirus deaths in Delhi surged by 437 taking it to 1,837, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Modi had told the participants that the economy is showing "green shoots" as the country emerges from the coronavirus lockdown. He also underscored the importance of being focussed on both life and livelihood. He said on the one hand health infrastructure will need to be boosted with emphasis on testing and tracing, and on the other hand economic activity will also need to be increased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-interacts-with-14-states-on-day-2-of-consultations-on-coronavirus-crisis-850573.html
17-06-2020||National||Press Council finds fault with JK's media policy on fake news||Jammu and Kashmir's new media policy empowering officials to decide on what is fake news and proceed against journalists has come under the scrutiny of the Press Council of India (PCI), saying it affects the free functioning of the press. Taking suo moto cognizance of the provisions regarding fake news where it authorises officials to decide on fake news and proceed against journalists and media organisations, the PCI sought a report from the Secretary of the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR) in the state. The provisions in the new policy "affects the free functioning of the press", the PCI has said in a statement. According to the union territory administration, the emergence of new trends in the media and ever-evolving media platforms has called for changed responses from the government for effective communication and outreach and it has resulted in a "fresh and pro-active media policy for carrying the message of welfare, development, and progress to the people in an effective manner. It also aims to "thwart misinformation, fake news and be alert to any attempts to use the media to incite communal passions, preach violence, or to propagate any information prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India". The policy gives powers to the officials of the DIPR to decide whether the content on the print, electronic and other forms of media is "fake news". The guidelines also said that information regarding fake news should be shared with security agencies through a suitable mechanism. It empowers them to de-empanel them and proceed against journalists and media organisations under law. "Any fake news or any news inciting hatred or disturbing communal harmony shall be proceeded against under IPC/cyber laws," it said. Besides fake news, the officers also look into "plagiarism and unethical or anti-national activities" also. Before empanelling the media organisations for release of advertisement, the policy said the antecedents of newspapers and news portals as well as that of publishers, editors and key personnel should be checked. A "robust" background check of each journalist should be done before giving them accreditation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/press-council-finds-fault-with-jks-media-policy-on-fake-news-850587.html
17-06-2020||National||‘Martyred’ jawan calls up his wife to say: I am alive||A day after pall of gloom descended on the house of defence personnel Sunil Rai in Bihar’s Saran district, after the family was informed about his martyrdom in the Indo-China clash near Line of Actual Control (LAC), the 'martyred' jawan called up his wife Menaka Rai on Wednesday and told her : “Abhi zinda hoon. (I am still alive).” The sombre mood turned into jubilation after Sunil’s family came to know he was in fine fettle while defending the country at the border. The entire confusion arose because of similar names of two jawans Sunil Rai. Incidentally, their father’s names were reportedly also similar: Sukhdeo Rai. The one Sunil who has been martyred was actually posted at Ladakh and died fighting the Chinese soldiers. On Tuesday evening, an army official called up Sunil’s wife Menaka in Saran and informed her about her husband’s martyrdom. The Saran district officials too confirmed about receiving such information but said “We will wait for further information from the Army.”      However, on Wednesday, Sunil personally called up his wife and told her he is “alive and kicking.” The goof-up, he said, was due to similar names. While one Sunil was posted at Ladakh, the other one was in Leh. “I have spoken to my husband over phone. God has given me a new lease of life,” said Menaka after the telephonic conversation with her hubby. Meanwhile, of those killed at Galwan Valley near LAC, three jawans belonged to Bihar. The bodies of Sunil (of Bihta), Aman Singh (of Samastipur) and Kundan Kumar (of Saharsa) are being flown by a special aircraft. After paying tributes, the bodies would be sent to their respective districts for performing last rites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/martyred-jawan-calls-up-his-wife-to-say-i-am-alive-850588.html
17-06-2020||National||BJP leader under CBI scanner for bank fraud||BJP's Maharashtra leader Mohit Kamboj has landed in trouble with the CBI registering a case against him and his associates on charges of defrauding state-run Bank of India to the tune of Rs 57.26 crore. Besides Kamboj, who is better known as Manoj Bharatiya, the CBI has also named Jitendra Kapoor, Naresh Kapoor, Siddhant Bagla, Irtesh Mishra, Avyaan Overseas Pvt Ltd and KBJ Hotels Pvt Ltd in the FIR registered on June 12. According to the FIR, Avyaan Overseas Pvt Ltd represented by its Managing Director Kamboj and others along with unknown officials entered into a criminal conspiracy to cheat the bank by availing foreign bill purchase and export packaging credit limit. Avyaan Overseas was sanctioned these facilities for Rs 60 crore and as per the conspiracy, the accused company diverted the funds, prepared forged and fabricated documents to cause a "wrongful loss to the tune of Rs 57.26 crore to Bank of India and corresponding wrongful gain to themselves". The firm's account was declared "Non-Performing Asset (NPA)" in March 2015 and "fraud" in 2018. A forensic audit report by Ernst and Young LLP in March 2017 showed that the company diverted funds for a purchase of a flat in the name of the family member of one of the Directors, through payments to undisclosed parties. The contents of the forensic audit, which is part of the FIR, claimed that an agreement for purchase of a flat in Bandra for Rs 22 crore was entered between Kamboj's wife and a construction company. "This shows that the borrowers have diverted the public funds with dishonest and malafide intention to misappropriate for their own use," the FIR said. It also highlighted similar alleged diversion of funds. Many of the directors "intentionally" resigned after the account turned NPA, including Kamboj in May 2015. The company also did not file its financial statements since 2014, the FIR said quoting the bank's complaint. "The company, its promoters and directors have committed criminal offences with dishonest intention to defraud the bank and misappropriated public funds to put the bank in loss. The wrongful act committed by the accused has caused the bank to suffer a wrongful loss to the tune of more than Rs. 67.22 crore," the Bank of India has alleged. Responding to the FIR, Kamboj told NDTV, "compromise in the above loan account was done in 2018 by paying Rs. 30 crore as one-time settlement of dues. I also received a no-dues certificate from the Bank of India in March 2019. I don't know why the bank has gone ahead with this complaint after two-and-a-half years of clearing all dues; they have made a mistake. Nevertheless, I will cooperate with the CBI probe. I trust them fully." However, in its complaint to the CBI, the bank had claimed that the "OTS (one-time settlement) offer of Rs 28 crore was below the benchmark, i.e., Rs. 33.61 crore. The management committee considered and approved the proposed OTS from Rs 28 crore to Rs 30 crore and wrote off Rs 37.22 crore, which resulted in sacrifice of Rs 57.26 crore," the bank has alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-under-cbi-scanner-for-bank-fraud-850590.html
17-06-2020||National||Ladakh face-off: PM Narendra Modi says sacrifice of Indian soldiers will not go in vain||Sending out a strong message over the death of 20 soldiers in the violent clash with Chinese forces in the Galwan valley, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asserted that India will "firmly defend every inch of its territory" and assured the nation that the sacrifice of the soldiers will not go in vain. "The integrity and sovereignty of India is supreme for us and no one can stop us from protecting it. No one should have any illusion or doubt about it. India wants peace but if instigated a decisive reply will be given in every circumstance..we do not instigate anyone but we also do not compromise with our integrity and sovereignty. Whenever time has come, we have displayed our might in protecting the integrity and sovereignty of the nation. I want to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our soldiers won't go in vain," the Prime Minister said in a televised address in Hindi at the start of his video conference meeting with Chief Ministers to discuss the COVID-19 strategy. Modi's brief address on the Galwan tragedy came an hour after he announced to hold an all party meeting on June 19 to discuss the Indo-China border situation. Hours before former Congress President Rahul Gandhi raised questions over the "silence" of the Prime Minister on the episode. Modi, who along with the chief ministers present in the meeting observed a two-minute silence in the memory of the martyred soldiers, also chose to remind that the nation will be proud to know that our soldiers have died while fighting (hamare sainik maarte maarte mare hain), a remark that came in the backdrop of questions having been raised in some sections about claims of death of Chinese soldiers in the violent clash. "The brave sons of India have given the supreme sacrifice, protecting the motherland in the Galwan valley. The entire nation is with you. The emotions of the nation are with you," Modi said, expressing his condolences to the bereaved family members of the soldiers. "The sacrifices of these martyrs will not go in vain. Whatever be the situation and the circumstances, India will firmly protect every inch of its land and the self esteem of the nation," he said, Maintaining that India has in all ages wished peace to the world and worked with its neighbour in a cooperative and friendly manner, Modi said "even wherever there have been differences, we have always tried that the differences do not turn into disputes. Sacrifice and endurance is part of our national character but in the same amount bravery and valour has also been part of our national character".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-face-off-pm-narendra-modi-says-sacrifice-of-indian-soldiers-will-not-go-in-vain-850592.html
17-06-2020||National||Demand for Indian Railways' COVID-19 isolation train coaches increases||With COVID-19 cases rising across the country, the Indian Railways has received requests from various states to supply around 960 isolation coaches to treat patients. The Indian Railways is working on deploy 503 coaches in Delhi which is highest while Uttar Pradesh sought 372 coaches, Telangana asked for 60, Andhra Pradesh has requested 20, and Madhya Pradesh sought 5 coaches. All the coaches will be deployed at railway stations as per the requests from the states, says an official from railways.  The Indian Railway converted 5231 non AC sleeper and general coaches as COVID coaches to supplement hospital isolation beds. The railways also identified 215 major stations across the country for its deployment and asked the states to utilise it to treat mild and very mild COVID-19 patient treatment. Since no states have come forward to utilise it, the Railway Board has decided to convert around 3,100 coaches as normal and deploy it for Shramik Special trains as there is a huge demand for non-AC coaches. However around 2131 coaches will remain as isolation coaches and will be given to states as and when they demand, said an official in the railways. Each coach can accommodate 16 patients. To prevent heating inside coaches due to summer, the railways have provided insulation on the roof of coaches. The railways redesigned the non AC coaches by removing middle berths, two toilets in each coach have converting int bathrooms, making provision of hand showers, and provision of bucket and mugs in each bathroom. The railways provided 220V electric points in the compartment for medical appliances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-indian-railways-covid-19-isolation-train-coaches-increases-850602.html
17-06-2020||National||SC issues notice to Centre on NGO's plea for national plan to deal with COVID-19||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-ngos-plea-for-national-plan-to-deal-with-covid-19-850603.html
17-06-2020||National||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi speaks to S Jaishankar||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the two leaders agreed to "cool down" tensions on the ground "as soon as possible" and maintain peace and tranquility in the border area in accordance with the agreement reached between the two countries, an official statement said here. The telephonic conversation between the two ministers came after 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in the clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff between the two countries. In a statement, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said the two sides agreed to deal "fairly" with the serious events caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley, jointly abide by the consensus reached at the military-level meetings between the two sides, "cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible", and maintain peace and tranquility in the border area in accordance with the agreement reached so far between the two countries. During the telephonic conversation, Jaishankar conveyed to Wang India's protest in the strongest terms on the violent face-off and said the unprecedented development will have "serious impact" on bilateral ties.He asked the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps. "The Chinese side took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo," he told Wang. Wang said the two sides should follow the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and strengthen the communication and coordination on the proper handling of the border situation through the existing channels so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquility in the border area, according to the statement. India on Tuesday said the violent face-off between the armies of India and China in eastern Ladakh was the result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo in the region. The Ministry of External Affairs said both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement arrived earlier at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side. Wang emphasized that both China and India are emerging powers with a population of over one billion people, and accelerating "our own development and revitalisation is our respective historical missions". For this reason, mutual respect and mutual support is the right direction for the two sides, which is in the long-term interests of the two countries; "mutual suspicion and mutual friction are evil paths, and contrary to the fundamental aspirations of the two peoples," he said. The Chinese foreign minister also alleged that on the evening of June 15, the Indian front-line frontier troops "blatantly broke the consensus" reached at the military-level meeting between the two sides. Once the situation in the Galwan Valley has calmed down, they "crossed the LAC again and deliberately provoked and violently attacked" the officers and soldiers who negotiated on the spot, leading to fierce physical clashes, resulting in casualties, he claimed. He said this "dangerous act of the Indian army seriously violated the agreement reached between the two countries on the border issue and seriously violated the basic norms of international relations." Wang demanded the Indian side to conduct a "thorough investigation" on this, "severely punish those responsible" for the incident, "strictly control the frontline troops", and "immediately stop all provocative actions" to ensure that such incidents cannot occur again. "The Indian side must not misjudge the current situation, and must not underestimate China’s firm will to safeguard the territorial sovereignty," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-foreign-minister-wang-yi-speaks-to-s-jaishankar-850611.html
17-06-2020||National||All you need to know about Ghulam Rassul Galwan — The man after whom the Galwan river was named||The 80-kilometre long Galwan river and the adjoining valley in the north-eastern part of Kashmir, where both Indian and Chinese troops have been in confrontation since early May, are named after the explorer from Leh, Ghulam Rassul Galwan. From a young age, Ghulam Rassul enjoyed exploring new areas and going out on adventures. In 1890, when Rassul was only 12 years old, he accompanied Captain Francis Edward Younghusband on his expedition to Yarkand. By the time he was 21, he had followed the previously unknown Galwan river through its course in north-eastern Ladakh. Later, he was appointed as the caravan in-charge of a British expedition to northern areas of Chang Chenmo valley and was a part of several other French, Italian and British expeditions. Rassul owes his knowledge of two languages, Chinese and English, to these expeditions. In the introduction to Rassul’s autobiography, Servant of Sahibs, Francis Edward Younghusband wrote, “And he was sensible of the beauty of the great mountains… He came out of the very poorest. He started as a simple village lad. But in every situation he behaved like a gentleman.” In Rassul's autobiography, he wrote about his unique legendary explorations and his life as a self-taught Ladakhi explorer. He also talks about his family and describes his grandfather as a Robin Hood-like figure who looted from the rich and helped the poor. His spirited journey is still sung in the valleys of Ladakh and continues to live on through his name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-ghulam-rassul-galwan-the-man-after-whom-the-galwan-river-was-named-850612.html
17-06-2020||National||India will always remain indebted to soldiers for their supreme sacrifice in Ladakh: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said India will always remain indebted to its soldiers who lost their lives in Ladakh's Galwan protecting the country's territory, and their bravery reflects the commitment towards the motherland. In a series of tweets, Shah said the pain of losing the brave soldiers at Ladakh's Galwan cannot be put in words. "India will always remain indebted for their supreme sacrifice. Entire nation and Modi government stands firmly with their families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured," he said. The home minister said the nation salutes the immortal heroes who sacrificed their lives to keep Indian territory safe and secure. "Their bravery reflects India's commitment towards her land," he said, adding, "I bow to the families who have blessed Indian Army with such great heroes". Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the sacrifice of the Indian soldiers will not go in vain. He also said that India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply, if instigated. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is most important, Modi said in his opening remarks on day two of the virtual conference with chief ministers on coronavirus. The opposition had been questioning the government's "silence" on the biggest ever military confrontation between the two armies in over five decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-always-remain-indebted-to-soldiers-for-their-supreme-sacrifice-in-ladakh-amit-shah-850613.html
17-06-2020||National||Govt should give strategic as well as economic reply to China: Akhilesh||The government should not only give a “strategic”, but also an economic reply to China, the Samajwadi Party (SP) said on Wednesday after 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in a violent clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh. In a tweet in Hindi, SP president Akhilesh Yadav said the SP will support the government on any decision in the nation’s interest. "Seeing the violent behaviour of China, the Indian government should not only give a strategic but an economic reply also to them,” he said. "All contracts awarded to Chinese companies should be suspended with immediate effect and there should be restraint on imports from China," Yadav said. The clash took place on Monday night in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-should-give-strategic-as-well-as-economic-reply-to-china-akhilesh-850617.html
17-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: 20 Indian soldiers martyred, India sees highest spike in COVID-19 deaths||Today, from the newsroom, In the first event of bloodshed on the LAC in 45 years, as many as 20 Indian soldiers including the Commanding Officer of an infantry battalion of Indian Army were martyred on Monday night in a "violent face-off" with the People’s Liberation Army troops disrupting the fragile peace prevailing along India's disputed border with China. India registered the highest-ever spike of 2,003 COVID-19 fatalities, pushing the country's death toll to 11,903, while the number of cases rose to 3.54 lakh. The World Health Organization said it would update its guidelines on treating people stricken with COVID-19 to reflect results of a clinical trial that showed a cheap, common steroid, dexamethasone can help save critically ill patients.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-20-indian-soldiers-martyred-india-sees-highest-spike-in-covid-19-deaths-850640.html
17-06-2020||National||India should be prepared for conflict not amounting to full-scale war with China: Former Army chief||Former Army Chief General Shankar Roy Chowdhury (retired) on Wednesday said it should be remembered that India is not in 1962, and asserted that the country should be prepared for a conflict not amounting to a full-scale war with China. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades between the two neighbours. Roy Chowdhury said that the strength of both sides has multiplied immensely since 1962, when the two neighbours fought a brief war. "India is not in 1962, (and) we must remember that neither China is in 1962," he told PTI. The Chinese Army is also reported to have suffered several casualties in the face-off. Asked how India should respond to the People's Liberation Army's (PLA) aggression, the general said, "India should be prepared for an outbreak of conflict below war, but above (the scale of) incidents of border skirmishes." India should also handle issues diplomatically at the same time, said the general who was the Chief of the Army Staff between November 22, 1994, and September 30, 1997. Roy Chowdhury said that India must be prepared since China is militarily much stronger than Pakistan, which India has handled successfully. He said that China's sudden aggression can be linked to India not being with it on various international issues for which the world community is blaming China. Apart from several other issues, China is facing international flak led by the United States of America over the spread of coronavirus across the world. "China thinks it is not to blame and Galwan is an adjunct to that," the former Army chief said. India is building roads in its own territory to connect with Daulat Beg Oldie, which is a major airstrip of the Indian Air Force, Roy Chowdhury said. "There is a bridge being built which I think the Chinese don't want, so they have taken this unilateral position trying to block the bridge, leading to this clash," he said. There have been no major clashes with China in the northern frontiers except for Chusul in 1962, after which it was quiet, he said adding that it has now disrupted. "India has multiplied its potential, unfortunately not so much economically. Militarily we can match China (but) that will take a lot of money," he said. "Apart from being prepared militarily, we must upgrade ourselves economically," he said, adding that India should reconsider awarding contracts to Chinese companies for various projects. Lt General J R Mukherjee (retired), who has vast experience along the Indo-China frontiers spanning over 40 years, also said what China has done is due to India closing up more towards the USA and other countries and for condemning China for the coronavirus pandemic, which he said is "correct". "All these are reasons for what they have done. They have come in (at Galwan) and refused to honour the agreement for pulling back, leading to the present situation," Mukherjee told PTI. "I would have responded militarily, but that is a political decision to be made," the former General Officer Commanding-in-Command (GOC-in-C) of the Eastern Command, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-be-prepared-for-conflict-not-amounting-to-full-scale-war-with-china-former-army-chief-850659.html
17-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi asks Chief Ministers to make full use of COVID-19 testing capacity, expand health infrastructure||Noting that the spread of COVID-19 is more in a few big states and cities, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked chief ministers to make full use of their state's existing testing capacity and also work to augment health infrastructure. Speaking to chief ministers and representatives of 14 states and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said big crowds, lack of physical-distancing, daily movement of large number of people and small houses in some cities have made the battle against the coronavirus "more challenging". This was the second day of Modi’s sixth round of consultations with chief ministers on fighting COVID-19 pandemic. Saving lives should be the top priority, he said, and called for expanding health infrastructure, according to a statement. People's discipline during the nationwide lockdown has stopped the virus' exponential growth, the prime minister said, adding that India is now better placed than earlier vis-à-vis treating patients, health infrastructure and trained manpower.  Citing the details of the boost in capacity to deal with the virus, he asked states to continue to put emphasis on "health Infrastructure, information systems, emotional support and public participation". Referring to the rise in number of infections, Modi underscored the need for testing, tracking, tracing and isolating COVID-19 patients to deal with the pandemic. There has been criticism that some states and cities, including Delhi, are not doing enough testing. The prime minister, however, stated that the number of recovered patients has also been rising, and added that it is a matter of relief that very few patients needed ICU and ventilator care. Praising efforts of states and local administration, he said the country now has more than 900 COVID-19 testing labs, lakhs of special beds, thousands of isolation and quarantine centres, adequate stocks of testing kits, with over one crore PPEs and almost same numbers of N-95 masks supplied to states.   Despite a rise in coronavirus cases in a few places, people's patience, administration's work and dedication of corona warriors have ensured that things did not go out of control, he said. Stressing on the importance of providing timely information, the prime minister said it should be ensured that helplines are not "helpless" but helpful for people. He called for building teams of senior doctors and young volunteers to guide patients through telemedicine and run helplines, respectively. Modi also called for fighting the stigma associated with the disease, saying people should be assured that there is no need to panic if somebody has been infected as the number of those cured is huge. He highlighted the need to keep reminding people of the benefits of sanitisation, wearing masks and social distancing to fight the virus. He asked states to share their best practices with each other. Continuing with his consultations with state governments on ways to check the spread of coronavirus during 'unlock 1.0', Modi held consultation with the CMs for the second consecutive day. Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were among those who attended the meeting on Wednesday. It assumed importance as some of these states account for a majority of the cases in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-asks-chief-ministers-to-make-full-use-of-covid-19-testing-capacity-expand-health-infrastructure-850661.html
17-06-2020||National||CBSE to shortly decide on notification for holding Class XII exams||The CBSE on Wednesday told Supreme Court it is in the process of taking an "appropriate decision" "very shortly" on May 18 notification for conducting examinations for the remaining subjects of class XII between July 1 and 15, in view of health risk posed to millions of students due to COVID-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna decided to await the decision by the Central Board Secondary Education. The court adjourned considering a PIL filed by Colonel Amit Bathla and other parents for quashing the notification. It posted the matter for consideration on June 23, as per request by the CBSE. The petitioners asked the court to quash the May 18 notification and direct the CBSE to declare the results on the basis of examination already conducted and to calculate it on an average basis with the internal assessment marks of the remaining subject. They contended that ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards in COVID-19 situation in 15,000 exam centres spread over length and breadth of the country, including in rural sectors, would not only be risking health and life of children but also would be an exercise in futility and an eyewash. "At a time when cases were rising diametrically and even if 50% cases were asymptomatic then, the students appearing for these exams could also be potential carriers themselves and would be posing a great risk to the other family members and themselves," they said. In the month of July where the temperature touches almost 45 degree Celsius with a high level of humidity, students wearing gloves and masks and sitting in examination centres for four hours at stretch would be a task, completely hazardous to everyone, they added. The petitioners also pointed out several prestigious institutions like Delhi University and IITs across the country and various state governments have cancelled final year examinations in view of he prevailing situation. They said the CBSE itself has cancelled examinations class X and XII in 250 odd schools situated abroad and has decided to award marks based on internal assessment or practical examinations. "It is highly regretful the authorities were showing no genuine concern about putting the lives at peril of all the students pan India and have no explanation whatsoever in insisting upon holding the said examination in India," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-shortly-decide-on-notification-for-holding-class-xii-exams-850666.html
17-06-2020||National||Ladakh clash: The soldier who will never return home to see his newborn||Kundan Kumar Ojha, blessed with a daughter just 17 days ago, had promised his mother over the phone that he would be home as soon as he got leave from duty. That was the last his family had heard from the 28-year-old soldier, who was among the 20 Army personnel killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on Monday night. The second of the four children of farmer Ravi Shankar Ojha and Bhawani Devi from Dihari village in Sahibganj district, he had joined the Army in 2011 in Danapur. The young man had tied the knot a year and a half ago. "'Abhi to Ladakh mein banni, aur chhuti mili taab betiki dekhe aai' (I am in Ladakh now, will come as soon as I get leave)," were his final few words to Bhawani Devi on June 7, the braveheart's cousin Prabhat Kumar said. Ojha's parents were too overcome with emotion to even speak. "He always had that 'junoon' (passion) to join the Indian Army. He used to wake up at 3 am to start his daily exercises as part of his preparations," his cousin said in a choked voice. Monday's clash, the biggest confrontation between the two militaries since the 1967 clashes in Nathu La, has significantly escalated the already-volatile border standoff in the Ladakh region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-clash-the-soldier-who-will-never-return-home-to-see-his-newborn-850669.html
17-06-2020||National||Galwan violence: Army, Navy, Air Force raise alert level||Front-line bases of the Indian army and the air force along the nearly 3,500 km de-facto border with China were Wednesday put on high alert in view of the worst border clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh that left 20 Army personnel dead, official sources said. The Indian Navy has also been asked to raise its alert level in the Indian Ocean Region where Chinese Navy has been making regular forays. The decision to raise the alert level of the three forces were taken at a high-level meeting Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs, sources said. The Army has already rushed in additional troops to all its key front-line bases and formations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh, they said. The Indian Air Force has already raised the alert level in all its front-line bases tasked to keep an eye on the LAC, the de-facto border. The sources said the Navy is increasing its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region to send across a strong message to the Chinese Navy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-violence-army-navy-air-force-raise-alert-level-850672.html
17-06-2020||National||Need to change definition of real men: Sadhguru to Matthew Hayden||In a recent Twitter interaction between Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev and former Australian Cricketer, Matthew Hayden, the former spoke about the reason behind rising causes of men killing themselves. The spiritual leader also said that the definition of "real men" needs to be changed. Australian cricketer Matthew Hayden in a tweet asked Sadhguru to speak about mental health issues of men. In the tweet he asks, "More men die from suicide than women and yet we are burdened with the saying "Real Men Don't Cry". It's Men's Health Week and I want to know @SadhguruJV 's insight on how Yoga can help men across the world to stay Mentally fit particularly in these challenging times." In his reply, Sadhguru said "Well, Matty, we need to change the definition of “Real Men.” It’s not by hiding our emotions but by gaining mastery over them that we are empowered to look Life in the eye. This is what Yoga is – a tool that teaches you to play and yet remain unscathed by the Game of Life."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-change-definition-of-real-men-sadhguru-to-matthew-hayden-850673.html
17-06-2020||National||Have advised states, UTs to provide suitable accommodations to all healthcare workers: Centre to SC||The Centre informed the Supreme Court Wednesday that all states and Union Territories have been advised to provide suitable separate accommodation to all healthcare workers, wherever required. It said the Joint Monitoring Group of experts, headed by Director General of Health Service, has mandated use of home isolation for even mild cases of COVID-19. In an affidavit filed in reply to the PIL moved by a private doctor on May 15, raising questions over the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) by which quarantine of Health Care Workers (HCWs) are made non-mandatory, the Centre said that home isolation/ quarantine is ideal, wherever possible, as it is scientifically based. “Those who do not have such facility can be isolated in other facilities. For example, if doctors or HCWs of Central government are suspected to be having symptoms of COVID, they are isolated at the AIIMS COVID treatment facility at Jhajjar/AIIMS Trauma Centre,” it said. The Centre said state governments have also made different arrangements with various hotels, rest houses, hostels, and other places for providing alternative accommodation to HCWs. The plea filed by Arushi Jain had raised questions on the Centre's May 15 decision that 14-day quarantine was not mandatory for doctors. The petition, filed through advocates Mithu Jain and Mohit Paul, also alleged that front line healthcare workers engaged in the fight against COVID-19 are not being paid salaries or their wages are being cut or delayed. The Centre said the central and the state governments are committed to disbursing salaries and extending other applicable benefits to the doctor employed in medical and healthcare establishments. “Any instance to the contrary will be immediately forwarded to the concerned state and followed up with the authorities for necessary action,” it said.  On the grievance of lengthy duty hours of doctors and HCWs, the Centre said that they usually do duties in shifts in all the clinical specialities and the same principles are being followed in COVID-19 facilities. It said that during the meeting of JMG, “It was discussed that wherever duty hours are longer, the shifts are staggered in such a manner that no doctor or HCW is overburdened. Further, to take care of doctors and HCWs sufficient water and electrolyte etc. are kept in the donning and doffing areas.” The affidavit said, “Therefore it is respectfully submitted that the duty rostering and shift management are carefully drawn out as per the convenience of the doctors and HCWs, also catering to most optimal functioning in these testing times”. The Centre said the government is fully sensitive to the safety, security and all other concerns of the doctors and health care workers and accords them the highest priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-advised-states-uts-to-provide-suitable-accommodations-to-all-healthcare-workers-centre-to-sc-850674.html
17-06-2020||National||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain tests positive for coronavirus||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday tested positive for COVID-19, a day after similar tests had reported that he did not have the virus infection. Sources said a second test was done earlier in the day, which confirmed that the Health Minister is infected.  He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Monday night after he developed fever. His oxygen levels also went down. His COVID-19 samples were collected on Tuesday but the results returned negative. However, fresh test came out to be positive. Jain has been in the forefront of the Delhi government's activities against the spread of the pandemic. He has been holding regular media briefings every morning. He also attended the meeting called by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday.   The test was conducted after the 39-year-old MLA complained of a mild fever and cough on Tuesday. She is in home isolation, as she has only mild symptoms. Earlier, AAP lawmakers Vishesh Ravi (Karol Bagh) and Rajkumar Anand (Patel Nagar), had also tested positive for COVID-19. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "Atishi-ji has played an important role in the fight against Corona. I hope that she will be healthy as soon as possible once again." AAP chief spokerson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj tweeted, "Get well soon Atishi and Akshay Marathe, recover soon from COVID-19". Marathe, who also tested positive for COVID-19, is a close aide of Atishi. Delhi has reported 44,688 COVID-19 cases as on June 16, of which 24,844 or 55.59% of the total cases were reported in June alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-850675.html
17-06-2020||National||To fulfill wish of sick nonagenarian father, youth marries wooden effigy in Uttar Pradesh||Had the guests not been in the know of the facts, they would have taken it as any other normal Hindu wedding in which all the rituals, including the 'saptapadi' (going round the sacred fire seven times), were performed. What, however, made the wedding unique was that the groom married a wooden effigy instead of a living bride. The bizarre wedding was solemnised at Manakwar village in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj district, about 200 kilometres from here, on Tuesday. According to the reports, 90-year old Shiv Mohan, a father of nine children, had been ailing for the past several years and he felt that he would not live long enough to witness the marriage of his last child, 32-year old Panch Raj. Shiv Mohan had been pressing his son to get married but it could not materialised for one or the other reason, reports said.  Some local priests suggested that a mock wedding of Panch Raj be solemnised to fulfill the wish of the ailing father. Panch Raj was reluctant initially but later agreed after his nonagenarian father pleaded with him with tears in his eyes. The 'wedding' was solemnised on Tuesday in the presence of a handful of guests in view of the restrictions owing to the outbreak of Coronavirus, reports said. A small feast was also organised on this occasion. ''I only wanted see him (Panch Raj) getting married... I know my days are numbered... I can now die happily,'' Shiv Mohan said. The son was equally happy as he had fulfilled, what could be the last wish of his father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-fulfill-wish-of-sick-nonagenarian-father-youth-marries-wooden-effigy-in-uttar-pradesh-850678.html
17-06-2020||National||COVID-19: India registers highest-ever single-day spike of 2,003 deaths; no. of cases 3,54,065||India registered the highest-ever single-day spike of 2,003 COVID-19 fatalities on Wednesday, pushing the death toll due to the disease to 11,903 in the country, after Maharashtra and Delhi added deaths that occurred earlier but were not attributed to the coronavirus. The country's COVID-19 caseload rose to 3,54,065 with 10,974 new infections reported in the last 24 hours. Of the 2,003 new deaths, Maharashtra accounted for the maximum of 1,409, taking its COVID-19 death toll to 5,537, while coronavirus deaths in Delhi surged by 437, taking its toll to 1,837, according to the health ministry data updated at 8 am. "The sudden surge in deaths is based on entry of data by the states. Maharashtra and Delhi have reconciled data from previous days," a health ministry official said. Besides, Tamil Nadu has reported 49 deaths, followed by Gujarat (28), Uttar Pradesh and Haryana (18 each), Madhya Pradesh (11), West Bengal (10), Rajasthan (seven), Karnataka (five) and Telangana (four). Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Punjab, Puducherry and Uttarakhand have reported a fatality each in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 1,55,227 in the country, while 1,86,934 people have recovered from the disease and one patient has migrated, according to official figures. "The recovery rate has risen to 52.80 per cent," the ministry said. The country registered over 10,000 fresh coronavirus cases for the sixth day in a row. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia.  According to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is at the eighth position in terms of the death toll due to the disease. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 60,84,256 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the country till June 16 with 1,63,187 tested on Tuesday. The number of government laboratories has been increased to 674 and that of private laboratories to 250, the ministry said. Of the total 11,903 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 5,537, followed by Delhi (1,837), Gujarat (1,533), Tamil Nadu (528), West Bengal (495), Madhya Pradesh (476), Uttar Pradesh (417), Rajasthan (308) and Telangana (191).  The COVID-19 death toll reached 118 in Haryana, 94 in Karnataka, 88 in Andhra Pradesh, 72 in Punjab, 63 in Jammu and Kashmir, 41 in Bihar, 25 in Uttarakhand, 20 in Kerala and 11 in Odisha. Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh have registered nine deaths each, while Assam and Himachal Pradesh have recorded eight fatalities each. Chandigarh and Puducherry have reported six deaths each, while Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported a fatality each, according to the health ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths were due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has also reported the maximum number of cases at 1,13,445, followed by Tamil Nadu (48,019), Delhi (44,688), Gujarat (24,577), Uttar Pradesh (14,091), Rajasthan (13,216) and West Bengal (11,909), according to the ministry. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 11,083 in Madhya Pradesh, 8,272 in Haryana, 7,530 in Karnataka and 6,841 in Andhra Pradesh. It has risen to 6,778 in Bihar, 5,406 in Telangana, 5,298 in Jammu and Kashmir, 4,319 in Assam and 4,163 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 3,371 coronavirus cases so far, while Kerala has 2,622. A total of 1,942 people have been infected with the virus in Uttarakhand, 1,839 in Jharkhand, 1,781 in Chhattisgarh, 1,092 in Tripura, 649 in Ladakh, 629 in Goa, 560 in Himachal Pradesh and 500 in Manipur. Chandigarh has registered 358 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry 216, Nagaland 179, Mizoram 121, Arunachal Pradesh 95 and Sikkim 70. Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 45 COVID-19 cases. Meghalaya and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands have registered 44 cases of the infection each. "Our figures are being reconciled with that of the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 8,273 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-registers-highest-ever-single-day-spike-of-2003-deaths-no-of-cases-354065-850681.html
17-06-2020||National||Babri Masjid trial: Uma Bharti on list of accused appearing in court on Thursday||BJP leader Uma Bharti is among the accused asked to appear in person Thursday before a special court hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case. The lawyers for BJP veterans L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Kalyan Singh indicated to the CBI court on Wednesday that they prefer to appear in court through video conferencing. Special Judge S K Yadav had recently given this option to the accused who are yet to record their statements, asking them to provide their addresses so that arrangements can be made for video conferencing. The court here is in the process of recording the statements of the 32 accused under section 313 of the CrPC, a stage in the trial which follows the completion of examination of prosecution witnesses. On Wednesday, BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj appeared in the court, categorically denying that he conspired in the demolition of the mosque in Ayodhya. The court issued a non-bailable warrant against an accused Om Prakash Pandey after his lawyer informed that the Azamgarh resident’s present whereabouts were not known to him now. The lawyers for Advani, M M Joshi, Kalyan Singh, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Jai Bhagwan Goel, Amar Nath Goel, Sudhir Kakkad, Acharya Dharmendra Dev, Dharmendra Singh Gujjar and R N Srivastava provided their addresses to the court. Judge Yadav said it appeared that the remaining accused wanted to appear in person. “Hence, the accused who have not submitted their addresses and have also not appeared in court so far for recording their statement are directed to appear before it on June 18,” the judge said. The judge said he will continue to record the statements of the remaining accused till the National Informatics Centre makes arrangements for video conferencing. The court has been conducting day-to-day proceedings in order to conclude the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-masjid-trial-uma-bharti-on-list-of-accused-appearing-in-court-on-thursday-850683.html
17-06-2020||National||SC asks Centre to respond to plea by nurses for safety gears||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea by the United Nurses Association to give them standard safety gear, transport and accommodation for their members exposed to coronavirus risks. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah sought a reply from the Centre on PIL by the Kerala-based organisation. The association with 3.8 lakh strong nurses as members has cited the apex court's order in the  Arushi Jain case to seek adequate facilities for them. The court, which asked the Union government to file a report in the matter, put it for consideration after four weeks. The organisation, through advocates Subhash Chandran K R and Biju P Raman, claimed that healthcare workers are at the frontline of the COVID-19 outbreak response and as such are exposed to hazards that put them at risk of infection, including pathogen exposure, long working hours, psychological distress, fatigue, occupational burnout, stigma, and physical and psychological violence etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-plea-by-nurses-for-safety-gears-850690.html
17-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley incident will have serious impact on bilateral ties: India to China||India on Wednesday delivered a strong message to China that the "unprecedented" incident in the Galwan Valley will have a "serious impact" on the bilateral relationship and held the "pre-meditated" action by Chinese army directly responsible for the violence that left 20 Indian Army personnel dead. In a telephonic conversation, External Affairs Minister Jaishankar conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi India's protest in the "strongest terms" and said the Chinese side should reassess its actions and take corrective steps, the Ministry of External Affairs said. The Chinese Foreign Ministry, in a statement, said the two sides agreed to "cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible", and maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area in accordance with the agreement reached so far between the two countries. Jaishankar also told Wang that the Chinese action reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all agreements between the two countries to not change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control. It was the first high-level engagement between the two sides after the standoff between the two armies began in eastern Ladakh on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. The clash in Galwan Valley on Monday night is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La in 1967 when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed. "The external affairs minister underlined that this unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship. The need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps," the MEA said. It said the external affairs minister also conveyed to Wang that the two sides should scrupulously and sincerely implement the understanding that was reached by at a meeting of the senior commanders of the two armies on June 6. In the Lt Gen-level meeting, the two sides decided to disengage at Galwan Valley and other standoff points. In the talks on Wednesday, the MEA said, it was agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely. "Neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquillity as per bilateral agreements and protocols," it added. In the conversation, Jaishankar also conveyed to Wang that while there was some progress on the situation, the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan valley on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control which became the source of dispute. "While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties," the MEA said giving details of the conversation. "The two sides should scrupulously and sincerely implement the understanding that was reached by the Senior Commanders on June 6," it said. "Troops of both sides should also abide by the bilateral agreements and protocols. They should strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and should not take any unilateral action to alter it," the MEA said. The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of the eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the bank of the Pangong Tso. After the standoff began, the Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the LAC by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The road in the Finger area in Pangong Tso is considered crucial for India to carry out patrols. India has already decided not to stall any border infrastructure projects in eastern Ladakh in view of Chinese protests. The situation in the area deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-incident-will-have-serious-impact-on-bilateral-ties-india-to-china-850691.html
17-06-2020||National||Chinese nationals in India fear backlash, anxious over anti-China sentiments||The border clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh broke the brittle quiet – and also the sense of security for anxious Chinese nationals in India who fear a backlash with anti-Chinese sentiment spiralling in the country. On Wednesday, a day after news of the high altitude violent face-off in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and amid rising talk of boycotting Chinese goods on WhatsApp and other social media, the undercurrent of tension was evident. Wary of being identified, some said they had been reassured by their friends but were still apprehensive for themselves and their families. Adding to their anxiety was news of protests. A group of ex-armymen gathered near the Chinese embassy to protest the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. And another group of around 10 protesters belonging to the Swadeshi Jagaran Manch protested near the Teen Murti roundabout in Central Delhi. "They (Chinese families) don't want to speak to the media. They are not going out and are worried about their security and well being. Their families are also worried back home," Mohammed Saqib, secretary general of the India China Economic & Cultural Council, told PTI. He added that Chinese nationals who are friends with him have been calling him since news of the conflict – the worst military confrontation in five decades -- and expressed concern over growing anti-China sentiments. A Chinese national from Beijing working in Gurgaon for a Chinese mobile firm first refused to talk, saying he does not want to speak to the media and later shared his thoughts only on condition of anonymity. "There is talk of border standoff and tensions, but we know Indians are very warm people and that is why I have told my family that all is fine here and they should not worry," he said. Another Chinese national working in Gurgaon said he and his family are feeling the stress amid the spiralling conflict between India and China, but there many friends have been reassuring him. "They (Chinese in India) are under a lot of stress naturally. Such a conflict puts a lot of stress as they could bear the brunt and the same applies to Indians in China," B R Deepak, professor at the Centre for Chinese and South East Asian Studies of the Jawaharlal Nehru University, told PTI. He said it was unfortunate that at the time the two countries were gearing to celebrate 70 years of establishment of diplomatic ties, the border standoff derailed the commemorative programmes aimed at strengthening ties. Experts also feel the border clash is likely to have a significant negative impact on the economic and people to people ties. There are scores of Chinese in India working in various Chinese firms and also those who are studying in universities like JNU. About 3,000 Chinese people, doing business or studying in big cities in India, were stranded in India at the start of the COVID-19 crisis, and about half of them returned to China before the lockdown began on March 25. Efforts were on from the Chinese to evacuate the rest. The Chinese Embassy in New Delhi announced on May 25 that they will arrange for five flights run by the China Southern Airlines, China Eastern Airlines and Air China to bring students, tourists and businesspersons to five Chinese cities, including Shanghai and Guangzhou. "It will impact the psychology of the Chinese here. There are 2,000 Chinese firms in various sectors in India which are going to be impacted," Deepak said. Future investments from the Chinese side could also be impacted, he said. Also, as far as people-to-people contacts are concerned, the number of Chinese students choosing India as a preferred destination is likely to go down, Deepak said. Alka Acharya, another China expert, said there are two kinds of impacts of such an incident -- short term and medium term. Usually after the initial nationalistic reaction in the short term things tend to normalise in the medium term, but with such a border clash happening for the first time in decades clearly the resonance would be much more in both India and China, said Acharya, professor at the Centre for East Asian Studies, School of International Studies, in JNU. “Due to the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the economy, whether India can take a hardline in terms of economics towards China, is a tricky question,” she said. In the immediate context, there may be a dip in economic ties with calls for boycott of Chinese goods and services, Acharya told PTI. The manner in which this crisis is resolved will affect how ties will be affected in the medium term, she said. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff between the two countries. The casualties on the Chinese side are not yet known. However, government sources, citing an American intelligence report, claimed the total number of soldiers killed and seriously wounded could be 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-nationals-in-india-fear-backlash-anxious-over-anti-china-sentiments-850695.html
17-06-2020||National||India to send tri-service contingent for 75th WWII victory parade in Moscow||India will send a contingent of 75 personnel from its three armed forces to Moscow to participate in Russia's 75th World War II Victory Day parade on June 24, the Defence Ministry said on Wednesday. "On the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the victory in the Second World War, there will be a military parade in Moscow to honour the heroism and sacrifices made by the Russian and other friendly people," the ministry said in its press release. It said the Russian Defence Minister has invited an Indian contingent to take part in the Victory Day Parade scheduled to be held on June 24, 2020, in Moscow. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has agreed to send a 75-member tri-service contingent to participate in the parade, where contingents of other countries are also expected to participate, the release stated. "The participation in the parade will be a mark of tribute and solidarity with the people of Russia at a time when they remember their heroes of the Great Patriotic War," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-send-tri-service-contingent-for-75th-wwii-victory-parade-in-moscow-850699.html
17-06-2020||National||India-China Border: Tracing events that lead to the violence||Fierce dispute on the dismantling of a makeshift Chinese bunker on the Indian soil near the Galwan river led to the violent face-off on Monday evening in which a group of 50 Indian soldiers was attacked by nearly 300 People’s Liberation Army of China (PLA) troops. While 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action and four more are in critical condition in a hospital, there is no official word on the death count from the Chinese side.  News agency ANI, which on Tuesday reported 45 Chinese casualties, modified its report a day later to claim that “Chinese suffered a significant number of casualties” and “the CO of the PLA unit was killed by the Indian troops”. The clash occurred at the Patrolling Point 14 (PP 14) area of the Galwan Valley, which remained one of the contentious zones in the one and a half-month-long standoff between Indian Army and the PLA in eastern Ladakh. The 16 Bihar regiment was in the area to ensure compliance by the PLA troops that were to go back to their post 1.5 km away in the east. The arrangement was agreed upon at the Corps Commander-level meeting on June 6 and it was left to the local unit to implement the plan. As the dusk approached, the PLA troops suddenly turned around and attacked the Indian soldiers. The commanding officer Col B Santosh Babu, who had earlier led the discussions with the local PLA commander, was in the front and was seriously hurt.  Two other men Hav K Palani and Sepoy Kundan Ojha were also killed in the attack while several other men were held captive. They were released later when a reinforcement team from the Indian side reached the spot. But the clash intensified with the arrival of the reinforcement. Both sides used iron-studded rods, sticks and clubs for a bloody hand-to-hand combat as the brawl continued for several hours. Men also fell into Galwan river as several bodies were fished out of the river. On Tuesday night Indian Army stated, “17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the standoff location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total that were killed in action to 20.” Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had clashed on the night of  June 15-16, 2020.  A day later Major General-rank officers from both sides initiated talks in the same sector in order to find out a way to resolve the issue and de-escalate tension. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday reviewed the Ladakh situation once again with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief  Gen M M Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Force Chief  Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” Singh tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-tracing-events-that-lead-to-the-violence-850703.html
17-06-2020||National||326 new COVID-19 cases take Rajasthan tally to 13,542||Rajasthan reported 326 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday taking the state's total tally to 13,542, while the death toll climbed to 313 with five new fatalities, officials said. Three deaths were reported from Jaipur, and one each from Bharatpur and Dholpur, they said. The districts that reported COVID-19 cases on Wednesday included Jaipur (60), Dholpur (55), Jodhpur (35), Pali (34), Bharatpur (29), Churu (17), Nagaur (16), Jhunjhunu (15), Barmer (12).  Jaipur has recorded the maximum 141 deaths so far and 2,674 cases followed by Jodhpur where 2,254 cases and 28 deaths have been reported.  The number of active cases in the state stood at 2,762 and 10,213 patients have been discharged from hospitals till date, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/326-new-covid-19-cases-take-rajasthan-tally-to-13542-850721.html
17-06-2020||National||Centre to issue orders for regular payment of salaries to doctors on June 18||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that a direction would be issued within a day to all the states for regular payment of salaries to the doctors and other health care workers, attending to COVID-19 patients. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan that an order by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfares would be issued exercising its power under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for timely payment of salaries, by Thursday. Mehta added that the ministry would also be issuing a direction by Thursday for seven days initial quarantine facilities for the doctors treating COVID-19 patients. Taking his submission into the record, the court said, "The central government shall issue an appropriate direction to the Chief Secretary of the states and Union Territories to ensure that the orders are faithfully complied with, violation of which may be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act and the IPC." The court, however, declined to accept a plea by senior advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for a doctor, Arushi Jain, who filed a PIL for issuance of directions to the state governments to give details of the accommodations for using as a quarantine facility for the medical professionals. It said Mehta already submitted that appropriate steps have been taken for requisitioning necessary accommodations for the purpose. The Solicitor General also informed the court that doctors and health workers, who were directly looking after the COVID-19 patients, were not denied the quarantine.  "Looking to the requirement of doctors and health workers to manage the hospital, quarantine period should be initially for one week only and thereafter taking the profile of the health worker a decision would be taken for a further period of one week," he said. Vishwanathan said salaries and emoluments of the doctors and health workers should be paid timely, as they were front-line warriors.  He added that there were no details of appropriate accommodations as quarantine centres for them as mandated under the Union government's guidelines issued on May 15. He further said that a doctor, even with PPE Kit, has to be given quarantine to protect himself and his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-issue-orders-for-regular-payment-of-salaries-to-doctors-on-june-18-850722.html
17-06-2020||National||Disappointed over discussion on coronavirus with PM: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said he was disappointed as the challenges and limitations faced by the Centre and the state were not discussed in the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the coronavirus issue. Gehlot’s remarks came after he attended the second day of the discussions held by the PM with chief ministers over the issue. “All states by now know the best practices to deal with COVID-19. Disappointed to see that in today's VC with PM, challenges and limitations of Centre and state have not been discussed,” Gehlot tweeted. The CM said how the Centre will help states overcome hardships after the lockdown should have been discussed at the video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disappointed-over-discussion-on-coronavirus-with-pm-gehlot-850732.html
17-06-2020||National||India, China blame each other but agree to adhere to June 6 agreement for disengagement||The “premeditated” attack by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers on the Indian Army personnel at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh will have “a serious impact” on the relations between the two nations, New Delhi conveyed to Beijing on Wednesday. Beijing, on the other hand accused, the Indian Army personnel of crossing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and of deliberately provoking the Chinese PLA “officers and soldiers”, resulting in “fierce physical clashes” and casualties. China also asked India to conduct an “investigation” and “severely punish” the ones, who are responsible for the incident. The blaming and counter-blaming, notwithstanding, New Delhi and Beijing agreed to “handle the overall situation” along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – “in a responsible manner” and resolve the stand-off in accordance with the understanding reached during the meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on June 6. Two days after the violent face-off between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA resulted in casualties on both sides, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the communist country’s government, Wang Yi, spoke over the phone. Jaishankar told Wang Yi that the Chinese PLA’s attack on the Indian Army soldiers reflected “intent to change the facts on ground” in violation of all bilateral agreements on not changing the status quo. This was the first time Jaishankar and Wang spoke to each other after the stand-off started along the LAC, following a scuffle between the soldiers of the two nations on the northern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh on May 5. The discussion between the two was focused on the clash at Galwan Valley late in the evening on Monday. Twenty Indian Army soldiers were killed and a few others were injured in violent attacks by the personnel of the Chinese PLA, which also suffered unspecified number of casualties.   Jaishankar noted that the June 6 meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies had ended with an agreement on de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC. This was followed by a series of meetings between the ground commanders of the two armies. “While there was some progress, the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan valley on our side of the LAC,” External Affairs Minister conveyed to his counterpart in Chinese Government. “While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties.” He underlined that the “unprecedented development” would have “a serious impact” on the bilateral relationship between India and China. He asked Wang, who is also a State Councilor of China, to reassess the PLA’s actions and take corrective steps.   Wang reiterated the PLA’s account of the incident, accusing the Indian Army soldiers of crossing LAC and provoking the Chinese Army personnel. He told Jaishankar that India must not misjudge the current situation and must not underestimate China’s firm will to safeguard territorial sovereignty. They, however, finally agreed to adhere to the understanding for disengagement reached during the June 6 meeting between the senior military officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-blame-each-other-but-agree-to-adhere-to-june-6-agreement-for-disengagement-850734.html
17-06-2020||National||COVID-19 deaths shoot up as Maharashtra, Delhi reconcile data||India saw the steepest increase in COVID-19 fatalities as the death toll rose by 2,003 in a single day on Wednesday to touch 11,903 cases as Maharashtra and Delhi accounted for previously unreported deaths. The sudden spike in the death toll has been attributed to Maharashtra and Delhi reconciling its record of previously unreported deaths from across the state. Maharashtra had reported 1,409 deaths on Wednesday morning of which 1,328 were not reported earlier, while 81 people succumbed to COVID-19 on Tuesday. Delhi also reported 437 deaths on Tuesday, that included all the cases examined by the death audit committee for the national capital. Tamil Nadu too reported 49 deaths on Tuesday as against the 10-15 fatalities it had been reporting till last week. According to government statistics, nearly 51% of the country’s total cases have been reported from five cities—Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Thane and Ahmedabad. According to a graph shared by Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, a possible flattening of the COVID-19 growth curve was being seen in Ahmedabad, Pune and Thane. However, the growth in Delhi was still exponential and massive testing, proactive detection of hotspots and implementing containment measures were the only way to defeat the pandemic. While Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi continue to account for 70% of the total cases across the country, Haryana saw its sharpest single-day increase in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as it reported 550 new infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-deaths-shoot-up-as-maharashtra-delhi-reconcile-data-850744.html
17-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley clash to make India-China border negotiation more strenuous||The military stand-off along India-China Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, particularly the violent clash in Galwan Valley, will make the negotiations between the two nations to resolve the boundary dispute all the more strenuous. The stand-off is a result of the well-planned move by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to fundamentally alter the status quo on the ground, both in Galwan Valley as well as on the northern bank of Pangong Tso (lake). It clearly goes against the consensus that the two nations would work out a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable” way to resolve the boundary dispute through dialogue. The Special Representatives of India and China started holding talks to resolve the boundary dispute in October 2003 – almost 10 years after they had signed the Border Peace and Tranquility Agreement (BPTA), agreeing to respect the status quo and settle the row through peaceful dialogue. They concluded at an Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles in 2005. They have since been engaged in talks on a framework, which will be followed by actual demarcation of the border on the map. Not that the Special Representatives could make much headway towards resolving the dispute in the past 15 years, but they did succeed in putting in place several confidence building measures to maintain peace and tranquility in the region and to avert occasional flash points. The measures as well as all the sequels of the 1993 BPTA, including the latest Border Defence Cooperation Agreement 2013, were based on the understanding that the two sides would maintain the status quo till a final settlement could be worked out. China, however, has been repeatedly flouting the status quo along its boundary with India – in Daulat Beg Oldie in 2013, in Chumar in 2014 and now again in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley, which, like the previous ones, is also based on the PLA’s now-familiar “Two-Step-Forward-One-Step-Forward" approach and aimed at pushing its claim-line further into the territory of India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is currently the Special Representative of India for boundary negotiations with China. His counterpart is China’s Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi. They held the last round of negotiations – the 22nd round – in New Delhi on December 21 last year. They “underlined the importance of approaching the boundary question from the strategic perspective of India-China relations and agreed that an early settlement of the boundary question serves the fundamental interests of both countries”. But the utility of the mechanism for the dialogue between the Special Representatives is likely to come under question after the violent clash in Galwan Valley, which clearly reflected China’s consistent attempt to change the status quo along its boundary with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-clash-to-make-india-china-border-negotiation-more-strenuous-850752.html
17-06-2020||National||India-China Border: Mamata Banerjee welcomes Centre’s decision of calling all party meeting||Describing the Centre’s decision of calling an all-party meeting over the clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Ladakh as “technically correct”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday welcomed the move. Speaking to reporters at the State Secretariat after a review meeting, Mamata also said that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will support the decision. “We are firmly behind our country and armed forces at this critical juncture. We wholeheartedly support the Centre’s decision of holding an all-party meeting over the issue,” she said. However, she declined to make any further comments on the issue stating that it was related to external affairs and the Centre will take a call on it.“Since it is a matter of external affairs I don’t want to make any further comments. The Centre will take a call on it,” she said. Earlier in the day, the chief minister announced that the state government will provide a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each and a government job to the next of kin to the two jawans who were martyred during the clash with the Chinese troops. "My heartfelt condolences to the families of the brave men martyred at #GalwanValley. I'm at pain to say that two of them belonged to West Bengal— Sepoy Rajesh Orang (Vill Belgoria, PS Md Bazar, Birbhum) & Bipul Roy on General Duty (Vill Bindipara, PS Samuktala, Alipurduar),” Mamata tweeted. “Nothing can compensate for the supreme sacrifice made by them for the nation or the bereaved families' loss. We stand by the next of the sons of our soil in this difficult time. To this regard, we'll provide ₹5 lakh & a GoWB job to one member in the deceased's family,” she stated in another tweet. Nothing can compensate for the supreme sacrifice made by them for the nation or the bereaved families' loss. We stand by the next of the sons of our soil in this difficult time. To this regard, we'll provide ₹5 lakh & a GoWB job to one member in the deceased's family. (2/2)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-mamata-banerjee-welcomes-centre-s-decision-of-calling-all-party-meeting-850754.html
17-06-2020||National||MoS Defence says Chinese attack along border was pre-planned||Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said that China’s attack on Indian Army soldiers at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was pre-planned. “Today, China’s aggression on India, is without reason. The attack on six-seven posts was pre-planned by China and we are confident that India will give a befitting reply,” Naik, who is also a North Goa Lok Sabha MP, said. “The hand-to-hand fight and the stone-pelting, in which our Colonel and other soldiers died and Chinese troops were killed as well, was a big incident... We are firm in our efforts and position that we will not allow China or anyone to cross even one inch over the Line of Control,” Naik said. “Things had settled in five to six places (along the border). In some places, soldiers on both sides were withdrawn by 2.5 km. But what happened in Leh recently was very unfortunate. The matter started from there,” Naik said. He also offered condolences to the slain soldiers and said that their martyrdom would not go in vain. "I offer my condolences to the colonel and other soldiers who were martyred. The whole country is proud of their sacrifice for the motherland. Their sacrifice will not be wasted," Naik said.  At least 20 Indian soldiers including an Indian army colonel were martyred in brutal hand-to-hand skirmish between the soldiers of both armies late on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mos-defence-says-chinese-attack-along-border-was-pre-planned-850757.html
17-06-2020||National||India-China clash: Why it's shocking even to the Army as PLA force outnumbers Indian troops||The presence of an unprecedented number of Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley and the brutality with which they attacked the Indian soldiers are some of the eye-openers for Indian Army, which is likely to review its patrolling tactics near the Line of Control as a consequence. Though not a single bullet was fired in the bloody clash, the savagery with which the PLA troops struck the Indian troops with iron-studded sticks and clubs was something new. Several men were pushed from the hills and they died from a combination of injury and exposure to extreme cold. Such brutality was also seen last month when another Indian patrol party was attacked by the PLA troops on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso in Ladakh— a contentious area—during the May 5-6 clash. The commanding officer of the 11 Mahar regiment was seriously injured and is still recuperating. Some of the patrolling strategies such as not to carry small arms on LAC patrol may be reviewed. This is simply because if the enemy is in large numbers, they can overpower the opponents by sheer brute force. Nearly seven years ago, India and China signed the Border Defence Cooperation Agreement (BDCA) consolidating the arrangements New Delhi and Beijing agreed upon in 1993 and 1996 and taking forward the 2005 protocol for Confidence Building Measures between the two Armies.  According to the BDCA, in a conflict situation, Indian and Chinese troops are required to disengage by carrying out banner drills without pointing guns. For decades, there was no firing on the LAC where jostling, pushing and fisticuffs between troops from both sides happened several times in recent years. But the level of brutality seen in the Galwan Valley is unprecedented. Another new lesson for the Army would be to augment the security of even the uncontested area as Galwan valley was one such area where the PLA troops entered in a big way to change the game.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-clash-why-its-shocking-even-to-the-army-as-pla-force-outnumbers-indian-troops-850765.html
17-06-2020||National||Wave of grief as mortal remains of soldiers reach their native places||A wave of grief swept across the country as the mortal remains of the soldiers who laid down their lives fighting the Chinese Army in Galwan Valley in Ladakh were taken to their native places on Wednesday. Anti-China protests were held in several parts of the country, including the national capital, though restrictions were in place on assembly of people due to the coronavirus lockdown. For many of the bereaved families, the agonising wait started on Tuesday evening when they were informed by senior Army officials about the sacrifice of the 20 soldiers in the clashes with the Chinese Army along the Line of Actual Control a day earlier. In heart-wrenching scenes reminiscent of the aftermath of the 2019 Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed, coffins of soldiers arrived in several states for the last rites with full military honours. Even as they struggled to come to terms with the shocking news and grieved over the lives cut short, family members of the soldiers said they were proud of their sacrifice. The body of Colonel B Santosh Babu, which was brought to Hyderbad by a special aircraft, was taken to his native Suryapet town by an ambulance as people holding the tricolour showered flowers on it. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and state IT and Industries Minister K T Rama Rao were among those who paid their last respects. At many places across Telangana, people and members of different political parties and other organisations paid floral tributes to the army officer. Holding the tricolour and banners that read 'We salute the soldiers', they raised 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' and 'Vande Mataram' slogans. A large number of people assembled and shouted anti-China slogans in sepoy Ankush Thakur's Karohta village in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh. The 21-year-old was recruited to the Punjab Regiment in 2018 and was a third-generation soldier. "We feel proud that he has laid down his life for the motherland," said Karunakar Pradhan, the father of 28-year-old Chandrakanta Pradhan from Odisha's Kandhamal district. Chandrakanta belonged to a tribal community and hailed from Biarpanga village. "My son was highly sincere towards his duty. He was courageous, simple and hard working. We got the information about his martyrdom on Tuesday night. We are waiting for his body," said Karunakar Pradhan in a choked voice. A marginal farmer, Pradhan said his unmarried son was the breadwinner. The soldier has three siblings. Chandrakanta joined the Army in 2014 and had last visited home around two months ago. He was popular in the village, the soldier's father said. Pradhan said his son had called a few days ago and narrated the tense situation that prevailed at the place where they were deployed. Deepak Kumar from Madhya Pradesh told his grandmother Phool Kumari on phone a few days ago that he will come home after the coronavirus lockdown ends. "I spoke to him just a few days back and at that time he told me that after the lockdown ends, he will take leave and come home. "But after the lockdown ended, we got the news of his martyrdom," Singh's 85-year-old inconsolable grandmother said. Deepak Singh's mother passed away several years ago and since then she has been looking after him. "He was a very loving person and used to respect everyone in the house. Everybody used to like him a lot," she said. Kundan Kumar Ojha from Jharkhand was blessed with a daughter just 17 days ago. He had promised his mother over the phone that he would be home as soon as he got leave from duty. On Wednesday, his parents were too overcome with grief to even speak. Naib Subedar Nanduram Soren, 43 from Rairangpur area of Mayurbhanj was also among the slain soldiers from Odisha. After completing Class 12 from Rairangpur College, Soren joined the Army in 1997 as he was very keen to serve the motherland. He was sincere in his duty and worked in a dedicated manner, his elder brother Doman Majhi said. Soren has left behind his wife and three school-going daughters, he said. "We all feel shattered after receiving the message about his martyrdom. Nanduram was an asset for the family as well as the village. He was loved by all for his friendly nature," Majhi said. The entire village is proud of his supreme sacrifice, M N Mahato, a villager, said. In West Bengal, the family of Rajesh Orang, who joined the Army in 2015, said they were planning his marriage. "My son served the country and gave his life for it," was all his grieving father Subhas could say on Wednesday morning at his modest home. Subhas said that he was informed by the Army authorities on Tuesday evening about the death of Rajesh, who was in his early 20s. "From his childhood, my brother wanted to serve the country and was happy to be in the Army," his youngest sister Shakuntala said. "He came home on leave a few months back and talks were on for his marriage," she said. Sepoy Gurbinder Singh, 22, who had joined the Army just two years ago, was among four soldiers from Punjab who were martyred in Ladakh. “We received a call at 6:30 AM today that Gurbinder Singh has attained martyrdom,” said Gurpreet Singh, elder brother Gurbinder. The body is expected to reach the village on Thursday. A pall of gloom descended on the village Tolawal in Sunam subdivision in Sangrur and mourners started assembling at Gurbinder's house. He talked to his family around 15 days back. Gurbinder, who belonged to 3 Punjab Regiment, got engaged last year when he came back home on a brief leave, said Jagseer Singh, Gurbinder's maternal uncle. “We had his plans for his marriage this year when he returns home on leave,” Jagseer told PTI. Sepoy Ganesh Ram Kunjam, 27, who hailed from Gidhali village in Kanker district of Chhattisgarh, had finalised his marriage during his last home visit and planned to solemnise it next year, his relatives said. After completing his education till Class 12, Ganesh Kunjam had joined the Army in 2011 as he wanted to serve the nation, his paternal uncle Tiharu Ram Kunjam said. Ganesh had come home on leave in February-March this year during which his marriage was fixed with a girl of a village in Kanker. "Just last month, I got a call from him during which he said hewas being posted to some other place... I had never thought that the phone call made in May would be our last conversation. We all are in shock," Tiharu Kunjam said. "I am proud of my nephew's martyrdom but sacrifices of our soldiers should not go in vain," he said. 42-year-old Naib Subedar Satnam Singh's father Jagir Singh, a farmer, said he returned to duty in Ladakh just a month ago. “He is a great martyr and I am proud of him. He last talked to us on Monday but no one knew that was his last call,” said Jagir. Satnam's younger brother Sukhchain Singh, who is also serving in the Army, said his brother sacrificed his life for the nation and he was proud of him. Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Sepoy Gurtej Singh are the other two soldiers from Punjab. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the nation in paying tributes to the soldiers. India wants peace but is capable of giving befitting reply if instigated, he said and asserted that the sacrifice of the army men will not go in vain. The PM, who was speaking on day two of the virtual conference with chief ministers on the coronavirus crisis, also observed a few minutes of silence along with the other leaders in memory of the bravehearts. Lt Governor of Ladakh R K Mathur took part in the wreath laying ceremony for three army personnel from the Union Territory . Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday announced Rs 25 lakh each as ex-gratia to the families of two slain soldiers from the state. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh declared an ex-gratia compensation of up to 12 lakh, along with a government job to a next of kin of the deceased. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh and a government job for kin of each of the two soldiers from the state. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami had announced a solatium of Rs 20 lakh to the family of the slain soldier, K Pazhani of Kadukkalur village in Ramanathapuram district. Protest were held by various organisations including Shiv Sena Dogra Front, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Rashtriya Bajrang Dal in several places in Jammu Angry people burnt tyres and blocked the Jammu-Poonch Highway for over half-an-hour. Protesters also took to the streets in several cities like Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat in Gujarat, and in Uttar Pradesh, shouting anti-China slogans and dmeanding a boycott of its goods. A group of ex-armymen gathered near the Chinese embassy in Delhi to protest and were later dispersed. The Army initially said on Tuesday that an officer and two soldiers were killed. But in a late evening statement it revised the figure to 20 saying 17 others who "were critically injured in the line of duty and exposed to sub-zero temperatures at the standoff location succumbed to their injuries." Government sources said the Chinese side too suffered "proportionate casualties" but chose not to speculate on the number. It is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed in the confrontation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wave-of-grief-as-mortal-remains-of-soldiers-reach-their-native-places-850771.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||India-China border tensions: Shiv Sena demands 'befitting reply' to China||Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday demanded a befitting reply to China's aggression and said the people of India stood with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were martyred in a fierce clash with the Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. It is the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member and executive editor of Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' tweeted, "Prime Minister, you are brave and a warrior...Under your leadership, the country will take revenge against China." "When will a befitting reply be given to China's aggression?" he asked. "Without a single bullet being fired, our 20 soldiers were martyred. What did we do? How many Chinese soldiers were killed?" Raut tweeted. चीन के मुंहजोरी को कब मिलेगा करारा जबाब?बिना गोली चले हमारे 20 जवान शहीद होते है.हमने क्या किया?चिनके कितने जवान मारे गये? चीन हमारे जमीन पर घुस गया है क्या?प्रधान मंत्रीजी इस संघर्ष के घडीमे देश आपके साथ है लेकीन सच क्या है?बोलो.कुछ तो बोलो. देश सच जानना चाहता है.जय हिंद! "In the current situation, the country is with the PM. But what is the truth? Speak something. The country wants to know the truth. Jai Hind," he said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar paid tributes the Indian soldiers, who attained martyrdom while protecting the country's borders at the Galwan valley on the Indo-China border. The senior NCP leader said that all Indians were united in maintaining the country's unity and sovereignty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-border-tensions-shiv-sena-demands-befitting-reply-to-china-850552.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||TMC questions PM Modi's 'silence' on Ladakh clash||Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra on Wednesday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "silence" on the Ladakh face-off, and wondered whether it would be anti-national to seek answers from the Centre. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. "Incredible how BJP won 2019 by tom-toming 'surgical strikes' of which we never saw any actual proof & now that 20 real faces of our dead soldiers stare at us, the PM is silent," Moitra tweeted. "Last time this happened in a span of one week? 1. 20 deaths along LAC during a "de-escalation" mission 2. Friendliest neighbour unilaterally amends political map w/o talks 3. Indian deaths on 3 borders -China, Pak, Nepal. Anti-national to ask why. Sedition to ask how," the party spokesperson said in another tweet. Nepal has released a new political map of the country featuring disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura which India has been maintaining as part of its territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-questions-pm-modis-silence-on-ladakh-clash-850555.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||Modi govt responsible for violent face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley: Cong||The Congress on Wednesday held the Narendra Modi-led central government responsible for the violent face-off with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh wherein 20 Indian soldiers were martyred. “Prime minister Narendra Modi and his government is quiet now. The country had not expected that the government's silence of 40 days will result in this,” AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters at a hotel here. “The country had to see the heart wrenching day due to the failure of the Centre,” he said. Saying that China captured India's land and soldiers got martyred, Surjewala asked what did the prime minister and defense minister do except for keeping silence. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other opposition leaders have often urged the Centre to come clean on the situation at the border and “how much area the Chinese had captured”. “But a careless and failed government kept busy in conspiracies to topple the governments of opposition parties and hid the truth of the border from the country. The priority of the BJP government is not the country, but rule of the party,” he alleged. “There is a ban on ‘questions’ and ‘information’ in the Modi government. Today everything is being hidden from the country. But does the Modi government have any answer for those mothers who sacrificed their sons for defending the country?” he said. Surjewala said the entire country and the Congress party was standing with the government on every issue of national security and integrity, but the government will have to take the nation into confidence. “The prime minister will have to tell the truth of how China occupied our land and how our 20 soldiers got martyred. What is the situation today on the ground and how many our officers and soldiers are missing or injured,” he said. “Now it is the responsibility of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government to take the country and the countrymen into confidence,” he added. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-responsible-for-violent-face-off-with-chinese-troops-in-galwan-valley-cong-850575.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||PM should tell nation how Chinese occupied Indian territory: Sonia Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should tell the country how the Chinese occupied Indian territory and why 20 soldiers were killed, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said Wednesday. Her statement comes after 20 Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel, were killed in a violent clash with the Chinese army in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. "Today when there is so much anger over Chinese intrusion, the prime minister should come out and tell the nation how the Chinese managed to commit this act of aggression," Gandhi said in a video message The Congress chief also asked how much of Indian territory has been occupied by China and what is the government's strategy to deal with the situation. "The prime minister should tell the nation how the Chinese occupied Indian territory and why 20 of our brave soldiers were martyred," she asked. Gandhi said in this time of crisis, the Congress stands with the Indian Army, its soldiers and their families, and the government. "I'm confident that the entire country will unite to face the enemy in these challenging times," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-should-tell-nation-how-chinese-occupied-indian-territory-sonia-gandhi-850583.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||Ladakh face-off: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to attend all party meeting||A day after she welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to convene an all party meeting over the border clash between Chinese and Indian troops at Ladakh, Trinamool Congress (TMC) sources said that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will attend the meeting. The meeting is scheduled to be held on Friday. “The Chief Minister will attend Friday’s all party meeting. She has already made it clear that TMC will stand by the nation in this hour of crisis,” a senior TMC leader said. Banerjee on Thursday welcomed the Prime Minister’s decision of holding an all party meeting. However, she declined to make any further comments on the issue stating that since it is a matter of external affairs, the Centre will take a call on it. She had announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh and government job each for next of kin for the two jawans from Bengal who were among those martyred during the clash with Chinese troops at Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ladakh-face-off-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-attend-all-party-meeting-850663.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||Whole country with you, answer people's questions on China face off: Opposition to PM Narendra Modi||The death of 20 Indian soldiers along the LAC in Ladakh on Wednesday saw the opposition asking the Prime Minister to explain how the Chinese occupied Indian territory, even as the government contended that the sacrifice of soldiers would not go in vain. Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come forward and tell why 20 soldiers were killed, while Rahul Gandhi asked him to come out of "hiding" and share the truth of the India-China face off, saying the entire country was standing behind him. Prime Minister Modi, while addressing chief ministers at a virtual meeting, said the sacrifice of Indian soldiers will not go in vain. He said India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply if instigated. The prime minister has convened a virtual meeting of presidents of various political parties on June 19 to discuss the border situation at Ladakh. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the loss of soldiers was deeply disturbing and painful and the nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. Home Minister Amit Shah said the country will always remain indebted to its soldiers who lost their lives at Ladakh's Galwan and their bravery reflects commitment towards the motherland. In a video message, Sonia Gandhi assured the country of her party's full support to the Indian Army and the government.  She asked whether some Indian Army personnel were still missing and how many were seriously injured. She said the government should explain its thinking and strategy to deal with the situation on the border in Ladakh. "Today, when there is so much anger in the country over Chinese intrusion into Indian border, the prime minister should come out and tell the truth on how the Chinese occupied the Indian territory, why brave soldiers were martyred and what is the current situation along the LAC," Gandhi said. "Which portions of the Indian territory have the Chinese occupied? What is their location? What is the government's thinking and strategy to deal with this situation?" she asked the prime minister. Rajnath Singh said in a series of tweets that Indian soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army. "The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stands shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India's bravehearts," he said. Amit Shah in a series of tweets said the pain of losing brave soldiers at Ladakh's Galwan cannot be expressed in words. "India will always remain indebted for their supreme sacrifice. Entire nation and the Modi government stand firmly with their families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured," he said.  Rahul Gandhi questioned the prime minister's silence on the fierce clash between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh and said the country needs to know what has happened and why Modi was silent. "Why is the Prime Minister silent. Where are you hiding? You should come out, the whole country is standing behind you together. Come out and tell the truth to the country, don't be afraid," Gandhi told the prime minister in a video message. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also asked Prime Minister Modi to show up, saying it was time to stand up to China as it was threatening India's sovereignty. CPI-M general secretary Sitaram Yechury earlier tweeted, "Government should make an authoritative statement as to what actually happened. It's imperative that both governments advance the process of disengagement on the basis of the agreed understanding on maintaining peace and tranquility." Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, "Nothing can compensate for the supreme sacrifice made by them for the nation or the bereaved families' loss. We stand by the next of the sons of our soil in this difficult time." Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, "Join the nation to salute the bravehearts of Indian Army who made the supreme sacrifice at Galwan Valley, protecting the integrity of our nation. Deepest condolences to the families of the brave martyrs." Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, "We are deeply shocked by the reports of a standoff in Galwan valley. Deepest condolences to the families of the martyred soldiers. We stand in solidarity with the personnel of our armed forces....our thoughts are with the brave soldiers and their families." Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav said the government should not only give a strategic but also an economic reply to China. "All contracts awarded to Chinese companies should be suspended with immediate effect and there should be restraint on imports from China," Yadav said. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday demanded a befitting reply to China's aggression, and said the people of India stood with the prime minister. "Prime Minister, you are brave and a warrior...Under your leadership, the country will take revenge against China. When will a befitting reply be given to China's aggression?" he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/whole-country-with-you-answer-peoples-questions-on-china-face-off-opposition-to-pm-narendra-modi-850671.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||Tell truth about Ladakh incident, says Congress President Sonia Gandhi; assures support||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come forward and tell people the truth of the India-China face-off in Ladakh, assuring her party’s support to the government in this moment of crisis. Sonia’s nuanced remarks came even as Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, accused Modi of “going into hiding” ever since reports of 20 Indian soldiers being killed in violent clashes with the Chinese troops came out. “Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what happened. How dare China kill our soldiers. How dare they take our land,” Rahul said. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said that if the prime minister had focused on national security instead of political rallies and toppling governments led by Opposition parties, China would not have dared to take such a step. However, Sonia assured Modi of her party’s support to the Indian Army, soldiers and their families as well as the government in this “moment of crisis”. “I am confident that in these challenging times, the entire country will unite to counter the enemy,” she said. “You all knew that for the past one-and-a-half month Chinese troops had infiltrated Ladakh well inside the Indian territory. Today, when the country is extremely angry about the developments, the prime minister must come forward and tell the truth. How did China capture our territory? How were the 20 soldiers killed? Are our officers and soldiers still missing...what is the government’s policy, thinking and the solution to this issue,”  Sonia asked. BJP’s former ally Shiv Sena said the entire nation would back the government in this time of crisis, but the prime minister should come out with the truth of Galwan Valley incident. “Speak up something. The nation wants to know the truth,” Sanjay Raut said and added that he was confident that the nation will avenge the Chinese actions under the leadership of the “warrior” prime minister. “Incredible how BJP won 2019 by tom-tomming ‘surgical strikes’ of which we never saw any actual proof and now that 20 real faces of our dead soldiers stare at us, the PM is silent,” Trinamool leader Mahua Moitra said. The CPM Polit Bureau also asked the government to come out with an authoritative statement on what actually happened. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda said in the national interest, the prime minister and defence minister should offer a clearer picture to the nation on the border issue with the Chinese.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tell-truth-about-ladakh-incident-says-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-assures-support-850682.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||Why insult Indian Army by not naming China: Rahul Gandhi to Rajnath Singh||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, asking why he insulted the Indian Army by not naming China in his tweet over the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley. He also asked the defence minister why it took him two days to condole the deaths and why did he continue to address poll rallies when the soldiers were being martyred. "If it was so painful: Why insult Indian Army by not naming China in your tweet? Why take 2 days to condole? Why address rallies as soldiers were being martyred," Gandhi asked in a tweet. "Why hide and get the Army blamed by the crony media? Why make paid-media blame the Army instead of GOI," Gandhi asked. The Defence Minister in a tweet this morning said, "The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army." Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also attacked Singh, asking why he feared naming China in his tweet. "What is the fear in even naming China. How many of our soldiers have been martyred. Have the Chinese abducted our soldiers? Don't mislead, come before the country and answer," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Surjewala also alleged that had the prime minister and defence minister taken time from addressing rallies and toppling opposition governments and focussed on the country's security, the Chinese would never have dared to do so. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff between the two countries. The Army initially said on Tuesday that an officer and two soldiers were killed. But in a late evening statement it revised the figure to 20, saying 17 others who "were critically injured in the line of duty and exposed to sub-zero temperatures at the standoff location succumbed to their injuries."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-insult-indian-army-by-not-naming-china-rahul-gandhi-to-rajnath-singh-850685.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||Congress removes Sanjay Jha as spokesperson after critical article||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday removed Sanjay Jha as a party spokesperson, days after he wrote a newspaper article critical of the party. Gandhi also approved the appointment of Abhishek Dutt and Sadhna Bharti as national media panelists for the Congress. "Congress president has also approved that Sanjay Jha be dropped as AICC spokesperson with immediate effect," the party said in an official statement. In the article published a few days ago, Jha had said, "The Congress has demonstrated extraordinary lassitude, and its lackadaisical attitude towards its own political obsolescence is baffling...” "I would like to call a spade a spade here and a shovel: there has been no serious effort to get the party up and running with any sense of urgency,” he had said in the article in 'The Times of India'. “There are many in the party who cannot comprehend this perceptible listlessness. For someone like me, for instance, permanently wedded to Gandhian philosophy and Nehruvian outlook that defines the Congress, it is dismaying to see its painful disintegration," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-removes-sanjay-jha-as-spokesperson-after-critical-article-850749.html
17-06-2020||National Politics||India-China border tension: Telangana CM Rao supports PM Modi, says not the time for politics||Telangana chief Chief Minister Chandrashekhar Rao has extended his support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the flaring border clash with China. A CMO release said Rao mentioned the Indo-China skirmishes along the Line of Actual Control during the PM’s videoconference with the chief ministers on Wednesday. “Whether it is China or any other country, if it interferes with the sovereignty of India, there should be a befitting reply. There is no need for anyone to politicise security matters. This is the time when everyone should be united and speak in one voice,” Rao said. Though Rao was endorsing Modi’s COVID-19 measures including the lighting of lamps etc., calls given to the public, the TRS supremo turned very critical of the PM later over the COVID-19 package and the conditions put on the states to qualify for the central funds.   However, on Wednesday, Rao made it clear that the state government and people in Telangana state would stand by the Central government in the present stand-off situation with China. “There should not be any compromise on security of the country and the entire nation should stand as one on the issue,” the CM said. The PM and all the CMs observed a two minutes silence, paying tributes to the 20 martyred soldiers in Ladakh. Colonel’s body reaches Telangana Colonel Santosh Babu's body reached the Hakimpet air-force station near Hyderabad on Wednesday evening. Babu, the commanding officer of the 16th Bihar Regiment, died along with 19 others on Monday night in a violent clash with the Chinese troops. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, K T Rama Rao etc, ministers, senior army and state officials paid their tributes. The Colonel’s body was taken to Suryapet, his hometown, 140-km away from Hyderabad towards Vijayawada. His cremation would be held on Thursday morning with full state honours. Earlier on Wednesday, army and Telangana police officers received the wife and children of Colonel Babu at the Hyderabad airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-border-tension-telangana-cm-rao-supports-pm-modi-says-not-the-time-for-politics-850777.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar indirectly ticks off Oppn, expresses wish to travel out of Patna||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday indirectly ticked off his detractors who have been training guns at him over his alleged reluctance to move out of his official residence since the outbreak of COVID-19. Kumar, who would be running for his fourth consecutive term as chief minister in the assembly elections due in a few months, also said he was confident that the people will "give us another chance to serve them. I always believe in fulfilling promises. My promise for the next tenure is -- har khet ko pani (water for irrigating every farm)". At a function organized at the CM's secretariat here, Kumar inaugurated through video conference road construction projects worth more than Rs 500 crore catering to districts like East Champaran, Lakhisarai and Rohtas. With a ghost of a smile on his lips, Kumar displayed mock anger and turned towards Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar and said, "I do not feel happy inaugurating projects from so far. From the next time, kindly make arrangements so that we can visit the place concerned and behold the projects upon completion." The chief minister also said, "I understand that many restrictions have been put in place because of the coronavirus pandemic. But we can find a way out, observing all the guidelines and social distancing." Kumar recalled that he had visited East Champaran and Lakhisarai for laying foundation of Rs 263.43-crore RCC bridge and a barrage involving an expenditure of Rs 146.25 crore, respectively. "I would have preferred to be at these places again, when the projects have been completed for dedicating these to the public. I would have similarly liked to be at Sasaram," he said, referring to the district headquarters of Rohtas where foundation stone for a 122.39 crore bypass was laid. The chief minister's remarks came amid repeated barbs by the opposition RJD, and aides-turned-adversaries like Prashant Kishor, that Kumar was feeling "scared" of stepping out of his house. RJD's chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav has announced that his party workers across the state will beat drums on June 24 when the 69-year-old Kumar would have "completed 100 days staying at home". The CM added that he would also like to visit places where works were under progress and review things first hand, in a veiled rebuff to Yadav's claim that Kumar was unaware of the ground realities and went by whatever inputs he was fed by the bureaucrats.     Kumar, who heads the JD(U), also subtly berated his arch rival Lalu Prasad, the founding president of RJD -- which he ousted from power in 2005 -- and said "before we took over, connectivity through roads and bridges was so poor. There has been such a massive improvement since then". "We also place emphasis on maintenance of roads, since only construction is not enough. I remember when I was a child, my house was situated alongside a major highway and maintenance of roads used to be given priority. Things deteriorated over the years and in the 1990s maintenance seemed to have been given up altogether," said Kumar, referring to the period during which Prasad and his wife ruled Bihar as successive chief ministers. He also insisted that the response of the people of Bihar to the COVID-19 safety guidelines has been exemplary.  Cabinet colleagues like Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav and water resources minister Sanjay Jha were among those who also addressed the function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-indirectly-ticks-off-oppn-expresses-wish-to-travel-out-of-patna-850449.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi health minister will be tested again for COVID-19 tomorrow: Official||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who was admitted to a hospital here on Tuesday due to high-grade fever, will be tested again for COVID-19 on Wednesday, a senior official said. The 55-year-old minister was brought to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) past midnight and was administered a test for novel coronavirus on Tuesday morning. "He still has fever. The minister tested negative for COVID-19 today. We are going to repeat the test tomorrow after 24 hours of the first test," the senior official told PTI. Doctors at the hospital said his condition is "stable" and had been taken off oxygen supply. Jain, earlier in the day, tweeted to inform that he was admitted to RGSSH, a dedicated COVID-19 facility under the Delhi government. "Due to high grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night. I have been admitted to RGSSH. Will keep everyone updated," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-health-minister-will-be-tested-again-for-covid-19-tomorrow-official-850462.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Fire at warehouse in Greater Noida, none hurt||A fire broke out early Wednesday at a warehouse of spare parts of an automobile company in Greater Noida, officials said. No one was injured in the incident that was reported around 5 am at the facility in the Surajpur area, they said. Around a dozen fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was controlled completely around 8 am, an official from the local police station said. “The fire broke out in the spare parts' godown of Yamaha in Surajpur area. No one got injured in the incident,” the official said. The cause of fire and damage to property was being assessed, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-warehouse-in-greater-noida-none-hurt-850497.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 positive man dies in Jammu and Kashmir; death toll reaches 64||The man from Feripora area of Shopian, in south Kashmir, died of cardiopulmonary arrest at 4:15 am at SKIMS Hospital Soura, they said.  The officials said the patient was admitted to the hospital on Monday with complaints of fever and shortness of breath and was diagnosed with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder. The patient was on non-invasive ventilation and his son who was attending him had given negative consent for intubation, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-man-dies-in-jammu-and-kashmir-death-toll-reaches-64-850514.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Cow injured after being fed 'explosive-mixed' food in Madhya Pradesh||Days after the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala kicked up a row, police in Umaria district of Madhya Pradesh have launched a probe into the allegation by a man that a cow owned by him was injured after being fed with "explosive-mixed" food by someone. A police official on Wednesday said that a case has been registered in this connection. The owner of the cow, Om Prakash Agrawal from Ginjri village in Umaria, said that he used to let the cow out for grazing in the morning. "The cow roamed within the 500-metre area of the house and returned in the evening. But on June 14, she did not come back home. After a search for two days, the cow was finally found on Tuesday. However, we found that her lower jaw was badly injured," he said. Agrawal said that he suspected that the cow was fed with explosive-mixed food by someone, due to which the animal suffered injuries on the mouth and the jaw. "The cow is unable to eat anything and also feed her one-month-old calf," he added. Talking to reporters, Superintendent of Police (SP) Sachin Sharma said, "We had received information that a cow was injured under Pali police station area. The police reached the spot and called a veterinarian, who provided primary treatment to the bovine." "A case has been registered in this connection and the incident is being investigated. Further action would be taken based on the findings of the probe," he said. Meanwhile, Bajrang Dal workers threatened to launch an agitation if those who injured the cow were not arrested soon. "If the police do not nab the accused in this case, we will find them out," Bajrang Dal leader Upendra Singh said. The incident came days after the shocking death of a pregnant elephant dying of drowning after collapsing in Velliyar river in Palakkad district of Kerala due to starvation and exhaustion in the first week of June. She had been found dead with major injuries in her oral cavities, possibly suffered after eating or having been fed firecrackers-stuffed pineapple. After this, a similar incident was reported involving a pregnant cow in Bilaspur district of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cow-injured-after-being-fed-explosive-mixed-food-in-madhya-pradesh-850516.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Deeply disturbing and painful: Rajnath Singh after high-profile meeting on India-China border situation||After the meeting, Singh tweeted, "The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army." The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army. "The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stands shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts," he added. De-escalating the tension along the LAC appeared to be the top agenda to ensure that no further trouble is fomented.   Late Tuesday night, Modi held a meeting with Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Finance Minister Nirmala Sithataman to take stock of the situation after the Army announced that 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the "violent stand-off" in Galwan valley. Army chief MM Naravane was also present. This was followed by Singh's meeting with the CDS and three service chiefs. Singh also spoke to Jaishankar. Sources said the condition of four Indian soldiers is very critical. Scores of soldiers were injured in the incident.   Army officials described the situation as "unprecedented". They will be releasing the names of all those killed in the incident soon. The families of all those deceased have been informed, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deeply-disturbing-and-painful-rajnath-singh-after-high-profile-meeting-on-india-china-border-situation-850521.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||India-China border clash: Jawan martyred in Galwan Valley was to get married next vacation, but destiny had other plans||Oldest of three siblings, Rajesh Orang, joined the Army in 2015 but the soldier died of injuries suffered in hand-to-hand combat with the Chinese army at Galwan Valley in Ladakh region, his father Subhas was informed. "My son served the country and gave his life for it," was all Subhas could say on Wednesday morning as he grieved his son's death. Rajesh's mother Mamata was speechless. She was hoping to get him married when he came back on a holiday next. Subhas said Rajesh, elder to two sisters, had joined the Army in 2015 after passing the higher secondary examination and belonged to the Bihar Regiment. He said that he was informed by the Army authorities on Tuesday evening about the death of Rajesh, who was in his early 20s. "From his childhood, my brother wanted to serve the country and was happy to be in the Army," his youngest sister Shakuntala said. "He came home on leave a few months back and talks were on for his marriage," she said. Subhas, a marginal farmer in Belgharia village in Mohammad Bazar police station area in Birbhum district, raised his children amid poverty. Rajesh was among the 20 Indian Army personnel killed in the fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-border-clash-jawan-martyred-in-galwan-valley-was-to-get-married-next-vacation-but-destiny-had-other-plans-850526.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Five held over death of elephant due to electrocution in Chhattisgarh||Five persons, including three personnel of the state power company, were arrested by the Forest Department in connection with the death of an elephant due to electrocution in Raigarh district of Chhattisgarh, an official said on Wednesday. The tusker had died on Tuesday morning after coming in contact with a live wire at a farm in Gersa village under Dharamjaigarh forest division of the district. Two farmers, including one Bhadoram Rathiya, and three employees of the state power company- sub-engineer P Kujur, lineman Amrit Lal and an assistant lineman- were arrested in this connection, Chief Conservator of Forests (Bilaspur circle) Anil Soni told PTI. The investigation revealed that the two farmers had allegedly laid an illegal power connection for operating bore wells in their farms. However, the elephant came in contact with that live wire and died, he said. "The forest officials also found that following the incident, the three power department employees were cutting the illegal connection from the electricity pole at the spot, thereby causing disappearance of evidence. After that the trio was arrested," h said. All of them were booked under the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972 and further investigation into the matter is underway, he added. Five elephants have so far died in the state since June 9. Last week, carcasses of two elephants were recovered from the Pratappur forest range of Surajpur district on June 9 and 10, while another jumbo was found dead in neighbouring Balrampur district on June 11. Later, three state forest officials and a guard were suspended, while a show-cause notice was issued to a divisional forest officer in Balrampur for alleged dereliction of duty. In another incident on Tuesday, an elephant calf was found dead in marshland near Urputi (Mongri) village in Dhamtari district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-held-over-death-of-elephant-due-to-electrocution-in-chhattisgarh-850534.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Don't be in denial: Supreme Court to Noida administration over death of pregnant lady||The Supreme Court Wednesday told district administration of Gautam Budh Nagar in the NCR not to be in denial mode as it took a serious view of an incident where a pregnant lady lost her life recently while looking for a bed in hospitals of the district. The top court also asked the district administration to ensure that it does not have separate quarantine guidelines than the national guidelines. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a detailed affidavit in two weeks. “Don't be in a denial mode that there is no problem,” the bench said, while referring to news reports of pregnant lady losing her life recently for want of hospital bed in the district. The top court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to intervene and look into the issue. On June 12, the top court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to explain the guidelines issued by the Noida administration on institutional quarantine amid the COVID-19 pandemic, observing they are not in "conformity" with the national guidelines. "There cannot be a guideline contrary to the national guidelines," the court had said, adding, that any directive contrary to the national or state guidelines might lead to chaos. The apex court, while hearing through video-conferencing a plea, which has raised the issue of restriction on movement for permissible activities in the national capital region (NCR), asked the state government to give it "complete information" on whether asymptomatic persons were put under institutional or home quarantine in Noida. "It is also brought to our notice that certain guidelines issued by District Magistrate, Noida, are not in conformity with the national guidelines and the guidelines issued by the state of Uttar Pradesh," the bench had noted in its order. While asking the Centre to ensure that states do not violate national guidelines, the bench had observed that authorities are bound to follow the guidelines. The Centre had informed the top court that the home secretary had convened a joint meeting on June 9 with chief secretaries of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to deal with the issue of restriction on movement in the NCR. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had said that now there is no barrier on the borders of Delhi and Haryana but Uttar Pradesh has raised some issues. The bench noted in its order that Mehta has "submitted that although there are no baseless issues with regard to the state of Haryana and Delhi, however, with regard to state of Uttar Pradesh some different instructions have been issued by the District Magistrate, Noida, and there are some issues with regard to border of the state of Uttar Pradesh". Uttar Pradesh government had told the top court that they have already filed an status report and are permitting all essential services and medical staffs, lawyers and media persons are allowed. It had told the apex court that state is bound to follow the national guidelines and appropriate remedial steps, if any, shall be taken by the District Magistrate. On June 4, the apex court had asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing inter-state movement at all borders in the NCR amid certain restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It had also observed that there should be a consistent policy in this regard for the NCR. The plea, filed through advocate Anindita Mitra, has alleged that "complete sealing of borders" within the NCR and restrictions imposed on the movement of citizens was in violation of the new guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The petition has sought to declare as unconstitutional the measures by the district administrations of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh which allegedly restrict movement for permissible activities in areas falling within the NCR due to "blanket orders of sealing borders without reasonable exceptions". It has referred to the April 29 order of district administrations in Haryana, which is applicable to Gurugram and Sonepat, and May 3 public statement by the district administrations of Uttar Pradesh about Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-be-in-denial-supreme-court-to-noida-administration-over-death-of-pregnant-lady-850535.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||With 503 isolation coaches in Delhi, Indian Railways ramps up COVID-19 treatment infrastructure||The units are among the 960 converted coaches deployed in five different states in an effort to augment medical care facilities for COVID-19 patients.  While Delhi's Anand Vihar railway station has got 267 such coaches deployed at its seven platforms, there 50 each in Shakur Basti and Sarai Rohilla. The Railways has deployed 33 coaches in Delhi Cantonment, 30 at Adarsh Nagar, 21 at Safdarjung station, 13 each at Tughlaqabad and Shahdara, and 26 at Patel Nagar. A total of 960 isolation coaches have been deployed so far -- 503 in Delhi, 372 in Uttar Pradesh, 60 in Telangana, 20 in Andhra Pradesh and five in Madhya Pradesh, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-503-isolation-coaches-in-delhi-indian-railways-ramps-up-covid-19-treatment-infrastructure-850538.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Class 12 student handles bodies of COVID-19 patients for mother's medicines, school fees||A class 12 student, aspiring to study medicine, has taken up the job of handling bodies of COVID-19 patients to provide for his siblings’ school fees and his mother’s treatment. Chand Mohammad's mother suffers from a thyroid disorder and needs her medicines urgently, but the family does not have the means for the treatment. “We are barely making our ends meet since my elder brother lost his job at a merchandise store in Krishna Nagar market during the lockdown,” the 20-year-old from Seelampur in Northeast Delhi says. His family has been surviving on ration provided by neighbours and whatever little Chand’s brothers could earn doing odd jobs.  A week ago, Chand joined a company which deployed him as a sweeper at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital here. The job requires him to handle bodies of those dying of coronavirus. The shift runs from 12 noon to 8 pm. “I took the job after I exhausted all my options to find work. This is a dangerous job, as I am at a higher risk of contracting the infection, but I need the job. “Our family, including three sisters, two brothers and parents, is struggling without money. Right now, we need food and medicines for my mother,” Chand says. “Kayin din ghar me khana ek hi baar bana (On many days, we cooked food only once). There is a possibility that we may survive the virus, but we cannot escape hunger,” he says. Chand says his three sisters are in school. He, a class 12 student himself, is yet to pay the school fee. “Paisa chahiye padhai ke liye (you need money to study),” he says. Chand hopes that his first salary will set things right to a certain extent. “I offer ‘namaz’ before I step out of home for work. I have faith in the almighty. He will take care of me and show me the way,” Chand, who wants to study medicine, says. But what bothers the youngster is that employees like him who are into high-risk jobs do not get any insurance from the private companies employing them. “The most dangerous job in the world right now (handling bodies of COVID-19 patients) pays around Rs 17,000 per month,” he sighs. Every day, Chand handles around two to three bodies along with another sweeper. “We are required to put the bodies inside the ambulance, take it to the crematorium and put it down on a stretcher once we reach the crematorium,” he says. “And, you have to do all this wearing the personal protection equipment (PPE), which is very heavy. It limits movement and suffocates a person. In this heat, you end up bathing in your own sweat,” he says. On Tuesday evening, Chand handled a body on his own. “I had no help. So, it took me some time, I was gasping for breath at the end,” he says. "I heard a doctor saying the body had been lying in the mortuary for a month and that nobody claimed it. The person who packed it did not do his job properly. When I tried taking it down from the ambulance, the cover came off and some liquid spilled on my thighs," he says. Desperate to get some money, Chand says he has approached people giving money on low interest rates. "I took my Aadhaar card and voter identity card, hoping to get some money on low interest rates," he says. Chand’s family is worried about his safety, but they are also aware that this is the only way for them to survive at present. “My parents inquire about my work daily. They pray for my safety. My mother cries a lot, but I make her understand,” he says. Chand adds he takes a bath as soon as he reaches home and keeps a distance from his family members. “I have been taking all precautions, but we may never know what would happen. For now, I want some help so that the family remains afloat,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/class-12-student-handles-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-for-mothers-medicines-school-fees-850539.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Masks, with Narendra Modi's face, sell like hotcakes in Bhopal||In India, according to the the Centre’s guidelines, wearing masks in public places as a COVID-19 precautionary measure is mandatory. People have already started getting creative with this new wardrobe essential by opting for masks with ethnic patterns, or matching their outfits or those with funky prints and messages masks, etc. Keeping up with the mask hullabaloo, COVID-19 masks with the face of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other political leaders are selling like hotcakes at a garment store in Madhya Pradesh. Customers buying masks to protect themselves against COVID-19 infection can now choose from a plethora of other leaders, like Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, his predecessor Kamal Nath or even Rahul Gandhi. News agency ANI on Twitter reported that Kunal Pariyani, a clothes seller in Bhopal, has been doing brick business by selling cloth masks which have PM Narendra Modi’s and Rahul Gandhi’s face on them, among other politicians.   "I've sold about 500-1000 Modi masks till now and the demand is high. Masks with our CM's face are also popular. I also have masks with images of Rahul Gandhi and Kamal Nath ji," Kunal Pariyani told ANI. Madhya Pradesh is one of the worst hit states with nearly 11,000 COVID-19 cases and 476 deaths.  With restrictions eased after nearly two months of lockdown, masks are being strictly enforced in the state. The World Health Organization (WHO) updated its guidelines for countries earlier this month and advised “governments to encourage the general public to wear masks where there is a widespread transmission and physical distancing is difficult, such as on public transport, in shops or in other confined or crowded environments”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/masks-with-narendra-modis-face-sell-like-hotcakes-in-bhopal-850544.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Extremely sad, disturbing: Mayawati on 20 soldiers martyred in India-China clash||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Wednesday termed the killing of 20 Army personnel, including a colonel, during a face-off with Chinese troops in Ladakh as "extremely sad" and "shocking". In a series of tweets in Hindi, she said, "The news of the martyrdom of 20 soldiers, including a colonel, in Ladakh during a stand-off with Chinese troops is extremely sad and shocking (jhakjorne wala), especially when Government of India is working to diffuse border tension between both the countries. The government should take steps in the interest of the country with utmost alertness and 'soojhboojh' (wisdom)". 1. लद्दाख क्षेत्र में चीन के साथ झड़प में कर्नल समेत 20 भारतीय सैनिकों के शहादत की खबर अति-दुःखद व झकझोरने वाला है, खासकर तब जब भारत सरकार दोनों देशों के बीच सीमा विवाद व तनाव को कम करने में प्रयासरत है। सरकार को अब अत्याधिक सतर्क व सूझबूझ से देशहित में कदम उठाने की जरूरत है। 1/2 In another tweet, she said, "The country is confident that the government will take the right decision at the right time while upholding its honour, and will not allow anyone to take even an inch of the nation's land." She also said that it was good that the country had united at such a crucial juncture, while ignoring the government's shortcomings and added that now the government has to stand the test of people's expectations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/extremely-sad-disturbing-mayawati-on-20-soldiers-martyred-in-india-china-clash-850546.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Afghan college student ends life in Ahmedabad||A 24-year-old college student from Afghanistan allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree outside a hostel in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city early on Wednesday, police said. The deceased has been identified as Sekib Fakir, they said. His body was found hanging from a tree outside the boy's hostel of Gujarat University on Wednesday morning, an official said. "He was pursuing a course in BBA (bachelor of business administration) from an affiliated college of Gujarat University and waiting to appear for an exam," Assistant sub-inspector Aniruddhsinh Mori of Gujarat University police station said. "Due to some unknown reason, he allegedly hanged himself from a tree outside his hostel block when others were asleep," he said. While the investigators are yet to ascertain the motive behind his extreme step, his friends told the media that he was under pressure to clear an exam paper to obtain his degree. "Though his three-year BBA was over, he did not get his degree as he had not cleared one paper. This stress could have led to this tragedy," one student from Afghanistan told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/afghan-college-student-ends-life-in-ahmedabad-850556.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Tit for Tat: Digvijaya Singh seeks FIR against MP CM, Irani over 'fake' video||Two days after he was booked for sharing an edited video of Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday filed a complaint with the Madhya Pradesh Police, seeking registration of an FIR against Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Union minister Smriti Irani for "sharing a fake video" of former AICC president Rahul Gandhi during the 2019 Lok Sabha poll campaign. Singh submitted a written complaint accusing Shivraj Singh of sharing an edited video of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. He said if the police filed an FIR against him, similar action should be taken against the chief minister too. The Congress leader warned of moving to court if the police failed to act upon his complaint. In his complaint, Digvijay Singh has cited a tempered video of May 16, 2019 which was shared by Shivraj Singh Chouhan. In the video, the chief minister is shown taunting at Rahul Gandhi with a barb,” you have, albeit in speech, changed the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh for not fulfilling the promise of waiving off loans of farmers. You are a great man and do big tasks in a jiffy.” The edited video was a small part of Rahul Gandhi’s speech which was manipulated in such a way that it sounded as though Rahul Gandhi had forgotten the name of the chief minister.  In reality, Rahul Gandhi did mention the then chief minister Kamal Nath but the video was edited to make it appear as though he was referring to Chhattisgarh's chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as MP’s chief minister.   Two days ago, the crime branch had filed an FIR on BJP leaders’ complaint against Digvijay Singh for sharing a tempered video which sounded as though chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is promoting liquor consumption. It was a nine-second edited version of the chief minister’s two-minute speech which was recorded in January 2020 when he had launched a campaign against the then chief minister Kamal Nath’s liquor policy.   On Monday, Digvijaya Singh, MP Congress' social media coordinator Avinash Kadbe and 10 others were booked under IPC sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505 (2) (public mischief) and 465 (forgery) on a complaint lodged by BJP leaders. Bhopal superintendent of police Sai Krishna said he would proceed on Digvijay Singh ’s complaint only after seeking advice of legal experts.   Around 11 am, Digvijay Singh along with his son Jaivardhan Singh and supporters reached the crime branch office. In his brief meeting with the SP, he urged to suspend action on the FIR against him till investigation is complete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tit-for-tat-digvijaya-singh-seeks-fir-against-mp-cm-irani-over-fake-video-850560.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Centre should direct states to pay salaries to doctors: Supreme Court||A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah said that doctors and healthcare workers treating COVID-19 patients should not be denied quarantine facilities.  The top court asked the Centre to file a compliance report within four weeks on payment of salaries and quarantine facilities to doctors and healthcare workers and warned that non-compliance would be viewed seriously. The bench was hearing a plea filed by a private doctor raising questions on the Centre's May 15 decision that 14-day quarantine was not mandatory for doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-should-direct-states-to-pay-salaries-to-doctors-supreme-court-850567.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Ex-armymen stage stir near Chinese embassy against killing of Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley||A group of ex-armymen gathered near the Chinese embassy here on Wednesday to protest against the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel in a violent clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, officials said. The group of six-seven ex-armymen gathered near the Chinese embassy to stage a protest under the banner of Martyr's Welfare Association, they added. "We requested them to disperse from the spot and they left immediately," said Deepak Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi). The police said all the protesters were wearing masks and followed social-distancing norms. Another group of around 10 protesters belonging to the Swadeshi Jagaran Manch also gathered near the Teen Murti roundabout to protest against China in the wake of recent tension between India and China.  The police detained the second group of protesters. They will be released soon. The Indian Army on Tuesday said 20 of its personnel, including a colonel, were killed in the clash on Monday night, in the biggest-ever military confrontation between the two armies in over five decades. Monday's clash was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La, when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed. The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in a standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-armymen-stage-stir-near-chinese-embassy-against-killing-of-indian-soldiers-in-galwan-valley-850572.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||AAP MLA Atishi tests positive for COVID-19||Atishi, who developed mild fever, on Wednesday became the third AAP MLA to test positive for COVID-19 in the national capital. The test was conducted after the 39-year-old MLA complained of a mild fever and cough on Tuesday. She is in home isolation, as she has only mild symptoms. She is the third AAP MLA, others being Vishesh Ravi (Karol Bagh) and Rajkumar Anand (Patel Nagar), to have tested positive for COVID-19.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "Atishi-ji has played an important role in the fight against Corona. I hope that she will be healthy as soon as possible once again." AAP chief spokerson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj tweeted, "Get well soon Atishi and Akshay Marathe, recover soon from COVID-19". Marathe, who also tested positive for COVID-19, is a close aide of Atishi. Delhi has reported 44,688 COVID-19 cases as on June 16, of which 24,844 or 55.59 per cent of the total cases were reported in June alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-mla-atishi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-850579.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tested again for COVID-19||The 55-year-old minister was brought to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) in the early hours of Tuesday and was administered a test for novel coronavirus infection that morning, for which he tested negative. "He is still running fever. The minister was tested again today after 24 hours of the first test. The results are expected by evening," a senior official said. Doctors at the RGSSH said his condition is "stable", but he has been again put on oxygen supply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-tested-again-for-covid-19-850581.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Angry anti-China protests in Jammu over killing of 20 soldiers in Ladakh||Anti-China protests were held at multiple locations in Jammu region on Wednesday over the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, with agitators demanding revenge, boycott of Chinese products and severing trade ties. They torched China's flag, effigy and Chinese products amid high-pitch sloganeering calling for a strong response to the action of the China's People's Liberation Army, officials said. However, they said the protesters dispersed off peacefully. The Indian Army on Tuesday said 20 Army personnel, including a Colonel, were killed in the clash on Monday night, in the biggest military confrontation between the two armies in over five decades. The first protest of the day was reported from Akhnoor in the outskirts of Jammu, where a large group of locals burnt tyres and blocked the Jammu-Poonch Highway for over half-an-hour. Later, other groups of people under the banner of various organizations including Shiv Sena Dogra Front, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Rashtriya Bajrang Dal staged protests at nearly a dozen locations in the city. Young activists from different political parties and social groups also staged protests, the officials said. "India will not tolerate such kind of activities. This (the killing of Indian soldiers) has sparked rage among the people. We want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to avenge the killing,” Shiv Sena Dogra Front Chairman Ashok Gupta told reporters. Gupta, who was leading the protest at Rani Park, suggested snapping trade ties with China to send a strong message. The protesters set ablaze several Chinese products. Rashtriya Bajrang Dal activists, some of whom were armed with tridents, gathered near the Press Club and burnt an effigy of China. “We want revenge. We have done so in the past, by carrying out surgical strikes in Pakistan following an attack on an army camp in Uri sector of Baramulla district and later in the aftermath of a suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama district of south Kashmir," said one of them. Reports of protests were also received from other parts of Jammu region, the officials said.  Meanwhile, the J&K unit of BJP announced postponement of all party programmes till further orders in view of the prevailing situation on the India-China border in Ladakh. "Due to the prevailing situation at the border, all party programmes stand postponed till further notification,” J&K BJP media incharge Pardeep Malhotra said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/angry-anti-china-protests-in-jammu-over-killing-of-20-soldiers-in-ladakh-850593.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Assault case: BJP leader Sonali Phogat arrested,released on bail||BJP leader and TikTok star Sonali Phogat, who had allegedly thrashed a government official after accusing him of having made indecent remarks against her, was on Wednesday arrested and later granted bail by a court here. She was arrested for allegedly beating Sultan Singh, secretary of the Hisar market committee, at Balsamand village on June 5, police said. Police said she was produced before a court here which released her on bail. Phogat had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly polls from Adampur in Hisar, a seat retained by senior Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi, who is the younger son of former chief minister Bhajan Lal. A video clip, purportedly showing the Hisar BJP leader beating the official with a slipper in full public view had gone viral on social media. Singh later lodged a complaint with police against Phogat, denying making any indecent remarks against her and accused her of beating him up under a "misconception" that he had opposed her during the assembly elections. After the incident, market committee employees across the state had protested, demanding that Phogat be arrested. Binain Khap, one of the state's prominent khaps, had a few days ago given the state government a week's ultimatum to arrest Phogat. Phogat had told mediapersons in Hisar earlier that she had gone to meet market committee officials to air some grievances of farmers. She said when Singh was showing her a place in the Balsamand area of Hisar district where a shed for farmers was to come up, he began making "indecent and derogatory remarks against her". She had claimed the official also made some comments against another woman official of the market committee and a woman minister of Haryana. Police had lodged a case against Phogat under IPC Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault ) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Police had also registered a case against Sultan Singh on the complaint of Sonali Phogat. He was booked under IPC sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (act with the intent to insult the modesty of a woman).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/assault-case-bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-arrestedreleased-on-bail-850620.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||317 isolation coaches in Delhi to be ready by tonight to host patients, rest by Thursday: Indian Railways||The Northern Railways Wednesday said 317 of the 503 isolation coaches deployed in Delhi will be ready by tonight to host coronavirus patients, and the rest by Thursday. As many as 503 isolation coaches are deployed at nine stations in Delhi, days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah made the announcement as part of measures to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic, officials said. Northern and North Central Railway General Manager Rajiv Chaudhary said Wednesday evening that all these will be fully ready to host coronavirus patients by Thursday, while 317 can house patients from tonight itself. He also said the national transporter was taking all measures to ensure that the temperatures inside the coaches are brought down by deploying different methods. ¨Temperature is an issue in the isolation coaches. (But) the view of the medical experts was that temperature will not harm patients. We have made arrangements to cool the coaches through various means. ¨All coaches have fans, we have a paint that can reduce temperature, we can sprinkle water. We assure you that the temperatures will not be unbearable. “At Shakur Basti station, there is a shed, so the temperature is less. At other locations, we are experimenting with different things,” he said. The isolation coaches here are among the 960 converted coaches deployed in five different states in an effort to augment medical care facilities for COVID-19 patients.  While Delhi's Anand Vihar railway station has got the lion's share with 267 such coaches at its seven platforms, there 50 each in Shakur Basti and Sarai Rohilla. The Railways has deployed 33 coaches in Delhi Cantonment, 30 at Adarsh Nagar, 21 at Safdarjung station, 13 each at Tughlaqabad and Shahdara, and 26 at Patel Nagar.  Chaudhary also said that Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia supervised the coaches at Shakur Basti station on Wednesday and expressed hope that patients will start arriving as and when needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/317-isolation-coaches-in-delhi-to-be-ready-by-tonight-to-host-patients-rest-by-thursday-indian-railways-850644.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||National Conference's Ali Mohammad Sagar released from detention after 10 months||National Conference general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar was on Wednesday released from a sub-jail after 10 months, officials said, a day after the Jammu and Kashmir High Court quashed his detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA). Sagar, 67, was released from a government guesthouse which has been designated as a sub-jail, the officials said here. The six-time MLA was detained in August last year after the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was withdrawn. Among the grounds of his preventive detention, it was said Sagar might use his influence among people to organise mass gatherings against the government’s decision to revoke provisions of Article 370. "Your capacity of influencing people for any cause could be gauged from this fact that you were able to convince your electorate to come out and vote in huge numbers even during peak militancy and poll boycotts. Your activities are aiming to raise a voice against the Union of India by way of encouraging mass agitation," read the dossier against Saga||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conferences-ali-mohammad-sagar-released-from-detention-after-10-months-850645.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Surveillance post set up by Chinese on Indian side of LAC triggered Galwan Valley clash||A surveillance post set up by the Chinese Army on a narrow mountain trail in violation of an agreement was the trigger for the high altitude border clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in which at least 20 Indian soldiers were killed, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. Indian troops, commanded by the late Col B Santosh Babu, strongly objected to the post on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern banks of the Galwan river and attempted to remove it on Monday evening, sources in the know said, recapping the events leading to the biggest military confrontation between the two neighbours in five decades. A small group of Chinese personnel present at the camp reacted angrily to the objections of the Indian Army’s patrolling team but soon retreated to the Chinese side of the LAC. They returned shortly after with more troops, wearing protective gear and armed with stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs, and confronted the Indian personnel. At that point, the Indian soldiers had also been joined by additional troops and were attempting to remove the temporary structure, those familiar with the matter said. The clash that followed went on for several hours on the vertiginous heights of eastern Ladakh with Chinese soldiers brutally attacking the Indians, they said. One portion of the road caved in following which some Indian and Chinese soldiers fell into the Galwan river, they said. The LAC goes over the Galwan river in the area. Babu and 19 other Indian Army personnel were killed in the fight on the steep heights. It is learnt that initially a number of Indians were captured by the Chinese side but were released later. The Indian side also retaliated strongly, but the casualties on the Chinese side are not yet known. However, government sources, citing an American intelligence report, claimed the total number of soldiers killed and seriously wounded could be 35. The broad decision to disengage at Galwan Valley was taken at talks between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, general officer commanding of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Commander of the Tibet Military District, Maj Gen Liu Lin, on June 6. The meeting was followed by two rounds of major general-level talks, the sources said. The final modalities for disengagement were drawn up at a major general-level meeting on Friday under which both sides were to retreat for at least two kilometres from their existing position in Galwan Valley. The following day, on Saturday, Indian Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said in Dehradun that both armies are "disengaging" in a phased manner beginning from Galwan Valley and the situation in the region is under control. In its statement on Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs blamed the Chinese side for the clash, saying it departed from the consensus to respect the LAC in Galwan Valley. "On the late-evening and night of 15th June, 2020 a violent face-off happened as a result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there," it said. The MEA said both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement reached at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side. It also said India is very clear that all its activities are always within the Indian side of the LAC. It is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La in 1967 when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed in the confrontation. The two armies have been engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of the eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso. After the standoff began, the Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie, the sources said. The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the LAC by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The road in the Finger area in Pangong Tso is considered crucial for India to carry out patrols. India has already decided not to stall any border infrastructure projects in eastern Ladakh in view of Chinese protests. The situation in the area deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers faced off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/surveillance-post-set-up-by-chinese-on-indian-side-of-lac-triggered-galwan-valley-clash-850651.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Indian soldiers displayed exemplary courage: Yogi Adityanath on Ladakh face-off||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the Indian soldiers who lost their lives in a violent clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh's Galwan Valley displayed exemplary courage and their supreme sacrifice will always be remembered. According to the Indian Army, 20 soldiers, including a Colonel, were killed in the clash on Monday night. In his condolence message, Adityanath said the supreme sacrifice of the soldiers, who displayed exemplary courage for the security of the nation and gave their lives, would always be remembered, according to a government release. He also paid homage to Havidar Vipul Rai, a native of Meerut district, who was among the 20 soldiers killed in Monday's face-off. In this hour of crisis, the state government stands with the family of the slain soldier. All possible help would be extended to his family, the chief minister said. Monday's clash was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La in 1967 when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed. The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso. The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-soldiers-displayed-exemplary-courage-yogi-adityanath-on-ladakh-face-off-850655.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Stop threatening doctors for speaking truth, SC tells Delhi govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to stop threatening doctors and medical staff and filing FIR against them for bringing to the public knowledge the state of healthcare in the COVID-dedicated hospitals. "Why did you suspend a doctor who made a video of the pathetic conditions of one of your hospitals? You have to make sure you stop harassment of doctors right away," a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan told the Delhi government's counsel. The bench said the doctors and other medical staff are warriors, fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. "Is this how you treat them?" the bench further asked it. The Delhi government admitted before the court that everything was not hunky-dory but nothing was being left to chance. The court, however, was indignant particularly over the Delhi government's act of filing FIRs and suspending doctors, and the medical staff for bringing the truth out. "You can't threaten doctors, staff. You can't shoot the messengers. You have to stop harassing the doctors, stop registering FIRs against them. Let them do their job," the bench said. The court asked the Delhi government to file a better affidavit. It decided to hear the suo motu matter over the proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and the dignified handling of dead bodies in hospitals etc, on Friday. The court on June 12 took cognisance of news reports in LNJP hospital in Delhi reflecting "very sorry state of affairs" as COVID-19 patients were treated worse than animals and dead bodies were lying with them inside wards. It had then issued a notice to Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and Gujarat governments saying the situation was "grim" over there due to everyday increase in the number of patients. The court had then castigated the Delhi government for reducing the number of tests. The state was not only duty-bound to increase the number of beds but also to provide infrastructure and staff for manning the Covid-19 patients, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stop-threatening-doctors-for-speaking-truth-sc-tells-delhi-govt-850658.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||30 COVID-19 deaths, 583 new cases: Uttar Pradesh suffers highest single-day spikes on both counts||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported 30 COVID-19 deaths and 583 new cases of infection, registering the highest single-day spikes on both counts, said an official. With the two-pronged spike, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the state rose to 465 and infected cases to 15,181. A total of 9,239 people, however, have been cured and discharged from hospitals, leaving 5,477 active cases in the state, said Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad. He put the recovery rate in the state at around 61 per cent. Prasad said a total of 16,159 tests, highest so far in a day, were conducted on Tuesday. “ASHA workers are tracking migrants who have returned to the state and have reached out to over 17 lakh of them. Altogether 1,485 of migrant workers were found symptomatic and their samples have been sent for testing,” he said. On Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s directives, general OPDs have been started in all Primary Health Centres and Community Health Centres with all necessary COVID-related precautions, Prasad said, adding a detailed government order in this regard was issued on Tuesday. “After getting general OPDs operational in PHCs and CHCs in a proper manner, a decision on starting them in district hospitals would be taken later,” Prasad said, adding permissions have already been given for conducting surgeries and providing emergency and essential services in all district hospitals. Permissions have also been given to private clinics to start general OPD with certain conditions, he said. Prasad also appealed to people to strictly follow social-distancing and use face covers among various anti-COVID measures and to take proper care of the aged, pregnant women, children and those suffering from some disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/30-covid-19-deaths-583-new-cases-uttar-pradesh-suffers-highest-single-day-spikes-on-both-counts-850670.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Scrap pending CBSE board exams, mark students on previous internal assessment: Sisodia to HRD Min||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Wednesday wrote to Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', urging him to cancel pending board exams, citing the spike in COVID-19 cases and high number of containment zones in the city.  Sisodia’s letter came on a day the Supreme Court asked the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to examine if remaining board papers can be scrapped and marks allotted to students on the basis of internal assessment. The apex court was hearing a petition by a group of parents seeking a direction to the CBSE to scrap the pending exams. The same demand was earlier communicated by the Maharashtra government to the HRD Ministry. Last month also, Sisodia, also Delhi's Education Minister, had raised the issue in a meeting of states’ education ministers, chaired by the HRD Minister. In his latest letter, Sisodia said, "I hope you would agree with me that the board exams, particularly those of Class 12 are a high stake exam for children. Hence, subjecting them to take this exam in such an uncertain and anxiety-prone situation would not be fair to them. Further, in the context of Delhi, I can say that it would be extremely difficult to conduct the exam.”  "During the last one week, the daily number of cases getting COVID-19 positive has been rising and the total number of confirmed cases now stands at 44,688,” Sisodia said. “This is likely to rise to 5.5 lakh by July 31. In such a situation, if a candidate or someone in a family tests positive, he or she will have to skip the exam causing further distress," he added. The class 10 and 12 board exams which were postponed due to the lockdown in view of the COVID-19 outbreak have been rescheduled, and are now slated to be conducted between July 1 and 15. According to Home Ministry guidelines, there will be no examination centre in containment zones. "Currently, there are 242 containment zones in Delhi which will rise further. Though, as per the current plan of CBSE, schools in these zones will not be used as exam center, there is no clarity on how a child from this zone will come out to take the exam," Sisodia said. "I once again request you to remove any further uncertainty and declare that the exams in 29 subjects proposed to be conducted in July will not be conducted at all. For the results in these subjects, CBSE may rely upon the previous school based internal assessments which include project work, periodic tests, term exam, etc.  "I once again urge you to let us now focus on building the confidence of parents and capacity of schools to welcome our children back to resume teaching learning activities, whenever it is possible in the near future, instead of getting stuck with the remaining exams," he added.  He also pointed out that at present, 251 Delhi government school-buildings are being used as dry ration distribution centers, 33 schools are serving as hunger relief centers, 39 as shelter homes, 10 as transit migrant camps and 10 as quarantine centers. "These schools will not be in a position to conduct exam from July 1, 2020. To meet the requirement of additional beds, which is estimated around 80,000 by the end of July, the Delhi Government is planning to use the auditoriums in nearly 242 schools to set up additional beds for COVID patients requiring hospitalization. Holding exams in the same building where there would be hundreds of corona patients would be a serious risk," he further said. The CICSE board has already announced that its class 10 and 12 students can choose not to appear for pending board exams and be marked as per their performance in pre-board exams or internal assessment. Universities and schools across the country have been shut since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scrap-pending-cbse-board-exams-mark-students-on-previous-internal-assessment-sisodia-to-hrd-min-850688.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||2 RPF personnel held for raping teen: Police||Two Railway Protection Force constables were arrested for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl in Delhi, police said on Wednesday. The teenager, who used to work as a domestic help in east Delhi, left the house on Friday and reached the New Delhi Railway station to go back to her home in Ranchi, according to the police. She was allegedly lured by the two RPF personnel on the pretext of helping her to board a train to Jharkhand, police said. The suspects took her to a secluded place from the station, gave her some sedative substance and later raped her, an officer said, adding that the two dropped the her near the Old Delhi station. Later, a policeman noticed the girl and took her to the Kotwali police station where a case under relevant sections was registered after she narrated the story, the officer said. During investigation, the CCTV footage of the area was analysed and the two were arrested on Monday, police added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-rpf-personnel-held-for-raping-teen-police-850692.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 testing rates capped at Rs 2,400 in Delhi||The rate of testing of COVID-19 samples in the national capital has been capped at Rs 2,400, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Wednesday. The decision came after a high-powered panel headed by NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul submitted a report recommending the cap of Rs 2,400 for the tests. The panel was set up by Home Minister Amit Shah after a meeting he had with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday. "As per the directives of Home Minister Amit Shah in providing relief to the common man, the high-level expert committee's report on COVID-19 testing rates received by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has been further sent to the Delhi government for necessary action. It has been decided to fix the test rate at Rs 2,400," the MHA spokesperson tweeted. The Centre had earlier set the testing rates at Rs 4,500 but in late May the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) removed the cap and said the states were free to set their own caps. In April itself, Karnataka became the first state to reduce the rates and capped the COVID-19 test rate at Rs 2,250 in private laboratories for the samples sent by the government. Maharashtra (Rs 2,200 for tests in labs and Rs 2,800 for sample collection from home), Telangana (Rs 2,200) and Tamil Nadu (Rs 3,000) were among other states, which have already set a cap on COVID-19 testing rates. The MHA spokesperson also said tests from June 18 will be done using the new Rapid Antigen methodology approved by the ICMR and Delhi would be given priority for these kits. He said 169 centers have also been set up across Delhi. On the decision to double the testing in the capital within two days, the spokesperson said 16,618 test samples were collected June 15 and 16. Reports of 6,510 tests received so far and the remaining will be received by Thursday. House-to-house surveys in Delhi's containment zones, aimed at intensive contact mapping, which is another decision taken on Sunday, will be done and health workers have collected details from 1.77 lakh out of 2.30 lakh people in 242 containment zones. The authorities expect to conclude the survey by June 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-testing-rates-capped-at-rs-2400-in-delhi-850708.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court directs Centre to issue directions in 24 hrs to states, UTs for payment of salaries to doctors||The Supreme Court Wednesday directed the Centre to issue orders by Thursday to all states and Union Territories for payment of salaries to doctors and healthcare workers as also for providing suitable quarantine facilities for those who are directly engaged in treatment of COVID-19 patients. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah said: “The Central Government shall issue appropriate direction to the Chief Secretary of the States/ Union Territories to ensure that the orders are faithfully complied with, violation of which may be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with the Indian Penal Code." It added that "appropriate orders be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as indicated by Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General by tomorrow. List the matter after four weeks”. The bench was hearing a plea filed by a private doctor raising questions on the Centre's May 15 decision that 14-day quarantine was not mandatory for doctors. Doctor Arushi Jain, in her petition filed through advocates Mithu Jain and Mohit Paul, had also alleged that front line health care workers engaged in the fight against COVID-19 are not being paid salaries or their wages are being cut or delayed. During the hearing, Mehta, appearing for the Centre, submitted that in so far as the payment of salary to the health workers and doctors is concerned, appropriate orders shall be issued by the central government to all states and UTs within 24 hours. He said the May 15 circular on Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will also be modified, doing away the clause for non-mandatory quarantine for healthcare workers engaged in the COVID-19 duty, and they will not be denied the quarantine. Mehta said that looking at the requirement of doctors and health workers to manage the hospital, quarantine period should be initially for one week only and thereafter taking the profiles, a decision will be taken for further period of one week. The order will be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Directorate General of Health Services by tomorrow, he said. Besides, the Centre is also thinking of making non-payment of salaries by hospitals to health care workers a criminal offence under the Act, he said. The bench refused to accept the submission of senior advocate K V Viswanathan, that directions be issued to the state governments to give details of their accommodations being used for quarantine. He contended that doctors and health workers are not receiving their salaries regularly, hence, a direction is necessary to the Centre and states and all other concerned authorities to ensure that the renumerations are paid timely. He submitted that doctors or health workers, who are directly looking to the patients in COVID ward, are not given the quarantine facility as per guidelines dated May 15 unless they are covered by high risk exposure. On June 12, the top court had observed, “In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy. Travel extra mile and channel some extra money to address their grievances”. It had said that the courts should not be involved in the issue of non-payment of salary to health care workers and government should settle the issue. On June 4, the Centre had told the top court that a “large number” of make-shift hospitals will have to be built in the near future to accommodate the constant rise in the number of newly infected people. It had also contended that though hospitals are responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities, the final responsibility lies with healthcare workers to protect themselves from COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-directs-centre-to-issue-directions-in-24-hrs-to-states-uts-for-payment-of-salaries-to-doctors-850715.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Municipal polls: Delhi BJP announces names of candidates for mayor, deputy-mayor posts||The BJP’s Delhi unit on Wednesday announced the names of the party's candidates for the June 24 elections to the posts of mayor and deputy mayor in the city’s three municipal corporations. Election to the posts of chairman and vice chairman of standing committees in the civic bodies will also be held on the same day. Last time, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had swept the mayoral polls to the three municipal corporations -- North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta announced in a tweet that Jai Prakash, Nirmal Jain and Anamika Mithlesh are the candidates for the mayoral posts of the north, the east and the south corporations respectively. Prakash is currently the chairman of the standing committee of the NDMC. Wednesday was the last date to file nominations for the elections. On June 24, polls for the new South Delhi mayor will take place in the morning, for the North Delhi mayor in the afternoon and then for the East Delhi mayor. All safety protocols shall be followed on June 24, a senior civic official had earlier said. The outgoing mayors are Avtar Singh (NDMC), Sunita Kangra (SDMC) and Anju Kamalkant (EDMC). The BJP's candidates are likely set to sail through easily in the elections, as the party has majority in the House of all the three civic bodies. The names of candidates for the posts of deputy mayor are Ritu Goyal (NDMC), Hariprakash Bahadur (EDMC) and Subhash Bhadana (SDMC). For Leader of the House the names announced are Yogesh Verma (NDMC), Pravesh Sharma (EDMC) and Narender Chawla (SDMC), according to the list tweeted by Adesh Gupta, an ex-mayor of North Delhi. Meanwhile, Leader of the House in the BJP-ruled NDMC ,Tilak Raj Kataria, on Wednesday resigned from his post and the saffron party. "I have resigned as a politician, North MCD Councillor and from all BJP posts. I will continue to live as a normal dignified citizen. #TilakRajKatariaTeam #ProudToBeIndian," he tweeted. "Sometimes sincerity and loyalty is a punishment," he tweeted, hinting at his seeming displeasure over the names announced by the BJP. The mayoral five-year tenure sees five single-year terms on a rotation basis, with the first year being reserved for women, the second open category, third for reserved category, and the remaining two also being in open category. The polls got delayed this year due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/municipal-polls-delhi-bjp-announces-names-of-candidates-for-mayor-deputy-mayor-posts-850724.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||More ICUs may be needed in coming days: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that more Intensive Care Units (ICUs) may be needed in the coming days as the national capital continued to witness a spurt in COVID-19 cases in the city. "We may need more ICUs in the coming days. Discussed wid doctors of our Del govt hospitals on how to increase no of ICUs," he said in a tweet. Last week, the Delhi government had directed district magistrates and other officials concerned to set up 20,000 beds within a week to ramp up medical infrastructure in the city. On Tuesday, the death toll from COVID-19 in the national capital surged to 1,837 while 1,859 fresh coronavirus cases took the tally in the city to over 44,000-mark. The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi on Monday was 1,400. A total of 437 deaths were reported on Tuesday, the highest number of fatalities recorded in a single day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-icus-may-be-needed-in-coming-days-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-850728.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh moves Delhi court seeking bail||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh, arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year, moved a Delhi court on Wednesday seeking bail. Singh and another accused in the case — Irfan Shafi Mir — moved the applications seeking statutory bail, claiming that the charge sheet was not filed within requisite 90 days period, as prescribed under law. The application is scheduled to heard by Special Judge Dharmender Rana on Thursday. Advocate M S Khan, counsel for Singh, said in the bail application that “the accused persons should be granted bail since the charge sheet was not filed within requisite 90 days period, as prescribed under the law, nor was any permission was sought by the court to extend the 90-day period.” The advocate also said in the application that the accused are not required further custodial interrogation and that no purpose will be served by keeping his clients in further custody. The application stated that Singh and Mir were arrested on March 14 and 19 respectively and are no longer required by the police for the purpose of investigation.  “The accused are wrongly and falsely implicated in the case. There is no material/ evidence to show the existence of any conspiracy to commit any act with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India and there is also no material to substantiate that the accused had the intention or conspired to carry out terror strike,” the application said. The plea also added that the accusations against them are not well founded nor substantiated by any material and do not give rise to the existence of prima facie case against the accused.  Singh was suspended from the Jammu and Kashmir Police in January this year. The Special Cell had brought him to Delhi from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir. He was arrested in a case related to planning/ execution of terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country. According to the police, he used to chat with other co-accused and militants of Hizbul Mujahideen through various internet platforms. Earlier, the police had told the court that Sayed Naveed Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahiddeen,  and others were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country as well as carry out targeted killings of protected persons. “Mushtaq, along with other militants of Hizbul Mujahideen, was planning to execute terror attack in Delhi and other parts of the country and targeted killings of protected persons,” the police told the court. Delhi Police has filed an FIR under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR said the youths of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab are being trained for carrying out terrorist activities. The FIR also mentioned the mafia's D Company and Chhota Shakeel. According to the FIR, Delhi Police's Special Cell had received an input that the D Company, run by fugitive Indian underworld kingpin Dawood Ibrahim, is funding pro-Khalistan terrorist organisations in Punjab. Davinder Singh was taken in custody under the same FIR, on the allegations of having in constant contact with  The Special Cell had also interrogated Singh regarding the Khalistan angle, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspended-jammu-and-kashmir-dsp-davinder-singh-moves-delhi-court-seeking-bail-850756.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||18 soldiers injured in Galwan Valley clash undergoing treatment||Eighteen Army personnel sustained injuries during the violent clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on Monday night and they are undergoing treatment at a military hospital, people familiar with the matter said. Out of 18, four personnel were critically injured but they are responding to treatment and are stable now, they said. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a Colonel were killed in the fierce clash in Galwan. The Chinese side also suffered casualties. China has not yet talked about the number of casualties suffered by the People's Liberation Army. However, government sources, citing a US intelligence report, said Chinese Army suffered 35 casualties during the clash, adding it could be a combination of total number of soldiers killed and injured. The clash in Galwan Valley on Monday night is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La in 1967 when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed in the confrontation. People said another 58 personnel who sustained minor injuries have also been kept under supervision, adding they will be ready for joining their units in two weeks. The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of the eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the bank of the Pangong Tso. After the standoff began, the Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the LAC by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The road in the Finger area in Pangong Tso is considered crucial for India to carry out patrols. India has already decided not to stall any border infrastructure projects in eastern Ladakh in view of Chinese protests. The situation in the area deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/18-soldiers-injured-in-galwan-valley-clash-undergoing-treatment-850758.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain's father-in-law dies after brief illness||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain's father-in-law died on Wednesday after brief illness, sources said. He was 88, and was not diagnosed with COVID-19. He died of natural causes, they said, adding Jain's father-in-law was not keeping well for the past few days. Jain tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday and is in hospital. The 55-year-old minister is currently admitted at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 facility under the Delhi government. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the national capital surged to 1,837 on Tuesday while 1,859 fresh coronavirus cases had taken the tally in the city to over the 44,000-mark, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jains-father-in-law-dies-after-brief-illness-850762.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||North East Delhi violence: Safoora Zargar moves HC seeking bail in UAPA case||Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, who was arrested under the anti-terror law -- UAPA -- moved the Delhi High Court on Wednesday seeking bail in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Zargar, M Phil student of Jamia Millia Islamia University, is more than four months pregnant. Her plea will come up for hearing on Thursday before Justice Rajiv Shakdher. Zargar, who was arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police on April 10, has challenged the June 4 order of the trial court denying her bail in the case. The trial court, in its order, had said “when you choose to play with embers, you cannot blame the wind to have carried the spark a bit too far and spread the fire.” It had said that during the course of investigation a larger conspiracy was discernible and if there was prima evidence of conspiracy, acts and statements made by any one of the conspirators, it is admissible against all. The court had said that even if there was no direct act of violence attributable to the accused (Zargar), she cannot shy away from her liability under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). However, the trial court had asked the concerned jail superintendent to provide adequate medical aid and the assistance to Zargar. The police had earlier claimed that Zargar allegedly blocked a road near Jaffrabad metro station during the anti-CAA protests and instigated people that led to the riots in the area. It further claimed that she was allegedly part of the “premediated conspiracy” to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/north-east-delhi-violence-safoora-zargar-moves-hc-seeking-bail-in-uapa-case-850763.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Ladakh face-off: Delhi BJP leaders take out candlelight march to pay homage to soldiers||Delhi BJP leaders took out a candlelight march at India Gate on Wednesday evening to pay homage to the Indian soldiers who lost their lives in a violent clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh's Galwan Valley. The march was led by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. He said India led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi knows how to give a "befitting reply" to every attack on the sovereignty of the country. "The country will be indebted for life to the jawans who were martyred for their supreme sacrifice for the motherland," he said. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff between the two countries. Senior Delhi BJP leaders including Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, general secretary Kuljeet Singh Chahal, vice president Rajiv Babbar, state Yuva Morcha president  Sunil Yadav, Poorvanchal Morcha president Manish Singh, OBC Morcha president  Gaurav Khari and others took part in the candle light march.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-face-off-delhi-bjp-leaders-take-out-candlelight-march-to-pay-homage-to-soldiers-850768.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Kin had marriage on mind, soldier dies in Galwan Valley||When Sepoy Gurbinder Singh came home last year, he got engaged. “We had plans for his marriage this year when he was to return home on leave,” his uncle Jagseer Singh told PTI. Now, his body is arriving Thursday at their Totawal village in Sangrur’s Sunam tehsil. The 22-year-old was among the 20 Army men killed in a clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday. Four of the soldiers were from Punjab. The three others were Naib Subedar Satnam Singh (Gurdaspur), Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh (Patiala) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (Mansa). “We received a call at 6.30 am today that Gurbinder Singh has attained martyrdom,” his elder brother Gurpreet Singh said. Gurbinder Singh joined the Army in 2018 and was with 3 Punjab Regiment. He is survived by his parents, a brother and a sister. He talked to them on phone about 15 days ago, family members said. In Gurdaspur’s Bhojraj village, the family of Naib Subedar Satnam Singh (41) was inconsolable. He is survived by his father Jagir Singh, mother Jasbir Kaur, wife Jaswinder Kaur, daughter Sandeep Kaur (17) and son Prabhjot Singh (16). He had joined the Army in 1995. Jagir Singh said his son returned to Ladakh just a month ago. “He is a great martyr and I am proud of him. He last talked to us on Monday but no one knew that was his last call,” said the father. Satnam Singh's younger brother Sukhchain Singh, who is also in the Army, said if he gets the chance he will avenge the deaths of the Indian soldiers. He was proud that Satnam sacrificed his life for the nation. In Seel village in Patiala’s Rajpura tehsil, the family of 39-year-old Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh was in grief. The family includes his 65-year-old mother Shakuntla, wife Gurdeep Kaur and his three sisters. Gurdeep Kaur said she had talked to him just a few days back. Mandeep Singh had joined the Army in December 1997. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur consoled the family members. The fourth soldier from Punjab, Sepoy Gurtej Singh (22), hailed from village Bire Wala Dogra in Mansa district’s Budhadha tehsil. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday offered condolences to the families and announced ex-gratia compensation for them. Under the government policy the next of kin of married soldiers receive Rs 12 lakh. The families of unmarried soldiers are given Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kin-had-marriage-on-mind-soldier-dies-in-galwan-valley-850770.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt threatens salary freeze, action against health staff for ‘unauthorised’ absence||The Delhi Health Department Wednesday said “most” of its staff are not reporting for duty "unauthorisedly", and threatened salary freeze and disciplinary action if they don’t turn up by Thursday. According to an official order, home-quarantine will be considered only for those officials who furnish medical report of having tested positive for COVID-19. "It has been observed that most of the staff working in the Department of Health and Family Welfare are not reporting for duties and are absenting themselves unauthorisedly without any reason or intimation. "All the staff are directed to report for duties immediately by tomorrow, failing which their salaries will be stopped and disciplinary action as deemed fit shall be initiated without any further notice," the order said. The order issued by SM Ali, Special Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Delhi, further says, "Only those officials will be considered for home quarantine who will furnish the test report of having tested positive." The order comes in the backdrop of a massive increase in coronavirus cases in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-threatens-salary-freeze-action-against-health-staff-for-unauthorised-absence-850773.html
17-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan Army shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||Pakistani troops shelled various forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Wednesday, promoting the Indian Army to give a befitting reply, officials said. "At around 7.15 pm, Pakistani Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and resorting to intense shelling of mortars along the LoC in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district," a defence spokesperson said. "The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly," he said. Firing and shelling between the two sides were continuing when the last report came in, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-850775.html
17-06-2020||Opinion||Understanding what happened on the India-China border||Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers have died on the disputed India-China border. Such deaths are being seen after 1975, that is after a gap of 45 years. Most Indians are asking the questions – How did this happen? What went wrong? This article is an attempt to answer such queries. Since early May 2020, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has sent hundreds of troops into eastern Ladakh to try and ensure actual control over ground positions which China believes is on its own side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India does not agree with this Chinese perception of the LAC. In point of fact, many agreements between India and China since 1993 have aimed at ensuring certain tenets and standard operating procedures that would ensure that peace and tranquility are maintained despite such differences about the line separating Indian and Chinese troops.  Both countries had agreed that they would bilaterally clarify and confirm the LAC. This process broke down after maps of the Western Sector of the India -China boundary were exchanged, with China losing interest in such demarcation. This summer when Chinese troops attempted to move their ground positions to coincide with their perception of the LAC, Indian troops blocked them and the stand-off occurred. Remember, what the Chinese were attempting to do, was to unilaterally decide where the LAC lay.  There are detailed drills and standard operating procedures spelt out in the many agreements between India and China on how to de-escalate such situations. Chinese troops ignored all these procedures and by doing so violated every tenet of every agreement signed between the two nations on maintaining peace and tranquility in the India-China border areas.  When soldiers of two Armies anywhere in the world get into a close proximity situation, the probability of it going out of control is quite high. Especially when the number of troops is quite large, as China did this time around. This is exactly what happened on the night of June 15, 2020 in the Galwan River Valley. Even though not a single shot was fired, troops of the two sides used boulders, iron rods, batons with projectiles to hammer each other. At the time of writing, 20 Indian soldiers and scores of Chinese troops have died. This is the first time in almost four decades that the PLA is taking casualties with another country. The need of the hour is for saner and wiser counsel to prevail. Calm, rational action is necessary from both sides. Hotheads calling for revenge need to be steered clear from. The military situation needs to be de-escalated so that negotiations and discussions about the fundamental issues can be held.  The situation is serious, there is little doubt about that. Where does India go from here in its China policy? This is an inflection point in India-China relations. First, as a country and a society, India needs to make a serious re-appraisal of its policy towards China. Such a process should be based on our values of transparency, inclusivity, taking all along. Let this be a discussion across party lines. Second, it must be a time bound discussion. It cannot go on for years and meander along. Third, India’s policy towards China must be re-calibrated based on the review. It cannot be business as in the past. Redrawing India’s China policy must be a national endeavor. It must be given due importance and impetus.  (Gautam Bambawale is a former Indian Ambassador to Bhutan, Pakistan and China. Currently, he is Distinguished Professor, Symbiosis International University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-what-happened-on-the-india-china-border-850643.html
17-06-2020||Opinion||Galwan skirmishes: Portends for the future||The unfortunate stoning and clubbing down of 20 Indian Army personnel by Chinese troops at Patrolling Point 14 of the Galwan region of the Western Sector of the Ladakh border will not only go down in history for the scale of brutality but also for the evaporation of any goodwill that has been assiduously built over the decades between the two countries. Firstly, China’s troops crossed the Rubicon by the recent standards set as a part of the inter-military behaviour. The 1993, 1996 and 2013 confidence building measures (CBMs) between the two conventional armed forces have sought to bring in civilised ways of conduct on the border. Whenever border patrols advertently or inadvertently crossed over to the other’s perceived Line of Actual Control (LAC), CBMs came to the rescue to calm down any border incidents. Border transgressions across the 3,488 km long border were about 6 per annum in the 1980s, increased to 20 in the 1990s, saw a quantum jump in late 1990s to over 200 and in the last eight years doubled to over 400 on an average a year. These transgressions were addressed through border personnel meetings at five designated places (increased to two more a couple of years ago) on the borders. Talking to each other, sorting out local differences on the LAC, humane treatment of any crossed-over patrols became the hallmark of such CBMs. However, Galwan 2020 has ushered in a new template – of ferociousness, fisticuffs and medieval ways of addressing differences between soldiers. During the BRICS meeting at Xiamen in September 2017, soon after the Dokhlam incident petered out at the Bhutan-China-India borders, new set of CBMs were proposed but not yet unveiled – indicating Galwan-like events could become the ‘new normal’ in the new future. Institutional CBMs implementation led to maintaining overall peace and tranquillity on the borders. But these have outlived their purpose as they were intended only to prevent conflict, not enhance trust.  Changed realities The brutal killings – in the backdrop of mutually agreed military disengagement and de-escalation process set by the June 6 commanders level meeting between Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh of 14 Corps at Leh and Maj. Gen Lin Liu of Xinjiang military district – suggests that a new low has crept into the Chinese side.  Secondly, although the killing of a Commanding Officer (CO) of the region is not new, Galwan 2020 sets a new pattern in the future interactions on the borders with the killing of Col. B Santosh Babu. In 1967, the CO, Col. Rai Singh, at Nathu La, was killed by the Chinese side. It led to retaliation by Commander Gen. Sagat Singh resulting in an estimated 300 Chinese casualties at Jelep La, Cho La and other areas with deployment of machine guns. In the 1975 incident at Tulung La in Arunachal Pradesh, likewise, four Assam Rifles soldiers were killed. Unconfirmed reports did suggest more than double of Chinese casualties at Galwan. Thirdly, the official announcements from India and China indicate not only the continuing differences on the border but also the unilateral actions at the ground level. India’s foreign ministry spokesman stated that the violent face-off at Galwan is due to “an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there… India is very clear that all its activities are always within the Indian side of the LAC”.  The spokesman for the Western Theatre Command at Chengdu in China, that oversees military operations on the LAC, said that the whole of the Galwan valley “always” belonged to China and that the events of June 15 “[were] seriously damaging [to] the relations between the two armed forces and the feelings of the two peoples”. No proof of ownership of Galwan, if any, nor exchange of maps in this regard was made by China so far and clearly smacks of China’s unilateral occupation and militarisation of the South China Sea. Significantly, with both sides sticking to their guns and no progress in the border talks at the 22 special representative level talks suggest that we have to live with uncertainties on the borders. Fourthly, Galwan 2020 skirmishes are likely to impact on a whole range of issues in the bilateral relations. It is only recently that the strategic leaderships have attempted “informal summit” meetings to expand relations despite the perennial problems of unresolved territorial dispute and other issues. Meetings at Wuhan in April 2018 and Chennai in October 2019 are said to have ushered in normalisation of relations. However, the Naku La incident in Sikkim, Pangong Tso and Galwan incidents now, and the widespread acrimony that these evoked, are likely to set back the clock in the bilateral relations. This year began with the pomp and show of celebrating the 70th anniversary of the setting up of bilateral relations with 35 activities each to be conducted in each other’s countries. Most of these are related to people-to-people relations, tourism, think-tank meetings, media interactions, youth exchanges and others. The Galwan events are likely to dampen any such enthusiasm and hit China’s soft power most in the coming years, which has already been impacted with the spread of virus from Wuhan. Fifthly, the Galwan incident suggests the need for strengthening conventional and strategic deterrence capabilities in the border areas. Specifically, as the LAC areas are remote and inhospitable, use of hi-technology items in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance needs to be intensified and extensively deployed to the border areas. Early warning tools and swift logistics facilities have proven to be indispensable for deterring such events happening again. (Srikanth Kondapalli is Professor in Chinese Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/galwan-skirmishes-portends-for-the-future-850657.html
17-06-2020||Panorama||A relook into alcohol policy||The Indian government lifted the COVID-related ban on sales of alcohol on May 4th, primarily as a way to rescue tax-coffers of the state. Fearing future bans, consumers also flocked to restore their alcohol supplies, tossing away all social distancing norms enroute. The behaviour surrounding the ban and the lift, has swung the spotlight back on the tussle between individual liberty and social good that shapes India’s alcohol policy. Poor social outcomes like poverty, unemployment, and domestic violence are known to co-exist with alcohol dependence, not surprisingly, India has toyed with prohibition since independence. While prohibition as a policy promises better social outcomes, it no doubt hurts individual liberty and compromises states’ economic goals.  In India, individual states get to make the alcohol policy and keep the tax-proceeds for themselves. Excise duty on alcohol ranked among top three contributors and accounted for around 10-15 per cent of own tax revenue for a majority of Indian states. When the lockdown ban on alcohol sales was lifted, while several communities and women groups condemned the lift, many rejoiced including state exchequers. One thing became clearer, lockdown or not-- an alcohol policy that balances social and economic goals is difficult to resolve.  It is easy to discuss non-solutions first, prohibition being the foremost. A complete ban can prove fatal for addicts, as alcohol unlike several other drugs cannot be quit cold-turkey. For habitual and casual consumers too prohibition can backfire as they seek to increase efficiency of consumption by shifting demand to liquors with high alcohol content. Prohibition can have another dangerous side-effect-- of breeding illegitimate liquor manufacturers without any monitoring, quality control, or certification, further jeopardising public health.  If prohibition is undesirable, the taxing even less so. Raising taxes on alcohol does little to dissuade consumption as alcohol is relatively price inelastic. Short-term COVID-19 taxes in Delhi (70%) and Karnataka (17%) are indicative, a 2012 WHO study on alcohol consumption in India confirms the same. Even worse, the study finds that an increase in tax can induce increased spending on alcohol, many times ignoring food and other essentials.  In COVID-19 times, a harm minimization approach is better than a puritanical one. For example e-queues, home deliveries, and deaddiction support are good short-term solutions. In the long run though, we ought to come up with policies that nudge individuals and the states to make better choices. Removal of all volume related discounts on alcohol purchase like buy x and get y free or price discounts for large packs, can create friction in purchase and help hinder consumption. People may still drink in large quantities, but not because they can save a few bucks. For rural consumers, a part of the allowance (Direct Benefit Transfers) can be allocated to essential rations, so as to reduce the fungibility of money, which may otherwise be diverted towards alcohol. Along with these policies, sustained support towards deaddiction programs helps off-board the willing. While deaddiction efforts need support, the initiation into alcohol and continuation need the opposite. Alcohol is programmed with a high net promoter score, surrogate advertising or sales promotions are something this industry can do without. Coming to the states’ unhealthy obsession with alcohol in search of tax revenues, this dependence is not hard to break, but will need the centre to intervene. A well-publicized 2010 Lancet study finds that alcohol induces more social harm scoring above narcotics like heroin and cocaine. Based on such scientific support, akin to tobacco, a centralized policy on alcohol sales, promotion, and advertising policy is very much in order. Further, the centre should look to set limits for each state’s share of tax revenue from sin goods. Such limits will not only help states look beyond alcohol, but also reduce the temptation to seek revenues from other sin goods such as gambling. (Jonnalagedda is a Marketing professor at IIM Bangalore and Anand Prahlad is an entrepreneur and holds an MBA from IIM Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-relook-into-alcohol-policy-850720.html
17-06-2020||Right in the Middle||A study in contrast||Every month, I spend three to four days with my 92-year-old father and 82-year-old mother and get to witness the first-hand little things that bring them joy and sorrow. My father is sharp, although of late, he seems to have taken a fancy to interpolate his accounts with some creativity. During my recent visit, he was narrating how my nephew sustained an injury many years ago. My nephew had his head bandaged at the hospital and was complaining, "Amachha (Grandpa), I cannot see because of this bandage." The accident and the bandage were facts but the complaint was a bout of ‘creative’ interpolation. My nephew, at that time, could barely utter a few words! Father has a photographic memory (although he often laments that he is fast losing it) of the events dotting his long career in the Parliament House. His voice becomes excited and his eyes light up while narrating anecdotes. He has a library stocked with books on philosophy and spirituality and he seems to switch off on most other topics. His absent-mindedness, for long the butt of jokes, has taken upon new dimensions. Brushing his teeth with his shaving cream and vice versa, forgetting to have his medicine but not forgetting to have his lemon candy, mistaking identities of people outside of the family are just a few incidents.   My mother, with her incessant love for all things gold, is a study in contrast! I guess, were it not for the likes of her, the gold market in India would have crashed a long time ago. She has mastered WhatsApp and is adept at forwarding videos and messages although initially she would get her emoticons all mixed up. She once sent a smiley face while expressing condolences. She loves going out, meeting people, attending weddings and get-togethers. She, however, does not like going out alone and this is where issues crop up not just with my ‘detached’ father but any of us who do not show the same enthusiasm as her in attending social events. Being garrulous by nature, she is loath to miss out on any piece of action.   It is only now that I better understand what William Wordsworth meant by, "The child is the father of man," for I see them becoming ever more childlike, each in his or her own way, as they add numbers to their age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-study-in-contrast-850718.html
17-06-2020||Second Edit||Varsity rankings: No cheers again||The Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings 2021, which were released last week, do not offer any cheer to India as the country's institutions of higher learning are grossly under-represented in the rankings. While no Indian institute has secured a position among the world’s top 100 universities, IIT Bombay, Indian Institute of Science Bangalore and IIT Delhi have continued to find themselves in the top 200 list. But they have slipped from the positions they had last year. IIT Bombay has dropped from 152 to 172 and the others too have moved to lower ranks. There are only 21 Indian institutes among the top 1,000 universities of the world this year, as against 24 last year. India has about 1,000 universities and the second largest number of students going to colleges and universities. Yet, the QS and other rankings are annual reminders of the fact that there is not a single world-class institute of higher learning in the country.  There are questions about the methodology of ranking adopted by the QS and other ranking systems and about the uneven or wrong weightage given to some factors which go into the ranking. The QS rankings measure institutes on factors like reputation, faculty-student ratio, citations, international faculty ratio etc. A high weightage is given to academic peer review which may even be considered subjective. While it is true that Indian universities have lagged in this respect, it cannot be argued that their low ranking is only because of this factor. Some institutes like the IITs have done well in areas like research and this has been acknowledged by the QS report. But there is the need to improve performance on all the parameters for the country’s institutions to be recognised as centres of all-round excellence.  A country with India’s population, student strength, economic status and aspirations should not be languishing at the bottom of educational rankings. The top positions are held by established and reputed universities in the developed world but institutes in countries like China and Singapore have also secured high positions. They have gained these positions in recent years through hard work. Unless India strives and improves the standards in its institutions, it will not be able to do justice to its young generations and fulfil their aspirations. The whole approach to education has to change and it has to be improved from the school level if institutes of higher learning have to make the grade at the international level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/varsity-rankings-no-cheers-again-850713.html
17-06-2020||South||Two priests defrocked in Kerala following allegations of sexual abuse||Two priests of the Tellicherry Archdiocese at Kannur district in Kerala have been defrocked in the wake of sexual allegations. Priests Joseph Poothotatil and Mathew Mullapally were defrocked. A statement from the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Tellicherry said that the two priests were kept under suspension from church services pending inquiry in the wake of the serious allegations against them. The archdiocese also tendered apology to the believers for the wrong doings from the part of the priests, said the statement. Even as the church was so far defending the allegations that the priests sexually abused a woman devotee since 2018, now the church is compelled to act as an audio conversation, believed to be that of one of the priests, in which he was admitting the sexual allegations, came out. Both the priests served in the Pottanplavu parish under the Tellicherry Archdiocese. Father Joseph who served in the parish during 2018 allegedly sexually abused the woman. Father Mathew who succeeded him later sexually abused her, the woman alleged. It was alleged that though the woman complained the matter over phone to the archdiocese, there were no action taken. The archdiocese's statement also said that as soon as the implicating audio conversation came to its notice, actions were initiated against the two priests. Even then baseless campaigns to tarnish the church's image are going on, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-priests-defrocked-in-kerala-following-allegations-of-sexual-abuse-850604.html
17-06-2020||South||Martyred soldier from TN national hero: Rahul Gandhi||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday wrote to the wife of a martyred soldier from Tamil Nadu, hailing him as a national hero and said the nation bowed to his sacrifice. "I am deeply pained by the tragic death of your husband, Thiru K Palani. Today, the entire nation bows its head to him for his sacrifice," Gandhi said in a letter to Vanathi Devi, wife of slain havildar K Palani. The soldier gave his life to the nation to ensure that every Indian citizen can live in peace and freedom, he said adding, "we will never forget his patriotism and spirit." "As we mourn the loss of a national hero, I salute your courage in the face of tragedy. My thoughts and prayers are with you and your family in this difficult moment", he said. The condolence letter was made available to the media by the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee. TNCC said the letter was being handed over to the soldier's wife by Congress leaders, led by legislature party leader K R Ramasamy. Palani, hailing from Ramanathapuram district was among the twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, killed on Monday in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/martyred-soldier-from-tn-national-hero-rahul-gandhi-850619.html
17-06-2020||South||SC declines to consider plea against SSLC exams in Karnataka||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-against-sslc-exams-in-karnataka-850630.html
17-06-2020||South||COVID-19 patient saved using convalescent plasma therapy in Kerala: Doctors||A 51-year-old man, who was battling for life after being infected by coronavirus has recovered after undergoing convalescent plasma therapy at a government hospital in Thrissur, in a first such instance in Kerala using the experimental medical technique. The beneficiary, who had been on ventilator for almost a week was taken off the support after a team of doctors administered the plasma of a person cured of the disease. The man is now recuperating in the ICU, doctors said. The therapy involves separation of anti bodies from a person cured of coronavirus and its subsequent infusion into the COVID-19 patient in a critical condition. Performed as a medical emergency, the technique was used at the Government Medical College (GMC) in Thrissur. The benefactor was a Delhi-returned Malayali. He tested positive for COVID-19 on June 6 and faced acute respiratory complications five days later, warranting the use of a ventilator. On June 11 night, the patient underwent the convalescent plasma collection therapy that lasted till day break. "The procedure requires volunteers who have recovered from COVID-19 and are above the age of 18. They can donate plasma, the yellowish liquid component of the blood, between the first and fourth months after cure," said M A Andrews, Principal of GMC in a statement issued by National Health Mission's Arogya Keralam.  The therapy has proven its potential and given the COVID-19 patient a fresh lease of life, the doctor said. Convalescent plasma therapy relies on an apparatus called apheresis that separates the plasma from the donor's blood. Unlike the usual blood donation, the remainder here returns to the donor's circulation. "In one go, we take 400 grams of plasma. And transfuse it into the COVID-19 patient in two phases of 200 grams each," Andrews said. "The therapy has absolutely no side effects," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patient-saved-using-convalescent-plasma-therapy-in-kerala-doctors-850646.html
17-06-2020||South||We stand united: TN CM tells PM on Ladakh face-off||Tamil Nadu stands united behind the Centre on the Ladakh face-off in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Tuesday. Taking part in a virtual meet convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Palaniswami said: "There are some unpleasant developments in the border. We stand united with you in this hour." In his opening remarks on day two of the virtual conference with chief ministers on coronavirus, Modi said India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply, if instigated. "For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is most important," the Prime Minister said. Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-stand-united-tn-cm-tells-pm-on-ladakh-face-off-850647.html
17-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami seeks Rs 9,000 crore COVID-19 grant from Centre||A grant of Rs 9,000 crore to combat COVID-19 and its after-effects, relief package to ease the burden on the power sector and sanction of Rs 3,000 crore for medical equipment were among the demands made by Chief Minister K Palaniswami in a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Outlining the various ongoing anti-COVID-19 initiatives, including those related to prevention, testing and treatment, Palaniswami said orders have been placed for 2.75 crore triple-layer face masks, 38.85 lakh N-95 masks, 21 lakh PPE kits and 15.45 lakh RT-PCR testing kits. The Prime Minister's interaction with chief ministers is to discuss the situation emerging post 'Unlock 1. 0' and the plan ahead for tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, and today is Modi's second day of discussion. As many as 123 government and 175 private hospitals have been notified to provide treatment for those infected and 3,533 ventilators have been made available, including 630 in the private sector, Palaniswami said. "To ensure that Chennai is prepared to handle any surge of cases, 53 COVID Care Centres have been kept ready with 17,500 additional beds. The manpower requirement is strengthened by additional deployment of doctors, nurses and health care workers in Chennai city," an official release here quoted Palaniswami as telling the Prime Minister.  Also, he said: "Tamil Nadu may be allocated 9,000 crore rupees special grant for combating COVID-19 and its after effects on the States economy." Palaniswami requested Modi to announce a relief package to ease the immediate burden on the power sector, which will help distressed electricity distribution entities (discoms). The Chief Minister reiterated his earlier request for "greater latitude" to States in implementing the power sector reform agenda and batted for sanction of Rs 3,000 crore fund to enhance the availability of medical equipment. "I request you to provide additional allocation of foodgrains and pulses free of cost for all card holders, including the NPHH beneficiaries, under PMGKAY scheme." The ways and means limit of the states, which was increased by 30 per cent by RBI, should be doubled and the advances availed in 2020-21 fiscal should be made interest-free. He also sought release of pending Custom Milled Rice subsidy of 1,321 crore, second tranche of funds under National Health Mission, release of GST compensation for March and an ad-hoc grant of Rs 1,000 crore from the NDRF immediately to fight the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-chief-minister-k-palaniswami-seeks-rs-9000-crore-covid-19-grant-from-centre-850665.html
17-06-2020||South||Woman waits near mother's body for three days praying for resurrection||A woman was seen with her mother's 3-day-old body in their house at Palakkad district in Kerala on Tuesday. Police suspect that the daughter was praying with hopes of her mother's resurrection. 72-year-old Omana, a retired school teacher, was found dead at her house at Cheruppalaserry, about 45 kilometres from Palakkad town, on Tuesday. Her daughter Kavitha, a homoeopathy doctor aged 42, informed her neighbours on Tuesday about her mother's death. She said that she had been praying for resurrection, but lost hope, said the police. Police later entered the house and found Omana's body, which had started decomposing. She was diabetic and one of her legs was amputated. She was suspected to have died on Sunday. Police suspect that Kavitha was mentally upset. Omana's husband died many years back and there was no one else in the house other than the mother and daughter. Omana's body would be handed over only after conduction of COVID-19 tests and postmortem examination, said the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-waits-near-mothers-body-for-three-days-praying-for-resurrection-850667.html
17-06-2020||South||TDP files complaint with NHRC against undemocratic and inhuman arrest of party leaders||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief N Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday said his party has filed a complaint before the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against the Andhra Pradesh government for "undemocratic and inhuman" arrest of three party leaders in the state over graft charges. The TDP has informed the NHRC that the YSRCP government was pursuing a faction rule and its political vengeance was leading to gross violations of human rights, he said. Recently, the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested TDP leader and former labour minister Atchannaidu in a Rs 150 crore medical purchase scam. Former Tadipatri MLA J C Prabhakar Reddy and his son J C Asmith Reddy were arrested in connection with illicit conversion of banned vehicles of BS-III emission standards into BS-IV by forging documents. "TDP has complained to the NHRC against the undemocratic and inhuman arrests of their party leaders Atchannaidu, Prabhakar Reddy and his son Asmith Reddy," Naidu said in a statement. The party has complained that the ACB and the police officials were not following principles of natural justice but they were merely acting at the behest of the government, he added. Stating that false cases were being filed to harass and persecute opposition TDP leaders, Naidu said the arrest of Atchannaidu and JC Reddy family were made as part of this politically motivated campaign. The TDP leaders, who were not surrendering to YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) tactics, were being harassed with false cases and arrests, he alleged. "In a very inhuman way, Atchannaidu (who had recently undergone a surgery), was arrested and forced to travel for 21 hours which has complicated his health leading to a second surgery," Naidu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-files-complaint-with-nhrc-against-undemocratic-and-inhuman-arrest-of-party-leaders-850676.html
17-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu tests over 25,000 samples in a day, case count tops 2,000||In a first, Tamil Nadu tested as many as 25,463 samples in a single day while 2,174 people tested positive for the coronavirus, the highest increase in a 24-hour period, propelling the tally to over 50,000. With the addition of the fresh cases, the infection count reached 50,193. The toll touched 576 with the death of 48 people, while 842 people were discharged from various hospitals and cumulatively, 27,624 people have recovered from the illness. "For the first time the sample testing for COVID-19 crossed 25,000," a health department bulletin said, adding in total, 25,463 samples were tested today. Till date, 7,73,707 samples have been tested. The active cases stood at 21,990.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-tests-over-25000-samples-in-a-day-case-count-tops-2000-850702.html
17-06-2020||South||Despite resentment, Kerala makes pre-departure COVID-19 test must for NRIs||Despite resentment from various quarters against the Kerala government's decision to mandate COVID-19 test to all NRIs returning to the state, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the decision citing that 52% of expatriates have tested positive. While the initial decision was to insist on pre-departure COVID-19 test only for those returning in chartered flights from June 20, the state government is now seeking reports for all NRIs returning in Vande Bharat Mission. Vijayan said the state was not opposing the return of NRIs, but wanted to avoid a surge in COVID-19 infection with the mixing of infected persons with non-infected ones. The Centre should make arrangements for conducting the tests in countries lacking testing facilities, as well as to meet the test expense of financially weak people. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, Vijayan suggested operating special flights for those being tested positive. While the steps have not gone down well with the NRIs, the Congress is mounting its attack on the government over the issue. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala announced that he would stage a protest in front of the Secretariat on Saturday over the issue. While many NRI organisations alleged that the government decision would impose an additional burden on them, the state government is of the view that it was insisting only on the antibody test, which is comparatively cheap. Meanwhile, 90 patients recovered on Wednesday in Kerala, while the fresh confirmed cases were lower at 75, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,351. Among the 75 fresh cases, 72 were from abroad and other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-resentment-kerala-makes-pre-departure-covid-19-test-must-for-nris-850712.html
17-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally crosses 50,000; registers biggest single-day spike||In the biggest single-day spike so far, Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded 2,174 positive coronavirus patients pushing the tally beyond the 50,000-mark even as the testing numbers were ramped up significantly. The biggest worry for the state is that the virus is spreading quickly across the state with 898 people out of the 2,174 belonging to districts other than Chennai, while Chennai registered 1,276 cases on Wednesday. The state’s tally now stands at 50,193. The spread of the virus in southern districts was noticed on Wednesday with Thoothukudi reporting 50 cases and Madurai 27 cases. The spike in these districts is due to an exodus of people from Chennai. The government has been maintaining that the spread of the virus has been brought under control in other parts of the state while admitting that the situation in Chennai was challenging. District administrations are having tough times locating people who came from Chennai and sending them for testing. B J Damodaran, an under-secretary level officer working in the Chief Minister’s Office and Balamurali, a police inspector in Chennai, succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami condoled their deaths and promised job offers for family members (one each) of the deceased. The biggest single-day surge came as the testing numbers were increased significantly. As many as 25,463 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 7,73,707, the highest in the country. Meanwhile, Palaniswami asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to sanction Rs 3,000 crore to enhance available medical equipment and release the second tranche of funds under the National Health Mission. “Tamil Nadu may be allocated 9,000 crore rupees special grant for combating Covid and its after-effects on the state’s economy and GST compensation for March may be released now,” the CM told the PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-50000-registers-biggest-single-day-spike-850729.html
17-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM skips PM Narendra Modi's consultations on COVID-19||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday abstained from the videoconference Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with Chief Ministers of various states to discuss measures to check the spread of coronavirus during "unlock 1.0. Officially, there was no word on why he chose not to attend the virtual interaction but sources said it was due to the ongoing budget session of the Legislature. "The Chief Minister wrote a letter to the Centre on various issues related to the COVID-19 lockdown and unlock measures," a senior official of the Chief Minister's Office said. Details of the letter were, however, not revealed because "we don't want to", the official said. Jagan Reddy left the Legislature for his residence around the time the Prime Minister's videoconference was going on. It was the second day of the Prime Minister's interaction with chief ministers to discuss the situation emerging post 'Unlock 1. 0' and the plan ahead for tackling the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-skips-pm-narendra-modis-consultations-on-covid-19-850733.html
17-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh assembly passes resolution against NRC, 'new format' of NPR||The Andhra Pradesh assembly has, on Wednesday, adopted a resolution against the National Register of Citizens. While opposing the National Population Register “in current format”, it requested the Narendra Modi government to keep the NPR exercise in abeyance till the procedure is reverted to 2010 format. Deputy Chief Minister (minority welfare) Amzath Basha said the NPR in its current format “is causing fear, apprehensions and insecurities in the minds of Andhra Pradesh people.” “Addition of new columns, especially pertaining to the parent’s place of birth and date of birth, mother tongue etc., in NPR 2020 has led to unnecessary confusion and lack of trust among the public to the extent of impinging on public order,” Basha said, while moving the resolution. However, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has always been defending the interests of the state’s minorities, Basha said. The ruling YSRCP had supported the Citizenship Amendment Bill, last year. Nevertheless, in March, after apprehensions expressed by Muslim leaders in the state, Reddy has announced that a resolution opposing new format of NPR would be introduced in the budget session. Reddy’s cabinet had also approved a resolution to this extent. The assembly session could not be held earlier because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The house also paid tributes to the army men who laid down their lives during a violent faceoff with the Chinese troops on Monday night. “On behalf of the people of Andhra Pradesh, this house pays glorious tributes to the brave soldiers who martyred in the Galwan Valley while safeguarding the integrity and sovereignty of our country. The bravery of Colonel Santosh Babu, a Telugu hailing from Suryapet of neighboring state, will be remembered for eternity,” Reddy said. The house was adjourned sine die after it passed the budget and other bills. The legislature was convened for two days amid the COVID-19 pandemic primarily for the introduction and approval of the state’s 2020-21 budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-assembly-passes-resolution-against-nrc-new-format-of-npr-850745.html
17-06-2020||South||Lockdown period over, Unlock 1.0 on: Narendra Modi tells K Chandrasekhar Rao in interaction with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made it clear there will not be any further lockdown in the country and the unlock phase has begun, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Wednesday. Modi's remarks came during a virtual meet with Chief Ministers on the COVID-19 situation following a request for clarity on lockdown by Rao, who cited rumours that a lockdown could be imposed once again in the country, a state government release said. Rao also cited his response to people that the Prime Minister would not take a lockdown decision without talking to all the Chief Ministers. "There will not be any lockdown in the country. The four phases of lockdown is over. Unlock 1.0 is going on now. We all should discuss on what to do about Unlock 2.0 issue," the release quoted the prime minister as having said. In the meeting, Rao explained to Modi the measures taken by the state government to contain the spread of the virus. Rao said COVID-19 was under control in the state and expressed confidence that a decisive victory would be achieved against the virus due to the efforts put in by both the Centre and the states. The virus cases were mainly reported in Hyderabad and its neighbouring districts and strong efforts were being made to check the infection in these areas, the chief minister said. Observing that life was returning to normal, Rao said migrant workers were getting ready to work in other states and facilities should be provided to them. On reports that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is not allowing workers from his state to travel to Telangana, Rao said in a lighter vein: "Nitish ji, we are taking care of Hamalis coming from your state very well. Our Chief Secretary is also a Bihari. Please send the Hamalis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-period-over-unlock-10-on-narendra-modi-tells-k-chandrasekhar-rao-in-interaction-with-cms-850751.html
17-06-2020||State||There is no second or third MLC nominees list from Karnataka BJP: Shettar||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar predicted that the announcement of BJP nominees for constituencies of Karnataka Legislative Council which will be going for elections may come on Wednesday itself. "There is nothing called second or third list of nominees sent by the State BJP to the party's central Leadership. After discussing in the core committee, and a unanimous list was prepared," he said. When asked about the issue of amendment to land reforms act under which non-agriculturists can purchase farmland up to 108 acres, Shettar clarified, "It is not a new plan, and it was being thought even when we attended the World Economic Forum held at Davos in Switzerland. Now it has become just supplementary for industrialists stressed due to lockdown and interested investors. There is no direct link". Patient discharged Later, Shettar and Karnataka Institute of Medical Institute (KIMS) authorities gave flowers to P-2,710, who has recovered from COVID-19 through convalescent plasma Therapy, when he was discharged from hospital and sent home at Vinay Colony in an ambulance. He is suggested a 28-day home-quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/there-is-no-second-or-third-mlc-nominees-list-from-karnataka-bjp-shettar-850570.html
17-06-2020||State||India will give suitable reply to China: Karnataka minister Suresh Angadi||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said that India will give a suitable reply to China regarding the clashes at Laddakh in which 20 army personnel were killed. Angadi paid tributes to the army personnel killed in the clashes on Wednesday. He told reporters that India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was different from that in 1962 when China had attacked. Modi has been holding parleys with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chiefs of three services. China will get suitable reply. People from the country were standing with the forces during difficult times. China violated the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by intrusion. Despite talks in progress to de-escalate the situation, Indian troops were attacked, he said. China has been objecting developmental works at our borders. India has never attacked any neighbouring country, but China has violated it by its intrusion and will pay for the misadventure, Angadi stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/india-will-give-suitable-reply-to-china-karnataka-minister-suresh-angadi-850577.html
17-06-2020||State||This picture-perfect shot of Gokarna beach bowls over ICC||Coconut grove, crystal blue water, white sand and cricket amid the coronavirus pandemic, the International Cricket Council (ICC), which is charting the return of competitive cricket, couldn’t resist sharing this picture-perfect shot of beach cricket on Kudle Beach in Gokarna, Uttara Kannada, on its Twitter handle and Facebook page. The picture of a few tourists playing cricket on the Gokarna beach has gone viral on the social media platforms. This photo was taken by an amateur photographer Parag Sarkar, a Bangladesh national, who’s currently working at a private company inBengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/this-picture-perfect-shot-of-gokarna-beach-bowls-over-icc-850746.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Minister K Sudhakar promises to test 15K samples per day as COVID-19 tests plummet below 8,000||Karnataka on Tuesday tested only 7,936 samples which was preceded by Monday's even lesser testing number of 5,362 samples. The state tested a similar number of 5,351 samples last on May 15. Even though the number of COVID testing labs increased on a daily basis to a total of 72 now, the tests did not increase proportionally. Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer for lab testing in the state's COVID-19 task force said, "The tests were less in the last couple of days because initially the large influx of migrants from other states forced us to draw an increased number of samples. Now, the backlog has reduced, hence the numbers are low, henceforth, we will concentrate on random testing."But the fact is even before the migrants' influx, the testing rates hovered around 10,000 in the state.The state has in the past few days received accolades for performing better in terms of tracing, testing and treating when compared to states with other metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai. "Due to an increase in cases in the past two weeks, the Government is trying to scale up testing to 15,000 to 25,000 samples per day. People in crowded areas, Pourakarmikas, street vendors, healthcare workers, police and all other people who are in the frontline will be tested extensively. It has also been decided to mandatorily test all those who have symptoms of ILI and SARI," Sudhakar said. "COVID Care Centres will be established in order to facilitate monitoring of asymptomatic cases. An expert committee has been formed to advise on the type of treatment and care required for cases in different stages. BBMP Commissioner has been directed to ensure that 20,000 beds are available in Covid Care Centres in Bengaluru," Sudhakar added. This will reduce the burden on hospitals and ensure that beds are available for those who need it, he said. "Private hospitals should act with utmost responsibility and proactively participate in this fight against COVID-19. Strict action will be taken against hospitals which refuse to treat COVID patients despite having capability. Detailed guidelines will soon be released regarding the number of beds, ICUs and ventilators to be reserved for treatment of COVID cases," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-promises-to-test-15k-samples-per-day-as-covid-19-tests-plummet-below-8000-850519.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka contract resident doctors temporarily withdraw their resignations||Around 250 contract resident doctors who went to meet Health Minister B Sriramulu with a demand to regularise their positions in the health department withdrew their resignations as the minister promised to take their demands to the cabinet. Health Minister B Sriramulu told DH, "I have promised to increase their salaries from Rs. 45,000 a month to Rs. 67,000. This is an increase of Rs. 22,000. I will take their demand of regularisation to the cabinet. They've withdrawn their resignations." Dr Sagar K, who has been a contract doctor in Mandya's KR Pete PHC for four years after his MBBS told DH, "Our primary demand is job security not salary hike. We went to the health minister with our resignations asking him to either regularise our jobs or terminate us. He promised to take our demand to the cabinet which might take a month. We have temporarily withdrawn our resignations. We will wait for a month and take action if there is no progress in implementing our demand for regularisation." The doctors who are a part of the Government Contract Doctors Association are a part of Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association.  Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey told DH that their demand for regularisation is illegal. "Their salaries are being raised instead," Pandey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-contract-resident-doctors-temporarily-withdraw-their-resignations-850562.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to observe 'Mask Day' on June 18||In an order issued today, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has asked all district and taluk administrations in the state to observe "Mask Day" by organising a march, with the participation of public representatives, dignitaries and medical staff. Noting that the march was to be organised at district, taluk, panchayat and ward levels for spreading awareness about following the national directives issued to control the spread of COVID-19, it said, during the event not more than 50 people should assemble at one place. Those participating in the march should compulsorily wear masks and maintain social distancing. Announcing the decision to organise "Mask Day", Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said, the government has decided to take strict against those not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing here on. Initially Rs 200 fine will be imposed, this will be throughout the state," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-observe-mask-day-on-june-18-850586.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's KIMS steps up facilities for COVID-19 testing||The new laboratory with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) opened on Wednesday and can give results of nearly 250 throat swab tests per day. The first laboratory which started two-and-a-half months ago has a capacity of 200 tests per day.After inaugurating and inspecting different sections of the new laboratory, Large & Medium Industries and District In-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar said that KIMS is getting more equipment required for COVID-19 testing and treatment, while the district administration has also provided funds. "At present, Hubballi-Dharwad has four COVID-19 testing centres -- two at KIMS in Hubballi, one at Dharwad Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences (DIMHANS) in Dharwad, and a private lab at NMR Scan Centre in Hubballi. In total, around 1,000 tests can be conducted per day. Throat swab collection and testing arc being done as per guidelines," Shettar said.Ruling out the possibility of community spread of COVID-19, Shettar added that only those who came from other States to some villages tested positive and spread the infection to their close contacts, but villagers are also very alert now. Swab collection not reduced "Throat swab collection has not bene reduced, but it is being done as per guidelines for symptomatic patients, at containment zones, patient's contacts, pregnant women, SARI and ILI patients and others who need it," said KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani. A team of doctors who conducted successful plasma therapy are trying to convince other cured patients to donate plasma, as it would not be harmful. Other district administrations are also requested in this regard. The first patient in Dharwad district has already donated plasma a few days ago, but we need suitable patients with same blood group of the donor, for plasma therapy. We now have got plasma extraction machine, and de-freezer to store plasma packets, he said. To solve the problem of lack of stretchers and untimely availability of stretchers, Bank of Baroda and Vijay Medicals have donated battery-operated e-vehicles with stretchers, which we want to use for OPD and super-specialty hospitals. We are trying for two more such vehicles," Dr Ramalingappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-kims-steps-up-facilities-for-covid-19-testing-850594.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Amendment to Karnataka's Land Reforms Act will spell doom for farmers'||Opposing the BJP government’s decision to introduce amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee Spokesperson A C Vinayraj said that the amendments will spell doom for marginal and small farmers. The amendment will enable any non-agriculturist to buy farmland. The farmers will be reduced to farm labourers after the corporates purchase the land, he told media persons in Mangaluru on Wednesday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who took oath in the name of farmers, is conspiring against the farmers by bringing in amendment. It is a conspiracy against the farmers. The amendment would pave the way for the real estate mafia and realtors will buy land from small and marginal farmers and develop them into sites for property business, he alleged.Farmers who sell land will become farm labourers and will also have an impact on the food security of the state, he added. Misusing the lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic period, the government is planning to bring in amendment by passing an ordinance without discussing it in the Assembly. The amendment is anti-farmer in nature and does not mention what action the government will take if the land purchased by corporates are not used for farming activities. He urged the government to strengthen the farming community by supplying them with seeds, fertilisers and announcing a good price for farm produce. The government should promote the advanced system of farming and provide irrigation facilities to the farmers, to take up farming activities without any hurdle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amendment-to-karnatakas-land-reforms-act-will-spell-doom-for-farmers-850632.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka pays more than nine times the usual price to dispose of COVID-19 waste||The COVID-19 pandemic seems to have added to the worsening garbage scenario in Karnataka. The state on an everyday basis during this pandemic time is generating about 3,000 kg biomedical waste and paying more than nine times the price of what it used to pay to dispose and incinerate a kilogram of biomedical waste earlier. Bengaluru's Victoria Hospital campus, where 299 COVID-19 patients are housed, pays Rs 65 to dispose of one kg of COVID-19 waste as against Rs 7 per kg of biomedical waste that it used to pay before the pandemic. Emergency and Trauma Care Centre spends Rs 6 lakh per month only to get 300 kg of COVID-19 waste incinerated per day. The common biomedical waste treatment facilities on their part say as most of the COVID-19 waste consists of PPEs made of polypropylene, to control emissions, they incinerate only 100 kg at a time as against their incinerators' capacity of 400 kg. Medical Education minister Dr Sudhakar too appealed to the public to use reusable masks made at home to avoid contribution of masks to the piling up of biomedical waste. Dr Asima Banu, Nodal Officer, Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, told DH, "We used to generate 700 kgs to 800 kgs biomedical waste per day. Now since 96 per cent of COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic, we do not have usual waste like plasters, catheters, riles tubes in the numbers that we used to." "But the treatment facility that used to charge Rs. 7 per kg is now charging Rs. 65 per kg. He says it is because of the PPEs the waste handlers use and the separate trips that he makes to transport COVID-19 waste. COVID-19 waste and other biomedical waste of the hospital cannot be mixed. 70 per cent of the waste consists of used PPEs and we spend Rs. 20,000 per day to dispose of them," she added.  Medicare Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, one of the six common biomedical waste treatment facilities in the city has received 130 registrations to collect COVID-19 waste in the past three months. His clientele include Victoria Hospital's Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, Sparsh Hospital, KC General Hospital, ESI Hospital, and 22 quarantine centres in thecity. Private establishments pay anywhere between Rs. 70 and Rs. 110 per kg of waste. Seshi Reddy, AGM, Medicare Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, told DH, "Majority of the COVID-19 waste comprises PPE. Burning polypropylene in large quantities is not suggestible. So, to control the emissions, we feed the incinerator only 100 kg of waste as against 400 kg of waste at once. So there is no optimal utilisation of our incinerator. So we charge the customers our operational expenses." According to the biomedical waste management guidelines, even used masks are considered COVID-19 waste, hence, common biomedical waste treatment facilities get such waste from malls, office spaces and any place that uses PPEs. Linens, pillow covers, leftover food, water bottles are among the other waste the facilities get from COVID-19 wards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-pays-more-than-nine-times-the-usual-price-to-dispose-of-covid-19-waste-850727.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to conduct random coronavirus tests on slum dwellers, vendors & bill collectors||The Karnataka health department on Wednesday decided to begin random testing for essential workers and slum dwellers. According to an order issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, the government will begin random testing (using RT-PCR pooled sample technique) of slum-dwellers, vendors/bill collectors in malls, supermarkets, markets and footpaths, and delivery boys of food chains and couriers. The Commissioner, BBMP and Deputy Commissioners in consultation with the local expert committee will identify persons and locations from which random samples are to be collected. Karnataka COVID-19 death toll crosseed 100-mark on Wednesday. With eight more deaths recorded in the past 24 hours, the death toll due to COVID-19 in the state surpassed the 100-mark on Wednesday.   The death toll mounted to 104 on Wednesday apart from two suicides, one road traffic accident case, and one liver cirrhosis case. Five of Wednesday's deaths were from Bengaluru while one each was from Shivamogga, Ballari, and Bidar districts. So far, 7734 cases have been reported in Karnataka, including 4804 discharges. 204 new cases were reported on Wednesday and 106 among them were inter-state passengers, and two were international passengers. Most interstate passengers were returnees from Maharashtra. 348 were discharged. Bengaluru Urban reported 55 cases, Yadgir 37, Ballari 29, Kalaburagi 19, and Bidar 12. P-2175, a 43-year-old man and resident of Dakshina Kannada, with cirrhosis of liver got admitted to a designated hospital in Dakshina Kannada on 23rd May and died on the same day. The lab report confirmed COVID-19 infection on May 25. He was declared as a case of non-COVID-19 related death on Tuesday by the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-conduct-random-coronavirus-tests-on-slum-dwellers-vendors-bill-collectors-850730.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||26-year-old man succumbs as cases mount in Kalyana Karnataka||Fresh infections continued to pile up in Kalyana Karnataka with the region reporting another big surge of 138 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours (ending at 5 pm on Wednesday). Ballari district has alone accounted for 69 fresh cases since Wednesday afternoon. The region also saw two patients, including a 26-year-old man, lose their battle against the virus. Patient 7697, a man from Bidar, aged 26, died of Covid-19 at the designated hospital on Monday (June 15). He was admitted to BRIMS hospital on June 5 after he developed fever. His throat swab sample has returned positive for the virus on Wednesday. Another patient (P-7724), a 62-year-old man from Ballari died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. Yadgir and Kalaburagi districts on Wednesday gave something to cheer for amid the pandemic gloom. Both the districts reported more recoveries than the fresh cases. Yadgir saw 112 discharges post-recovery while Kalaburgai reported 100. Udupi district, which is ranked first in terms of Covid cases, on Wednesday witnessed 87 patients walk out of the designated hospitals. The coastal district with a tally of 1,039 cases, has just 134 active cases, as on June 17. Ballari district, which is grappling with the mounting cases from Jindal (JSW) cluster, saw a staggering 69 infections in the last 24 hours. Sandur taluk alone reported 40 new cases. “Among the fresh infections are: seven influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 32 contacts of the previously diagnosed persons and 15 interstate travellers. Contract tracing is underway for 15 fresh cases. Six patients have been admitted to Ballari Covid hospital while the rest are admitted to Sanjeevini Covid hospital in Toranagallu,” Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters. Yadgir registered 37 new cases, Kalaburagi 19 and Bidar 12. Community transmission? Meanwhile, Dharwad is experiencing signs of community transmission with the cases erupting in various places and in different ways. However, the district authorities are in no mood to admit it. As many as seven contacts of Patient 6834, including two girls, have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday. Patient 6834, a 30-year-old woman, had contracted the virus from a teacher of a prvate school in Dharwad. Likewise, a 55-year-old man from Morab village in Navalgund taluk, a contact of Patient 6222, has tested positive for the disease. Patient 6222, 59-year-old man from Morab has emerged as super spreader. As many as 25 of his contacts have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan told a meeting, “With the infections mounting in the district, random testing should be done in an effective manner using RT-PCR pooled sample technique as per the guidelines laid down by the government in this regard.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/26-year-old-man-succumbs-as-cases-mount-in-kalyana-karnataka-850738.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 1L award for school getting highest marks in SSLC exams: K Gopalaiah||Hassan District in-charge Minister K Gopalaiah announced Rs 1 lakh cash award for teachers of the school which scores the highest marks in the district in the SSLC examinations. Speaking at a programme organised to discuss the preparations for the SSLC exams at St Joseph's High School here, he said Hassan district topped the SSLC results list in the state last year. "This was due to the hard work of the teachers and department officials. The district should excel this year also. The teachers should instil confidence among the parents. The students of the school, which tops the district, would also get gifts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-1l-award-for-school-getting-highest-marks-in-sslc-exams-k-gopalaiah-850740.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt allots three acres of land for CESCK||As Kannada writers and activists are demanding autonomous status for the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK), the state government has taken certain measures in this direction.    In a bid to get autonomous status for CESCK, the government has sanctioned three acres of land for the construction of a building and a temporary office on the University of Mysore campus in Mysuru. The Union government accorded Classical Language status for Kannada on March 31, 2008, CESCK was inaugurated in 2011 at the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), in Mysuru. According to Minister for Kannada and Culture C T Ravi, a detailed proposal for the establishment of Centre Institute of Classical Kannada (CICK) has been sent through the Director, CIIL Mysuru, on June 2 to the Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). Ravi, in a communication, has mentioned that the Government of Tamil Nadu had requested the Union government to transfer the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) to Chennai with autonomous status. Then, the Union government conceded the request and the MHRD provided a full-fledged office building at a cost of Rs 76 crore, along with the Administrative Board, Finance Committee and Academic Committee. This has opened up avenues and opportunities for Tamil research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-allots-three-acres-of-land-for-cesck-850741.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Monsoon gathers steam in coastal districts, Malnad||Four low-lying barrage- cum-bridges across Vedganga and Doodhganga rivers, the tributaries of River Krishna, in Chikkodi and Nippani taluks of Belagavi district, are submerged following incessant rainfall in the catchments of both rivers and in Konkan region of Maharashtra. The inflows into Krishna river at Kallol barrage clocked at 26,000 cusecs. This includes 11,000 cusecs of Vedganga and Doodhganga. Two barrage-cum-bridges across Doodhganga Malikwad-Dattawad and Karadga-Bhoj are submerged. Two more barrages across swollen Vedganga Bhojwadi-Kunnur and Akkol-Sidnal are also under water. However, the movement of people and vehicles in the region has not been affected as there are alternative roads. Several parts of Belagavi district, including Belagavi city, Khanapur, Nippani, Harogeri, MK Hubballi, Saundatti, have received moderate to heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours. With Mahadayi river and Banduri nala in spate, road connectivity in some villages of Bhimgad wildlife sanctuary in Khanapur taluk was affected on Wednesday.  Power outages were reported from several villages including Londa, Jamboti and surrounding areas. Kanakumbi, the birth place of Malaprabha river - the lifeline of Belagavi, Dharwad and Bagalkot districts - has experienced 16.8 cm of rain. Meanwhile, the southwest monsoon has intensified in coastal and Malnad districts. Coastal districts, in particular, is witnessing heavy rainfall.  Heavy showers over the past 24 hours have inundated the low-lying areas and major roads in Karwar. Motorists had a tough time in negotiating the flooded roads. Sirsi and Yellapur taluks also witnessed sharp showers. Inflows into Supa and Kadra reservoirs have increased. The water level at Supa on Wednesday stood at 530.11 metres (full reservoir level (FRL) of Supa 564 metres).  Ankola has received 16 cm of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Wednesday). Karwar town recorded 14.4 cm, Honnavar 12.2 cm and Bhatkal 11.8 cm. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have been experiencing intermittent showers in the past two days.  Mangaluru city has recorded a whopping 11.6 cm of rain on Wednesday. Bantwal and Belthangady taluks have registered 7 cm. Udupi district also witnessed heavy showers, coupled with gusty winds, on Wednesday. Mud collapse had stalled traffic on Avaralu Mattu Road in Baindoor taluk. Several houses have suffered partial damages in the rain in Kaup, Kundapur and Baindoor taluks. Kalaburagi and Bidar districts received spells of mild to moderate rain on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/monsoon-gathers-steam-in-coastal-districts-malnad-850742.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||MAHE gets new VC||The Manipal Academy of Higher Education has announced the appointment of Lt Gen (Dr) M D Venkatesh as the new vice chancellor. Lt Gen (Dr) M D Venkatesh, an outstanding educator and currently the Vice Chancellor of Sikkim-Manipal University, will be the new Vice Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), the deemed to be university and an Institution of Eminence. He will take charge on July 1, 2020 from Dr Vinod Bhat, who has successfully completed his tenure. Dr Vinod Bhat will be taking over a new role as executive vice president from July 1, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mahe-gets-new-vc-850743.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SWR to convert 38 passenger trains to express trains||As many as 38 passenger trains in SWR, including trains to Hubballi, Shivamogga and Chamarajanagar, are set to be converted into express trains, as the Railway Board seeks to speed up trains when the regular operations commence. In a communication sent to the zonal railways on Wednesday, the Railway Board stated that passenger trains, MEMUs and DEMUs that have more than 200 km journey should be converted into express trains. "The zonal railways should initiate immediate action to convert these trains to express trains by speeding up and curtailing halts if required," it said, adding that the action should be taken by 4 pm on Friday. SWR Chief Public Relations officer E Vijaya confirmed the development and said that the officials will chart out the details on Thursday. "We will work out the details, including the stops to be removed, and reply to the railway board," she said. Some of the stops on the trains between Bengaluru and Shivamogga, Mysuru-Shivamogga, Bengaluru-Hubballi, Bengaluru-Hosapete, Yashwantpur-Salem, Yashwantpur-Mysuru, Bengaluru-Karaikal are likely to be removed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/swr-to-convert-38-passenger-trains-to-express-trains-850772.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Daily COVID-19 positive cases growth rate at 3.6%: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka is recording a daily growth of 3.6% in Covid-19 positive cases, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Speaking at a video conference chaired by Modi, he said that Karnataka is testing 75,000 people per million and 1.6% of all the samples tested are positive.  For tele-ICU facility, teams of doctors have been formed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/daily-covid-19-positive-cases-growth-rate-at-36-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-850778.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC refuses to consider plea on SSLC exams||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to consider a plea against the Class 10 SSLC Board examination between June 25 and July 4 in Karnataka, in light of the pandemic. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat dismissed the petition by Rajshree against the May 27 judgement of the Karnataka HC that refused to cancel the exams. The court said there was no merit in the petition and the HC’s view was correct and there was sufficient protocol for the exams, including further time to those not willing to appear. “We are in agreement with the High Court of Karnataka that the writ petition filed for cancellation of SSLC Examination for the academic Session 2019-2020 did not warrant interference,” the bench said. “The High Court has issued several directions pertaining to the steps to be taken by the government for conducting the examinations scheduled. Even the students who would not be able to take the examinations have also been protected,” the court noted in its order. State Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi defended the decision to conduct the exams. The petitioners, represented by senior advocate Jayna Kothari and advocate Anandita Pujari, said the HC failed to appreciate that the exams would not only pose serious health risk to lives of 8.48 lakh minor students, but also to 25 lakh to 30 lakh people involved in the process. The petitioner claimed it would be a complete denial of right to health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, despite Standard Operating Procedure and guidelines in place. The life and health of minor students can be protected by promoting them based on their internal assessment marks, as many other states have done, she said. The petitioner said the entire process would involve the travelling of more than 25 lakh to 30 lakh people. Many would come from within containment zones and would use crowded buses and transport facilities to reach the examination centres, where not less than 500 people would be present and physical distancing would not be possible, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-on-sslc-exams-850779.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cong picks Hariprasad, Naseer for Council elections||The Congress high command on Wednesday sprang a surprise by announcing the candidature of senior leader and four-time Rajya Sabha member B K Hariprasad, along with sitting MLC Naseer Ahmed for the biennial election to the Legislative Council scheduled on June 29. Congress president Sonia Gandhi approved the candidatures of Hariprasad and Ahmed for the Karnataka Legislative Council elections, said a statement by party general secretary Mukul Wasnik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cong-picks-hariprasad-naseer-for-council-elections-850781.html
17-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka COVID-19 death toll crosses 100-mark||Karnataka reported eight more deaths in the last 24 hours as toll crossed 100-mark. The state, so far, has recorded 104 Covid-19 deaths. This excludes two suicides, one road accident and one liver cirrhosis case. On Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban alone accounted five deaths while Shivamogga, Ballari and Bidar reported one death each. The state’s total case count has reached 7734, as on June 17. Of which, 2824 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-100-mark-850782.html
17-06-2020||West||Sanjay Raut says Maharashtra govt is stable, praises Rahul Gandhi||After the editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece `Saamana' took veiled jibes at the ruling alliance partner Congress, Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was stable. Raut, who is the executive editor of the Saamana, said NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and the Shiv Sena itself want the coalition government in Maharashtra to be stable, and it will complete its full term. In the morning, the Saamana editorial had said the Congress was a "creakingold cot" while referring to the resentment in the Congress for `not getting enough say' in the decision-making. However, speaking to reporters here later, Raut said no matter how many times the cot creaks, Rahul Gandhi is the "mechanic who can repair it and ensure its maintenance". "He is a good leader," Raut added. He had spoken to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the issue of resentment of state Congress leaders, the Sena leader said. "They will meet the chief minister. All of them share cordial relations. There is no problem in the government. All decisions are taken by the cabinet," he said. On the editorial referring to the Congress as a "creaking old cot", Raut said the Saamana uses a different kind of language to put forth its views.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-says-maharashtra-govt-is-stable-praises-rahul-gandhi-850463.html
17-06-2020||West||COVID-19 contact tracing ramped up in Mumbai: BMC tells HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the Bombay High Court that it has ramped up COVID-19 contact tracing in the city to 1:10 ratio and plans to increase the same to 1:15 ratio in the coming days. In an affidavit filed in the court on Tuesday, the civic body said for every COVID-19 patient, it had identified at least 10 high and low-risk contacts and placed them in institutional or home quarantine. On June 12 alone, it had screened more than 19,000 people who may have come in contact with infected persons, while over 78 lakh such people had been screened so far, the BMC stated in its affidavit.  "To contain or stop the spread of COVID-19, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) has been carrying out aggressive contact tracing. The current contact tracing ratio is 1:10 and the proposal is to increase this to 1:15 in densely populated areas," the affidavit filed by BMC's E ward assistant commissioner reads. These submissions were made before a bench of Justice S J Kathawalla, who was hearing a petition filed by Neelkamal Realty, a DB Realty group company, challenging the requisition of its redevelopment building in Byculla by the civic body to use it as a quarantine facility. Two other developers had also joined in the plea challenging the requisition of their buildings in Worli and Andheri (west). The BMC informed the court on Tuesday that it had decided against using the buildings in Worli and Andheri, but Neelkamal Realty's building has to be used as a quarantine facility, considering the high number of COVID-19 cases in E ward, which includes Byculla. Neelkamal Realty Tower, a redevelopment building meant to house 240-odd tenants, was yet to meet civic requirements for an occupation certificate, the BMC told HC. And therefore, it had been converted into a 1,000-bed quarantine facility, where 940 people were currently recuperating, the civic body stated. Moreover, the building's proximity to civic-run Kasturba and Nair Hospitals also made it suitable, the BMC counsels, senior advocates Aspi Chinoy, and Anil Sakhre told HC. The civic body also told the court that it was willing to pay the developer a monthly rent of Rs 25 lakh that could be used for rent and repairs of transit facilities where the building's tenants were currently lodged. On Tuesday, advocate Vivek Shukla, who represents 140 tenants of the building, said the tenants were not against the building being used as a quarantine facility, as the developer was yet to handover the flats to them. Advocate Shukla added that the developer was "yet to pay them transit accommodation rent for the last four months." And as long as they were paid rent, the building could be used by the BMC, he said. The high court will continue hearing the matter on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-contact-tracing-ramped-up-in-mumbai-bmc-tells-hc-850545.html
17-06-2020||West||Maharashtra's active COVID-19 cases less than recoveries||As on Tuesday evening, the number of active patients stood at 50,044, while the number of patients who have recovered stood at 57,851. The total progressive cases stood at 1,13,445, according to figures released by the Public Health department. In Mumbai too there has been a change in the situation. According to data from the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, the total progressive positive patients stood at 60,142 while the number of active patients stood at 25,937. The total number of patients who have been discharged is 31,040 while casualties stand at 3,165.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-active-covid-19-cases-less-than-recoveries-850568.html
17-06-2020||West||5 accused in Palghar lynching case infected by COVID-19||Five more accused in the Palghar lynching case in Maharashtra, who were lodged in a lock-up at Wada police station, have tested positive for coronavirus, police said on Wednesday. Earlier, 17 accused in the case underwent swab tests, of which 11 tested positive for the deadly infection on Tuesday, an official said. As many as 156 persons were arrested after two monks on the way to Surat from Mumbai in a car were beaten to death along with their driver on April 16 by a mob at Gadchinchale village in the district on suspicion that they were thieves. The accused have been remanded in judicial custody but lodged in various police lock-ups, as some work is underway at Palghar jail. Reports of five more accused, who were lodged in a lock-up at Wada police station, came out positive for the infection on Wednesday, the official said. With this, 16 accused in the lynching case have contracted the infection, he said. The infected persons were sent to a COVID-19 hospital for treatment, while the health department was in the process of tracing their high-risk contacts, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-infected-by-covid-19-850654.html
17-06-2020||West||Numbar of active COVID-19 patients slide in Maharashtra||Amid the compounding Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra,  here comes some bit of encouraging news— the number of active cases in the state is less than those undergoing treatment. As on Tuesday evening, the number of active patients stood at 50,044. The total progressive cases stood at 1,13,445, of which 57,851 have been treated while 5,537 have died, according to figures released by the Public Health department. In Mumbai also there has been a change in the situation. According to data of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, the total progressive positive patients stood at 60,142 while active patients are 25,937. The total number of patients who have been discharged is 31,040 while casualties stand at 3,165. In terms of the spread, the state has shot up from only 2 COVID-19 positive cases on March 9 to 113,445 on Tuesday— a staggering average of 1,260 cases per day in the past nearly 100 days. A month on from the first patient’s death (March 17), the state on April 17 recorded 201 deaths and 3,320 patients; which by May 17 shot up 10 times to 33,053 cases and 1,198 fatalities; and by June 17 it has more than tripled to 113,445 patients and quadrupling to over 5,537 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/numbar-of-active-covid-19-patients-slide-in-maharashtra-850660.html
17-06-2020||West||Gujarat minister fined for not wearing mask||A minister in Gujarat had to pay a penalty of Rs 200 on Wednesday for not wearing a mask while entering the premises of Chief Minister's office in Gandhinagar ahead of a cabinet meeting. Wearing a mask outside home has been made mandatory by the government in an effort to contain the spread of coronavirus which has claimed 1,534 lives in the state so far. Local news channels showed Minister of State Ishwarsinh Patel entering the premises of the Chief Minister's office without a mask. All other ministers who arrived for the cabinet meet were seen wearing masks. Patel holds independent charge of sports, youth and cultural activities along with the cooperation portfolio. After the lapse was pointed out by news channels, the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation slapped a penalty of Rs 200 on him. After the cabinet meeting, Patel paid the penalty and showed the challan (receipt) to reporters. The minister said it happened inadvertently. "I have paid Rs 200 towards fine for not wearing mask. I always wear a mask. I somehow forgot to wear it when I stepped out of my car. Later I realized my mistake," Patel told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-minister-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-850664.html
17-06-2020||West||Maharashtra doing aggressive testing, ramping up health infra: CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has been testing samples aggressively and tracing new cases under 'chase the virus' strategy, and has also ramped up health infrastructure, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a virtual meeting on Wednesday. With this strategy, the virus spread has been significantly contained in Dharavi, the biggest and thickly-populated slum sprawl in Mumbai, an official release quoted Thackeray telling the prime minister. Worst hit by the pandemic, Maharashtra's COVID-19 case tally stood at 1,13,445 and fatalities 5,537, the highest in the country, as on June 16. Earlier in the day, the PM held online consultations with chief ministers and representatives of 14 states and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir on the second day of his sixth round of such interactions. During the meeting, Thackeray sought the Centre's permission to allow use of certain drugs in treatment of COVID-19 disease. He also demanded more PPE kits, N95 masks and ventilators, especially for rural areas. The chief minister told the PM that huge health infrastructure has been created in Maharashtra in the last two-and-a-half months, including field hospitals with overall capacity of three lakh beds. "Earlier there were three isolation hospitals, one laboratory, and capacity of 350 beds to tackle the pandemic, but now there are 97 laboratories, 282 dedicated COVID hospitals, 434 dedicated COVID health centres, and 1,631 dedicated COVID centres. In all the 36 districts of the state, there are 2,349 COVID facilities now. At present, there are 2,81,290 isolation beds, 37,845 oxygen beds, and 7,982 ICU beds. The number of quarantine facilities is 1,549 with 80,000 beds, he said. The CM said MOUs worth Rs 16,000 crore were signed earlier this week with investors to give a boost to the economic cycle.  "This will provide employment opportunities to 14,000 people," he said. Thackeray demanded that nationalised banks be directed to provide immediate loans to farmers. He told the PM that there should be uniformity in examination schedule across the country. When Modi talked about the clashes in Ladakh, Thackeray expressed confidence that the country would firmly deal with the issue under Modi's leadership. He also informed the PM about "massive" health facilities being created at the Nehru Science Centre, Racecourse, BKC, Goregaon Exhibition Centre in Mumbai and other places. The CM said more than 17 lakh migrant workers have been sent back to their native places from Maharashtra. "Under the 'Vande Bharat' mission, 78 flights have brought 12,974 passengers to Mumbai from other countries. Till July 1, 80 more flights are expected," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-doing-aggressive-testing-ramping-up-health-infra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-850710.html
