18-06-2020||First Edit||Govt hiking oil prices as people suffer||The consecutive increases in the prices of petrol and diesel, being effected by the government, lack economic logic and political sense, and may only be termed callous and insensitive measures in these difficult times. The prices of both fuels went up for the 12th time in as many days on Thursday, with a hike of 54 paise for petrol and 61 paise for diesel. Petrol now costs Rs 80.33 as against Rs 74.79 on June 8, and diesel Rs 72.68 as against 67.11 on June 8, in Bengaluru. A steep hike was also effected in the price of aviation fuel (ATF) for the second time in one month. Fuel prices had been frozen from March 16 and now they are being increased relentlessly. The government had hiked excise duty on both petrol and diesel in March and May, earning an additional revenue of Rs 2 lakh crore, but this was not passed on to the consumers.   The cumulative increases have taken petrol and diesel prices to two-year highs when crude prices are near their bottom levels. About 70% of the retail price of fuel comprises taxes and duties that go to the Central and state governments. The base price of a litre of petrol supplied to the dealers is just about Rs 20. The rest include taxes and commissions. It needs to be pointed out again that the consumer did not benefit when the international prices declined but always had to bear the burden of an increase in prices when the global prices went up. This is against the basic premise of the deregulation of petroleum prices and is an unfair business practice. The ATF prices were reduced during the lockdown period when airlines were not operating flights but have now been sharply hiked after they partially started commercial flights.   The government should be trying to increase liquidity or at least maintain the existing level of liquidity so that people spend money and increase demand for goods and services. That is necessary to counter the slowdown caused by the lockdown, but the government is instead taking money from the people. The steady increase in the price of fuels is also likely to spark inflation. The fuel demand, which had fallen to 30% of the normal levels in April, has now recovered to 80-85% of pre-Covid levels with the phased reopening of the economy. It is wrong that the government is only thinking of lining its own pockets when people are suffering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/govt-hiking-oil-prices-as-people-suffer-851153.html
18-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||As Karnataka observes 'Mask Day', Jagadish Shettar asks people to take precautions against coronavirus||"Everything cannot be controlled by penalising, but imposing fine for not wearing a mask in a public place has begun, and let us see its results. Both COVID-19 fight, and day-to-day activities should go together, but with proper alertness. However, there is no need for fear. Proper public co-operation is most essential to defeat COVID-19," he said. Inaugurating the district-level 'Mask Day' programme organised by District Administration, Taluk Administration, Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP), at Chennamma Circle in Hubballi on Thursday, he stated that the issue of observing 'Mask Day' every week would be thought at the government level, to create better awareness. COVID-19 testing and treatment are being done as per guidelines. It is being controlled in the country and the state, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa respectively, he noted. In a reply to the election of India to United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as a non-permanent member, Shettar said, "It shows that Narendra Modi has grown as a world leader". Earlier, Shettar distributed masks and hand sanitisers symbolically to some persons, and asked them to use them to stay protected from COVID-19 infection. Later, a Padayatra was taken out from Chennamma Circle to Durgadabail, via Lamington Road, Dr B R Ambedkar Circle, and Koppikar Road, to create awareness among people. Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan, Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal, and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/as-karnataka-observes-mask-day-jagadish-shettar-asks-people-to-take-precautions-against-coronavirus-850988.html
18-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||It's central leadership call: Jagadish Shettar on Karnataka Legislative Council nominees||Large & Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Thursday said the BJP nominees for Karnataka Legislative Council elections was the party's central leadership's decision.  "It is the party's central leadership's decision, and we have to follow it," he said while reacting to the list of BJP nominees announced by the BJP central leadership, which excluded former minister A H Vishwanath who moved from JD(S) to BJP and was defeated in Hunasur Assembly by-elections, We had discussed possible nominees at the state's core committee meeting, and had taken a unanimous decision. But, that does not mean that state BJP’s influence at the central level has come down, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/its-central-leadership-call-jagadish-shettar-on-karnataka-legislative-council-nominees-850993.html
18-06-2020||In Perspective||Reading message from Galwan correctly||A failure on the part of the Indian establishment to understand the Chinese mind has ultimately led to a tragic turn of events wherein the Indian Army has lost at least 20 soldiers including a battalion commander to perfidy by the People’s Liberation Army Ground Force (PLAGF).  In my op-ed titled ‘India Must Stand Firm’ (DH, May 31, 2020), I had evaluated China’s Summer 2020 intrusions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in light of a historical tendency on the part of Zhongnanhai to consolidate the Himalayan Frontier at times of internal tumult. Due to this somewhat compelling Chinese objective, I had observed that India’s ‘traditional policy of pursuing confidence-building measures (CBMs) to dial down tensions will not work sustainably’. Unfortunately, this has been borne out with India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) squarely blaming China’s ‘violation of the status quo’ as the causal factor for the deadly battle that ensued between Indian and Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley during June 15-16, 2020. As reports suggest and intelligence sources confirm, this engagement was precipitated by the PLAGF’s bid to take advantage of mutually agreed disengagement protocols that were being dutifully followed by the Indian Army. Specifically, instead of mounting a credible withdrawal to agreed upon positions, the PLAGF sought to reinforce itself close to an Indian post even as Indian troops were looking to pull back. Realising the PLAGF’s true agenda, Indian soldiers first sought to reason with their Chinese counterparts but were subsequently forced by the latter to defend India’s rightful claim. The ensuing melee resulted in casualties on both sides, but the Chinese disdain for previously agreed protocols is undeniable. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has now labelled this Chinese action as ‘pre-meditated and planned’. Simply put, the PLAGF was never in a hurry to withdraw. And why would they be? Their  ongoing intrusions are a result of a belief that this is the appropriate time for China to secure its Himalayan flank. Owing to the PLAGF’s recent modernisation, even as the Indian Army is still in the process of the same, and the near-completion of border works on the Tibetan plateau even as India’s own infrastructure development is still a work in progress, the Chinese would be forgiven for concluding that they hold certain advantages over India. Advantages, that may get eroded over the next decade as China’s own internal situation deteriorates and India recovers from the pandemic-induced shock.  So, the Chinese strategy is simply to consolidate its own offensive potential across the Himalayas while denying the same to the Indian side as far as possible. The PLAGF, in charge of implementing this strategy, has therefore intruded across ‘settled’ stretches of the LAC, such as the Galwan Valley, where it had already reached its 1960 claim line subsequent to the Sino-Indian War of 1962. But today, that claim line is no longer satisfactory for the Chinese because Indian infrastructure, despite delays, has improved along such settled stretches in Eastern Ladakh and will soon credibly increase India’s offensive potential. This is the logic behind China’s latest attempts to unilaterally ‘re-align’ the LAC to its gain. China is likely to attempt the same in Sikkim as well, given that the Chumbi Valley remains vulnerable to Indian action despite the PLAGF’s occupation of the Doklam Plateau. An unfolding game However, the PLAGF’s ‘activism’ ultimately stems from China’s perception that a pandemic-ridden 2020 is the best time for it to buy another ‘30 years of peace’ to quote Mao Zedong’s justification for the 1962 war which happened in the midst of the disastrous ‘Great Leap Forward’. Such a view of things sits well with the supposedly schematic ‘Chinese mind’ that admits a beginning of time but no end of time, as a former Australian diplomat and cultural intelligence specialist told me years ago. So, an open-ended geopolitical game which is made up of attempts to secure periodic gains depending on the balance of power is quite in keeping with Chinese strategic behaviour. Indeed, the Chinese game of Weiqi, which involves grabbing as much of the board as possible through strategic misdirection, is an apt metaphor for China’s approach to the Himalayan game.  New Delhi must realise that Beijing’s ambition is to bind it further with new confidence building measures even as the PLAGF doggedly pursues a strategy of consolidation along the Himalayan frontier. Thus, it would be better for India to hunker down along the entire LAC if need be, than seem too eager for ‘de-escalatory’ talks that end up serving China’s large game plan. After all, the much touted disengagement agreement of early June 2020 that was negotiated to prevent the growing possibility of escalation has ended up causing precisely what it sought to preclude. In that context, the just concluded foreign minister-level talks offer little hope for an early solution and indeed reports suggest that the Indian military forces have been put on high-alert. China has not entered the theatre to leave without a multi-act play. It is time India too girded its loins for whatever lies ahead.  (The writer is Chief Editor, Delhi Defence Review)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/reading-message-from-galwan-correctly-851155.html
18-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 13 more villages to get Cauvery water||The BWSSB is all set to begin the supply of Cauvery water to 13 more villages brought under the BBMP limits in 2007. So far, 38 villages are getting Cauvery water under the BWSSB’s Cauvery V project to provide water supply to the villages newly added to the city. “We start supply as and when the pipeline work is finished,” said B Shivaprasad, chief engineer (Project), Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board. The work to lay the pipelines has been in the final stages in 20 villages, he added. Those who need Cauvery water supply must apply for the new connection online and pay a one-time fee of Rs 2,500. The underground drainage work is also going on in the villages. Though the BWSSB had planned to finish the project by 2019, only 50% of the project is over. Nodal officers for villages For the BWSSB connection, villagers can contact: Doddabettahalli (9845444139), Ullalu (9740984166), Alahalli, Anjanapura, Chikkatoguru, Doddatoguru, Basapura (9845444121), Bellanduru Kaikondrahalli (9845444054), B Lingadheeranahalli,Hosahalli (9740984165), and Vaddarapalya and Gubbalalu (9945518971). To submit an application online, visit: www.bwssb.gov.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-13-more-villages-to-get-cauvery-water-850813.html
18-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||PU II exams commenced with safety measures in Mysuru||Earlier, the PU Department had postponed the examination due to outbreak of COVID-19.  The authorities said that they have taken all the measures to ensure the safety of the students. All the students and the staff were screened.  Each centre provided sanitisers and both students and staff wore face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pu-ii-exams-commenced-with-safety-measures-in-mysuru-850921.html
18-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru observes 'Mask Day'||In order to sensitise people about the importance of wearing masks, to combat the spread of diseases like Covid-19, ‘Mask Day’ was observed across the district on Thursday. The day was observed at all taluk headquarters and the authorities concerned explained about the importance of wearing masks. Apart from taluk administrations, the Police department also observed the day. City Police distributed masks to needy people at Ayurveda College Circle. Police Commissioner Chandragupta distributed masks to the people and requested them to wear masks while moving around. Mysuru Taluk administration observed the day and Executive Officer Krishna Kumar administered oath to the staff. Mysuru City Corporation organised a programme to mark the day and a host of officials and people’s representatives participated in the event at Agrahara. The state government has decided to observe June 18 as ‘Mask Day’ to spread awareness about the use of masks, sanitisers, washing of hands with soap, and maintaining social distance among other things, aimed at controlling the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-observes-mask-day-851102.html
18-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Radio collars to 10 jumbos soon: Minister||District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah said that radio collars would be fixed to 10 wild elephants, to check their menace in the district, that have been causing loss to lives and properties. Speaking at a meeting at the taluk office here, on Thursday, he discussed the measures taken to check Covid-19. Commenting on the jumbo menace in Sakleshpur taluk, the minister said, "Farmers and coffee growers of the Malnad region are losing crops worth lakhs of rupees, due to wild jumbos. The animals are also causing loss of lives and properties." "It is not possible to relocate all elephants at a time, as per law. Hence, one elephant from each herd would be fixed radio collars, as a temporary measure, to minimise the damage," he said. "The farmers have to be paid Rs 60 lakh compensation for crop loss, according to the Forest department. I will speak to the Forest Minister and ensure that the compensation is released. The state government is determined to find a permanent solution to the wild jumbo menace," he assured. Deputy Commmissioner R Girish, Superintendent of Police Srinivas Gowda and ZP CEO Paramesh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/radio-collars-to-10-jumbos-soon-minister-851104.html
18-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Let MySugar factory resume under O&M system'||Members of various organisations, led by ex-MLA H D Chowdaiah, staged a mega protest, urging the government to resume MySugar factory under Operation and Management (O&M) system, near the Deputy Commissioner's office in Mandya on Thursday. The protesters, who gathered near Sir M Visvesvaraya statue, took out a rally, holding placards with slogans 'Resume MySugar and protect sugarcane growers'. There are seven lakh tonne of sugarcane ready for harvest, under MySugar factory limits. The cane growers are awaiting for the factory to begin functioning. Though cane was supplied to other factories last year, the farmers were not paid transport costs. The historical factory is now neglected. The government should bail out the farmers, by beginning it under O&M system, they stressed. MP A Sumalatha, who extended support to the protest, said, "A few elected representatives of the district are warning of intensified protest (ugra horata), if the factory is started under O&M system. They are doing selfish politics on the issue." Indian soldiers are fighting for the country on China border, but protesters are insulting the jawans and the farmers. Who will be responsible, if the farmers end their lives, following further delay in resuming the factory? she questioned. The previous government had earmarked Rs 69 crore and had decided to begin the factory under O&M system. Why are the leaders, who remained mute then, opposing it now? she asked. Some of them are personally attacking me, over the O&M issue, and have been insulting me. They are alleging that my supporters are eyeing the factory. My supporters are in a good position and are not eyeing the factory, she said. Former minister M S Atamananda, Congress district president C D Gangadhar, ex-MLA G B Shivakumar, farmer leader K S Nanjundegowda and Venugopal were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/let-mysugar-factory-resume-under-om-system-851106.html
18-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||30K students appear for II PUC examination||Amid Covid-19, second PUC students appeared for English paper examination on Thursday. As many as 30,129 students appeared for the examination in the district. A total of 31,542 students had enrolled to appear for the examination, but a few of them skipped the examination due to various reasons. Deputy Director for Pre-University Education (DDPU) Geetha said that the examination was largely peaceful and all measures were in place to ensure safety of students and staff members. The students were allowed to enter the examination centre only after thermal screening. All students and teachers were screened before they entered the examination hall, the DDPU said. The PU Board had established a total of 50 centers. While 26 centers were in the city, 24 were established across Mysuru district. Thermal screening was done at all centres and the authorities had made special arrangements for those suffering from health issues. Geetha said, “As many as 12 students in Nanjangud and four in KR Nagar wrote exams separately as they had health issues. Each centre was provided with sanitisers and, both students and staff wore face masks.” The DDPU said, “The students appeared at the examination centre an hour in advance and they were allowed to revise the lessons.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/30k-students-appear-for-ii-puc-examination-851108.html
18-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress to launch ‘jail bharo’ campaign against fuel hike, land reforms||The Karnataka Congress will soon launch a statewide ‘jail bharo’ campaign against the policies of the BJP government in the Centre and the state, including the fuel price hike and the proposed amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act.  It was decided in the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting chaired by former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday that protests should be held all over the state against the ruling BJP.  Siddaramaiah has even shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre to roll back the fuel price hike and the “reduced burden will help the common man to have additional money in hand...” The CLP meeting also discussed the implications of the government’s plan to open up agricultural lands for purchase by even non-agriculturists by amending the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. “This will be a black legislation. The Congress will protest this across the state,” Siddaramaiah, who is also the leader of the opposition, said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-to-launch-jail-bharo-campaign-against-fuel-hike-land-reforms-851057.html
18-06-2020||Main Article||Who governs Delhi?||New Delhi has emerged as a hotspot of coronavirus in India and the Delhi government has been under attack for its inability to take effective steps to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, with even the Supreme Court expressing its displeasure. The apex court has observed that Delhi’s patient care was “deplorable and pathetic…patients running from pillar to post to get admission while large number of beds are lying vacant”. All states in India are engaged in waging this terrible war against the virus in their own way but the case of Delhi is somewhat different.  Although a state, the national capital’s governance system differs from that of other states. In the first place, Delhi is more of a vast urban agglomeration within a limited geographical territory. Urban governance in India, at best of times, is a complex process. Even those at the helm of affairs, let alone the citizens, can hardly keep count of the exact number of multiple agencies operating in any large city. When it comes to a megacity like Delhi, the task becomes more daunting, with the national government making its presence felt like a colossus. Delhi was a Union Territory (UT) until 1991 when the Constitution was amended by adding Article 233A and the UT was renamed as National Capital Territory (NCT).The Delhi State Assembly was re-established in 1993. So, we have a state government of Delhi with an elected body, a cabinet and a chief minister like any other state. But unlike other states which have a Governor as the executive head, it has a Lieutenant Governor (LG) who is vested with administrative powers. Subjects relating to land, police and public order which, under the Constitution, fall under the domain of the states, come under the jurisdiction of the Central government in the case of Delhi. The L-G also enjoys the power to reserve ‘any matter’ for the consideration of the President of India where he has a difference of opinion with the chief minister. Confusion in the roles of the state government, the LG and the Union government led to a serious confrontation between the authorities after the AAP government assumed power in Delhi. The matter inevitably reached the Supreme Court which, in 2017, ruled that Delhi was not a state, but the chief minister was the executive head of the government and the L-G was bound by the advice of the council of ministers. Further, the latter could exercise the power to reserve a matter for consideration of the President only in exceptional circumstances and if it is of ‘vital national interest’. In the current scenario of COVID-19 where public health, a state subject, has become the focus of public attention, the role of the state government assumes great importance. With the number of COVID-19 cases accelerating every day, the Delhi government and its chief minister are inevitably under great pressure. The issue was further exacerbated when Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal made a surprise announcement that the Delhi hospitals would be reserved only for Delhi residents. Obviously, all this led to a spat between the Centre and state government vitiating the atmosphere at a time when there is a need for united action. It must be noted that there are other players delivering infrastructure and essential services in the NCT. There are three municipal corporations - Delhi North, South and East - which are elected bodies performing civic functions. Then we have the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) which is responsible for city planning and housing, of which the L-G is the chairman. Central area There is another entity called the New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) which manages what is known as Lutyen’s Delhi, comprising the core central area of the city, housing the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Parliament House, the famous central vista, diplomatic enclave and other prominent public buildings. This is a non-elected body whose chairman and members are nominated by the Central government. In times of crisis such as the one we are passing through, all agencies are expected to work in coordination. We are seeing this happen in other states. The municipal bodies, in particular, are playing a key role in managing COVID-19-related matters in other cities but strangely in Delhi, the state government and the municipal corporations were found quarrelling over the death toll, each giving separate figures and blaming each other. This leads us to the larger and vital question of the status of Delhi. The present confusing status of half-state and half-UT cannot continue for long. The governance of the national capital of India cannot be a victim of conflicts between different authorities, each trying to assert its suzerainty to the detriment of the welfare of the people. The solution seems to lie in making Delhi a full-fledged state (with no LG) or a UT. In the case of the former option, the Union government cannot continue to exercise its authority over matters pertaining to land, police and public order. To expect any government, irrespective of the party affiliation, to give up its power over real estate and police power in a huge metropolis with global importance would be unrealistic. The balance of convenience, therefore, seems lie in declaring Delhi a UT. The NCT of Delhi covers an area of 1,483 sq km with a population of about two crore. It includes a number of villages spread over an area of 783 sq km. It is neither necessary nor desirable to bring rural areas bordering the national capital under the jurisdiction of the Central government. Hence, it would only be proper to merge the villages with the adjoining states of the National Capital Region (NCR). The UT of Delhi would then become a compact urban area of 700 sq km. While Lutyen’s Delhi will continue to be managed by the NDMC, the rest of the city would be governed by the three municipal corporations. The proposal is fraught with serious political implications and its pros and cons must be examined and deliberated, with inputs from the people. But the diarchy in Delhi must end. (The writer is former Chief Secretary, Karnataka government)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/who-governs-delhi-851154.html
18-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley: India-China Army talks end in a stalemate||A dialogue between Major General rank Army officers from India and China to find out a solution to the current crisis ended in a stalemate on Wednesday. The Indian team was headed by Major General Abhijit Bapat, commanding officer of the 3 Division who tried to reason with the Chinese Commander on the modalities of the disengagement process but could not take the PLA commander on-board as he stuck to his grounds. The talks are expected to resume on Thursday.  Meanwhile, the heavy presence of troops from both sides in the Galwan valley continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-india-china-army-talks-end-in-a-stalemate-850814.html
18-06-2020||National||India rejects China's claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley||India has rejected China’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley, where the soldiers of the two nations had a violent clash on Monday, resulting in casualties on both sides. China last month started claiming sovereignty over the Galwan Valley, which was under effective control of the Indian Army for the past six decades. After the violent face-off between the soldiers of the two nations on Monday, the spokespersons of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government re-asserted China’s sovereignty over Galwan Valley, accusing the Indian Army of crossing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations. They also accused the Indian Army soldiers of deliberately provoking the Chinese PLA “officers and soldiers”, resulting in “fierce physical clashes” and casualties. Jaishankar and Wang on Wednesday spoke to each other and discussed the violent clash between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley. They agreed to “handle the overall situation” “in a responsible manner” and resolve the stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in accordance with the understanding reached during the meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on June 6. “Both sides have agreed that the overall situation should be handled in a responsible manner and that the understandings reached between Senior Commanders on 6th June should be implemented sincerely,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi early on Thursday. He recalled the consensus reached between the External Affairs Minister and his counterpart in Beijing during the phone-call on Wednesday. “Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding,” he added, dismissing Chinese Government’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley. The Galwan Valley has been unaffected by the occasional flashpoints along the disputed India-China boundary for several decades, after a post of the Indian Army in the area was overrun by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in November 1962. The area remained under India’s effective control without any challenge from China for several decades. The lull ended last month, when the Chinese PLA deployed a large number of soldiers in response to what Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party of China, reported as the construction of defence facilities by the Indian Army. The deployment of additional troops by the Chinese PLA in Galwan Valley was part of its build-ups along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. It also built a bunker on the northern bank of Pangong Tso (lake), denying the Indian Army soldiers access to an area they earlier regularly patrolled. The Chinese PLA soldiers also transgressed into India’s side of the LAC. The Indian Army too deployed “additional troops” in adequate numbers. The build-ups by both sides resulted in a stand-off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-chinas-claim-of-sovereignty-over-galwan-valley-850822.html
18-06-2020||National||Armed forces always shown remarkable courage, protected India's sovereignty: PM Narendra Modi||The armed forces have always shown remarkable courage and steadfastly protected India's sovereignty, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, paying tribute to the army personnel killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops in east Ladakh. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. "Tributes to the martyrs who lost their lives protecting our nation in eastern Ladakh. Their supreme sacrifice will never be forgotten," the prime minister said in a tweet. Tributes to the martyrs who lost their lives protecting our nation in Eastern Ladakh. Their supreme sacrifice will never be forgotten. He also shared a video clip of his opening remarks at the chief ministers' virtual conference on the coronavirus pandemic. India is proud of the valour of its armed forces. They have always shown remarkable courage and steadfastly protected India's sovereignty, he said. Expressing condolences to the families of the army men killed in the face-off, the prime minister said the country's brave sons have made the supreme sacrifice while protecting the motherland in the Galwan Valley. "Today, the whole country is with you. This sacrifice of our martyrs will not go in vain. Whatever be the situation, India will firmly defend its self-respect, every inch of land," he said. The prime minister also asked those participating in the virtual interaction to observe a two-minute silence as a mark of respect for the slain soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-always-shown-remarkable-courage-protected-indias-sovereignty-pm-narendra-modi-850832.html
18-06-2020||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for 12th straight day||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the 12th straight day on Thursday after an 82-day break from rate revision amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic. Petrol price on Thursday was hiked by 53 paise per litre and diesel by 64 paise a litre. Petrol will now cost Rs 77.81 per litre (increase by 53 paise) and diesel Rs 76.43 per litre (increase by 64 paise), respectively, in Delhi today. In Bengaluru, petrol prices breached the Rs 80 per litre mark. It will now be costlier by 54 paise more per litre at Rs 80.33 per litre, while diesel will cost 61 paise more per litre at Rs 72.68 per litre.  Yesterday, Congress President Sonia Gandhi shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding an immediate rollback in the regular increase in the prices of petrol and diesel. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. This is the 12th daily increase in rates in a row since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs, after ending an 82-day hiatus in rate revision. In 12 hikes, petrol price has gone up by Rs 6.55 per litre and diesel by Rs 7.04 a litre. The freeze in rates was imposed in mid-March soon after the government hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel to shore up additional finances. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices to two decade low. International oil prices have since rebounded and oil firms are now adjusting retail rates in line with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-12th-straight-day-850854.html
18-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 18, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-18-2020-edition-850855.html
18-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 18||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 3,80,627 as of June 18. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 12,601 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,94,325 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-18-850858.html
18-06-2020||National||Two COVID-19 fatalities in J&K||Two COVID-19 positive patients, both senior citizens, from Shopian and Baramulla districts of Jammu and Kashmir died here on Wednesday taking the number of fatalities due to the coronavirus in the union territory to 65, officials said.   A 65-year-old man from Feripora area of Shopian, in south Kashmir, died of cardiopulmonary arrest at around 4 am on Wednesday at SKIMS hospital Soura, the officials said. They said the patient was admitted to the hospital on Monday with complaints of fever and shortness of breath, and was diagnosed with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder. The patient was on non-invasive ventilation and his son who was attending to him had given negative consent for intubation, the officials added. In the second fatality of the day, a 70-year-old patient from Khanpora area of north Kashmir's Baramulla district died at SMHS hospital here this evening, the officials said. They said the patient was admitted to the hospital on Monday and his sample returned as positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday. The patient had bilateral pneumonia, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-covid-19-fatalities-in-jk-850860.html
18-06-2020||National||Security forces kill terrorist in Pulwama encounter; operation still on||Security forces killed a terrorist during an encounter in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation at Meej in Pampori area of Pulwama, in South Kashmir, this morning after receiving specific information about the presence of terrorists, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after terrorists fired on a search party of the forces, who retaliated. One terrorist has been killed, the official said, adding the operation was ongoing. On Tuesday, security forces killed three terrorists in Shopian district, also in South Kashmir. Two AK rifles and one INSAS rifle were recovered from the encounter site. On Saturday, two terrorists were killed in Kulgam district. More than 100 terrorists, including over a dozen top commanders of various outfits, have been killed in separate encounters in the Union Territory this year, according to official estimates. As many as 28 terrorists were killed in April, while 22 were killed in the past fortnight, officials said, adding 18 terrorists each were eliminated in January and May and seven each in February and March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-forces-kill-terrorist-in-pulwama-encounter-operation-still-on-850879.html
18-06-2020||National||India-China border tension: Conscience of nation bruised, onus on government for bipartisan response, says Pranab Mukherjee||Former President Pranab Mukherjee has said that the violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan Valley is of “grave concern” for national strategic interest. He warned that it will also have far-reaching global geopolitical ramifications. Mukherjee, who also served as Defence Minister and External Affairs Minister during the UPA regime, said the conscience of the nation has been bruised and needed to be addressed satisfactorily by the entire political class through bipartisan consensus. He said the onus of achieving bipartisan consensus was mostly on the government, which has to take various stakeholders, including the Armed Forces onboard. “It is for the government of the day to ensure that nothing but our national interests are kept supreme,” Mukherjee said. He said this situation has to be successfully diffused and contained but it also has to be ensured that all avenues were explored to avoid any repetition in the future. Mukherjee said that it was his “considered opinion that no service in the cause of Mother India could be greater than the service rendered by the brave hearts, who guard our sovereignty and integrity”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-tension-conscience-of-nation-bruised-onus-on-government-for-bipartisan-response-says-pranab-mukherjee-850890.html
18-06-2020||National||App to provide information on ICU beds, ventilators in Mumbai||Amid the COVID-19 crisis, citizens of Mumbai can now get information about the availability of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and ventilators in hospitals of the city through a new mobile app, Mayor Kishori Pednekar has said. It would help people during emergency situations, she said after launching the 'Air-Venti' app on Wednesday. "The app would help citizens in the finding of the availability of ICU beds and ventilators in Mumbai hospitals," Pednekar told reporters. The app is connected to the dashboard of the city's disaster control room and its link can also be accessed through the Mumbai civic body's app, she said. The 'Air-Venti' app can be downloaded through the Google Play Store, she added. Till Wednesday, Mumbai reported 61,501 COVID-19 cases and 3,242 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/app-to-provide-information-on-icu-beds-ventilators-in-mumbai-850892.html
18-06-2020||National||Migrant outreach: PM Modi to launch Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan||Four months before Bihar goes to state polls, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch this scheme in presence of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi on June 20 from a village Telihar in Beldaur of Khagaria district of the state. The chief ministers of other five states--- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha as well as Union Ministers in-charge of 12 different ministries and departments, which will together coordinate the scheme, will also participate in the virtual launch.  The villages across 116 districts in the six states will join this programme through the Common Service Centres and Krishi Vigyan Kendras, maintaining the norms of social distancing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The campaign will create durable infrastructure along with boosting employment opportunities such as - public works worth Rs 50,000 crore will be carried out under this Abhiyaan, a government release said. The government said that this campaign of 125 days, which will work in mission mode, will involve intensified and focused implementation of 25 different types of works to provide employment to the migrant workers, on one hand, and create infrastructure in the rural regions of the country, on the other hand. A total of 116 districts with more than 25,000 returnee migrant workers across these six states have been chosen for the campaign which includes 27 aspirational districts. These districts are estimated to cover about two-thirds of such migrant workers. The scheme will be a coordinated effort of 12 different ministries/departments, namely, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Road Transport & Highways, Mines, Drinking Water & Sanitation, Environment, Railways, Petroleum & Natural Gas, New & Renewable Energy, Border Roads, Telecom and Agriculture. The migrant issue has kicked in huge politics in states with large migrant populations where elections are due in the next two years. In Bihar, which goes to polls this year by October, the Congress and the RJD have launched a campaign to put the BJP and NDA government at Centre and in the state on the mat alleging "mess" in migrant management and painting the government as anti-poor. West Bengal, which goes to polls next year saw a massive war of words on the issue between Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.  In Uttar Pradesh, where elections will be held in early 2022, Priyanka Gandhi proposed to run 1,000 buses to ferry migrants back to home and trained guns on Yogi Adityanath government of the state for allegedly not paying attention to the woes of migrants. In Delhi, Congress party had also released a video of Rahul Gandhi interacting with a group of migrants on the move talking about their hardships. The campaign by the Opposition leaders had come in the back of visuals of migrants marching on foot for thousand kilometres back to their homes and hundreds of them having been killed in that process either due to accidents or suffering strokes and illness. BJP is hopeful that the Abhiyan will blunt such criticism from the Opposition, which was out to take "political mileage of the humanitarian crisis".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-outreach-pm-modi-to-launch-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-850903.html
18-06-2020||National||4 BRTF personnel test COVID-19 positive in Arunachal; count rises to 103||The number of novel coronavirus cases in Arunachal Pradesh has crossed the 100-mark with four Border Roads Task Force (BRTF) personnel testing positive for the infection, a senior health official said on Thursday. The four new cases have taken the virus count in the northeastern state to 103, of which 93 are active cases and ten persons have recovered, he said. The fresh cases have been reported from quarantine centres in Lower Dibang Valley, Namsai, Tirap and Lower Siang districts. The patients are asymptomatic and have been admitted to COVID-19 care centres of the BRTF, State Surveillance Officer, Dr L Jampa, said. The new patients had recently returned to Arunachal Pradesh from other states, he said. The infected person from Lower Dibang Valley had returned from Uttar Pradesh while the one from Namsai had come back from Tamil Nadu. The new patient form Tirap had returned from Kerala while the one from Lower Siang district had come back from Chandigarh, Jampa said. A total of three persons were discharged from COVID-19 care centres on Wednesday after their samples tested negative for the coronavirus in two consecutive tests, he said, adding they have been advised 14-days home quarantine. Of the 93 active cases in the state, 58 are from Changlang, nine from East Siang, eight from Capital Complex comprising Itanagar and Naharlagun, four from West Kameng, three each from Lower Dibang Valley and Tirap, two each from Lohit and Namsai and one each from Longding, Lower Siang, Tawang and West Siang districts. The first COVID-19 case in the state was reported on April 2. The person had recovered on April 16. The state had registered its second case after a gap of almost six weeks, on May 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-brtf-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-arunachal-count-rises-to-103-850911.html
18-06-2020||National||Two Toyota Kirloskar employees at Bidadi plant in Karnataka test positive for COVID-19||Two employees at Toyota Kirloskar Motor's Bidadi plant in Karnataka have tested positive for COVID-19, the auto major said in a notification. The automaker, which had resumed production at the plant on May 26 after weeks coronavirus-led lockdown, has again temporarily suspended operations at the facility due to the confirmed cases. Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) said it had partially restarted operations with a reduced workforce at its plants while all the strategic business units (SBU) office staff at Bangalore, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata still continue to work from home. "However, despite all such measures, two employees at the company's Bidadi plant tested positive for COVID-19 on June 16," it said. The said employees had last attended work on June 7 and June 16, respectively, it added. As a first step and through appropriate contact tracing, the company has started identifying all those employees who may have had primary or secondary contact with the infected employees for necessary treatment and quarantine wherever necessary, and is in contact with the local government authorities, it said.  "Operations at TKM plant has already been temporarily suspended so that required disinfection can be carried out at the plant," it added. The company said it has also extended all necessary support to the infected employees for medical treatment as well as quarantine procedures. "The company is in touch with the families of the infected employees so as to support them to handle this situation carefully without further complications," TKM said. Considering the safety and security of its employees and all of its stakeholders as its first priority, the auto major said it will continue to take all possible preventive and remedial measures to deal with the developing situation and closely work with various stakeholders including the relevant statutory authorities. Last month, Hyundai Motor India and Maruti Suzuki had reported COVID-19 cases at their respective plants. Hyundai had reported three cases at its Chennai plant, while Maruti had confirmed one case at its Manesar facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-toyota-kirloskar-employees-at-bidadi-plant-in-karnataka-test-positive-for-covid-19-850913.html
18-06-2020||National||Another elephant found dead in Chhattisgarh; 6th fatality in 10 days||A wild elephant was found dead at a village in Chhattisgarh's Raigarh district on Thursday, an official said. This is the sixth death of an elephant in the state in the last 10 days. On Thursday morning, the carcass of a tusker was spotted behind a house in Behramar village under Chhal forest range of Raigarh, Divisional Forest Officer, Dharamjaigarh division, Priyanka Pandey said. Forest personnel rushed to the spot after being alerted by the villager behind whose house the carcass was found, she said. The cause of death will be known after the postmortem, Pandey said adding an investigation is underway. On Tuesday, an elephant died after coming in contact with a live electric wire at a farm in a village of Dharamjaigarh forest division of Raigarh. Five people, including three staff members of the state power company, were later arrested in connection with the death. In another incident on Tuesday, an elephant calf died after being stuck in a marshland in Dhamatri district. Last week, carcasses of two elephants were recovered from the Pratappur forest range of Surajpur district on June 9 and 10, while another jumbo was found dead in its neighbouring Balrampur district on June 11. Later, three state forest officials and a guard were suspended and a show cause notice was issued to a divisional forest officer for alleged dereliction of duty in connection with the death of the elephant in Balrampur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-elephant-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-6th-fatality-in-10-days-850915.html
18-06-2020||National||BJP pays homage to soldiers killed in Ladakh, postpones virtual rallies for 2 days||The BJP has postponed its political programmes, including ongoing virtual rallies, as a mark of respect to the soldiers killed in Ladakh's Galwan valley, its president J P Nadda said on Thursday. "The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. The BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for the next 2 days," he said in a tweet. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-pays-homage-to-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-postpones-virtual-rallies-for-2-days-850918.html
18-06-2020||National||India records 12,881 fresh COVID-19 cases, tally climbs to 3,66,946||A record single-day jump of 12,881 COVID-19 cases took India's tally to 3,66,946 on Thursday, while the death toll climbed to 12,237 with 334 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. From June 1 till 18, the country saw a surge of 1,76,411 coronavirus infection cases with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh remaining among the top ten states accounting for the rising tally of COVID-19.  The country had recorded a massive spike of 2,003 deaths on Wednesday following a data reconciliation exercise carried out by states which brought to the fore large number of fatalities previously reported in Maharashtra and Delhi which were not attributed to the disease. In the last two days, India's COVID-19 fatality rate has risen from 2.8 to 3.3 per cent now. The number of active cases as on Thursday stands at 1,60,384, while 1,94,324 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the updated figure at 8 am.    "Thus, around 52.95 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.   India registered over 10,000 cases for the seventh day in a row.   Of the 334 new deaths reported till Thursday morning, 114 were in Maharashtra, 67 in Delhi, 48 in Tamil Nadu, 27 in Gujarat, 18 in Uttar Pradesh, 12 in Harynana, 11 in West Bengal, eight in Karnataka, six each in Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, five in Rajasthan, three in Bihar, two each in Jammu and Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh. Chhattishgarh, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Telangana and Uttarakhand reported one COVID-19 fatality each.    India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is at the eighth position in terms of the death toll.    Of the total 12, 237 deaths, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 5,651 fatalities followed by Delhi with 1,904 deaths, Gujarat with 1,560, Tamil Nadu with 576, West Bengal with 506, Madhya Pradesh with 482, Uttar Pradesh with 435, Rajasthan with 313 and Telangana with 192 deaths. The COVID-19 death toll reached 130 in Haryana, 102 in Karnataka, 90 in Andhra Pradesh, 78 in Punjab, 65 in Jammu and Kashmir, 44 in Bihar, 26 in Uttarakhand, 20 in Kerala and 11 in Odisha. Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh have registered 10 deaths each, while Assam and Himachal Pradesh have recorded 8 deaths each.  Puducherry has reported 7 deaths,  Chandigarh 6 while Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported 1 fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, the ministry said.   Maharashtra has reported maximum number of cases at 1,16,752 followed by Tamil Nadu at 50,193,  Delhi at 47,102, Gujarat at 25,093, Uttar Pradesh at 14,598, Rajasthan at 13,542 and West Bengal at 12,300, according to the Health Ministry's data.  The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 11,244 in Madhya Pradesh, 8,832 in Haryana, 7,734 in Karnataka, 7,071 in Andhra Pradesh and 6,942 in Bihar.  It has risen to 5,675 in Telangana, 5,406 in Jammu and Kashmir, 4,605 in Assam and 4,338 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 3,497 novel coronavirus cases so far, while Kerala has 2,697 cases.  A total of 2,023 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 1,895 in Jharkhand, 1,864 in Chhattisgarh, 1,135 in Tripura, 687 in Ladakh, 656 in Goa, 569 in Himachal Pradesh and 552 in Manipur. Chandigarh has registered 368 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry has 245 cases, Nagaland has 193, Mizoram has 121, Arunachal Pradesh has 99, Sikkim has 70, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 57 COVID-19 cases.  Meghalaya and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have registered 44 infections each so far. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding 8,703 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-12881-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-366946-850920.html
18-06-2020||National||PM Modi launches auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining, a move that opens India's coal sector for private players, and termed it a major step in the direction of India achieving self-reliance. Launching the auction of mines for commercial mining, that is expected to garner Rs 33,000 crore of capital investment in the country over next five to seven years, the Prime Minister said India will win the coronavirus war and turn this crisis into an opportunity, and the pandemic will make India self-reliant. The launch of the auction process not only marks the beginning of unlocking of the country’s coal sector from the “lockdown of decades”, but aims at making India the largest exporter of coal, the Prime Minister said. Presently, despite being the world's fourth largest producer, he said India is the second largest importer of the dry-fuel. "Allowing private sector in commercial coal mining is unlocking resources of a nation with the world's fourth-largest reserves," he pointed out. Major scams had taken place in coal action earlier, but the system has been made "transparent" now, PM said lambasting past policies of keeping the sector closed. The PM said that this auction process will result in major revenues to states and create employment besides developing the far-flung areas.  The commencement of auction process of these blocks, part of the series of announcements made under 'Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan', is likely to contribute Rs 20,000 crore revenues annually to the state governments. In line with the Prime Minister's self-reliance call, the aim behind the auction process is to achieve self-sufficiency in meeting energy needs and boosting industrial development. The government has taken an important decision to open up coal and mining sector to competition, capital and technology, he said. Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi, who was also be present during the launch event, said Rs 50,000 crore is being invested in the sector to jack up India's coal output to 1 billion tonne. With a view to achieve self-reliance in the coal sector, the Ministry of Coal in association with FICCI launched the process of auction of 41 coal mines under the provisions of Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act and Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. Upon attainment of peak rated capacity of production of 225 million tonnes (MT), the government said, these mines will contribute about 15 per cent of the country’s projected total coal production in 2025-26. It will also lead to employment generation for more than 2.8 lakh people -- direct employment to approximately 70,000 people and indirect employment to approximately 2,10,000 people, as per the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-auction-process-for-41-coal-blocks-for-commercial-mining-850923.html
18-06-2020||National||PIL in HC against making LG chairman of DDMA; seeks quashing his decision on hospitals||A PIL in the Delhi High Court has challenged the law making the Lieutenant Governor as the chairperson of Delhi Disaster Management Authority while seeking quashing of his decision to set aside the AAP government order to hospitals to treat only bona fide residents of the national capital. The petition contended that the LG as DDMA chairperson exceeded his jurisdiction by allowing residents of other states to use the resources of the national capital. The plea, by advocate Dheeraj Kumar Singh, claimed that LG Anil Baijal's June 8 order setting aside Delhi government's June 7 direction to hospitals here, to treat only bona fide residents of the national capital, was in contravention of the provisions of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005. It sought to quash the provision in the DMA under which the LG has been made the head of the DDMA, saying that in other states and Union Territories the chief minister heads such a body. The petition contends that there cannot be such a "discrimination" between two similarly placed UTs. It further stated that a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court had held that the LG of Delhi is bound by aid and advice of the Council of Ministers on all matters on which the Legislative Assembly has the power to make laws. It said the apex court also held that the LG must be informed of decisions of the Council of Ministers, but his concurrence is not necessary in matters where Delhi assembly can make laws.  "Therefore, the order passed by the Delhi government on June 7 shall prevail upon notification/order issued by the chairperson of DDMA on June 8," the petition claims. It also stated that according to provisions of the DMA, the state disaster management authority has to lay down guidelines for providing relief to persons affected by a disaster and the quantum of relief cannot be less than the minimum standard laid down by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). Therefore, DDMA was under "legal compulsion" to provide minimum relief, like shelter, food, drinking water, medical cover, sanitation, and ex-gratia on account of the loss of life or livelihood, during any disaster, including the coronavirus outbreak. However, no such relief work has been initiated by DDMA till the filing of the petition despite thousands of people dying due to COVID-19, Singh claimed. His petition seeks a direction to DDMA to put in place a 'state plan' in terms of the DMA 2005 and also place it before the court. Besides that, it seeks to set up of a committee to look into steps taken by DDMA and ascertain whether it was acting as per DMA. The plea also seeks directions to DDMA to provide relief like a medical cover and ex-gratia for loss of life or livelihood, as well as free or affordable treatment for Delhi residents and to take control of errant hospitals who are "acting in an unethical manner by fleecing patients for treatment of coronavirus infection".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-hc-against-making-lg-chairman-of-ddma-seeks-quashing-his-decision-on-hospitals-850937.html
18-06-2020||National||Shiv Sena wants Galwan valley standoff details to be made public||The Shiv Sena on Thursday said it is "shocking" that a detailed account of the standoff in Galwan Valley has not been public and if it is true that the Chinese intruded into the Indian territory, then it is an attack on the country's sovereignty. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said in the last six years, there has been a "propaganda" that India has become strong under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rule. "But in this period, Pakistan, Nepal, and now China have directly attacked us. We don't have good relations with our neighbours and it is surprising that claims are made by our politicians of winning the world," it said. "Pakistan's attitude is the same even after surgical strikes. China can't be trusted and is known for deception. But, if Nepal also takes an anti-India stand, the position of our country is not good," the Marathi daily said. Nobody wants tension on the borders, specially in the present times, but should the sacrifices of 20 soldiers be allowed go waste? it asked, and said "if there is no retaliation, Modi's image will take a beating". Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. The Sena claimed government sources have quoted that a Chinese commanding officer and 30 to 40 of their soldiers have been killed. "Should we be happy and clap over this? If it is true that the Chinese intruded into our territory, it is an attack on our sovereignty. It is shocking that even after our 20 soldiers laid down their lives, a detailed account of the developments has not yet been made public," it said. Earlier in 1975, the Chinese intruded into Arunachal Pradesh and four Indianjawans were then killed in the firing, the former NDA constituent said. "Now if there is so much damage even without the use of any weapon, gun, missile or tanker, then why manufacture security-related equipment andnuclear bombs. We are taking each others lives in physical fights," it said. The Sena further said the US and China are fighting over the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, but USA "doesn't come in the range of Chinese missiles". "We shouldn't forget that China is our neighbour," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. Pandit Nehru, Indira Gandhi and (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee tried to keep the borders calmbecause the country has to pay a price when there is tension on the borders, it pointed out. "It is easy to say tensions with China are due to the failed foreign policy of Nehru regarding the neighbouring country, but it is the duty of the Modi government to stop the killing of our soldiers on the Chinese border," the Sena said. Before he became PM, Modi would say the problem is not on the borders, but in Delhi and the Centre is weak because of which the enemy is attacking India, it claimed. "When the Chinese president came to Ahmedabad and sat on a swing with Modi eating dhokla, we had warned that don't trust the Chinese. Nehru was betrayed and the same would happen again. Unfortunately,what we said was proved true," the Sena said. It is easy to threaten Pakistan and derive political mileage with surgical strikes, but China has a place of its own in the world order which confronts a superpower like USA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-wants-galwan-valley-standoff-details-to-be-made-public-850938.html
18-06-2020||National||Indore records 57 new COVID-19 cases; tally rises to 4,191||With 57 persons testing positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours, the case count in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district has gone up to 4,191, a health official here said on Thursday. At least 2,266 samples were tested on Tuesday, of which reports of 57 persons came out positive for the infection, the official said. Three persons, including a 76-year-old woman, had succumbed to the infection in the district, he said, without divulging the exact dates of these casualties. The COVID-19 death toll now stands at 185 in the district, he added. Moreover, 3,131 patients have been discharged from different hospitals in the district following their recovery as on Thursday morning, the official said. As per the latest data, the recovery rate in the district was at 74.7 per cent on Thursday, while the fatality rate stood at 4.4 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 3.3 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indore-records-57-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-4191-850943.html
18-06-2020||National||Indian, Chinese armies hold Major General-level talks for third straight day||Indian and Chinese militaries held Major General-level dialogue on Thursday for the third consecutive day on disengagement of troops as well as restoration of normalcy in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, official sources said. Galwan Valley was the site of a violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops on Monday evening that resulted in the death of a colonel and 19 other Indian Army soldiers. Around 18 Indian Army soldiers also sustained serious injuries in the clash. The talks between the two sides near Galwan Valley ended in a stalemate on Tuesday as well as Wednesday, the sources said. On Wednesday, the two sides discussed ways to implement the disengagement of troops from the region as agreed to during a high-level military dialogue on June 6. Sending a strong message to China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said India wants peace but is capable of giving befitting reply if instigated. The clash in Galwan Valley is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300. The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of the eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the bank of the Pangong Tso. After the standoff began, the Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-armies-hold-major-general-level-talks-for-third-straight-day-850955.html
18-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley clash: Bodies of soldiers from West Bengal to reach their homes||The bodies of two soldiers from West Bengal, who were killed in the Galwan Valley clash with the Chinese Army, are scheduled to arrive at their homes on Thursday evening, an Army spokesperson said here. The casket carrying the body of Sepoy Rajesh Orang will reach the Panagarh Air Force base in West Burdwan district in a military aircraft in the afternoon and will then be taken to his home in Belgoria village in Birbhum district by road, he said. The mortal remains of Havildar Bipul Roy will be flown to the Bagdogra Airport near Siliguri, from where the coffin will be taken to his native Bindipara village in Alipurduar district by road, he said. The two Bravehearts were among the 20 Indian Army jawans killed in clashes with China's People's Liberation Army in Galwan Valley of Ladakh||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-clash-bodies-of-soldiers-from-west-bengal-to-reach-their-homes-850956.html
18-06-2020||National||Quit BJP-led govt because of treatment meted out: Manipur's Ex-Deputy CM Y Joykumar||Former Deputy Chief Minister Y Joykumar said he and his three NPP colleagues quit the BJP-led government in Manipur because of the treatment they received. In a press conference late Wednesday, Joykumar said they are exploring the option of supporting the Congress to form a new government in the state. Four ministers from the National People's Party (NPP) quit the N Biren Singh government, leading to a political crisis in the northeastern state. Besides Joykumar, the others who resigned are Tribal and Hills Area Development Minister N Kayishii, Youth Affairs and Sports Minister Letpao Haokip, and Health and Family Welfare Minister L Jayanta Kumar Singh. "The decision was taken because of the way this government treated our party and ministers, including myself," Joykumar said. "We deliberated on what will be the best course of action for the party and for us...and keeping in view the assembly elections in early 2022, we decided to tender our resignation," he said. On supporting the Congress to form a new government, Joykumar said, "Obviously, we may be exploring the option and definitely form a government after moving a no-confidence motion." Besides, BJP MLAs S Subhashchandra Singh, TT Haokip and Samuel Jendai resigned from the party and the assembly and joined the Congress, according to Congress legislative party leader O Ibobi Singh. Further, lone Trinamool Congress MLA T Robindro and Independent legislator Shahabuddin withdrew their support from the government. Robindro said, "We were with the government for three years. We felt neglected and whatever proposals we gave were sidelined."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quit-bjp-led-govt-because-of-treatment-meted-out-manipurs-ex-deputy-cm-y-joykumar-850957.html
18-06-2020||National||Suspended CSK doctor tenders unconditional apology for Galwan post||Suspended Chennai Super Kings team doctor Madhu Thottappillil on Thursday tendered an unconditional apology for his controversial social media post mocking the government after the death of Indian soldiers in a violent face-off with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. On Tuesday, after reports came in of Indian casualties during the Galwan Valley clash, Thottappillil had posted a tweet mocking the government. He later deleted it and protected his account. He was subsequently suspended by the franchise. Thottappillil took to Twitter on Thursday and offered an apology. "On June 16th, I had put out a tweet, and after I realised that the words used by me was inappropriate and unintended. I deleted the same. But by then there were screenshots of my tweet being circulated and shared in social media," the doctor stated in his apology note. Thottappillil clarified that he had no intention to belittle PM Narendra Modi's efforts in fighting the crisis. "It was never my intention to belittle the great & herculean efforts taken by our Honb'le prime minister and the Govt in taking care of all the citizen's obligations of this great nation and its Army or our brave Martyrs. "I have always respected the efforts of the govt in its valiant war on Covid-19 pandemic armed forces and valor of the armed forces standing and fighting under adverse conditions." Thottappillil said he understands that his post may have hurt sentiments of thousands of people. "I regret the hurt and anguish I may have caused to many people who read my Tweet and wholeheartedly apologise for the same," he wrote. "I have tweeted inadvertently and mistakenly and it has nothing to do with my association with any individual or organisation." Thottappillil urged netizens to treat his social media post as an aberration. "I am aware of the care bestowed by the Honb'le prime minister taken for the martyred jawans who had laid their lives for the country, without whom we the citizens would not be having a secured life," CSK team doctor for 10 seasons said. "I hope the whole issue is put to an end and the tweet be treated as an aberration on my part. I once again express my sincere apologies for the unintended and inadvertent remarks made in my earlier tweet," he concluded. CSK, captained by Mahendra Singh Dhoni who holds the rank of an honorary lieutenant in Territorial Army, announced his suspension on Wednesday. The team is owned by former BCCI President N Srinivasan's India Cements. A colonel was among the 20 Army personnel killed in the face-off on Monday night, the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La. At that time, India lost around 80 soldiers, while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed in the confrontation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-csk-doctor-tenders-unconditional-apology-for-galwan-post-850961.html
18-06-2020||National||SC stays this year's historic Puri’s Rath Yatra due to COVID-19 pandemic||Lakhs of Lord Jagannath devotees would not have the privilege to participate in world famous Rath Yatra in Puri this year as the Supreme Court on Thursday stayed any activity related to it, on the ground of threat to public health and safety in view of COVID-19 pandemic. "This is a serious matter. We are not allowing this. Lord Jagannath will not forgive us, if we allow this to continue. Activities related to Rath Yatra is injuncted," a bench presided over Chief Justice S A Bobde said. This is the first time that the Rath Yatra -- where devotees pull the chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balbhadra and Devi Subhadra, --would not take place as scheduled on June 23 in its over two-hundred-year history. The CJI was perhaps aware of its importance when he said the word 'juggernaut' has been derived from Lord Jagannath but this time, it was to be stopped. An NGO, Odisha Vikas Trust, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, said there is no way we could allow congregation of about 10 to 12 lakh people. It would be impossible to contain such a gathering. Even the Olympics have been postponed this year, he said. At this point, some of the lawyers said there won't be 10 lakh people. But the bench said, "Even if there were 10,000 people, it is dangerous." Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought permission to seek instructions and come back to the court on Friday. The bench, however, said we would not be available. On this, Mehta said the State may consider the issue. Appearing for the Odisha government, senior advocate Harish Salve said the people would gather the moment there could be a celebration. The court then went on to order that in view of pandemic, no Rath Yatra would take place in Odisha and no activity religious or secular associated to Rath Yatra would take place. The court posted the matter for consideration after four weeks. The petitioner sought to stay on the Yatra festival, saying it will greatly enhance prospect of COVID-19 spread due to gathering of a large number of people making it impossible to maintain social distancing. The petitioner contended that the  alarming situation currently prevailing in Odisha is evident from the fact that the projection reflected by Union government's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Department said that the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Odisha will reach around 10,718 by July 9. It maintained that the government is duty bound to protect the Right to Health, Life and Personal Liberty and Right to Live with Dignity and Fair Treatment as enumerated under Article 21 of the Constitution of the people of Odisha including the devotees who might attend the Rath Yatra. Allowing Rath Yatra is also in violation of state government's own guidelines of June 1 and 7 and that the Ministry of Home Affairs' May 30 for closing any cultural and religious functions and other large congregations, it said. The festival scheduled to commence on June 23 at Puri in Odisha was to continue for a period of around 10-12 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-this-years-historic-puri-s-rath-yatra-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-850962.html
18-06-2020||National||Boycott products made in China, close down restaurants selling Chinese food: Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale has said all restaurants and hotels that sell Chinese food in India should be closed down and products made in China should be boycotted. His comments come after 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in a violent clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh's Galwan Valley. "China is a country that betrays. India should boycott all products that are made in China. Chinese food and all restaurants and hotels that sell Chinese food in India should be closed down," Athawale said in a tweet. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boycott-products-made-in-china-close-down-restaurants-selling-chinese-food-ramdas-athawale-850965.html
18-06-2020||National||Boycott Chinese food, ban Chinese restaurants: Ramdas Athawale||Amid existing tensions between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Union Minister Ramdas Athawale appealed everyone to boycott restaurants selling Chinese food. In an interview with ANI, he said, “Restaurants selling Chinese food should be banned. I appeal to people to boycott Chinese food.” Indian and Chinese troops are confronting since early May. It led to a surge in appeals of boycotting Chinese products. Tensions rose on June 16 after 20 Indian soldiers weremartyred in a face-off in the Galwan Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boycott-chinese-food-ban-chinese-restaurants-ramdas-athawale-850969.html
18-06-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses to entertain plea on improving India's rank on rule of law index||The Supreme Court Thursday refused to entertain a plea seeking a direction to the Centre, states and UTs to set up expert committees to improve India’s “pathetic” 69th global ranking on the Rule of Law Index (RLI). The index, which covers 128 countries, is based on a nations' performance on factors such as government openness, fundamental rights, civil and criminal justice and containing corruption. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde took note of the submissions of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for BJP leader and petitioner Ashwini Upadhyay, and said that this was not an “appropriate case” for the court and a representation to this effect can be made to the government for taking action. In the proceedings conducted through video-conferencing, the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna, said the government can take a decision on setting up of the panel to improve India’s RLI ranking within six months from today. Besides all states and the Union Territories (UTs), Upadhyay, in his PIL, had made as parties the Law Commission of India and Ministries of Home Affair and Law and Justice. The plea had sought constitution of expert panels “comprising at least one renowned jurist, people representative, public servant, economist, educationist, social activist and journalist,” to suggest steps to improve India’s pathetic 69th international ranking in Rule of Law Index”. It also said that expert committees should examine the best practices of the countries ranked among the top 20 in the Rule of Law Index - 2020, compiled by World Justice Project -- an independent organisation. “In alternative, direct the Law Commission of India to examine the best practices of the countries, ranked among top 20 in the Rule of Law Index - 2020, and accordingly suggest steps to improve the International Ranking of India,” it said. The plea said: “Injury caused to the public is large because India ranked 69 in the Rule of Law Index. It confirms poor performance across eight factors: constraints on government powers, absence of corruption, open government, fundamental rights, public order and security, regulatory enforcement, civil justice and criminal justice. "Poor Rule of Law has devastating effects on right to life and liberty...also offends rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-entertain-plea-on-improving-indias-rank-on-rule-of-law-index-850978.html
18-06-2020||National||Pakistan violates ceasefire, fires mortar shells towards Indian positions in J&K's Macchil sector||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Macchil sector of Jammu and Kashmir by firing mortar shells towards Indian positions on Thursday, Army officials said here. "On June 18, in the afternoon hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Macchil Sector by firing mortars and other weapons," they said. The officials said the Indian Army gave a befitting response to the ceasefire violation. There were no casualties reported in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-fires-mortar-shells-towards-indian-positions-in-jks-macchil-sector-850980.html
18-06-2020||National||SC rejects plea for India to seek compensation from China in ICJ for COVID-19||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to consider a plea for a direction to the Union government to approach the International Court of Justice to seek $600 billion from China for creating a  "biological warfare weapon of COVID-19 to kill mass population" in India. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said we are not entertaining the plea. The court, however, allowed Madurai-resident K K Ramesh to make a representation to the Union government and gave a liberty for it to him. The petitioner pointed out that many countries and its leaders have openly expressed their view that China created biological weapon of COVID-19, which was not originated from animals. America's president also said that he did have evidence of COVID-19 pandemic being created in biological lab in China, the plea claimed.  The petition filed by advocate C R Jaya Sukin contended that the Wuhan Institute of Virology had been used for China’s illegal biological warfare weapon program.  The petition claimed, "The People's Republic of China had deliberately created biological weapon COVID-19 against India and leaked it to every public places that killed Indian people and destroyed India's economy."  It contended the COVID-19 is an extremely dangerous disease. It was designed to mutate from person to person. Many people got killed, a lot of people were admitted to hospital for treatment, and crores of people have lost their jobs due to COVID-19.  The petitioner said the International Court of Justice has been constituted for hearing the disputes between the States. Common citizens cannot file a petition over there, so the petitioner filed the plea as a Public Interest Litigation (PIL).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-for-india-to-seek-compensation-from-china-in-icj-for-covid-19-850982.html
18-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray calls for low-key Ganpati celebration this year||With Ganeshutsav just couple of months away,  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has a clear message for the people - keep the celebrations very simple in wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Thackeray has appealed organisers in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, the coastal Konkan belt and other places in the state to ensure very simple celebrations with people-oriented themes. "Because of pandemic it would not be possible to allow large crowds in Ganesh pandals...keep the festivities simple," he said. The high-level video-conference was attended by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh, ministers of state for home Satej Patil and Shamburaj Desai and Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar. BrihanMumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS) President Naresh Dahibhavkar, representatives of Ganesh mandals from all over the state and artisans provided their views on the upcoming festival and agreed to abide b the government directives, said a spokesperson. Thackeray ruled out any massive crowds of devotees or taking out mega-processions for the 'aagaman' (arrival) and 'visarjan' (immersion) ceremonies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-calls-for-low-key-ganpati-celebration-this-year-850989.html
18-06-2020||National||Amma canteens to resume free food for needy during 12-day lockdown phase in 4 Tamil Nadu districts: CM||The ruling AIADMK's flagship Amma Canteens will provide free food for 12 days from Friday onwards in Chennai and three neighbouring districts where the lockdown curbs are being tightened to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said. Food will also be provided through community kitchens and home delivered to select sections of the population such as the aged, he said in a statement on Thursday. Palaniswami had on Monday declared that areas falling under Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet districts and under the city police jurisdiction, where the surge in COVID-19 cases remains unabated, will revert to stringent lockdown sans several relaxations from June 19 to 30. Two Sundays during the 12-day period shall just be short of total curfew with only milk supply and medical services exempted, he had announced. The four districts have the highest concentration of coronavirus cases in the state, which has so far reported over 50,000 infections. On Thursday, Palainiswami recalled Amma Canteens, a pet scheme of late chief minister Jayalalithaa and run by local bodies, had given free food during the lockdown period till May 31 and announced its extension during the coming phase. The curbs will kick in from the midnight Thursday, he added. The functioning of community kitchens, which are at present supplying food free of cost to the needy, will be scaled up and they would home deliver meals to the aged, besides to care homes, he said. This arrangement will be in place till June 30, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amma-canteens-to-resume-free-food-for-needy-during-12-day-lockdown-phase-in-4-tamil-nadu-districts-cm-850991.html
18-06-2020||National||Yogi Adityanath orders increasing beds in COVID-19 hospitals from nearly 1 L to 1.50 L by June end||Yogi orders increasing beds in COVID-19 hospitals from nearly 1 L to 1.50 L by June end   Lucknow, Jun 18 (PTI) Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officials to increase the bed strength in COVID-19 hospitals from nearly one lakh at present to 1.50 lakh by the end of June. He also asked them to increase the testing capacity to 20,000 per day by June 20, an official release said. At present, the state is testing nearly 16,000 samples per day. In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister stressed on remaining alert and maintaining discipline during the unlock period. There should be regular patrolling to check crowding in all places and precautions be taken in containment zones, he was quoted as saying in the release. The chief minister reiterated use of public address system for creating awareness among the people and asked officials to use vehicles of PRV 112 and administrative magistrates for the purpose, the release said. Adityanath also asked officials concerned to depute a special secretary-level officer who will take direct feedback from COVID-19 hospitals, besides instructing the chief medical officers to undertake inspections of these hospitals in their areas. Directing setting up of COVID-19 helpdesks in hospitals for providing information regarding its prevention, he said those living in old age homes, juvenile homes and women shelter homes should be medically examined to ensure they are not infected. The chief minister stressed on random testing for exact information about COVID-19 situation and asked officials to ensure proper working of community surveillance system in the state. The state has 70,000 surveillance teams in rural and urban areas, the release said. Adityanath said all necessary arrangements should be made for the foodgrain distribution campaign starting from June 20 and there should be no irregularity or under-weighing anywhere. He has also directed chief veterinary officers to undertake regular inspection of cow shelters in their districts and make proper arrangement for fodder and medical examination there. PTI SAB DPB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-orders-increasing-beds-in-covid-19-hospitals-from-nearly-1-l-to-150-l-by-june-end-850995.html
18-06-2020||National||Spiritualist Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev calls for united fight against desertification||Spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Thursday asked all elected governments and citizens globally to speak in one voice to ensure that leaders make ecology a mainstream issue. The founder of Isha Foundation, a non-profit, spiritual organisation, said, This is not about you or me. In this generation, if we dont act, were not worthy, thats all it means. He said this while speaking at a webinar to commemorate World Day to Combat Desertification being observed on June 17 every year. If other nations do nothing about ecology, they may still survive and do well. In this country, if we dont act now, we will leave the nation in a disastrous situation because our pressure on the land is unbelievable," he said. "Most people don't understand to what extent we have exploited the land, and how it actually translates to human life and that of the soil," a press release quoting him said. 'Nature-based solutions to combat desertification' was organised by the foundation in association with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. Representative of IUCN-India Vivek Saxena, while introducing the topic, spoke on the immediate need to address desertification across the globe, which threatens food security, habitat and livelihood. June 17 is annually observed as World Day to Combat Desertification. This year, it was marked by several online events where heads of state and civil society organisations came together to explore how policy formulation can reverse desertification globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spiritualist-sadhguru-jaggi-vasudev-calls-for-united-fight-against-desertification-850998.html
18-06-2020||National||Mathematical models on severity of COVID-19 in India carried strong bias, failed: IJMR editorial||Various mathematical models on the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic in India carried a "strong element of bias and used assumptions" to predict cases and deaths, an editorial published in ICMR's Indian Journal of Medical Research has said. It said it "is a huge risk" to solely rely on these models for policy decisions on advance planning since predicting infectious diseases for a new pathogen is an "extremely perilous proposition" and hence it should be avoided. The editorial 'Lessons learnt during the first 100 days of COVID-19 pandemic in India' is penned by Rajesh Bhatia, former director of Communicable Diseases for WHO's South-East Asia Regional Office, and Priya Abraham, director of ICMR-National Institute of Virology. Several mathematical models projected the severity of pandemic in terms of cases and deaths and at least in the context of India, none of these proved correct and failed to predict the biological phenomenon of infectious diseases, it stated. "It was obvious that the models proposed during the COVID-19 pandemic carried a strong element of bias and used assumptions which proved to be far from real," it said, adding estimates of modelling studies are "only as good as" the validity of the epidemiological or statistical model used and accuracy of assumptions made for modelling. Another lesson learnt during the first 100 days (Jan 30-May 10) was that evidence-based strategy to reduce viral transmission worked for a shorter time as in spite of the extensive and prolonged lockdowns, the number of new cases continued to rise in India, the authors said in the editorial. "Multiple eruptions of cases in new locations were reported, indicating breaches in the implementation of lockdown," they said, stressing the need for developing and implementing plans through micro-planning for local area using data generated locally. However, they added, the impact of lockdown was visible initially and it provided the much-needed time to strengthen health systems and ensure public engagement. They also talked about the impact of uncontrolled movement of migrant populations, saying their exodus to native places was not anticipated but had to be curtailed in the context of national lockdown. Citing increasing daily cases between May 1-10, the editorial said the COVID-19 pandemic has not been uniform in India. It also said the pandemic has highlighted that protection and preservation of vulnerable senior citizens should be a priority and that strong risk communication strategies and access to medical care are essential to protect them. Besides, India needs a permanent network of at least 1,000 laboratories with PCR facilities with at least one laboratory in each of its 734 districts and multiple such facilities in cities and metros, it said. The crisis also underscored that public engagement is the key to contain COVID-19 pandemic and early response, effective command, whole of-government approach and strong political leadership ensure focused and coordinated actions.  It brought to the fore that frontline workers need protection from infection and ignorant communities as were a few unfortunate instances where communities, "out of ignorance", protested against their living in the neighbourhood. "Active dialogue with the communities to promote their engagement to recognize and respect these workers is the need of the hour," it said. The editorial highlighted that India could successfully and rapidly scale-up several important interventions but then "SARS-CoV-2 is an unknown treacherous enemy" and there is no space for complacency. "It can strike in hitherto unknown ways. It has the potential of causing greater disruption and destruction. India cannot afford any complacency. Caution should be the keyword during the days to come," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mathematical-models-on-severity-of-covid-19-in-india-carried-strong-bias-failed-ijmr-editorial-851001.html
18-06-2020||National||Railways to terminate Chinese company's contract due to 'poor progress'||A day after the Department of Telecom asked BNSL not to use Chinese based firms equipment in its network, the  Indian Railways on Thursday decided to terminate the signalling contract given to Chinese company. Though officials claim that the termination of contract is mainly due to poor work progress and inability on part of company to complete the project on time, the government move came after 20 Indian Army personnel killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley. In 2016,  Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), an Indian Railway company tasked to build freight corridors, awarded Rs 471 crore contract to China based  Beijing National Railway Research and Design Institute of Signal and Communication Group Limited. The project was to install signalling and telecommunication work in the 417-km-long Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction (previously Mughalsarai) section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor project. Though the company was supposed to complete the project by 2019, only 20 per cent progress in the works has been made in last four years. Since it is World Bank funded project, the DFCCIL had written to the Bank expaining its wish to terminate the contract due to poor progress. If World Bank refused to cancel contract given to Chinese firm, then the DDFC can fund on its own resources and award the contract to other company, said the official in the Railways. The railways now planning to award this project to domestic company, sources said. The Indian Railways, while seeking to cancel the contract given to Chinese company, listed several issues including no progress in physical works due to no tie with local agencies, no improvement in works despite holding several meetings, reluctance of the company to furnish technical documents as per agreement, non-availability of their engineers/authorised personnel at site was serious constraint, material procurement, which is an independent activity, has not been done earnestly. “In view of poor progress, it is decided by DFCCIL to terminate this contract.” said the official. On Wednesday the Department of Telecom had asked BSNL to stop buying any equipments from Chinese firms. The government is also decided to tell private telecom firms to reduce their dependence on Chinese companies due to network security. The Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor or Eastern DFC is a freight specific railway under construction from northern to eastern part of India and is scheduled to be completed by 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-terminate-chinese-companys-contract-due-to-poor-progress-851004.html
18-06-2020||National||Unseasonal showers, Cyclone Nisarga triggered excess rains in Maha: IMD||Unseasonal showers in central Maharashtra and 'Cyclone Nisarga' that lashed coastal areas have put the state in the largely excess rainfall category as on Thursday, an IMD official said. As per the India Meteorological Department's data, Mumbai and MMR region has so far received largely excess showers cumulatively from June 1 to June 18, the official said. The Konkan subdivision, which includes Mumbai and coastal districts of Maharashtra, has received 523 mm rainfall so far, as against usual 317 mm, he said. This was 65 per cent more than the normal rainfall received at this time, which is why they were categorised as largely excess showers, the official said. Moreover, Central Maharashtra, covering Dhule- Nandurbar districts in the north to Solapur-Sangli-Kolhapur in the south, has received 164 mm rainfall as against the usual 81 mm, the data stated. "This is a good sign, as agriculture is a major activity here and sugarcane cultivation is rampant in this region," he said. Arid areas of Marathwada have so far received 130 mm rainfall, as against 74 mm, which is 74 per cent above normal, the official said. However, Vidarbha region or eastern districts of the state received less rains compared to the rest of the state, he said. The region has received 112 mm rainfall compared to the usual 72 mm, the official said. According to the IMD forecast, widespread showers are likely in the coastal areas of Maharashtra, while the rest of the state is expected to get scattered and isolated showers till June 22. The south west monsoon is expected to bring widespread showers in Vidarbha region on June 22, till then the region will receive low intensity showers, the IMD predicted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unseasonal-showers-cyclone-nisarga-triggered-excess-rains-in-maha-imd-851009.html
18-06-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan appeals to people to boycott Chinese products||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday appealed to people to boycott products from China and also directed officials of his ministry not to procure any Chinese products for day-to-day office use. The comments from the Food and Consumer Affairs Minister come against the backdrop of heightened border tensions between India and China. "I want to appeal to everyone that the way China is behaving, we boycott all Chinese products," Paswan said and emphasised that the Centre would strictly implement the BIS quality rules on products imported from China. Speaking to reporters, he expressed concerns over illegal imports of sub-standard Chinese products like diyas and furniture. The government would strictly implement the quality rules framed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). The BIS, under the aegis of the Consumer Affairs Ministry, has framed over 25,000 quality rules for different products so far. "When our goods reach abroad, they are checked. Our Basmati rice exports get rejected, but when their goods come to India, there is no strict quality control," the minister said. The new BIS law, passed in Parliament in 2016, empowers the Centre and the BIS to promote a culture of quality of products and services through mandatory or voluntary compliance with Indian standards. The law provides for widening the scope of conformity assessment, enhancing penalties and making offences compoundable besides recalling of the products including with ISI marked, but not conforming to relevant Indian Standards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswan-appeals-to-people-to-boycott-chinese-products-851010.html
18-06-2020||National||Polio vaccine for COVID-19 ‘testable’, may offer limited protection: Scientists||Indian scientists have responded cautiously to a suggestion by global researchers that the oral polio vaccine be tested for COVID-19, saying it is a “testable idea” based on a sound scientific concept but may offer only limited protection against the infection.   With a vaccine for COVID-19 at least a year away, scientists say repurposing already safe and effective vaccines is the way to go for immediate relief against COVID-19. The repurposed vaccines could include the oral polio vaccine (OPV) and the Bacillus Calmette–Guerin (BCG) used against tuberculosis, both part of the immunisation given to Indian children.   It is worth conducting a clinical trial, said Ram Vishwakarma, director of the CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (CSIR-IIIM) in Jammu.   He was responding to a study last week by an international team of researchers in the journal Science. The researchers, including Shyamasundaran Kottili and Robert Gallo from the University of Maryland School of Medicine in the US, said the OPV should be tested to see if it might protect people from the SARS-CoV-2 virus.   They noted that the vaccine used to prevent poliomyelitis infections has been around since the 1950s, and is found to provide some protection against other viral infections.   The stimulation of innate immunity by attenuated vaccines -- live but with substantially reduced virulence -- in general and OPV in particular could provide temporary protection against COVID-19, the scientists noted.   Innate immunity is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates, including humans.   According to Vishwakarma, the idea proposed by Gallo, an internationally renowned virologist who co-discovered that HIV causes AIDS, is based on the fact that people who have undergone polio vaccination boost their innate immunity.   “It is a sound scientific concept but we do not know what will eventually happen because this has multiple phases. It may help patients in the early phase, with mild and moderate symptoms but may not help serious patients,” Vishwakarma told PTI.    “It is a testable idea based on a scientific hypothesis that is in turn based on the concept of what we call trained immunity, a non-specific way to boost innate immunity for our immune system to fight out the virus,”  Vishwakarma explained.   India has been implementing a pulse polio programme since 1995 with an aim to eradicate polio, added virologist Upasana Ray. This is in accordance with a resolution passed by the World Health Assembly in 1988 for polio eradication globally.   “Every year, children between 0-5 years age are immunised with polio vaccine. It is a very widespread and well established programme,” Ray, senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, told PTI.   Immunologist Satyajit Rath added that it is best to keep in mind that Gallo and his team are not talking about the function of the OPV as a 'vaccine' which generates a specific immune response.   “Instead, it is simply the idea of giving people a viral infection, any viral infection, so that there is activation of innate antiviral and inflammatory immunity, which might reduce the chances of another virus (SARS-CoV-2) infection which enters at the same time,” Rath, from the National Institute of Immunology (NII) in New Delhi, told PTI.   “Do I think this might work? It might, to some very modest extent, would be my guess, and not enough to make it particularly worthwhile,” he said.   Noting that repurposing vaccines is a good idea, Ray said there is a chance of cross protection to some extent if the proteins of two pathogens have similar sequences even at some epitopes. An epitope is a part of an antigen or a foreign substance that is recognised by the immune system cells, specifically by antibodies, B cells and T cells.   “For polio also, we first need to see if any of the polio proteins show overlapping T or B cell epitopes as compared to that of SARS-COV-2. If there are, it might provide some protection... To what extent? That needs validation,” said Ray.   Vishwakarma said the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) is currently testing a repurposed vaccine against COVID-19 on the similar lines of a polio vaccine.   It is testing Cadila Pharmaceuticals' Sepsivac against COVID-19 in a Phase 2 clinical trial.   This immunotherapy treatment, which boosts "innate immunity", has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for clinical trials, he said.   Rath noted that there are major potential limitations to using the polio vaccine for COVID-19.   First, it is likely that this 'protection' by ongoing innate immune activation is likely to be of short duration.   Second, the likelihood is that a lot of people in India, particularly children, are immune to polio, and therefore will not actually let the OPV  'work' as an infection, he said.   “Instead, polio-immune individuals would be 'protected' against yet more vaccine, which would defeat the SARS-CoV-2-related purpose,” Rath noted.   “In fact, even amongst those who do not have current anti-polio antibodies, this 'protection' would likely be a transient one-time effect for a few days which is unlikely to be repeatable since this first exposure would make them polio-immune,” he said. Agreeing with Rath, Ray noted that most people in India are already vaccinated against polio in childhood.   “Aren't those people getting infected? Say yes, still they are.......then the next question could be, are they getting sick similar to non-vaccinated ones?” she said.   “Next, is it possible that for polio it is providing life-long protection. Is it possible that in case some epitopes are matching that vaccination could help? All these are blind spots. Need time testing,” said Ray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/polio-vaccine-for-covid-19-testable-may-offer-limited-protection-scientists-851012.html
18-06-2020||National||Devotees break down as SC stays Rath Yatra; Puri Maharaja says all should abide by verdict||Amid a statewide emotional breakdown for devotees over the Supreme Court's stay on the annual Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra, Gajapati Maharaja Dibyasingha Deb said on Thursday that though it was painful, all should abide by the verdict. Gajapati Maharaja, considered to be the first servitor of Lord Jagannath, said that in the past as well the Rath Yatra could not be celebrated in the wake of invasions by Mughal rulers. Mahaprabhu’s devotees across the world will be hurt and feel pain, but everyone has to obey the apex court's verdict, he said. “It is the responsibility of all to go by the order.” Gajapati Maharaja, who is also the chairman of the Shree Jagannath Temple Managing Committee, said the body will meet on Friday to discuss the Supreme Court’s verdict on not celebrating the Rath Yatra on June 23 across Odisha, including Puri. “If the Rath Yatra is not held outside the temple premises in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, we will discuss whether the rituals could be performed inside the temple. We will take up the matter with Shankaracharya of Puri and seek his guidance before taking any decision on the next course of action,” the Maharaja said. He said that due to Mughal invasions in the past, the deities were shifted out of the 12th century shrine for safety as a result of which Rath Yatra could not be held. The state government considers that a similar situation has arisen due to the coronavirus outbreak due to which the Rath Yatra could not be conducted this time, the Maharaja said. The Gajapati Maharaja is the erstwhile king of Puri and he is considered the "Aadyasevak" or the first servitor of Lord Jagannath. He is also referred to as Thakur Raja of Puri. The Supreme Court stayed the Rath Yatra and related activities due to the COVID-19 pandemic, saying that "Lord Jagannath won't forgive us if we allow" it. Devotees in Puri and other parts of Odisha broke into tears and said that top court should reconsider its decision. Premananda Dasmohapatra, a servitor, said, “What can we do apart from shedding tears? The Supreme Court is supreme and there is none above it. The decision has severely hurt us.” BJP state president Samit Mohanty said that all have to accept the verdict though it is a "strong" decision. "This (verdict) could be the wishes of the Lord Jagannath," he said. "We have to accept the court verdict even if it is difficult.” Congress MLA Taraprasad Bahinipati said the state government's "attempt has been successful". He said the state government was not in the favour of conducting the festival in view of the likely congregation of a large number of devotees. "At the same time, the state government was apprehensive of public ire if it stopped the Rath Yatra. Now, the apex court has put a halt," Bahinipati said. Senior BJD leader and MLA Dibi Prasad Mishra said the state government will examine the SC order. "We have not seen the judgement copy. The law department will examine it," he said. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna said that in the interest of public health and safety of citizens, this year's Rath Yatra can't be allowed. "Lord Jagannath won't forgive us if we allow this year's Rath Yatra to go on," CJI Bobde said, adding that such a huge gathering can't take place during the pandemic. The bench asked the Odisha government not to allow the pilgrimage procession and the related activities anywhere in the state to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Rath Yatra, which continues for 10 to 12 days, is attended by lakhs of devotees from across the world. The three heavily-built wooden chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra are traditionally pulled by thousands of devotees over a distance of three kilometres twice during the nine-day festival of the Trinity at Puri. While the festival was scheduled for June 23, the 'Bahuda Jatra' (return car festival) was fixed for July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/devotees-break-down-as-sc-stays-rath-yatra-puri-maharaja-says-all-should-abide-by-verdict-851014.html
18-06-2020||National||China turned Modi govt's 'fixed' fight into real one: Prakash Ambedkar||Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) leader Prakash Ambedkar on Thursday alleged that the Modi government was earlier playing a "fixed fight" with China, which the neighbouring country turned into a real one recently. The Dalit leader also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should reveal why his government was playing 'noora kushti' (fixed fight) with China, and tell the "politics" behind that policy. Ambedkar's statements come in the wake of a violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops that took place on Monday evening at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, which resulted in the death of a colonel and 19 other Indian Army soldiers. "Fifteen days ago, I had made a statement that the PM is playing 'noora kushti' with China. I had also said that as long as it is 'noora kushti' it doesn't matter, but if China decides to convert it into a real 'kushti', then there will be problem for India. And that's what has happened now," Ambedkar told reporters here. "Chinese soldiers resorted to stone pelting, in which 20 Indian soldiers were martyred. There is no confirmation about the number of casualties in China," he said. "But what was the reason behind the 'noora kushti' played by the prime minister? He should tell it to the nation. He should reveal the politics behind it. If he does not make it clear, then we will draw our own conclusions and then the government should not say that the countrymen didn't stand behind it when it was in trouble," he added. Ambedkar said that the government should take every political party on board and take everyone into confidence on the issue. "The PM should at least discuss what he wants to do in future," he said. Meanwhile, Ambedkar also demanded a CBI inquiry into the death of Dalit social activist Arvind Bansod, who allegedly committed suicide in Pimpaldhara village Nagpur district last month. The police have filed a case against LPG agency owner Mithilesh alias Mayur Bandopant Umarkar and his two friends under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide). According to police, on May 27, Bansod and his friend Gajanan Raut, travelling on a motorcycle, stopped near the gas agency and started clicking pictures of the outlet. Umarkar and his two friends objected to the duo taking pictures and they allegedly slapped and abused Bansod, who later purchased pesticides and consumed it. Bansod died in a hospital two days later. Ambedkar said, "We are not satisfied with the probe conducted so far. Several witnesses have not been examined till now. There should a CBI inquiry into the incident."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-turned-modi-govts-fixed-fight-into-real-one-prakash-ambedkar-851016.html
18-06-2020||National||Over 15,000 migrant workers returning to Maharashtra daily: Anil Deshmukh||More than 15,000 migrant workers who had left Maharashtra during lockdown are returning to the state every day as industries have resumed operations in a phased manner, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday. The lockdown on account of coronavirus outbreak had triggered an exodus of migrant workers from major cities of Maharashtra as industrial activities came to a standstill, rendering them jobless. "At least 15,500 workers are coming back to Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Raigad and other parts of the state every day," the minister said in a statement. On average 11,500 workers were returning to Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai daily, while 4,000 to 5,000 labourers were returning to Gondia, Nandurbar, Kolhapur, Nagpur and Pune, he added. Although fewer trains are running between Maharashtra and the home states of migrant workers at present, the number will go up once industrial activities begin on a larger scale, he said. "Appropriate precautions will be taken," Deshmukh said, adding that thermal screening of returning workers is being carried out and they are also being home-quarantined to guard against the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-15000-migrant-workers-returning-to-maharashtra-daily-anil-deshmukh-851021.html
18-06-2020||National||VHP announces nationwide campaign for boycotting chinese goods||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Thursday said it will conduct a door-to-door campaign across the country appealing to people to boycott Chinese goods and mobile phones to break the backbone of the country. In a statement, VHP general secretary Milind Parande said the whole country is stunned over the fatal attack by China on its soldiers and it was high time that the neighbouring country was taught a lesson. "I appeal to the people of Bharat for a total boycott of Chinese goods and mobile applications so that the Dragon's backbone is entirely broken and it is made spineless," Parande said. VHP spokesperson Vinod Bansal said the organisation, along with its youth wing Bajrang Dal, will conduct a door-to-door campaign in the country asking people to boycott Chinese goods and mobile applications. Expressing faith in the BJP-led government, VHP leaders said the leadership at the Centre and the country's brave soldiers are capable enough to tackle any crisis on the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-announces-nationwide-campaign-for-boycotting-chinese-goods-851022.html
18-06-2020||National||Vardhan launches I-Lab, India's first mobile laboratory for coronavirus testing||Union Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday launched a mobile laboratory for coronavirus testing which can be deployed in rural areas and help in promoting last-mile testing. The mobile lab, also called I-Lab or Infectious Diseases Diagnostics Lab, can run 50 RT-PCR and about 200 ELISA tests in a day. A double set of machines can help increase the capacity to about 500 tests per day in 8 hours shift, Vardhan said. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) under the Ministry of Science and Technology along with the Andhra Pradesh Med-tech Zone (AMTZ) has initiated DBT-AMTZ COMManD (COVID-19 Medtech Manufacturing Development) consortia to address the shortage of critical healthcare technologies in India and move progressively towards a stage of self-sufficiency. AMTZ is Asia's first medical equipment manufacturing ecosystem, uniquely dedicated for medical technology and supported by various ministries. The mobile testing lab is an outcome of this initiative. “This mobile testing facility will be deployed through the DBT testing hubs to remote regions of the country for coronavirus testing,” the minister said. There are now over 20 hubs in the country with 100 testing laboratories and these have tested more than 2,60,000 samples. Vardhan added that there are 953 testing laboratories in all corners of the country at present. “In the near future with all these collective and cooperative efforts, India will achieve self-sufficiency in healthcare technologies leading towards ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’,” he said. DBT Secretary Renu Swarup said through the concerted efforts of Indian scientists, the country has achieved a capacity of producing over 5 lakh testing kits per day, exceeding the target of having one lakh test kits by May 31. She also noted that I-Lab has been created in a record eight days by the Andhra Pradesh Med-tech Zone team with the support of DBT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-launches-i-lab-indias-first-mobile-laboratory-for-coronavirus-testing-851023.html
18-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: India, China continue talks on Galwan Valley tensions, Congress attempts to overthrow BJP in Manipur||From the Newsroom, today, Indian and Chinese militaries held Major General-level dialogue today for the third consecutive day on disengagement of troops as well as restoration of normalcy in Galwan Valley. At least 12 MLAs belonging to Congress and the National People's Party in Manipur today wrote a letter to the Manipur Assembly Secretary seeking a motion for removal of the Speaker alleging that the latter was acting in an "authoritarian" manner. Ibobi Singh said his party is trying to form a coalition government in Manipur and will soon move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi today launched the auction of 41 coal blocks for commercial mining and said he was liberating the sector from decades of “lockdown” with a view to turn the country into an exporter of coal from being an importer at present.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-china-continue-talks-on-galwan-valley-tensions-congress-attempts-to-overthrow-bjp-in-manipur-851028.html
18-06-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh cop caught teaching juniors how to engage in corruption; suspended||As the in-charge of the police station, he was supposed to set examples and ensure that his subordinates performed their duty honestly. Instead he was found to be imparting lessons in how to engage in corruption to his juniors. The SHO of Kheron police station in Uttar Pradesh's Raebareli district was caught giving lessons in corruption to his subordinates on tape. The cop, identified as Mani Shankar Tewari, was suspended, according to the police sources. Tewari was heard telling his subordinates that his work was to 'manage' and 'cover up' crimes committed by them (juniors). ''You can commit crimes....I will manage as long as I am here'', he was heard saying in the tape. ''We can get Rs.10-15 thousand if we catch those involved in illegal mining....but if you apprehend a woman involved in selling illicit liquor we will get only Rs. one or two thousand so why take so much trouble,'' the SHO told his subordinates, virtually asking them to go after ''affluent criminals''. He was also heard saying that he had to pay a portion of the bribes to the circle officer and the additional superintendent of police, though he clearly said that the district police chief was honest. Left red faced after the audio tape went viral on the social networking sites, the district police chief Swapnil Mamgai suspended the SHO after a preliminary investigation found the tape to be authentic, sources said. Earlier also, UP cops had been found to be conniving with the criminals and paying hefty amount of money to grab posting at lucrative police stations and districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-cop-caught-teaching-juniors-how-to-engage-in-corruption-suspended-851036.html
18-06-2020||National||India asks China to confine its activities to its side of LAC||India on Thursday asked China to confine its activities to its side of the Line of Actual Control and that it must not take any unilateral action to alter it. Referring to the Galwan Valley clash, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India was strongly committed to ensuring the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Speaking to reporters at an online media briefing, he also said that no Indian soldiers were missing since the Galwan Valley clash on Monday evening. "Given its responsible approach to border management, India is very clear that all its activities are always within the Indian side of the LAC. We expect the Chinese side to also confine its activities to its side of the LAC," Srivastava said. He said the two sides are in regular touch through their respective embassies and foreign offices besides maintaining contacts at the ground level. "Meetings of other established diplomatic mechanisms such as Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Border Affairs (WMCC) are under discussion," Srivastava said. "While we remain firmly convinced of the need for maintenance of peace and tranquility in the borders areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue, at the same time, as the prime minister stated yesterday, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India's sovereignty and territorial integrity," he added. The Galwan Valley was the site of the violent clash between the two militaries on Monday evening in which a Colonel and 19 other Indian Army personnel were killed. It was the biggest confrontation along the LAC between the two forces after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La in 1967 when India lost around 80 soldiers and China lost over 300 PLA personnel. In a telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar too talked about the need for implementation of the decisions taken at the June 6 meeting. Replying to a separate question, the MEA spokesperson said the external affairs minister will participate in the Russia-India-China (RIC) foreign ministers meeting on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-china-to-confine-its-activities-to-its-side-of-lac-851037.html
18-06-2020||National||Enhancing counter terrorism action by UNSC among main priorities: MEA on India's election to UN body||Hours after getting elected to the UN Security Council, India on Thursday said enhancing counter terrorism action by the powerful UN body and depoliticising the process of putting sanctions on terror entities will be among its top priorities. India was overwhelmingly elected as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN Security Council for a two-year term in an unprecedented election, in which envoys from the 192 member states voted wearing masks and in adherence to strict social distancing norms in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Briefing the media on India's election to the UN body, Secretary West in the Ministry of External Affairs, Vikas Swarup, said the country looks forward for being the voice for all those who are not represented on the Council. He said this was one of India's best performance in the UNSC elections as the country, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the elections for the five non-permanent seats of the Security Council. Talking about the priorities of India as a member of the UNSC, he said enhancing counter terrorism action by the UNSC is one of the main priorities for the country. "Earlier also, when India was a member of the Security Council during 2011-12, we had chaired the United Nations counter terrorism committee and had brought in the concept of 'zero tolerance to terrorism'," Swarup said. During the coming term, India will work to enhance global action against terrorism, their supporters and sympathisers, and safe havens by seeking the streamlining of the process of putting sanctions on terrorists and terrorist entities, he said. "The process of sanctioning also needs to be depoliticised as there is no justification of any act of terrorism," Swarup said. India will also work for the early finalisation of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, which India had proposed way back in 1996, he said. Asked if a Pakistani representative had raised a bilateral issue at the multilateral forum and politicised the platform, Swarup said this is the kind of behaviour "we have been seeing from Pakistan over the past many months and years". "They always rake up bilateral issues in multilateral fora. In fact, they have made it almost a standard norm for their policy," Swarup said. "As far as we are concerned, our foreign policy has a much broader canvas, we have a much wider and global focus and as a member of the UNSC, we will be dealing with all those issues which are under the consideration of the security council in line with priorities that the External Affairs Minister (S Jaishankar) has outlined," he said. India's work in the Security Council will be guided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a reformed multilateralism and the dynamic 5S vision of foreign policy -- Samman (Respect), Samvad (Dialogue), Sahyog (Cooperation), and Shanti (Peace), to create conditions for universal Samriddhi (Prosperity). "Through this approach we seek to move towards a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system which can be encapsulated as N.O.R.M.S -- New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System," he said. India's two-year term as the non-permanent member of the UNSC would begin from January 1, 2021. Along with India, Ireland, Mexico and Norway also won the Security Council elections held on Wednesday. This is the eighth time that India will sit at the UN high-table. Previously, India was elected for 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985, 1991-1992 and most recently in 2011-2012 when Hardeep Singh Puri, now India's Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs and Civil Aviation, was India's Permanent Representative. Less than a year after its term at the Security Council ended, India had put in its candidature for the non-permanent seat in 2013 under the tenure of then Permanent Representative Ambassador Asoke Mukerji. Afghanistan too was looking at a non-permanent member slot in 2021-22 but Kabul, in a rare gesture, decided to withdraw its candidacy in favor of New Delhi, Mukerji had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enhancing-counter-terrorism-action-by-unsc-among-main-priorities-mea-on-indias-election-to-un-body-851040.html
18-06-2020||National||COVID-19: PM Narendra Modi urges people to observe this Yoga Day at home||Ahead of the sixth International Day of Yoga, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged people to observe the day from the confines of their homes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Noting that this year's theme is 'Yoga at home' and 'Yoga with family', he said due to the pandemic, it has to be observed indoors. Though yoga day celebrations are an occasion of mass gatherings, due to extraordinary times, this year people should observe the day at their homes, he said in a video message. Yoga Day is being observed on June 21. He said the pandemic could have affected the mobility, but not enthusiasm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-narendra-modi-urges-people-to-observe-this-yoga-day-at-home-851041.html
18-06-2020||National||Nepal's President signs bill to redraw map incorporating 3 Indian areas||Nepal's President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Thursday signed the Constitution amendment bill to update the country's new political map which incorporated three strategically important Indian areas, hours after the Parliament approved it, notwithstanding New Delhi's strong protests against such an "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims. President Bhandari has authenticated the Constitution of Nepal, Second Amendment Bill, 2077, The Himalayan Times reported. She "authenticated the bill stepping on the Article 274 (10) of the Constitution. With this, the process of implementation of the new map has officially completed," the paper said. Nepal’s Coat of Arms will now include the new map incorporating the territories of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani, as the president has endorsed the bill passed by the House of Representatives and the National Assembly. India has already termed as "untenable" the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal after its lower house of Parliament on Saturday unanimously approved the new political map of the country featuring Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura areas which India maintains belong to it. Nepal last month released the revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over the strategically important areas, more than six months after India published a new map in November 2019. Earlier in the day, the National Assembly, or the upper house of the Nepalese parliament, unanimously passed the Constitution amendment bill providing for the inclusion of the country's new political map in its national emblem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepals-president-signs-bill-to-redraw-map-incorporating-3-indian-areas-851042.html
18-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to launch Rs 50,000 crore job guarantee scheme for migrant workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday launch a Rs 50,000 crore employment scheme to provide income support to migrant workers who returned to their home states during the coronavirus lockdown. The 'Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan' will primarily focus on six states where maximum migrant workers have returned. This massive rural public works scheme will empower and provide livelihood for 125 days to the returnee migrants, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday at a curtain-raiser press briefing on the initiative. Prime Minister Modi will launch the scheme through video conferencing in the presence of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi. The programme will be launched from village Telihar, block Beldaur of Khagaria district of Bihar, which will go for assembly polls later this year. A total of 116 districts with more than 25,000 migrant workers each across Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha have been chosen for the campaign which includes 27 aspirational districts, Sitharaman said. These districts are estimated to cover about two-thirds of such migrant workers. Villages across 116 districts in the six states will join the launch event through Common Service Centres (CSCs) and Krishi Vigyan Kendras, maintaining the norms of social distancing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.' This campaign of 125 days, which will work in mission mode, will involve intensified and focused implementation of 25 different types of works to provide employment to migrant workers on one hand and create infrastructure in the rural regions of the country on the other, with a resource envelope of Rs 50,000 crore. "This (Rs 50,000 crore) is part of the Budget. What is the key thing about this...we are bringing convergence, we are frontloading the money. "The other key thing is it is directly tying up with all the migrant workers who have reached their districts...all of them are going to result in asset creation," Sitharaman said. The scheme will be a coordinated effort by 12 different ministries, including rural development, panchayati raj, road transport and highways, mines, drinking water and sanitation, environment, railways, petroleum and natural gas, new and renewable energy, telecom and agriculture. So 25 schemes of the government are all going to be brought together and these workers would help build gram panchayat bhawans and aganwadi centres, National Highway works, railway works and water conservation projects, among others, she said. "We want to frontload the money allotted for these 25 different works for those 116 (districts) and ensure that all those migrants in those districts are going to be given employment," she said. Asked why West Bengal was not included in this initiative, Rural Development Secretary N N Sinha said when the programme was drawn up, the state did not provide the number of migrants who had returned. "There is no bar to other districts (with at least 25,000 migrant workers) joining in this initiative. If we get the numbers, we will certainly include them in the future," he said.   To a question on whether the programme will be extended beyond 125 days, Sitharaman said, "For the moment we are giving them a clear, concrete blueprint for engagement for four months. As we go along, we have to see how many continue to stay...the government has come with this comprehensive blueprint that they are immediately provided a livelihood...we have to take it as we go along." She further said as many as 32 districts of Bihar and 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh are part of this initiative. Speaking at the event, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said, "You must have heard news about Punjab that now workers are being called back to work with rail tickets." He said as the situation normalises further, things would move in a positive direction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-launch-rs-50000-crore-job-guarantee-scheme-for-migrant-workers-851044.html
18-06-2020||National||SGRH says new COVID-19 test rate implemented, some other facilities claim yet to receive order||A day after the Union Home Ministry fixed the price for COVID-19 test at Rs 2,400 in the national capital, authorities at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) here said the new rate has been brought into effect from Thursday even as many private facilities claimed that "no order has yet been received by them". The Union Home Ministry on Wednesday announced that the price for COVID-19 test in Delhi has been fixed at Rs 2,400 as suggested by a high-level committee set up by the Home minister on Sunday and now tests will be done via Rapid Antigen methodology. Following Union Home minister Amit Shah's decision to double COVID-19 tests in Delhi, 16,618 samples have been collected on June 15 and 16, compared to 4,000 to 4,500 daily tests till June 14, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said on Wednesday. SGRH is a dedicated COVID-19 facility in central Delhi and its laboratory is one of the over 40 labs, authorised by Delhi government to conduct the tests. "We welcome the revision of the rate, and the new rate has already been implemented from today. The new rate is quite feasible, especially in the difficult time of this pandemic," Dr DS Rana, Chairman, Board of Management, SGRH, was quoted as saying by an official. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday also tweeted, saying, the COVID-19 test rate has been reduced to Rs 2,400. Meanwhile, some of the private hospitals which have a laboratory facility and few private labs said they were yet to receive the order. Authorities at the Apollo Indraprastha Hospital here, when contacted, said, "We haven't heard from the government yet". Some indicated there was some sort of a confusion about the rates. Dr Arvind Lal of Dr Lal Path Labs claimed that the new rate applied only to laboratories which were outsourced by the government. "For a private individual, seeking services of a private lab for testing at home, the old rate still applied," he claimed, adding, "there seems to be a confusion and we have not yet received any order from the government". Delhi recorded 2,414 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike here, taking the tally in the city to over 47,000 on Wednesday, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 1,904, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin said 3,12,576 tests have been conducted till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sgrh-says-new-covid-19-test-rate-implemented-some-other-facilities-claim-yet-to-receive-order-851049.html
18-06-2020||National||India-China Border: Martyred soldier's body arrives in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday lent his shoulder to the mortal remains of martyred Army jawan Ganesh Ram Kunjam at Swami Vivekanand Airport here, an official said. Sepoy Ganesh Ram Kunjam (27), who hailed from Kanker district of the state, was among 20 Indian army personnel who were killed in a clash with Chinese soldiers in Galwan valley of Ladakh on Monday night. The plane bringing Kunjam's body landed at the Raipur airport around 4.30 pm. Baghel also handed over a cheque of compensation of Rs 20 lakh to his father Itwaru Ram Kunjam and announced a government job for a member of the family, a government spokesperson said. The government school in the dead soldier's village will be named after him, the chief minister said. After Kunjam's mortal remains arrived, a wreath- laying ceremony was held at the airport premises and a guard of honour was given. Chief minister Baghel paid floral tributes and lent his shoulder to his mortal remains which were later flown to Kunjam's village Gidhali in Kanker district by a helicopter for final rites. "Shri Kunjam has sacrificed his life for the nation. We the people of Chhattisgarh are proud of such great sons. His martyrdom will not go in vain. We all stand strong with the country and our Army," the official quoted the CM as saying on the occasion. Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, Agriculture Minister Ravindra Choubey and other ministers, former chief minister Raman Singh, Chief Secretary R P Mandal, Director General of Police D M Awasthi, MLAs and officials of Army and state government were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-martyred-soldiers-body-arrives-in-chhattisgarh-851058.html
18-06-2020||National||Lost my husband, but will send two sons to Army: Martyr's wife||Undaunted by the untimely demise of her husband Sunil Kumar, who died fighting the Chinese soldiers on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the braveheart’s widow Priti Kumari on Thursday asserted she would send her two sons to the Army. “When my two sons Ayush (11) and Virat (5) grow up, they will join the Army. They will fight the Chinese and avenge their father’s killing. "Ek sar ke badley dus sar lana hoga unhey (They will have to kill ten Chinese for each Indian killed). Only then the injustice will be undone,” said an emotionally-charged Priti, while holding back her tears soon after the last rites of Sunil were performed with full State honours near Bihta on Thursday. Her two sons and a 13-year-old daughter Sonali are presently studying in Army School, Danapur, 25 kms from the State Capital. Similar sentiments were echoed by Saharsa-based Nimindra Yadav, whose son Kundan Kumar died during the face-off with Chinese troops at Ladakh. “I am proud of my son. I will tell my two grandsons the story of their father’s martyrdom. Once they grow up, I will ask them to follow into the footsteps of their father and join the Indian Army,” said Kundan’s distraught father Nimindra. Kundan had joined Army in 2012 and got married to Baby Kumari in 2013. Their two sons Raushan and Rana are six and four years old respectively. Altogether, five defence personnel from Bihar, out of 20 Indians, were killed in the clash with Chinese soldiers at LAC on Monday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lost-my-husband-but-will-send-two-sons-to-army-martyrs-wife-851063.html
18-06-2020||National||Govt lifts export ban on anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine||The government on Thursday lifted the export ban on anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine with immediate effect. The government on March 25 had banned the export of the drug in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. "The export policy of Hydroxychloroquine API (active pharmaceutical ingredients) and its formulations from prohibited to free with immediate effect," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DFFT) said in a notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-lifts-export-ban-on-anti-malarial-drug-hydroxychloroquine-851065.html
18-06-2020||National||Maharashtra gives clean chit to Karnataka over 2019 floods||A Maharashtra government-appointed committee has virtually given clean chit to the Karnataka government on the complex inter-state issue of the July-August, 2019,  floods. The floods during the first week of August, because of the heavy rainfall between July 25-August 13, has caused severe inundation and damage in the Krishna sub-basin area of the state. The Western Maharashtra districts of Sangli and Kolhapur were worst affected. In the wake of the floods, a committee was appointed, which has submitted a three-page report to the Maharashtra government. "....Although this mathematical model study, has certain limitations, the study indicates that Almatti and Hippargi reservoirs in Karnataka and its flood operations, during the flood event of 2019, has not adversely affected the flood situation in the State of Maharashtra," the Experts Study Committee (ESC) stated. The chairman of the ESC is Nandkumar Vadnere, former principal secretary, Water Resources Department,  while member-secretary is Rajendra Pawar, secretary,  command,  area development,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-gives-clean-chit-to-karnataka-over-2019-floods-851067.html
18-06-2020||National||Chennai witnesses mass exodus as another lockdown begins||A 30-year-old Shanmugasundaram vacated his four-month-old rented accommodation in this metropolis last week and shifted back to his home town of Perambalur, 275 km from here, as he struggled to make his ends meet here due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Shanmugasundaram, who was selling kitchenware for fast food joints here, dumped all his belongings into a medium-sized van that came from his native town and bid adieu, albeit for now, to the city that gave him a living for many years. “My business was not moving anywhere. Instead of incurring more loses, I decided to get back to my native town and set up some business slowly. I got married just four months back and my wife moved in with me immediately. But we are going back now,” he said. The tale of 29-year-old Pavarasan is different. The software professional left the city two days before the nation-wide lockdown began on March 25 and came to his native village near Tiruttani, 90 km from here, as his company allowed him to work from home. With the situation in Chennai going from bad to worse, Pavarasan took a tempo to Chennai on June 17 and vacated his rented accommodation for which he has been paying rent continuously without even living there.  “The situation does not seem to improve for the next few months at least. Already, I have lost nearly Rs 35,000 on the rent and I did not want to waste more money. Since my wife and I work from home, we have decided to stay in our native place till Chennai becomes normal,” Pavarasan told DH. These two are just among thousands of people who have vacated their houses in Chennai and have gone back to their native places as this metropolis battles with coronavirus. Such an exodus was noticed during the first lockdown that came into force on March 25 too. With many losing jobs and savings also drying up, experts say, people are being forced to dump the cities and go back to their villages and town, where making ends meet will be much easier. As Chennai got ready for a complete lockdown from June 19, thousands of vehicles with loads of luggage and people waited at the Paranur check post near Chengalpattu on the Chennai-Tiruchirapalli National Highway on Thursday. The situation was not any better on the Chennai-Bengaluru highway as thousands of people set on their two-wheelers to reach their native places in northern districts. The exodus from Chennai has only grown bigger over the past week. And, the announcement by the state government that has only aggravated the trend. Many people find one way or the other to reach their native places without an e-pass, which has been made mandatory by the government for inter-district travel in the state. The experts said besides difficulties in meeting ends, another reason for people to move out of Chennai is the fear of being infected with Coronavirus, which is spreading at a lightening speed in the state. Bernard D’ Sami, Professor of History at the prestigious Loyola College here, told DH that psychological feeling of “being safe” in their own places is also one of the reasons for such migration. “Such a phenomenon was not witnessed in the known history of Chennai city. First is the fear of catching Coronavirus and the second is related to the human psyche of being safe in the towns and villages where they grew up. Such feeling is therapeutic, and people feel satisfied and happy by doing that,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-witnesses-mass-exodus-as-another-lockdown-begins-851068.html
18-06-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir govt evacuates 1.47 lakh stranded residents from outside||The Jammu and Kashmir government has evacuated over 1.47 lakh residents of the Union Territory, who were stranded in other parts of the country and abroad due to the coronavirus lockdown, till date amid strict observance of all necessary guidelines. As per the official data received in this regard on Thursday, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has received 57 special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations from different states and UTs, so far, with 45,747 passengers while 1,01,895 people from other states and UTs including 328 from abroad have been evacuated by the government through Lakhanpur check-post till date. Therefore, a total of 1,47,642 UT residents stranded outside have been brought back home by the Jammu and Kashmir government by 57 special trains and a fleet of buses through Lakhanpur check-post after strictly observing all necessary preventive measures regarding the coronavirus, data said. As per the detailed breakup of the figures, 1,514 stranded passengers have entered through Lakhanpur from June 17 to June 18 morning while 908 passengers have reached on Thursday in the 36th Delhi COVID special train at Jammu. So far, 36 trains have reached Jammu with a total of 30,051 stranded passengers belonging to different districts while 15,696 passengers have reached Udhampur in 21 special trains, so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-evacuates-147-lakh-stranded-residents-from-outside-851069.html
18-06-2020||National||India should not depend on China now: Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said India should no longer depend on China and instead focus on research and innovation to ramp up domestic manufacturing. The minister also said the government is working on formulating a new policy for import substitution. The remarks come in the wake of border clashes between the two nations in Ladakh. Addressing a webinar on India's electric vehicle roadmap post COVID-19, the minister for Road Transport and Highways and MSME said, "I feel that it is time, which I directly want to tell you because I was not using those words, we should not depend upon China now."  He said even though presently the prices of Chinese goods are attractive and Indian electric vehicle companies are earning good profits by importing parts, in the long-term, the country should produce everything locally. "Without that, we don't have a good future. Otherwise the Chinese, somewhere they can give a reasonable concessional rate at the starting point, and when your industry will achieve good production they will charge more. "So again there will be a problem. So self dependence on everything is the key to success for this industry," Gadkari said. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in violent hand-to-hand clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on Monday -- the biggest confrontation between the two sides in about five decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-not-depend-on-china-now-nitin-gadkari-851073.html
18-06-2020||National||COVID-19 cases rise by nearly 13,000; Tally races towards 4 lakh-mark||India on Thursday witnessed its sharpest ever official hike in COVID-19 cases as 12,881 new infections were reported from across the country, as per the data released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. India’s total confirmed COVID-19 cases touched 3,66,946 out of which 1,94,325 had got discharged from hospitals, taking the recovery rate to nearly 53% by Thursday morning. On Monday, India's COVID-19 recovery rate stood at 51.08%, after 7,419 COVID-19 patients were cured across the country in a 24-hour period, the health ministry said. The total fatalities due to the disease also increased by 334 to touch 12,237. India registered over 10,000 cases for the seventh day in a row on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu became the second state in the country to register over 50,000 coronavirus cases after Maharashtra. With 2,174 people testing positive for the virus, the state saw the biggest spike in coronavirus infections in a day. Delhi added 2414 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number of patients to 47,102. Of the 334 new deaths reported till Thursday morning, 114 were in Maharashtra, 67 in Delhi, 48 in Tamil Nadu, 27 in Gujarat, 18 in Uttar Pradesh, 12 in Haryana, 11 in West Bengal, eight in Karnataka, six each in Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, five in Rajasthan, three in Bihar, two each in Jammu and Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh. With 520 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, Gujarat's Covid-1919 tally increased to 25,148.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-rise-by-nearly-13000-tally-races-towards-4-lakh-mark-851076.html
18-06-2020||National||Assam well fire continues, environment assessment study in progress||With gas continuing to flow out uncontrollably and the blaze still raging at a natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) at Baghjan in Assam, an environment impact assessment study is in progress along with monitoring of air quality and noise level, the PSU said. Well number 5 has been spewing gas uncontrollably since May 27 and it caught fire on June 9, killing two of OIL's firefighters at the site. The public sector undertaking said the environment impact assessment (EIA) study is in progress by M/s ERM India Pvt. Limited, a NABET accredited consultant, to carry out an environmental and ecological survey within the vicinity of the gas well in Tinsukia district, including Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and MaguriMotapung Beel. Mentioning that there will be a study by the energy, environment and climate change organisation TERI on air quality and noise level, the OIL said in a press release that arrangements for placing the equipment for monitoring are underway by a TERI team. A joint team from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and North East Institute of Science and Technology, Jorhat had reached Tinsukia on Wednesday to study tremor report using seismological technique. Installation of five seismometer stations is to commence on Thursday and a recce will be conducted for additional site under guidance of district authorities, the oil exploration major said. As part of the preparation for capping the well, OIL said a team from M/s SPA, Mumbai visited the site on Wednesday to assess the area for placing Breathing Air Cascade system for the safety of the personnel working during the well capping operation. Talking about assistance from the Army, the release said 15 trucks loaded with materials for Bailey Bridge mobilised from 3 Corps at Misamari, Tezpur have reached Baghjan and preliminary work has started. Fabrication of 10 heat shields for Army personnel has been completed and fabrication of additional such shields is in progress at OIL's engineering workshop, while erection of heat shield in front of the debris area is in progress, it said. Regarding mobilisation of equipment from ONGC, it said vehicles carrying second load mobilised from ONGC, Rajamundry and ONGC, Vadodara are in transit. Civil work is in progress for digging/ extension of the second 12,000 KL water reservoir, debris laydown and kill pump area, besides fabrication of other infrastructure required for well capping operation. Though there is no fire in the periphery of the well site at present, the company has declared an area up to 1.5 km radius as "red zone" to avoid any untoward incident and damage to the people. For relief and rehabilitation of the affected people and property, a survey has been initiated by the committee constituted by the district administration for assessment of damage for compensation. About the impact on oil/ gas production, the OIL said, "Due to stoppage/blockades, there was production loss of 406 MT of crude oil and 0.64 MMSCM of natural gas as reported on 17-06-2020. Operations were disrupted in 31 oil wells and 5 gas wells. "Cumulative production loss since May 27 due to bandhs and blockades is 6,538 MT crude oil and 8.61 MMSCM of natural gas," the release said. At present five inquiries are taking place to find out the facts -- a three-member probe by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, a one-member probe by the Assam government and an internal five-member inquiry by the OIL. Besides, two more crucial independent investigations of technical nature are being carried out by Directorate General Of Mines Safety (DGMS) and Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD). Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had also ordered the Additional Principal Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) to conduct a study on the effects of the explosion on the environment and ecology of the surrounding areas, including on flora and fauna in the adjacent Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. Already two officials of the OIL have been suspended for alleged negligence of duty at the gas well site, while a show-cause notice has been issued to John Energy Pvt Ltd, the outsourced private operator of the well. An FIR has also been registered against Oil India and its outsourced private well operator for the Baghjan gas well blowout, which has polluted the environment and village surroundings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-well-fire-continues-environment-assessment-study-in-progress-851077.html
18-06-2020||National||North India swelters under stifling heat, mercury touches 46 deg Celsius mark||Several parts of north India reeled under scorching heat on Thursday as mercury touched the 46 degrees Celsius-mark, with the weatherman predicting severe heatwave in some parts of Rajasthan. In the national capital, weather stations at Ayanagar recorded maximum temperature of 46.4 degrees Celsius. Heat wave conditions remained unabated in parts of Rajasthan where Ganganagar became the hottest place with a maximum temperature of 46.1 degrees Celsius. Churu, Bikaner, Jaisalmer and Jaipur recorded a maximum of 45.6 degrees, 44.8 degrees, 44 degrees and 43.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. A MeT official said weather conditions would remain the same with possibilities of severe heatwave at some places in the desert state during the next 24 hours. The maximum temperature also hovered above normal limits in Haryana and Punjab. In Haryana, Hisar sweltered at 44.2 degrees Celsius, while Narnaul recorded a high of 43.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Ambala recorded a maximum of 40.8 degrees, three degrees above normal, while Karnal recorded 39.5 degrees Celsius, it said. Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded above normal maximum temperatures of 41.4 degrees, 41.6 degrees and 41.3 degrees, respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, registered a maximum of 40.2 degrees Celsius, two notches against normal limits. Meanwhile, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said unseasonal showers in central Maharashtra and Cyclone Nisarga that lashed coastal areas have put the state in the ‘largely excess rainfall’ category. According to the IMD forecast, widespread showers are likely in the coastal areas of Maharashtra, while the rest of the state is expected to get scattered and isolated showers till June 22. The IMD has predicted normal rainfall (103 per cent) for northwest India this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-india-swelters-under-stifling-heat-mercury-touches-46-deg-celsius-mark-851078.html
18-06-2020||National||No prosecution of police officer without sanction: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that a policeman cannot be prosecuted in absence of sanction, even if he has acted in excess of duty and there is a reasonable connection between the performance of official duty and alleged act of omissions or commissions. "Sanction of the government, to prosecute a police officer, for any action related to the discharge of official duty, is imperative to protect the police officer from facing harassive, retaliatory, revengeful and frivolous proceedings," a bench of Justices R Banumathi and Indira Banerjee said.  The requirement of sanction would give an upright police officer the confidence to discharge his official duties efficiently, without fear of vindictive retaliation by initiation of criminal action, the court added. The court was quick to point out that an offence committed entirely outside the scope of the duty of the police officer, would certainly not require sanction. To cite an example, a policeman assaulting a domestic help or indulging in domestic violence would certainly not be entitled to protection. However, if an act is connected to the discharge of the official duty of investigation of a recorded criminal case, the act is certainly under colour of duty, no matter how illegal the act may be, the bench added. The top court quashed the criminal proceedings initiated against then Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime), Bengaluru, D Devaraja and others for allegedly assaulting  Owais Sabeer Hussain during the investigation of a case in 2013. Senior advocate Sanjan Povayya and advocate Balaji Srinivasan, appearing for Devaraja, challenged the Karnataka High Court's order of January 31, 2018 that had declined to stay the proceedings. They contended that despite having found the Magistrate's order of taking cognisance to be illegal without sanction under Section 197 Criminal Procedure Code, the high court has remanded the matter back and directed the petitioner to file a discharge application. Allowing an appeal against the high court's order, the bench said, "The language and tenor of Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Section 170 of the Karnataka Police Act make it absolutely clear that sanction is required not only for acts done in discharge of official duty, it is also required for an act purported to be done||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-prosecution-of-police-officer-without-sanction-sc-851080.html
18-06-2020||National||Govt can't ban Chinese firms in external aided projects||Amidst row over Chinese company bagging tender to construct underground strech of Delhi- Meerut RRTS (Regional Rapid Transit System) project, the Centre has clarifed that it cannot bar foreign companies in external agencies funded project like World Bank and Asian Development Bank ( ADB). "ADB, World Bank or any other multi-lateral procurement guidelines do not allow discrimination among  firms/ countries," an offical in the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs  said.  Though the government can request the funding agency with valid reasons for cancellation of any companies contract, it has to be agreeable by the funding agency. Delay or poor quality works are some of reasons for contract cancellation, but ultimately final decision rests with multilateral funding agency, said the official. "If the government unilaterly banned any country or company, then the agency may stop the funding and we have to findout alternative source to raise money," said the official. The Delhi -Meerut RRTS tunnel project is an ADB funded package for design and construction of 5.6 km tunnel through TBM (tunnel boaring machine) and 1 RRTS station. Total five  bidders submitted bids and qualified for financial bid opening - SKEC(Korea)+Tata, STEC(China),  L&T (India), Afcons (India) and GulermakAgir (Turkey). However  in financial bids STEC (Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Company ) emerged as lowest bidder which bids for Rs 1126.9 core. "The tender is under process and yet to be finalised," said an official. Delhi–Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System is an 82.15 km long, under-construction, semi-high speed rail corridor connecting Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut. The Ministry clarification came after campaign to ban Chinese compaines from bagging projects started on social media in India in the wake of the tensions between India and China after the killing of 20 Indian soldiers by the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in Ladakh's Galwan valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-cant-ban-chinese-firms-in-external-aided-projects-851081.html
18-06-2020||National||Elections for 19 Rajya Sabha seats on Friday||Elections for 19 Rajya Sabha seats spread across eight states begin Friday with the contest in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan promising to be a close affair between the BJP and the Congress. Voting for 18 seats were deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic. Later the Election Commission announced polls for fours seats in Karnataka and one seat each in Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh. Of the 19 seats where polling will be held, four each are from Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, three each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two from Jharkhand, and one each from Manipur, Mizoram and Meghalaya. The election in Manipur is also likely to be interesting following the resignation of nine members of the ruling coalition and the opposition Congress pressing for a no-confidence motion against the N Biren Singh government. The BJP has fielded Leisemba Sanajaoba, the titular king of Manipur, while the Congress nominee is T Mangi Babu. In Karnataka, where elections were to be held for four seats, all the candidates -- former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, BJP candidates Iranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti -- have been declared elected unopposed. BJP nominee Nabam Rebia was also elected unopposed to the lone Rajya Sabha seat from Arunachal Pradesh. The counting of votes for all the 19 seats will be held on the evening of June 19 itself, the Election Commission said. Legislators vote to elect candidates for the Upper House of Parliament. The Election Commission (EC) has made elaborate arrangements for the voting keeping in mind the coronavirus pandemic. Every voter (MLA) will be screened for body temperature and will have use mask and adhere to social distancing norms. Legislators having a fever or showing other symptoms will be kept in a separate waiting room. With many MLAs switching sides, the past few months have seen parties indulging in 'resort politics' to keep their flock together. Several MLAs have been lodged in resorts to stop them from "poaching" by rival factions. In Gujarat, the contest is likely to go down to the wire as both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress do not have absolute numbers in the assembly to get all their candidates win on their own. The BJP has fielded three candidates -- Abhay Bharadwaj, Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin -- for the four seats, while the Congress, which has seen desertions in its legislative ranks, has given tickets to two nominees Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki. The BJP, with its current numbers in the 182-member assembly, can win two seats, while the Congress on the basis of its House strength can bag one. A tough fight is expected for the fourth seat. Notwithstanding their respective numbers, both the parties have expressed hope that all their candidates will sail through. Considering that the effective strength of the assembly is reduced to 172, a candidate will require support of minimum 35 MLAs to win, as per the RS election standard formula. Ten assembly seats are currently vacant -- eight due to resignations of Congress MLAs and two due to court cases. With 65 MLAs and one independent (Jignesh Mewani) supporting its candidates, the Congress will still need the backing of four more MLAs to win both the seats. While the BJPs House strength is 103, it will require support of 105 MLAs to win the three seats. The faith of the fourth seat will be decided by the two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs and one of the NCP. Both the BJP and the Congress have fielded two candidates each for the three seats in Madhya Pradesh. While the BJP's candidates are former Congress MP Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki, the Congress has named Digvijaya Singh and Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya. In the 230-member assembly, the BJP currently has 107 MLAs and also enjoys the support of two legislators of the Bahujan Samaj Party, one of the Samajwadi Party and two Independents, while the opposition Congress has 92 MLAs. Currently, the effective strength of the House is 206, as 24 seats are lying vacant. While the BJP is expected to win two seats and the Congress one seat, the fight will be for the fourth slot. In Rajasthan, both the ruling Congress and opposition BJP have lodged their legislators in different hotels after accusing each other of poaching MLAs. For the three seats up for grabs, four candidates (two from Congress and as many from BJP) have filed nomination papers. The Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the house of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of independent MLAs and legislators of other parties like Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI (M) and Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP). The ruling party has more than enough majority to win two seats and the opposition BJP, which has 72 MLAs and support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs, has the numbers to comfortably win one seat. Fifty-one votes are needed for one candidate to win and the Congress is in a comfortable position to ensure the victory of both of its candidates, while BJP's only one candidate can win as per the numbers. After 51 votes to its first candidate Rajendra Gehlot, BJP's spare votes will go to second candidate Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In Andhra Pradesh, the ruling YSR Congress is poised to win all the four seats given its formidable strength in the state assembly. This is the first time that an election is being conducted for Rajya Sabha seats from the state, post-bifurcation in 2014. With a strength of 151 in the 175-member assembly and the support of four "rebel" legislators of TDP and Jana Sena, the YSRC is comfortably placed to win all four. Minimum 36 votes are required for a candidate to win from Andhra Pradesh. The TDP, with just 20 out of 23 MLAs remaining on its side, stands no chance whatsoever to win the lone seat it is contesting. From the YSRC, Deputy Chief Minister Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao, realtor A Ayodhya Rami Reddy and Reliance Industries Senior Group president Parimal Nathwaniare in the fray. The TDP has fielded its politburo member Varla Ramaiah. Originally the elections were to take place on March 26 for 55 Upper House seats, but 37 candidates have already been elected without a contest. The EC had deferred the March 26 Rajya Sabha elections citing the threat of the novel coronavirus. JMM president Shibu Soren, Congress candidate Shahzada Anwar and BJP state chief Deepak Prakash are in the fray for the two Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand. The ruling Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) in Meghalaya has fielded W R Kharlukhi for the lone seat and he will be up against Kennedy Khyriem of the Congress. The MDA has the support of 41 MLAs in the House while the Congress has 19 legislators in the 60-member House. Khun Hynniewtrep National Awakening Movement legislator Adelbert Nongrum who supports thee MDA has decided to abstain from voting. The election to Mizoram's lone seat is likely to witness a triangular contest. The ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) has fielded the party's national core committee member K Kanlalvena, while the Zoram People's Movement (ZPM) and the Congress nominated B Lalchhanzova and Lallianchhunga respectively. In the 40-member Mizoram Assembly, the MNF has 27 members, ZPM seven, Congress five and the BJP has one MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elections-for-19-rajya-sabha-seats-on-friday-851092.html
18-06-2020||National||Pakistan refuses to felicitate India after its election as non-permanent UNSC member||Pakistan on Thursday refused to felicitate India after it was elected as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN Security Council, accusing it of violating the UN resolutions on Kashmir. India was overwhelmingly elected as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN Security Council on Wednesday for a two-year term. India, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the elections for the five non-permanent seats of the Security Council, the world organisation’s most powerful organ. Pakistan Foreign Office spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said at a regular media briefing that the General Assembly elected four non-permanent members to the Security Council for a two-year term commencing from 1 January 2021. “We congratulate Ireland, Norway and Mexico on their election to the Council. The election of India, however, raises fundamental questions,” she said. She said that the UN Charter has entrusted the Security Council with primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. “India stands in flagrant violation of several resolutions of the Security Council that prescribed a UN-supervised plebiscite to enable the people of Jammu and Kashmir to exercise their fundamental right to self-determination,” she said. She said Pakistan will be working with the rest of the members of the Security Council in advancing the objectives of international peace and security in South Asia and beyond. On a conflict between forces of India and China in Ladakh, Farooqui said that renewed clashes at China-India border areas happened as China was negotiating with India to resolve the conflict peacefully and through agreed mechanisms. “India’s belligerent policies and actions seeking to unilaterally change borders with neighbours continue to pose a threat to peace and security of the region and undermine the efforts aimed at promoting stability and development in the region,” she alleged. After its election, India on Thursday said enhancing counter terrorism action by the powerful UN body and depoliticising the process of putting sanctions on terror entities will be among its top priorities. Briefing the media on India's election to the UN body, Secretary West in the Ministry of External Affairs, Vikas Swarup, said the country looks forward for being the voice for all those who are not represented on the Council. She also rejected Indian Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's remark about the situation in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Addressing a virtual Jan Samvad rally for Jammu and Kashmir, Singh said on Sunday that when the people of PoK will want to be freed of Pakistan's occupation and be part of India, then this will lead to the fulfilment of Parliament's resolution that the region is an integral part of the country. On a question about the two officials of the Indian High Commission arrested on Monday for their alleged involvement in a hit-and-run incident in Pakistan's capital Islamabad, she said they were over-speeding and crashed their car into a pedestrian, which led to their arrest but they were set free. “During the course of investigation, fake currency was also recovered from the aforementioned officials,” she alleged. India on Tuesday summoned Charge d' Affaires of Pakistan High Commission Haider Shah and a lodged a strong protest with him over the "abduction and torture" of two officials of the Indian mission in Islamabad by Pakistani agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-refuses-to-felicitate-india-after-its-election-as-non-permanent-unsc-member-851097.html
18-06-2020||National||BSF strengthens anti-infiltration grid along border with Pakistan after Ladakh standoff||In view of the standoff with China in Ladakh, the BSF has strengthened the anti-infiltration grid along the 200-km International Border in Jammu and Kashmir with Pakistan too, by deploying additional personnel, bringing in better surveillance tools and taking other measures, officials said on Thursday. They said the BSF strengthened it preparedness on the western border in Jammu and Kashmir in view of the threat of infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan at a time Ladakh is witnessing a standoff between India and China. Jammu and Kashmir Police Chief Dilbag Singh Thursday warned that Pakistan may try to infiltrate more terrorists and give impetus to violence in the Kashmir Valley and elsewhere in view of the Ladakh standoff. Sources in security forces said that the BSF has strengthened the anti-infiltration grid along the IB and put in place an obstacle system in hinterlands in the borderline. Apart from deployment of additional troops and high degree of technological surveillance along the borderline, the force has intensified patrolling in view of the sensitivity of the IB and increase in the number of terrorists ready to infiltrate, they said. DGP Singh Thursday chaired a high-level meeting of officers to review the security scenario in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, particularly on the borders. IGP, BSF, Jammu frontier, N S Jamwal gave a power point presentation in the meeting with the DGP on strengthening of the border grid and briefed him about the security plans being made on the IB "During the meeting, ceasefire violations and infiltration dynamics were discussed. It was said that there are a number of camps across the border in various sectors where terrorists are ready to infiltrate", a police spokesman said. Over 300 terrorists are present in launch pads across the LoC in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), waiting to infiltrate into the Indian side, the DGP had said in May-end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-strengthens-anti-infiltration-grid-along-border-with-pakistan-after-ladakh-standoff-851098.html
18-06-2020||National||COVID-19: CAPFs report 110 fresh cases; tally over 2,380||The paramilitary forces or the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) witnessed 110 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally of such cases among the five forces to over 2,380, according to official data. The forces -- CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB -- have so far witnessed 17 deaths due to the disease. The Border Security Force (BSF) reported 53 fresh coronavirus cases since Wednesday. Twenty-four troops of the about 2.5-lakh-personnel-strong force also recovered from the disease during the period. The maximum of 37 fresh cases were reported from various BSF battalions based in Tripura, a senior official said.  The force that guards the country's borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh has reported a total of 680 cases of the infection till now, of which 502 have been cured, a latest data said. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that guards over 60 airports in the country, apart from other vital installations, reported 18 new cases. It has a total of 526 COVID-19 cases, of which 311 have been cured. The maximum of eight fresh cases were reported from the CISF unit that guards the Madras High Court. A total of 38 personnel from this unit have contracted the virus. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) that guards the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China reported 14 new coronavirus cases and has a total of 250 such cases now. A total of 197 ITBP personnel have been cured from the disease, the data said. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) that guards the open Indian fronts with Nepal and Bhutan reported two fresh COVID-19 cases. It has a total of 121 such cases. Only 32 SSB personnel are under treatment at present while the rest have recovered from the disease, the data said. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the country's largest paramilitary force with about 3.25 lakh personnel, reported 31 new coronavirus cases. The force has 815 cases of the infection and 440 of its personnel have been cured of it, according to the data accessed by PTI. The data said these forces have a total of 2,389 COVID-19 cases, of which 843 are active. Of the 17 deaths in the CAPFs due to the disease, the CRPF has suffered six, CISF five, BSF three, SSB two and ITBP one. These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law-and-order management, border-guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist and disaster rescue-and-relief operations under the command of the Union home ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-capfs-report-110-fresh-cases-tally-over-2380-851099.html
18-06-2020||National||Nurse gets stuck in hospital lift wearing PPE kit in Kerala||Personal protective equipment are an essential for healthcare workers, though the suits have caused enough discomforts for frontline staff wearing them continuously. At a time when many health workers used to share the discomforts of being in PPE suit continuously, a nurse at a COVID-19 hospital in Kerala got stuck in a lift in the hospital wearing PPE kit for over 30 minutes. A nursing assistant at the government medical college hospital in Kalamassery in Kochi faced the ordeal on Wednesday. The hospital authorities said that though the issue came to notice, no specific complaints were received yet. The nursing assistant, who refused to reveal identity, told a section of media that it was around 3.10 pm she entered the lift of the quarantine block with an echo test machine. She was wearing the full PPE kit complete with goggles, which is mandatory while working in a COVID-19 ward. As the lift was going down it got stuck owing to power failure. The lights in the lift also went off. The nurse somehow managed to find the alarm button and press it continuously. But there was no response and she started sweating and got exhausted. She also screamed and knocked at the lift door. After struggling for around 30 minutes she fainted. When she became conscious by around 6.30 pm. she was in the casualty. It was learnt that since she was on PPE kit and on duty, she was not carrying mobile phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nurse-gets-stuck-in-hospital-lift-wearing-ppe-kit-in-kerala-851100.html
18-06-2020||National||Awareness, not anxiety, key to fight COVID-19 pandemic: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Awareness, not anxiety, is key to fight coronavirus pandemic, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Thursday, underlining international collaboration as the need of the hour. After inaugurating an international conference here, Singh said that the roadmap ahead for nations in winning the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic lies in restarting the economy and strengthening cooperative federalism. He said the thrust is for stronger institutions, stronger e-governance models, digitally-empowered citizens and improved healthcare. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a wakeup call to the world to fight this challenge and that he set high standards of mutual international cooperation. PM Modi was not only instrumental in creating a COVID-19 emergency fund, with a commitment of USD 10 million, but also addressed the pandemic issue at the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation), NAM (Non-Aligned Movement) and other platforms, the minister said. Singh was speaking after inaugurating the international workshop through a webinar, organised jointly by the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC), Ministry of External Affairs and National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG), Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG). The two-day conference is being attended by 81 civil servants from 16 countries including the chief of Staff, Sri Lanka Army, Major General HJS Gunawardena;19 senior secretaries to government from Bangladesh; 11 district administrators from Myanmar; senior officials from Bhutan, Kenya, Morocco, Nepal, Oman, Somalia, Thailand, Tunisia, Tonga, Sudan and Uzbekistan. “Awareness not Anxiety is key to fight the global pandemic of COVID-19 and international collaboration is the need of the hour,” he said. In his inaugural address, Singh also said that team work, compassion and statesmanship have defined India’s governance in response to COVID-19 pandemic. The road ahead focuses on “Do Gaj Doori” – social distancing, he said. India has popularised the Aarogya Setu App which is currently used by more than 120 million Indians, Singh said. He said that living with the coronavirus has meant less-contact governance, officials having to work in masks and gloves and work from home models being adopted. “Virtual offices, web-room meetings, virtual private networks were adopted as India’s central secretariat became a digital central secretariat. 75 ministries adopted e-office, functional web-rooms were created by NIC and India’s digital infrastructure initiatives bore fruit. The impact of integrated service portals was seen,” the minister said. Singh added that India’s efforts for digital empowerment of citizens were successful in this period of coronavirus pandemic. The inaugural session was attended by Kshatrapati Shivaji, Secretary, DARPG, V Srinivas, Additional Secretary, DARPG and Director General, National Centre for Good Governance, Devyani Khobragade, Joint Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs and other senior officials from government of India. The workshop was jointly conceptualized by the Ministry of External Affairs, DARPG and National Centre for Good Governance with the objective of disseminating India’s good governance practices to ITEC countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/awareness-not-anxiety-key-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic-union-minister-jitendra-singh-851110.html
18-06-2020||National||Five of 20 soldiers martyred in Galwan Valley clash laid to rest; mortal remains of others being taken home||Five of the 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, who died fighting Chinese troops in Ladakh, were laid to rest at their native places on Thursday amid patriotic slogans, gun salutes and barely held back tears. The mortal remains of the other soldiers are being taken to their villages and it is expected that their last rites will be performed on Friday with full military honours. The Indian army personnel were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. Several leaders across the country also paid tributes to the 20 soldiers -- five from Bihar, four from Punjab, two each from Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal, and one each from Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. The mortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu were consigned to the flames with full military honours in Suryapet in Telangana, amid chants of ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ and ‘Santosh Babu amar rahe’. Babu’s last rites were performed by his father on a piece of land owned by his family. The colonel is survived by his wife, daughter and son. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and state ministers K T Rama Rao, Malla Reddy and Jagdish Reddy paid their tributes, In Tamil Nadu, Havildar K Palani was laid to rest in Kadakkalur village, as scores of people, including family members, bid him a tearful adieu. Palani's minor son performed the last rites. The mortal remains of Naib Subedars Mandeep Singh and Satnam Singh were consigned to the flames at Seel village in Patiala and at Bhojraj village in Gurdaspur respectively. Their last rites were performed as villagers and youths showered flowers and waived the tricolour. In Patiala, Mandeep Singh’s minor son lit the pyre. The 39-year-old had joined the Army in 1997. He is survived by his mother, wife, daughter and son. In Gurdaspur, 41-year-old Satnam Singh’s son lit the pyre. The naib subedar had joined the army in 1995 and is survived by his father, mother, wife, daughter and son. The bodies of the other two soldiers from Punjab killed in Ladakh -- Sepoy Gurbinder Singh of Sangrur and Sepoy Gurtej Singh of Mansa – are expected to be brought to the state on Friday. Punjab minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Shiromani Dal Akali (SAD) MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra paid their respects. Of the five soldiers from Bihar who died in the Galwan Valley clashes, Havildar Sunil Kumar was laid to rest in Patna. He is survived by his wife and two sons. The pyre was lit by his 10-year-old son, amid chanting of patriotic slogans and waiving of tricolours. The bodies of the other soldiers from Bihar – Sepoys Chandan Kumar (Bhojpur), Kundan Kumar (Saharsa), Aman Kumar (Samastipur) and Jai Kishor Singh (Vaishali) – have been handed over to their families, but the last rites are expected to be held on Friday. In Odisha, the bodies of Sepoy Chandrakanta Pradhan (28) of Biarpanga village in Kandhamal district and Naib Subedar Nanduram Soren (43) of Rairangpur in Mayurbhanj arrived in Bhubaneswar on Thursday. The bodies are being taken to their native places, officials said. The last rites of Naik Deepak Singh, a 30-year-old from Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, is expected to be held on Friday and that of Sepoy Ganesh Ram Kunjam of Chhattisgarh’s Kanker district late on Thursday night, according to their family members. The body of Sepoy Ganesh Hansda, who had joined the Army in 2018 at the age of 21 years, arrived in Jharkhand on Thursday, while the body of Kundan Kumar Ojha, a resident of Sahibganj in the state, will arrive on Saturday. Family members of both sepoys will perform their last rites on Saturday. Sepoy Ankush Thakur’s body will be flown to Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh via Chandigarh on Friday morning and the cremation will take place on the same day, an official said. In West Bengal, the bodies of Havildar Bipul Roy of Bindipara village in Alipurduar district and Sepoy Rajesh Orang of Belgoria village in Birbhum district will be handed over to family members on Friday. The clash in the Galwan Valley was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldierswhile over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-of-20-soldiers-martyred-in-galwan-valley-clash-laid-to-rest-mortal-remains-of-others-being-taken-home-851111.html
18-06-2020||National||India to espouse peaceful settlement of disputes during its UNSC term||Even as it lost 20 of its soldiers in a violent clash with Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), India on Thursday said that it would keep arguing for peaceful settlement of disputes around the world during its forthcoming two-year-term at the UNSC beginning from January 2021. “We will act as a voice of reason and moderation and a firm believer in respect for international law and peaceful settlement of disputes,” Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said, hours after India was elected as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) during an election at the headquarters of the international organisation in New York early on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too said that India would work with all members of the UNSC to promote “global peace.” India’s vow to support peaceful settlement of disputes as a member of the UNSC came days after its own boundary row with China turned violent and it lost 20 of its soldiers in a clash with the neighbouring country’s PLA at Galwan Valley in Ladakh. Swarup, however, did not refer to the incident on India-China disputed boundary, while briefing media-persons about India’s election to the UNSC with “overwhelming support”, garnering 184 votes out of 192 valid votes polled. India was elected unopposed as it was the sole candidate for the Asia-Pacific seat on the Security Council.  “This was made possible because Afghanistan had withdrawn in our favour in 2013 for which we thank the Government of Afghanistan,” said MEA Secretary. The Asia Pacific group of the UN includes China and Pakistan, apart from India. Though all the members of the Asia-Pacific group had endorsed the candidature of India to be elected as a non-permanent member of the council, Pakistan purportedly backed out during voting and did not vote in favour of India. The two-year-term will be the eighth of India as a non-permanent member of the UNSC, the last being 2011-12. “As the world's largest democracy, a major contributor to UN peacekeeping operations and a strong votary of the rights of developing countries, India will bring its own unique strengths and perspective to the Security Council,” said Swarup. “Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India's membership of the @UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity,” the prime minister tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-espouse-peaceful-settlement-of-disputes-during-its-unsc-term-851114.html
18-06-2020||National||Sino-India clash: Interstate movement of armed forces, CAPFs relaxed in Himachal Pradesh||Interstate movement of personnel of armed forces and Central Armed Police Forces has been relaxed in Himachal Pradesh in the wake of the recent clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, an official said on Thursday. There is now no requirement of any e-pass or permit for interstate movement of the personnel of armed forces and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) in Himachal Pradesh, state Chief Secretary Anil Kumar Khachi said. In an order issued on Thursday, Khachi said members of the armed forces and CAPFs coming to the state, or crossing through the state to join back their duty can enter or pass through the state on the strength of their official identity card and without the requirement of e-pass or permit. The latest directive holds significance in the wake of the standoff at Galwan valley in Ladakh on Monday night which left 20 Indian soldiers dead. Khachi also directed district magistrates, police officials and all state departments to ensure strict implementation of the directions of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and National Executive Committee (NEC) in this regard. The state police had on Tuesday issued an alert in Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts bordering China. “An alert and an advisory were issued to Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts to take all precautionary measures to ensure security of local population and also to collect intelligence so as to plan the future course of action. All state intelligence units were also alerted in this regard,” the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sino-india-clash-interstate-movement-of-armed-forces-capfs-relaxed-in-himachal-pradesh-851118.html
18-06-2020||National||Three persons end life in separate incidents in Pune||Three people allegedly ended their lives in separate incidents in Wakad area near here on Thursday, the police said. A 32-year-old man who worked in an IT firm was found to have hanged himself in his flat in Hinjawadi area. The deceased, who hailed from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, left a suicide note in which he stated that no one should be blamed for his act, the police said. In a second incident, a 31-year-old woman allegedly jumped off the eighth floor of a residential building in Kalewadi. Her four-year son was inside the flat when the incident took place. In the same locality, a 40-year-old man allegedly hanged himself from the ceiling of his house. In all three cases, the reason behind the suicide was yet to be ascertained. Amid these tragic incidents, Wakad police succeeded in dissuading a 38-year-old man from taking his life. The man called the police control room and said his wife was at her parents' house for the last three months with children and was refusing to return, and he was going to commit suicide, said an official. "A police team immediately rushed to the spot and counseled the man," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-persons-end-life-in-separate-incidents-in-pune-851136.html
18-06-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi not to celebrate 50th birthday on Friday||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will not celebrate his 50th birthday, which is on Friday, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the death of 20 Army personnel in a stand-off with China in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh, sources close to him said. The party has also asked its state and district units not to organise any celebration on his birthday. Sources said All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal has asked all state units of the party not to organise any celebratory activities owing to the COVID-19 crisis and the death of the soldiers. He, however, suggested that party members should strengthen their efforts in providing support and relief to all those who are suffering. Venugopal suggested that distribution of food kits among the needy and community kitchens for the poor could be organised to alleviate the pain and suffering of the people during this difficult time. He has asked the state and district units of the party to observe silence and hold prayers for two minutes in memory of valiant soldiers who put down their lives protecting the motherland, sources said. They said the National Students' Union of India, the student wing of the Congress, would organise country-wide blood donation camps on Friday and would provide cash incentives to the poor who have been hit hardest by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-not-to-celebrate-50th-birthday-on-friday-851137.html
18-06-2020||National||India slams Pakistan for refusal to join meeting to discuss locust menace||Pakistan refused to join a technical-level meeting with India to discuss the issue of locust menace, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday, slamming Islamabad for showing "reticent attitude" even when its own people face a threat of food security. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that in May India had taken the initiative of giving a call for intensifying contacts between locust warning organisations of the two countries. These contacts have been taking place over the last 60 years, he said. "We thought it was important in the wake of the threat posed by desert locusts and we even proposed to Pakistan for coordinated locust control operations. We also proposed that we can facilitate the supply of pesticides for locust control operations," the spokesperson said. India has already delivered 20,000 litres of pesticide to Iran for desert locust operations, Srivastava said. "As per available information, Pakistani side has refused to join this (technical level) meeting and this meeting was proposed to be held today," he said. "We find it unfortunate that Pakistan maintains its reticent attitude even when its own people face a threat of food security," he added. India had proposed to Pakistan and Iran for a coordinated approach in dealing with the alarming threat of fast-increasing desert locusts in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-pakistan-for-refusal-to-join-meeting-to-discuss-locust-menace-851138.html
18-06-2020||National||COVID19: Pathological tests or diagnosis is part of fundamental right, says Gujarat govt||The Gujarat government on Thursday said that the right to "pathological tests or diagnosis" is part of fundamental rights enshrined in the Article 21 of constitution with "reasonable restrictions." The state government has also admitted that it cannot evolve a policy contrary to fundamental rights with regard to such tests. However, the government is of the opinion that it is "empowered to impose reasonable restrictions." The state government has said this in response to a set of litigations being heard in Gujarat high court seeking court's intervention to allow every citizen get coronavirus tested in case he or she has doubts of having been infected. Although the government recently modified its testing policy earlier this month by allowing testing on the prescription of qualified private doctors, earlier it was restricted to government authorities in view of guidelines suggested by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This made many including medical associations to move high court. Responding to the court, the state government has said in an affidavit that "If one were to consider the concept of ‘health’ and ‘medical care’, in an expansive manner, then in that case, pathological tests / diagnosis would certainly be one of the facets of the right to health as embodied in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. However, just like the fundamental rights conferred under Article 19, this fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution is also not an absolute right and is subject to reasonable restrictions." "Media report on civil hospital should not be believed" With regard to questions raised on the functioning of Ahmedabad civil hospital, Asarwa, the state government has said that media reports should not be believed. The affidavit states that the reports of increasing deaths in the civil hospital due to negligence and lack of infrastructure is not true. This is the same hospital which was termed by the high court as a "dungeon." It says, "The main reasons for the death of COVID-19 patients are co-morbid condition and old age, who succumb to death despite having received sufficient care and treatment. Therefore, the unconfirmed reports so far published in the print and digital media in this behalf, should not be believed as gospel truth." The affidavit claims that "sufficient care is being taken in respect of all the COVID-19 patients in Civil Hospital and no negligence has ever been shown in case of any of such patients." The affidavit mentions how Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel are keeping a close watch on the functioning of the hospital. Similarly, other authorities like Chief Secretary Anil Mukim, Chief Principal Secretary CM K Kailashnathan, Additional Chief Secretary (COVID) Pankaj Kumar and Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi "have been keeping a close vigil on the administration and functioning of the Civil Hospital." This comes after the high court's strong observation against politicians and bureaucrats for mismanaging the hospital where by Thursday evening over 550 infected patients have succumbed. As on today, out of 1592 deaths reported in the state, Ahmedabad alone has reported 1275 fatalities or over 80 per cent deaths. Out of 1275, 550 or over 40 per cent patients have died in the civil hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid19-pathological-tests-or-diagnosis-is-part-of-fundamental-right-says-gujarat-govt-851139.html
18-06-2020||National||India-China Border: Army says all its men are accounted for||Indian Army on Thursday asserted that none of its soldiers involved in the clash on Monday night at Galwan Valley was missing in action. The assertion was meant to put at rest speculations of Indian troops being in Chinese captivity. This was initially whispered in the corridors of power since Monday but now came out in the open, thanks to few defence analysts and reports in a section of the foreign press. The official, however, did not respond to specific queries on whether Indian soldiers are in Chinese captivity giving rise to such speculation. One of the defence analysts claimed at least 10 Indians are in Chinese captivity. On Monday night, the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh witnessed a bloody battle in which 20 Indian soldiers including a Colonel rank officer were killed. A Major General rank officer from the Indian Army held discussions with his Chinese counterparts for the last three days. While the talks ended in a stalemate for the last two days, Thursday’s outcome is yet to be known. Meanwhile, in a curious comment Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said that the troops who went along with Col Santosh Babu on the date full day also carried their arms. The minister didn’t give any reason for the soldiers not to fire even a single shot even while coming under a savage attack. The minister mentioned that there are two agreements signed between India and China in 1996 and 2005 that forbade the use of firearms during a face-off. “But when the CO gets killed, all such rules went out of the window,” said a retired infantry officer who insisted that much remained unknown about the sequence of events that unfolded at Galwan on that night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-army-says-all-its-men-are-accounted-for-851140.html
18-06-2020||National||SC emerges as global leader in hearing cases via video conferencing during lockdown||The Supreme Court has emerged a global leader in hearing cases through video conferencing during COVID-induced lockdown and would achieve a unique feat of taking up more than seven thousand cases during this period. As per the information available with the Supreme Court's website, the apex court will reach the milestone to hear 7,197 cases on 57th day of virtual court hearings on Friday when its 11 benches will take up 206 matters for adjudication. During the lockdown period, starting from March 23, a total of 617 benches in the top court have taken up 6,991 cases for hearing. Out of 617 benches, 293 of them sat in virtual courts to hear main matters and 324 benches dealt with review petitions. As per the apex court's website, 150 cases have been taken up by Registrar Courts during this lockdown period. Participation of lawyers in virtual court hearings also increased steadily, as per information (approx) 25,000 video links have been shared with advocates for virtual court hearing. The apex court Benches have delivered 670 Judgements ( i.e. 132 in main matters and 538 connected matters) during this period. During this period, the information available on the website stated that the top court delivered important decisions like contagion of corona virus in prisons, guidelines for court functioning through video conferencing during the pandemic. "The top court has emerged as a global leader in virtual court hearings during the nationwide lockdown for hearing cases," an official of the apex court said. "United Kingdom's Supreme Court heard a total of 10 cases from March 24 till date and pronounced 15 judgments. There is no data available about the number of cases heard through virtual mode by the US SC, which in any case takes up 100-150 petitions for hearing every year from among 7,000-odd filed seeking review of decisions of other courts.  "US Supreme Court pronounced 20 judgments between March 30 and June 8. Australia's top court heard 94 cases and pronounced 12 judgments between April 7 and June 3. Canadian Supreme Court took up for hearing 173 cases between March 27 and June 11 and delivered five judgments during that period," the apex court website said. While South African Supreme Court heard 51 cases during the lockdown period and delivered 58 judgments, the top court in Singapore heard 146 cases and passed 98 judgments during lockdown, it said adding that only the Supreme Court in Spain had a busier schedule than other apex courts around the world as it heard 800 cases. On the issue of resumption of physical courts, none of the Supreme Courts have taken any decision and have continued hearing of cases with virtual courts. The only exception is the European Union's court of justice, which resumed oral hearing from May 25. Singapore's top court also allowed to permit physical hearing in very limited number of cases at the discretion of the court after maintaining social distancing and taking other precautions. The apex court had earlier strongly defended its “Virtual Courts system” keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic and said the important institutional requirement was to ensure that “administration of justice” does not crumble in the face of “unprecedented scenario”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-emerges-as-global-leader-in-hearing-cases-via-video-conferencing-during-lockdown-851143.html
18-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley: Indian, Chinese diplomats to hold video-conference soon||Senior diplomats of India and China are likely to hold a video-conference soon to discuss the violent face-off between the soldiers of the two nations at Galwan Valley to defuse tension, not only on the scene of the clash, but also along the disputed boundary on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), is likely to hold a video-conference with Hong Liang, the Director General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, sources in New Delhi told the DH.   The video-conference between Srivastava and Hong will be held under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Border Affairs, which India and China had set up to discuss and resolve flashpoints along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the McMahon Line, which serve as de facto boundary between the two nations in western and eastern sectors respectively. Srivastava had on June 5 held a video-conference with Wu Jianghao, Director General (Asian Affairs) in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, The military officials of India and China are also continuing talks to de-escalate tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations. Major General Abhijit Bapat, the commander of the 3rd Infantry Division of the Indian Army, had yet another meeting with his counterpart in the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Thursday to discuss the violent face-off, which resulted in casualties on both sides on Monday. They are expected to hold another round of talks on Friday.    “The two sides are in regular touch through their respective embassies and foreign offices,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson at the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi on Thursday. “The two sides have maintained communication at the level of the commanders at the ground level,” he said, adding: “Meetings of other established diplomatic mechanisms such as the WMCC on Border Affairs are under discussion.” India and China set up the WMCC in 2012 as an institutional mechanism for consultation and coordination for management of India-China border areas, as well as to exchange views on strengthening communication and cooperation, including between the border security personnel of the two sides. Srivastava’s counterpart in Beijing, Zhao Lijian, too said that China and India had made contacts and coordination through diplomatic and military channels since the violent clash in Galwan Valley and the two sides had agreed to “handle in a just manner the serious situation” caused by the clash. The two sides continued to hold each other responsible for the violent clash, which resulted in the death of at least 20 Indian Army soldiers and an unspecified number of the Chinese PLA personnel at Galwan Valley on Monday. They, however, also noted that External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in Chinese Government Wang Yi had agreed on Wednesday to “handle the overall situation” along the LAC “in a responsible manner” and resolve the stand-off in accordance with the understanding reached during the meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on June 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-indian-chinese-diplomats-to-hold-video-conference-soon-851144.html
18-06-2020||National Politics||Congress may form govt in Manipur as 3 BJP MLAs, others resign||The Congress party on Wednesday sensed an opportunity to form the government in Manipur after nine MLAs, including three of the BJP, shifted allegiance to the grand old party. Nine MLAs including deputy chief minister Y Joykumar Singh resigned on Wednesday. In the swift political development, four legislators of National People’s Party (NPP), a BJP ally in the state, an independent MLA and a Trinamool Congress MLA have withdrawn support to the Chief Minister N Biren Singh-led coalition government. Confirming the resignation of NPP MLAs, deputy chief minister Y Joykumar Singh told reporters in Imphal that the decision was taken in view of the “insult” being faced by him and his party MLAs from the BJP. “We are trying to form the government in Manipur,” a senior Congress leader told DH in Delhi. The Congress party is likely to meet Governor Najma Heptulla on Thursday to move a no-confidence motion and a floor test. In 2017 assembly elections, Congress had emerged as the single-largest party with 28 seats in the 60-member assembly. But, BJP with 21 seats managed to form the government by forming a coalition with the National People’s Party (NPP), Naga People’s Front (NPF) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The NPP and NPF have four MLAs each and LJP has one.  An independent MLA and the lone Trinamool legislator too had supported the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-may-form-govt-in-manipur-as-3-bjp-mlas-others-resign-850815.html
18-06-2020||National Politics||Why Indian soldiers were sent 'unarmed' to martyrdom, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday questioned why Indian soldiers were sent "unarmed to martyrdom" in Ladakh and how dare China to kill them, a day after asking the defence minister why he did not name China in his tweet and why it took him two days to condole the deaths of 20 Army personnel. Gandhi also shared on Twitter an interview of a retired Army officer who has worked in the area where the India-China violent standoff took place on Monday night. The former Congress president has been questioning the government over the martyrdom of Indian soldiers and has demanded answers from the prime minister. On Wednesday, he asked Defence Minister Rajnath Singh why did he "insult" the Army by not naming China over the killing of Indian soldiers in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley. "If it was so painful: Why insult Indian Army by not naming China in your tweet? Why take 2 days to condole? Why address rallies as soldiers were being martyred," he said. How dare China kill our UNARMED soldiers? On Thursday, he added, "How dare China kill our UNARMED soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent UNARMED to martyrdom." Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. The clash in Galwan Valley on Monday night is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La in 1967 when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. On Wednesday morning, the defense minister tweeted, "The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-indian-soldiers-were-sent-unarmed-to-martyrdom-asks-rahul-gandhi-850910.html
18-06-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah reviews COVID-19 situation in Delhi-NCR||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday reviewed the coronavirus situation in Delhi and the National Capital Region, including Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad, amidst increasing number of COVID-19 cases, officials said. The movement of people between Delhi and NCR districts also figured in the meeting. The home minister reviewed the steps taken to check the spread of the COVId-19, a central government official said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava, senior officials of NCR districts and Ministries of Home and Health and ICMR attended the meeting. The NCR comprises districts belonging to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The most prominent among them are Gurugram, Faridabad (both in Haryana), Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) and Ghaziabad (both Uttar Pradesh), and Alwar (Rajasthan). Authorities of Haryana, UP and Delhi have imposed restrictions in different times during the COVID-19 lockdown over movement of people between the states, leading to inconvenience to many. On June 4, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing inter-state movement at all borders in the NCR. It also observed that there should be a consistent policy in this regard for the NCR.  On June 12, the top court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to explain the guidelines issued by the Noida administration on institutional quarantine, observing they are not in "conformity" with the national guidelines.  "There cannot be a guideline contrary to the national guidelines," the court said, adding, that any directive contrary to the national or state guidelines might lead to chaos. The Centre informed the apex court that the union home secretary had convened a joint meeting on June 9 with chief secretaries of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to deal with the issue of restriction on movement in the NCR and now there was no barrier on the borders of Delhi and Haryana but Uttar Pradesh. The home minister had a series of meetings with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Kejriwal and senior officials in last four days to strengthen the health infrastructure in Delhi. Shah also visited the national capital's LNJP Hospital on Monday and took stock of its healthcare facilities besides giving necessary instructions for improvement. On Wednesday, the home ministry announced that the price for the COVID-19 test in Delhi has been fixed at Rs 2,400 as suggested by a high-level committee set up by the home minister and tests will be done via Rapid Antigen methodology. India's total COVID-19 cases reached 3,66,946 on Thursday morning while the death toll has climbed to 12,237. The number of active cases stands at 1,60,384 while 1,94,324 people have recovered, thus, around 52.95 per cent patients have recovered so fa||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-ncr-850935.html
18-06-2020||National Politics||MP: BJP, Cong MLAs hold meetings on eve of Rajya Sabha polls||On the eve of the Rajya Sabha elections for three seats from Madhya Pradesh, legislators of the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress in the state are holding meetings to finalise their strategies for the polls. Both the parties have fielded two candidates each for the three seats of the Upper House of Parliament. "We are going to hold lunch meetings with legislators. Lawmakers from each revenue division in the state will hold meetings separately," a state BJP MLA said. He expressed confidence that both their nominees - former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki - will win the polls. Scindia parted ways with the Congress in March this year and joined the BJP. After the scion of the Gwalior royal family and his camp switched sides to the BJP, the Congress-led government in the state collapsed. The BJP has now nominated Scindia for a Rajya Sabha berth from the state. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said in March that his party could have easily sent Scindia to the Rajya Sabha (when he was in the party). "But we could not have made him a cabinet minister. Only Modi-Shah can make (him) a cabinet minister, not us," Singh said. Meanwhile, a Congress MLA also said they were holding a meeting at the residence of state party president and former chief minister Kamal Nath to discuss their strategy for Friday's Rajya Sabha polls. The Congress has nominated party veteran Digvijaya Singh, who is seeking a second term in the Upper House, and Dalit leader from GwaliorChambal region Phool Singh Baraiya. In the 230-member Assembly, the BJP currently has 107 MLAs and also enjoys the support of two legislators of the Bahujan Samaj Party, one of the Samajwadi Party and two Independents, while the opposition Congress has 92 MLAs. Currently, the effective strength of the House is 206, as 24 seats are lying vacant. The Congress has already asked 54 of its MLAs to vote for Digvijaya Singh, who needs 52 votes to re-enter the Rajya Sabha, sources said. However, a senior BJP leader claimed Digvijaya Singh's re-entry into the Upper House would "benefit the saffron party" in the by-elections to 24 Assembly seats in the state. "His win would give us ammunition to slam the Congress in the run-up to the bypolls. We are going to tell the public how Digvijaya snatched away the chance of a Dalit (Baraiya) to reach the Upper House, the leader said on condition of anonymity. In March, 22 Congress MLAs resigned following which the Kamal Nath-led state government collapsed. This necessitated the by-elections for these 22 seats, most of them dominated by Dalit community members, and two others seats which fell vacant due to the demise of their sitting legislators||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mp-bjp-cong-mlas-hold-meetings-on-eve-of-rajya-sabha-polls-850941.html
18-06-2020||National Politics||Deescalate politics of propaganda, you are 'most irresponsible politician' country has seen: BJP to Rahul Gandhi||Terming Rahul Gandhi as the "most irresponsible politician" India has seen, the BJP on Thursday asked the Congress leader to "deescalate" his politics of "misinformation and propaganda" in targeting the government over the death of Indian soldiers in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh.  BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra told reporters that Gandhi was acting in an immature and irresponsible manner by attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his tweets when the government has already called an all-party meeting on Friday over the border row.  Gandhi on Thursday questioned why Indian soldiers were sent "unarmed to martyrdom" in Ladakh and who is responsible for sending them towards danger. He had earlier attacked Modi, asking why he was "hiding". Hitting back, Patra said Gandhi wants to show that India left its unarmed soldiers to die and then cited a 1996 agreement between China and India, when Deve Gowda was prime minister, that prohibited armies of both countries from using any weapon within two km of their border.  "You are the most irresponsible politician India has yet seen. Read, understand and then speak. Just don't rant against your country. Don't make such unfounded and misleading claims against your own country to launch your politics," he said.  Patra claimed that the country will 'fight all three Cs" together and emerge victorious if the Congress stands against its sentiments.  The three Cs were the coronavirus, the stand off with China and the Congress, he claimed.  The prime minister is not merely a person or is of a party but he represents the entire country, Patra said, attacking Gandhi for his "immature and irresponsible" tweets.  Modi has asserted that there will be no compromise with Indian territorial integrity, the BJP spokesperson noted, and said Gandhi does not trust the prime minister, defence minister or even Army chief, who had recently commented over the issue.  "You need to deescalate this politics of misinformation and propaganda. India will not forgive Rahul Gandhi for this sort of escalation," he said.  Gandhi had also cast doubts on surgical strikes and air strikes against terrorists inside Pakistan, Patra alleged.  He also referred to a 2008 MoU between the Congress and the ruling Communist party of China and asked Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul to explain its details.  Rahul Gandhi, a Congress general secretary then, and Xi Jinping, the current Chinese president who was then a general secretary of his party, had signed it, Patra said.  The MoU, he claimed reading from news reports, was aimed at building relationship between the Congress, the "Nehru Gandhi family in particular", and China's ruling party.   During the 2017 Doklam stand off between India and China, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had a dinner meeting with the Chinese envoy, Patra said, noting that the Congress had first denied it before acknowledging it.  Rahul Gandhi's fresh attack on the government came a day after he asked Defence Minister Rajnath Singh why he did not name China in his tweet and why it took him two days to condole the deaths of 20 Army personnel. "China has committed a big crime by killing unarmed Indian soldiers. I want to ask who sent these bravehearts towards danger without arms and why. Who is responsible for this," he asked in a video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/deescalate-politics-of-propaganda-you-are-most-irresponsible-politician-country-has-seen-bjp-to-rahul-gandhi-850972.html
18-06-2020||National Politics||All you need to know about the ongoing political crisis in Manipur||Ahead of the Manipur Polls, a political crisis has arisen for the BJP in Manipur as nine MLAs - three from BJP, four from NPP, one from TMC and one Independent--resigned from the BJP-led coalition government. Meanwhile, at least 12 MLAs belonging to Congress and National People's Party (NPP) in Manipur on Thursday wrote a letter to the Manipur Assembly Secretary seeking a motion for removal of the Speaker alleging that the latter is acting in an "authoritarian" manner. The Congress is now all set to approach Governor Najma Heptullah to call for a special Assembly session to floor a no-confidence motion against the government. Senior Congress leader and former Manipur CM Okram Ibobi Singh said that he will meet the Governor and demand that a special session be convened at the earliest. The total strength against Chief Minister N Biren Singh now stands at 28 in the Manipur Legislative Assembly, currently having a strength of 59. 18 BJP members are with CM Biren Singh. They are supported by four MLAs of Naga People's Front (NPF) and one MLA from Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Their total strength has come down to 23 MLAs. In the 2017 Assembly elections, the Congress had won 28 of the 60 seats while the BJP scored 21. The Congress claimed that it now has 31 MLAs in the 60-member House with an effective strength of 59 after the disqualification of former Forest Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar. He had won the 2017 election on a Congress ticket but later “defected” to the BJP. Seven more Congress MLAs who had been supporting the BJP-led coalition are also facing the disqualification process. The final hearing is on June 22. The seven lawmakers had supported the BJP-led coalition government to 40 in the 60-member Assembly. After hearing disqualification petitions against them, Justice K. Nobin Singh ordered that the seven MLAs “are restrained from entering the Manipur Legislative Assembly, Imphal” unless and until the petitions “are disposed of finally” by the Speaker. Until Shyamkumar’s disqualification, the BJP-led coalition had 40 MLAs in the Assembly. The BJP had won 21 seats in the 2017 State polls, while main rival Congress had won 28. The majority mark in the House is 31. Although the Congress was the single largest party, it could not form the government. Therefore, the BJP with the support of 4 National People’s Party MLAs, lone TMC MLA and 4 Naga People’s Front (BJP ally in Nagaland) formed its first government in the Northeast. Biren Singh has been facing revolt since long and several attempts were made in past to dethrone him from within the party ranks. However, he managed to survive after the BJP central leadership’s intervention. But on April 9, Biren Singh divested his deputy and NPP leader Joykumar and another minister T. Bishwajit of the BJP of all portfolios, citing "derogatory remarks" against him. The deputy CM had slammed the CM saying that he had failed to provide adequate ration to people affected by COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown. Incidentally, Joykumar was DG Police of Manipur during Ibobi’s tenure and has a close working relationship with the former CM. Manipur will see election for one Rajya Sabha seat on June 19. Both, the BJP and the Congress have fielded candidates for the lone seat of the upper house. BJP is backing Leisemba Sanajaoba, the titualar king of Manipur for the Rajya Sabha election, while the Congress nominee is T Mangi Babu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-ongoing-political-crisis-in-manipur-851006.html
18-06-2020||National Politics||Congress-led new front in Manipur stakes claim to form government||Congress on Thursday staked claim to form a new government in Manipur soon after it stitched an alliance with four MLAs of NPP, an ally of BJP and two others. The six, including the lone MLA from Trinamool Congress and and Independent, quit the BJP-led alliance on Wednesday alleging "dictatorial functioning" of Chief Minister N. Biren Singh. A team of the new alliance, Secular Progressive Front (SPF) met Governor Najma Heptulla at Raj Bhavan at Imphal urging her to dismiss the BJP-led "minority government" and invite former Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh to form the new government, Ningombam Bupenda Meitei, Congress spokesperson in Manipur told DH. Ibobi Singh, who was chosen as leader of the new front, served as Chief Minister thrice before BJP-led front wrested power in 2017. The strength of the 60-member Assembly was reduced to 59 after one Congress MLA was disqualified in March for defection.  The letter submitted to the Governor claimed that the front has the support of 26 MLAs--20 Congress, four NPP and one each from Trinamul and Independent. It said that BJP led coalition had 23 MLAs (18 BJP, four NPF and one Lok Jana Shakti Party) after the resignation of three BJP MLAs. Seven Congress MLAs, who switched sides to BJP earlier were recently barred by Manipur High Court from entering the Assembly till the Speaker's tribunal decided on their disqualification under anti-defection law.  "In the event of the decision regarding disqualification of seven Congeess MLAs going in our favour, the effective strength of the House will become 56 (if three BJP MLAs disqualified) and SPF will command support of 33 MLAs. The same for BJP and its allies will stand at 23. Thus, the present ministry is now in the minority and to ensure that a floor test is called at the earliest, you are therefore, requested to summon a special House in a couple of days to vote on the no confidence motion against the present council of ministers," said the letter.  The team also urged the Governor to remove Speaker Yumnam Khemchand alleging that the latter was acting in "authoritarian manner" regarding disqualification of the seven Congress MLAs. The political trouble in Manipur started in April when Biren Singh stripped off all portfolios from the deputy chief minister Y Joykumar Singh of NPP citing "derogatory remarks" against him. The deputy CM had slammed Biren Singh saying the latter failed to provide adequate ration to people affected by COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Joykumar also resigned on Wednesday.  Biren Singh held a meeting with his MLAs on Thursday evening but did not issue any reaction regarding the turmoil. The drama unfolded amid the tussle over election for a Rajya Sabha member from the state on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-led-new-front-in-manipur-stakes-claim-to-form-government-851053.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Woman raped on moving bus by driver||A 25-year-old woman travelling with her children from Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh to Noida was allegedly raped on a moving bus by one its two drivers early on Wednesday, police said. The accused is absconding, police said, adding that the other driver has been held for allegedly intimidating her. According to police, the incident apparently took place on a stretch between Lucknow and Mathura. The woman was travelling on the long-distance private bus with her two children and around 10 other people at the time of the incident. However, the woman gave a complaint to police after reaching Noida, where an FIR under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 and 506 was lodged at the Sector 20 police station, they said. The bus had two drivers and a support staff. It was the woman's first trip to Noida from her native place in Pratapgarh, officials said, adding that her husband is a vegetable vendor. “It was an AC sleeper bus, coming to Noida from Pratapgarh. According to information given to police by the woman, it appears the incident took place in the night when the bus would have been on a stretch between Lucknow and Mathura,” said DSP (Women Safety) Vrinda Shukla. “As the complaint was made after the woman reached here, an FIR was immediately lodged,” Shukla said. She said one of the two drivers has been arrested and the bus impounded. Police teams have been formed to ensure the arrest of the other driver as well as the owner of the bus at the earliest, she added. The DCP said further proceedings in the case are underway and the complainant has been sent for a medical test. “All co-passengers are being traced and their statements are being taken so that a charge sheet in the case could be filed soon,” she added. According to officials privy to the probe, the woman was given the last seat where the accused forced themselves on her. The arrested driver had threatened her with dire consequences if she raised an alarm. The woman got down in Noida in the morning where her husband had come to pick her and she narrated the ordeal to him after which police were informed, officials said. The bus bears registration code UP 17 (Baghpat district) but it is owned by a Noida-based operator, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-woman-raped-on-moving-bus-by-driver-850817.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt launches psychiatric tele-counselling services for healthcare workers||The Delhi government on Wednesday launched psychiatric tele-counselling services for doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers. The services named 'Samarthan' by the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IBHAS) will be available round-the-clock from its emergency services and the psychiatric department of COVID-19 hospitals. The services have been launched in collaboration with the Delhi Medical Council and the Delhi Medical Association. Senior expert psychiatrists from the government and private sectors have volunteered for tele-counselling, a statement said. The tele-counselling services are available at 9868396802 and 9868396859 from 8 am to 8 pm Monday to Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-launches-psychiatric-tele-counselling-services-for-healthcare-workers-850837.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia takes over charge of health, PWD as Satyendar Jain recuperates from COVID-19||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday took over the charge of health, PWD, power and other departments held by his cabinet colleague Satyendar Jain, who has tested positive for COVID-19, an official said. Jain was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital early Tuesday after running high fever and suffering a sudden drop in oxygen level. The 55-year-old leader's test result came positive on Wednesday evening after a second test. Jain will remain the cabinet minister without any portfolio in the Arvind Kejriwal government until he recovers, he said, adding, "The deputy chief minister has been given the charge of health, public works department, power and other departments."  On Sunday, Jain attended a high-level meeting on the coronavirus situation in the national capital, chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, which was also attended by Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal, Kejriwal, Sisodia and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Jain was brought to the hospital and was administered a test for the novel coronavirus infection on Tuesday morning, for which he tested negative. But he still ran fever and showed symptoms, so another test was done after 24 hours of the first. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 2,414 coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike, taking the tally in the city to over 47,000 while the death toll from the disease climbed to 1,904.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-takes-over-charge-of-health-pwd-as-satyendar-jain-recuperates-from-covid-19-850901.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Fire incident reported in Rohini court||A fire broke out in the record room on the third floor of Rohini court on Thursday morning, a Delhi Fire Service official said. No injury or casualty was reported so far, the official said. A call about the fire was received around 9.41 am after which 10 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, Director of Delhi Fire Service. The fire has been brought under control, he said. The cause of fire is being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-fire-incident-reported-in-rohini-court-850914.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Sanjay Jha reminds Congress of tolerance after removal as spokesman||Congress removed Sanjay Jha, who had written an article in a newspaper critical of the party’s policies, from the post of AICC spokesperson, prompting him to question why the organisation had drifted away from its tolerant and inclusive values. Congress President Sonia Gandhi had on Wednesday night removed Jha as AICC spokesperson “with immediate effect”. A day after his removal, Jha reminded the Congress how Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had once written a self-critical piece anonymously in a newspaper warning against becoming autocratic. “That is the true Congress, democratic, liberal, tolerant and inclusive. We have drifted from those values. Why?” asked Jha, who continues to be the President of the Maharashtra chapter of the All India Professional Congress. At the same time, he asserted that he continued to be “a committed fearless ideological soldier of INC”. In the newspaper article, Jha had written that it was a false claim that there exists a robust internal democratic process that listens to individual voices, and more importantly, is continuously focused on party renewal, political strategy, tactical warfare, leadership development and resuscitation starting at the grassroots, the erstwhile USP of the Congress. “The Congress has demonstrated extraordinary lassitude, and its lackadaisical attitude towards its own political obsolescence is baffling, to say the least (and this despite a whopping defeat in two Lok Sabha elections and several reverses in states),” he had written. “There are many in the party who cannot comprehend this perceptible listlessness. For someone like me, for instance, permanently wedded to Gandhian philosophy and Nehruvian outlook that defines the Congress, it is dismaying to see its painful disintegration,” Jha had written.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sanjay-jha-reminds-congress-of-tolerance-after-removal-as-spokesman-850927.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||CBI arrests three Delhi Police personnel for taking bribe||The CBI has arrested a station house officer (SHO) and two constables of Delhi Police while allegedly receiving a bribe of Rs two lakh from a complainant, officials said Thursday. SS Chahal, posted as SHO, Vijay Vihar police station in Rohini along with two constables Badri and Jitendra was arrested while receiving the bribe in an operation carried out by the CBI on Wednesday night, they said. The trio had demanded a bribe of Rs five lakh from the complainant who was facing a land dispute, they said. The complainant was constructing a boundary wall when some people claimed the plot ownership following which a dispute ensued and PCR was called, they said. When the matter reached the police station, the SHO allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs five lakh which was brought down to Rs two lakh during negotiations, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-arrests-three-delhi-police-personnel-for-taking-bribe-850948.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||2 more die of COVID-19 in Jammu||Two more people have died due to COVID-19 in Jammu city raising the number of fatalities in Jammu and Kashmir to 71, officials said on Thursday. A 65-year-old coronavirus positive man, who had returned from New Delhi along with three family members, died at the Government Medical College (GMC) in Jammu on Wednesday night, officials said.  He belonged to Bohri area of Talab Tilloo belt of Jammu city, the official said, adding that the family was under paid administrative quarantine at a hotel. The officials said that a 68-year-old man belonging to Kote Garhi hamlet of Akhnoor tehsil too died at the GMC Jammu. He had tested positive for the virus and admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-more-die-of-covid-19-in-jammu-850959.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: HC asks police to file status report on Safoora Zargar's bail plea in UAPA case||The Delhi High Court Thursday asked the Delhi Police to file status report on a plea by Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, who was arrested under the anti-terror law --UAPA -- seeking bail in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Zargar, M Phil student of Jamia Millia Islamia University, is more than four months pregnant. Justice Rajiv Shakdher issued notice to the police and asked it to file a status report on the bail plea. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on June 22. Zargar, who was arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police on April 10, has challenged the June 4 order of the trial court denying her bail in the case. The trial court, in its order, had said “when you choose to play with embers, you cannot blame the wind to have carried the spark a bit too far and spread the fire.” It had said that during the course of investigation a larger conspiracy was discernible and if there was prima evidence of conspiracy, acts and statements made by any one of the conspirators, it is admissible against all. The court had said that even if there was no direct act of violence attributable to the accused (Zargar), she cannot shy away from her liability under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). However, the trial court had asked the concerned jail superintendent to provide adequate medical aid and the assistance to Zargar. The police had earlier claimed that Zargar allegedly blocked a road near Jaffrabad metro station during the anti-CAA protests and instigated people that led to the riots in the area. It further claimed that she was allegedly part of the “premediated conspiracy” to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-hc-asks-police-to-file-status-report-on-safoora-zargars-bail-plea-in-uapa-case-850983.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Jaishankar blunts Rahul's sharp query on 'unarmed' troops||Congress on Thursday sharpened its attack on the Modi government with Rahul Gandhi demanding to know why Indian soldiers were 'unarmed' to martyrdom, a remark that drew a blunt rebuttal from External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. “Let us get the facts straight.  troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post,” Jaishankar said responding to Rahul on Twitter. “Those at Galwan on 15 June did so. Long-standing practice (as per 1996 & 2005 agreements) not to use firearms during faceoffs,” the diplomat-turned-minister said, triggering a war of words between the Congress and the BJP. While Rahul released a video demanding to fix responsibility for the lapse, Congress leaders K C Venugopal and Randeep  sought to know why back-up force was not provided to the soldiers engaged in the face-off. Surjewala, addressing a press conference in Jaipur, sought to know why the government did not have advance information about the impending attack. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra hit out at Rahul accusing him of acting in the “most immature” manner. Patra said the former Congress President should be aware of some basic facts that according to agreements signed with China, use of guns and bombs is not allowed within two km of the Line of Actual Control. “Rahul should utilise the lockdown to read some books about what all pacts are inked with China during the Congress rule,” the BJP spokesperson said. AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also accused the Modi government of “kneeling down” before the China by awarding contracts to build the Delhi-Meerut Rapid Rail Transit System to a Chinese company. “Twenty of our soldiers have been martyred. In such a situation, the central government should give a strong message, but the government has adopted a weak strategy of kneeling down by handing over the contract of Delhi-Meerut semi high-speed rail corridor to a Chinese company. Many Indian companies are competent to build this corridor,” she said. The sharp exchanges between the Congress and the BJP came on the eve of the all party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to brief leaders of political parties on the violent face-off with Chinese troops that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaishankar-blunts-rahuls-sharp-query-on-unarmed-troops-851011.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Amit Shah calls meeting to chalk out common strategy for NCR||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday held a meeting with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and senior officials from the satellite towns of the capital for a coordinated action against COVID-19 in the National Capital Region (NCR). The meeting comes against the backdrop of coordination issues between Delhi and its neighbouring towns like Noida and Ghaziabad (in Uttar Pradesh) and Gurugram and Faridabad (in Haryana). Shah said due to the peculiar structure of National Capital Region (NCR), all concerned bodies need to work unitedly by evolving a common strategy. National Capital Region (NCR) consists of 13 districts of Haryana, eight of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan's two districts are part of the NCR with Delhi as its core, covering an area of about 55,083 sq. kms. A large number of people from Delhi go to Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad among other towns and vice versa for work and the recent times witnessed trouble in commuting as states impose curbs due to COVID-19. With Delhi's COVID-19 situation worsening, there is also a need for a coordinated strategy for the surrounding areas. Keeping in view the close knit urban structure of the NCR, Shah said, it is necessary for all concerned authorities in Delhi and the NCR region to come together to tackle the virus. He said there is a need to test more and it is also necessary to identify and treat those who are diagnosed as positive. Referring to Dr V K Paul committee capping the rate of COVID-19 tests in Delhi at Rs 2,400, he said if the charges for such tests are higher in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, then the state governments could decide to lower their prices after internal consultations.  Shah also told the meeting that the committee also decided on rates for COVID-19 beds and treatment, and these rates could also be applied to hospitals in the NCR region after consultations. The Home Minister directed officials from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to submit information about COVID-19 beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, ICU and ambulances available with them and their plan to augment these resources by July 15 to the Ministry of Home Affairs so that a common strategy can be devised in the NCR against the pandemic. Meanwhile, Delhi government issued orders capping the rates for COVID-19 testing at Rs 2,400, a day after the Centre forwarded the recommendation of a high-level committee appointed after a meeting Shah chaired on Sunday. Delhi also started Rapid Antigen Testing with the Chief Minister saying that the results will be out in 15 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-amit-shah-calls-meeting-to-chalk-out-common-strategy-for-ncr-851043.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan will try to infiltrate more terrorists into J&K in view of Ladakh standoff: DGP||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh on Thursday warned that Pakistan will try to infiltrate more terrorists and also give impetus to violence in the Kashmir Valley and elsewhere in view of the standoff between the armies of India and China in Ladakh. The Director General of Police, Jammu and Kashmir, Thursday chaired a high-level meeting of officers to review the security scenario of the union territory particularly on the borders. Cross border infiltration attempts are being made continuously from Pakistan even during the pandemic and we have to be extra alert to thwart such attempts, he said. There are over 300 terrorists at launching pads along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir ready to infiltrate into the union territory to increase the pitch of violence in the Valley, according to reports. "In view of the Ladakh standoff, Pakistan will try to infiltrate more terrorists and also give impetus to violence in Kashmir Valley and elsewhere", Singh told the meeting here. He said the border alongside Pakistan needs extra attention in view of the Ladakh developments.  The DGP said there are reports that terrorist outfits in Pakistan -- Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), Hizbul Mujahideen (HM), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and others -- are joining hands to create mischief in Jammu and Kashmir.  He also said there are greater challenges of infiltration for which we have to be prepared in the changed environment. He directed the officers to take care of the vital installations and also review minority guards. Singh also said the security presence on the highway grid has been increased by putting in service mobile patrols and the number of nakas has also been increased. He said personnel of police, central paramilitary forces and Army are continuing with successful operations in counter insurgency grid and on the borders.  Over 300 terrorists are present at launch pads across the LoC in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (Pok), waiting to infiltrate into the Indian side, Singh had said last month. The Indian Army is taking steps to "recalibrate" its counter-infiltration grid and counter-insurgency strategies to check the intrusion, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-will-try-to-infiltrate-more-terrorists-into-jk-in-view-of-ladakh-standoff-dgp-851052.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Why orders 'weren't given to fire at Chinese' in Galwan, asks Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday asked “why no orders to fire at the Chinese were given” in the face of the brutal attack on Indian soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and said “somebody failed to do his job out there”. “What were they doing sitting out there while their colleagues were getting killed,” he said in an official statement. If the unit was armed, as is being claimed now, the second-in-command should have ordered firing the moment the commanding officer fell to the Chinese treachery, said Amarinder Singh. “The nation wants to know why our men did not retaliate in the way they are trained to do, and why they did not open fire if they were carrying arms,” the Punjab CM asked. Terming the attack horrendous and barbaric, the CM said soldiers at the front should be “clearly told that if they kill one of ours, you kill three of theirs”. The CM said in the statement that he was not speaking as a politician but as a man who had been a part of the Army and still loved the institution as his stand on such issues has always been the same. The Punjab CM said even after the Pulwama attack, he had declared that if “they kill one of ours, we should kill two of theirs”. Questioning “why no orders to fire at the Chinese were given” in the face of the brutal attack on the Indian soldiers, the chief minister said “somebody failed to do his job out there, and we need to find out who that was”. “I want to know, every soldier wants to know, and every Indian wants to know what happened,” said the chief minister, adding that he felt very strongly about this incident, which also “exposed a gross intelligence failure”. Those boys sitting out there on the mountains deserve answers and expect a hard-hitting response, he added, reacting strongly to what he described as an "insult to every Indian". What happened out there was not a joke, and the message has to go out strongly to China that India was no longer prepared to take their deceit, said Amarinder Singh, adding that every one of the 20 soldiers killed in Ladakh was “his man”. Calling for an end to the “Hindi, Cheeni bhai-bhai charade”, the chief minister said India should not chicken out on this issue. “If China is a world power, then so are we,” he declared, saying “60 years of diplomacy has not worked and it is time to tell them that enough is enough”. China knows we are capable of taking them on, said the chief minister, pointing out that the Indian Army is a highly professional force, fully capable of taking on any enemy. The Chinese just cannot be trusted, he remarked, pointing out that several Indian territories are in their occupation since 1962 and they were clearly now trying to take more. Amarinder also took strong exception to reports of riot gear being sent out to the soldiers at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Stressing that the Indian Army is trained to handle arms and stones or nail studded rods and lathis, he asserted that if the Government of India wants fist or lathi fights with the Chinese, then it should send RSS cadres to the battleground. What our men out there need is weapons and clear orders that they should be ready to use these weapons to save themselves and defend the country at any cost, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-orders-werent-given-to-fire-at-chinese-in-galwan-asks-amarinder-851084.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi commences COVID-19 rapid antigen tests||The Delhi government commenced COVID-19 testing through rapid antigen methodology at 169 centres in and around containment zones of the city on Thursday. A total of 341 teams were involved in the rapid-antigen testing that makes results available within 30 minutes, an official said. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said a certificate will be issued to those tested at various centres, subject to clearance from the AIIMS and the Indian Council of Medical Research. According to Union Minister G Kishan Reddy, the Centre plans to conduct six lakh rapid antigen tests at these 169 facilities. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "Two important things happened today. COVID-19 testing rates in Delhi have been reduced to Rs 2,400 and rapid-antigen testing has started. I hope people won't face any problem in getting themselves tested now." Officials said 4,500 rapid antigen tests were conducted in Delhi till 3 pm. At many centres, testing began as early as 9 am. People with mild symptoms or no symptoms at can get themselves tested, another official said. Those who came to get themselves tested at a centre in Sunlight Colony in southeast Delhi said the entire process took only about an hour. The centre started operating at 10 am and by around 5 pm as many as 125 swab samples were collected, a healthcare worker said. Around 1,000 tests were conducted by 8 pm at 44 centres in south Delhi, according to a senior official. "After arriving here, we went to the registration desk. After waiting for about half-an-hour, we were tested. The testing process took only five to seven minutes," Alex Samuel, 20, said, adding, "The authorities told us the results will be sent via SMSes on Friday." A healthcare worker at the testing centre said each testing kit costs Rs 450 and can provide results within 30 minutes as compared to RT-PCR test that takes three to four hours. The kits, called Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection, have been developed by South Korean company S D Biosensor. The testing method involves looking for antibodies which are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen. If a person has antibodies associated with novel coronavirus, it means the person is either COVID-19 positive or has recovered. "It is an easy and cheaper method to detect asymptomatic cases," another healthcare worker said.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, suspected individuals who test negative for COVID-19 in rapid-antigen test should undergo RT-PCR test to rule out the infection. While positive test results should be considered as true positive and do not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test, it said. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday said testing will be tripled by Saturday. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 2,414 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike here, taking the tally in the city over the 47,000-mark, while the number of deaths from the disease climbed to 1,904. Last week, the Delhi government, which has been scrambling to find beds for coronavirus patients, warned that there could be 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July - something it is not prepared to deal with. Hospitals will need at least 80,000 more beds, the government cautioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-commences-covid-19-rapid-antigen-tests-851093.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||No Army personnel missing since Galwan Valley violence: Army||he Indian Army on Thursday trashed media reports claiming that a number of its soldiers went missing after the violent clashes with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh three days back. "It is clarified that there are no Indian troops missing in action," the Army said in a statement. There have been reports that several Indian Army soldiers were held captive by the Chinese Army following the Galwan Valley clashes in which 20 Indian Army personnel including a Colonel were killed. China has not yet released any casualty figures. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also said that no Indian soldiers were missing since the clashes on Monday evening. Indian and Chinese militaries held a Major General-level dialogue on Thursday for the third consecutive day on disengagement of troops as well as restoring normalcy in areas around the Galwan Valley. The clash in Galwan Valley is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300. The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso. After the standoff began, the Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the LAC by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The road in the Finger area in Pangong Tso is considered crucial for India to carry out patrols. India has already decided not to stall any border infrastructure projects in eastern Ladakh despite Chinese protests. The situation in the area deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-army-personnel-missing-since-galwan-valley-violence-army-851124.html
18-06-2020||North and Central||Toddler falls off 2nd floor in Gr Noida, gets hospitalized 50km away in Delhi due to referrals||A one-and-a-half-year-old boy got injured after falling from the second-floor of his house, following which his family was “referred” from one hospital to another in Gautam Buddh Nagar before getting him admitted in a government facility in Delhi, his father claimed. The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration, however, has refuted reports that claimed the boy was denied treatment at “at least half a dozen hospitals” in Noida and Greater Noida. It said no such fact has emerged in its initial probe that the toddler was denied admission by any private or government hospital in the district, but they were “referred” to better facilities by some, which did not have MRI and CT scan services available. The incident took place on Wednesday morning in Dadha village in Greater Noida when the toddler, Dev, fell off his second-floor house while playing, according to officials. He was then rushed to three to four hospitals in Greater Noida and Noida one after the other, before being sent to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, where his condition is stable now and out of danger, they said. His father Roshan had on Wednesday said in a purported video that he had to carry his child to three hospitals none of which admitted the boy. On Thursday, Gautam Buddh Nagar officials visited the village and contacted Roshan as part of an inquiry into media reports, which were found baseless and far from facts, Deputy Collector, Sadar, Prasunn Dwivedi said. “Dev's father Roshan said the child was taken to the primary health care centre in the village where after check up he was referred to the district hospital (in Noida). The father then said that since the district hospital was far, they took the boy to private Ivory Hospital in Sector 36 of Greater Noida where immediate initial treatment was provided. However, this hospital did not have MRI and CT scan facilities and suggested the boy be taken to a hospital which has these facilities and were provided with an ambulance,” Dwivedi said. The deputy collector said Roshan was accompanied by his employer, Dooj Ram, who too has told the officials that none of the private hospitals or government facilities denied treatment to the boy. “However, it has come to light that they were referred to hospitals which have MRI or CT Scan facilities for better care of the boy,” he added. Dwivedi said the boy was currently recuperating at the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi where his condition is stable and he is out of danger. One of the leading government medical facilities in the country, the Safadarjung Hospital in located in the heart of Delhi, roughly 51 km from the child's Dadha village in Dankaur tehsil of Gautam Buddh Nagar.  On June 5, an eight-month pregnant woman had died in an ambulance outside a government hospital in Greater Noida. The woman was denied admission in at least seven hospitals including three government facilities during a 13-hour frantic search, amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The incident brought to the fore the issue of medical negligence and unavailability of care during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, even as politicians had latched on to it to slam the BJP-led government in the state. The National Human Rights Commission had on June 8 issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over media reports of alleged medical negligence towards the pregnant woman. The district administration had ordered a probe into the case. The probe found lapses on the part of the three state-run hospitals – the district hospital, ESIC in Noida and Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, besides the private hospitals - Shivalik, Sharda, Fortis and Max (in Ghaziabad).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toddler-falls-off-2nd-floor-in-gr-noida-gets-hospitalized-50km-away-in-delhi-due-to-referrals-851148.html
18-06-2020||Opinion||New Delhi must read the signals from Galwan correctly||A failure on the part of the Indian establishment to understand the Chinese mind has ultimately led to a tragic turn of events, wherein the Indian Army (IA) has lost at least twenty soldiers including a battalion commander to perfidy by the People’s Liberation Army Ground Force (PLAGF).  In my op-ed titled ‘India Must Stand Firm’ of May 31, 2020, I had evaluated China’s Summer 2020 intrusions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in light of a historical tendency on the part of Zhongnanhai to consolidate the Himalayan Frontier at times of internal tumult. Due to this somewhat compelling Chinese objective, I had observed that India’s ‘traditional policy of pursuing confidence-building measures (CBMs) to dial down tensions will not work sustainably’. Unfortunately, this has been borne out with India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) squarely blaming China’s ‘violation of the status quo’ as the causal factor for the deadly battle that ensued between Indian and Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley during June 15-16, 2020. As reports suggest and intelligence sources confirm, this engagement was precipitated by the PLAGF’s bid to take advantage of mutually agreed upon disengagement protocols that were being dutifully followed by the IA. Specifically, instead of mounting a credible withdrawal to agreed-upon positions, the PLAGF sought to reinforce itself close to an Indian post even as IA troops were looking to pull back. Realising the PLAGF’s true agenda, IA soldiers first sought to reason with their Chinese counterparts but were subsequently forced by the latter to defend India’s rightful claim. The ensuing melee resulted in casualties on both sides, but the Chinese disdain for previously agreed protocols is undeniable. India’s external affairs minister has now labelled this Chinese action as ‘pre-meditated and planned’. Simply put, the PLAGF was never in a hurry to withdraw. Understanding China’s strategy And why would they be? Their ongoing intrusions are a result of a belief that this is the appropriate time for China to secure its Himalayan flank. Owing to the PLAGF’s recent modernisation, even as the IA is still in the process of the same, and the near completion of border works on the Tibetan Plateau even as India’s own infrastructure development is still a work in progress, the Chinese would be forgiven for concluding that they hold certain advantages over India. Advantages, that may get eroded over the next decade as China’s own internal situation deteriorates and India recovers from the pandemic-induced shock.  So, the Chinese strategy is simply to consolidate its own offensive potential across the Himalayas while denying the same to the Indian side as far as possible. The PLAGF, in charge of implementing this strategy, has therefore intruded across ‘settled’ stretches of the LAC, such as the Galwan Valley, where it had already reached its 1960 claim line subsequent to the Sino-Indian War of 1962. But today, that claim line is no longer satisfactory for the Chinese because Indian infrastructure, despite delays, has improved along such settled stretches in Eastern Ladakh and will soon credibly increase India’s offensive potential. This is the logic behind China’s latest attempts to unilaterally ‘re-align’ the LAC to its gain. China is likely to attempt the same in Sikkim as well, given that the Chumbi Valley remains vulnerable to Indian action despite the PLAGF’s occupation of the Doklam Plateau. An unfolding game However, the PLAGF’s ‘activism’ ultimately stems from China’s perception that a pandemic-ridden 2020 is the best time for it to buy another ‘thirty years of peace’ to quote Mao Zedong’s justification for the 1962 war which happened in the midst of the disastrous ‘Great Leap Forward’. Such a view of things sits well with the supposedly schematic ‘Chinese Mind’ that admits a beginning of time but no end of time, as a former Australian diplomat and cultural intelligence specialist told me years ago. So, an open-ended geopolitical game which is made up of attempts to secure periodic gains depending on the balance of power is quite in keeping with Chinese strategic behaviour. Indeed, the Chinese game of Weiqi, which involves grabbing as much of the board as possible through strategic misdirection, is an apt metaphor for China’s approach to the Himalayan game.  New Delhi must realise that Beijing’s ambition is to bind it further with new confidence-building measures even as the PLAGF doggedly pursues a strategy of consolidation along the Himalayan frontier. Thus, it would be better for India to hunker down along the entire LAC if need be, than seem too eager for ‘de-escalatory’ talks that end up serving China’s large game plan. After all, the much-touted disengagement agreement of early June 2020 that was negotiated to prevent the growing possibility of escalation has ended up causing precisely what it sought to preclude. In that context, the just concluded foreign minister-level talks offer little hope for an early solution and indeed reports suggest that Indian military forces have been put on high alert. China has not entered the theatre to leave without a multi-act play. It is time India too girded its loins for whatever lies ahead.  (The writer is Chief Editor, Delhi Defence Review) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-delhi-must-read-the-signals-from-galwan-correctly-850885.html
18-06-2020||Opinion||This nuclear arms race is worse than the last one||By Andreas Kluth As long as the pandemic rages, the world’s leaders are understandably preoccupied with the threat of disease. But there are other dangers to humanity that demand attention. One of the most frightening is nuclear war. Unfortunately, the risk of that happening keeps rising. Meanwhile, all nine countries with nukes are modernizing their other warheads and delivery systems. In a test just last week, France successfully fired, from a submarine, a nuclear missile that can travel between continents at 20 times the speed of sound. Other countries, most notably China, are adding to their nuclear stashes as fast as they can.  Even more worryingly, states are reviewing their strategies for using these weapons. Gone is the amoral but logical stability of the Cold War, when two superpowers kept each other and the world in check with a credible threat of “Mutual Assured Destruction” (MAD). Russia, for instance, increasingly sees smaller “tactical” warheads as a possible way to compensate for weaknesses in its other military forces. It’s conceivable that a conflict starting with hybrid warfare — ranging from disinformation campaigns to soldiers in unmarked uniforms — could escalate to conventional war and a limited nuclear strike, inviting a counter strike and so forth. Meanwhile, all efforts to limit or reduce nuclear weapons have ground to a halt. A treaty between the US and the Soviet Union that eliminated land-based missiles with short and intermediate ranges collapsed last year after the US accused Russia of cheating. And the two old foes aren’t even close to extending their only remaining arms-control agreement, called New START, which expires in February. One reason for that failure was America’s insistence that the third and rising superpower should join the negotiations. But China, which sees itself as merely catching up with the two nuclear kingpins, balks at accepting any limits. The only international agreement to ban these evil weapons altogether, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons passed by the United Nations in 2017, has the same chance as a snowball in a fission event. No member of the nuclear club intends to ratify it, nor do many other countries. In May, several leaders of Germany’s Social Democrats, a party with a tradition of anti-Americanism, even suggested opting out of NATO’s policy of “nuclear sharing,” whereby some allies, such as Germany, forego building their own nukes but provide the airplanes to deliver U.S. bombs in a pinch. This policy is meant to make joint deterrence more credible. But to German lefties, distrust of Trump is enough reason to challenge its logic. Fortunately, Chancellor Angela Merkel quickly overruled them. Between naivety in Germany, belligerence in Russia, ambition in China, inanity in Trumpist America and brinkmanship in North Korea, the outlook is grim. Egomaniacs or rogues could be tempted to test the boundaries in their foes’ deterrence plans, and human error could compound the folly. What’s more, the climate in international relations isn’t exactly conducive to solutions. The world leaders who matter most are so busy with “trade wars” and “vaccine nationalism,” they can barely even imagine sitting around a table with people they loathe but should talk to, an activity known formerly as diplomacy. But they must rise above themselves. If they can’t, the rest of us, from voters to the military brass, should force them. Only patient multilateralism, as unsexy as that polysyllabic Latin word may sound to alpha males, can save us in the long run. Otherwise, to use a Cold War metaphor, the nations of the world will find themselves standing in a room awash with gasoline, each counting who has how many matches, until one is lit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/this-nuclear-arms-race-is-worse-than-the-last-one-850928.html
18-06-2020||Opinion||Will tensions along LAC mirror instability along LoC?||In the aftermath of the deadly clashes in the Galwan River Valley in Eastern Ladakh, in which 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed by Chinese troops, a question is slowly gaining salience: Will the instability along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) turn out to be perpetually on simmer like the conflict along the Line of Control (Loc)?  Along the LoC with Pakistan, India has seen periodic occurrences of conflict escalation that has led to the death of troops, something that has been missing in the border ties with China over the last 45 years.The big number of ceasefire violations over the years along the LoC has cemented the notion of great instability along India’s border with Pakistan and has become normalised as a part of the relations between the two countries. It is now being asked whether the recent face-off at Galwan will start a similar chapter in India-China relations and cast a shadow over all other aspects of the bilateral relationship. Race for global governance ‘Classical realism’, one of the older international relations theories, is at play along the LAC and the LoC. The theory suggests that world politics is always riddled with conflict due to nations pursuing power. When it comes to India-China relations, the pursuit for an upper-hand in global governance drives conflict, whereas along the LoC, pursuit for geopolitical power drives the conflict between India and Pakistan. The complexity of the relationship that China and India share is a result of the evolution of both nations over time and the borders that both countries share. The simultaneous economic rise of China and India, although not equal, and their emergence as key actors in Asia and South Asia, has been an important factor in this mix. China and India are rising powers with growing interests as well as long standing conflicts of interest. The deficit of trust between the two neighbors is caused in part as well as aggravated by the security dilemma. Each party finds it difficult to determine the true intentions of the other when it comes to the border and the usage of political economy as a weapon. From India’s point of view, a key issue is China’s expansionary plans that have taken off along with its growing economic clout across the world, but specifically in South Asia.  India’s lack of reliable allies in the region, coupled with a raging pandemic in the country and economic losses due to COVID-19 leaves it with no option but to disengage and compromise. China too is facing a severe backlash due to COVID-19, leading many powers around the world to consider a rethink of their dealings with the country. These and many other factors could force both nations to disengage and compromise.  The road ahead Will these conditions be sufficient to push the countries towards resolving their disputes? It seems unlikely and the level of escalation of differences will depend to a great extent on how geopolitical situations evolve over the next few months.  Over the past decade-and-a-half since both parties signed the 2005 Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles, not much progress has been made in discussing a framework to determine a border demarcation on a map. The measures that have been taken are to build confidence and maintain peace and tranquility along the Himalayan border, which has not worked out well since China has been flouting the boundary line over the years. D Suba Chandran of the National Institute of Advanced Studies, who studies armed conflicts and peace processes in South Asia, said the recent violence along the LAC and periodic tensions between the two sides over unfinalised segments of the LAC were different issues. “Until the LAC is completely demarcated, there would be periodic tensions, as has been the case earlier. But, the violence – both sides are likely to place systems that would avoid violence leading to casualties, as has been the case with the Monday/Tuesday development.” He adds that if there is an issue with the bilateral relations between both countries, then the border is likely to be an expression of the issue and that this issue depends on whether China considers India a roadblock to its rise considering its closer relations with the US. Major General Harsha Kakar (retd.),a  former Army officer and security expert, said that India has always resorted to dialogue as a mechanism to diffuse tensions, both along the LoC and LAC but it gave up on talks shortly after Pakistani investigators were allowed to probe the 2016 Pathankot attack, when talks started to fail. However, he says that along the LAC, incidents of firing have not happened despite casualties, contrary to the situation along the Line of Control. Importantly, he notes that the areas along the LoC are mountainous. Ingress routes and mountain tops need to be dominated to control the region, while the area along the LAC in Ladakh is flat on the Tibetan plateau. This allows for infrastructure development, taking the patrolling forward and leading to domination of a larger area. As infrastructure develops, troops are able to move faster leading to stand-offs and this infrastructure development and increased patrolling in the forward regions will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-tensions-along-lac-mirror-instability-along-loc-851038.html
18-06-2020||Panorama||Court orders, Oppn challenge and BJP’s quota dilemma||Having burnt their fingers twice over quota row—during 2015 Bihar assembly and 2018 polls in three Hindi heartland states of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh – the BJP and the Narendra Modi government were quick to get into damage control mode. They fielded their top brass to underline how the government is “dedicated and committed” to the quota cause after the Supreme Court on Thursday (June 18) observed that reservation is not a fundamental right. “The BJP and the government under Modi, are committed to reservation. Our commitment to social justice is unbreakable. We stand committed to reservation. PM Modi has repeated it again and again. Our endeavour has always been towards maintaining social harmony and providing equal opportunity to all,” said BJP national president J P Nadda in a video statement.  Union Minister and leader of NDA ally Lok Jan Shakti Party Ram Vilas Paswan, who has been fielded by Modi government many times in the past to counter the Opposition’s quota politics, said reservation may not be a fundamental right but is “very much a constitutional right”.  Voicing anguish over frequent rows on the quota issue, Paswan also appealed to all political parties to come together to bring quota laws in the Constitution’s Ninth Schedule and make it a permanent feature to avoid needless controversy from time to time. This throws the ball in the court of Parliament represented by all parties and is a guard against any Opposition campaign on the issue. This is fifth time in the last six years that the government had to rush in to assure Dalits that it is committed to protect reservation. This after at least two times following RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s remarks calling for a review of the quota kicked up a political row, and twice after the Supreme Court’s order and observation. These threw the saffron party’s social engineering into a tailspin. This time, the quota issue stared the government in its face after the Supreme Court on June 11 refused to entertain pleas of various political parties which had challenged the Centre’s decision not to grant 50% reservation to OBCs. In an earlier instance, the Opposition parties had found fault with the Modi government for not getting into action mode and approach the Supreme Court on the issue.  In March 2018, the apex court had diluted the stringent provisions of SC/ST Act and allowed anticipatory bail to people booked for atrocities against SCs and STs, which the 1989 Act did not allow. Soon after, protests by Dalit organisations, some backed by political parties, broke out and turned violent at many places leading to several deaths. This forced the Modi government in the last year of its first term to file a review petition in the Supreme Court against the order. Subsequently, it got a bill passed in Parliament to nullify the impact of the SC order and restore the original provisions of the 1989 Act. However, this antagonised BJP’s traditional voters-the upper castes- who joined ranks with OBCs in some regions before the state elections of MP, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh in 2018-end. As the BJP lost all the three states, upper-caste anger against it was attributed as one of the reasons. This was particularly so in Madhya Pradesh where BJP faced protests from upper caste groups like Karni Sena, Parshuram Sena and SAPAKS, which was formed with sections of upper castes and OBCs coming together in areas of their influence to defeat the BJP candidates. The BJP, months before the 2019 Lok Sabha, did a balancing act by passing a bill to provide 10% quota to people of economically weaker sections from the general category. The gamble paid off. Even in 2015, ahead of the Bihar assembly polls, the comments of Mohan Bhagwat about the need for a “review” of reservation had cost the BJP dearly - it lost the elections after veterans of OBC politics - Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar (then in the Opposition) - managed to paint the BJP anti-reservation. This even as BJP’s face of election campaign Prime Minister Narendra Modi, himself from an extremely backward class (EBC) community and who had gone to the extent of saying that as long as he is alive, nobody can touch the reservations. Counter campaign Even in August 2019, months before the assembly elections for MP, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, the Opposition created a big controversy over Bhagwat’s remarks that there should be a conversation in a harmonious atmosphere between those in favour of reservation and those against it. The Opposition latched on to it attacking BJP-RSS for its alleged “anti-Dalit, anti-OBC talk.” Soon, the RSS issued a statement explaining the context in which Bhagwat made the remarks and the entire government machinery swung into action to counter the campaign. Clearly, the saffron party is in no mood to let Opposition to yet again latch on to the issue of quota after the Supreme Court observation last week.  The dilemma of quota politics is such that the BJP, which has with great effort managed to shed its tag of ‘Brahmin-Baniya party’  after sustained efforts to reach out to SC/ST/OBCs in Modi’s tenure, has in the past suffered the double whammy impact of the row—first, the anger of Dalits and then that of the upper castes. Minister Paswan had in the past conceded that BJP-RSS combination has a perception problem on the quota issue. It has faced bigger backlash from the community even over certain actions from bodies other than the government besides casual remarks by people having no direct role in governance. That should be even more worrisome for the BJP, which has in the last few years taken many efforts to draft the OBCs and Dalits into its scheme of things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/court-orders-oppn-challenge-and-bjp-s-quota-dilemma-851156.html
18-06-2020||Panorama||Goodbye clean air, pollution is back||Over the past two months under an unprecedented global lockdown, people with asthma and COPD experienced an unusual freedom. People with respiratory conditions reported an improvement in symptoms and reduction in consumption of anti-asthmatic drugs and inhalers. Children with respiratory allergies breathed easy. Unfortunately, this freedom from choking air is likely to be temporary unless we act quickly and act now. As lockdown restrictions are lifted, most cities are likely to slide back to their polluted selves. According to data from environmental body Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (Crea), air pollution in China has already returned back to pre-pandemic levels, with concentrations of PM 2.5 and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) now at the same levels as last year. In India, a study by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) found that pollution levels which were down by a whopping 79% during the initial phase of the lockdown in Delhi NCR are rising again as the region opens up. The question now is whether we will sit back and allow this slide in air quality to continue or do we have the will to act and stop it? According to the CSE study Delhi has around 12.1 million registered vehicles, of which 4.6 million are private vehicles. With visits to workplaces and recreation activities curtailed during the lockdown, only a fraction of these vehicles plied on the roads. The study also found that cycling and walking increased from 14% to an impressive 43%. Travel habits of people have changed across the world in recent months with the coronavirus crisis ushering in a cycling revolution in several cities. In the UK, bicycle orders witnessed a 200% surge buoyed by a ‘Cycle to Work’ scheme that incentivizes cycling. The office of the London mayor is devising a new plan to enable more people to walk and cycle safely. This plan includes adding dedicated biking lanes, footways and restricting driving. In the Italian city of Milan which is a highly polluted city, authorities are converting 35 km of roads previously used by cars into dedicated walking and cycling routes. In Bogota, the capital city of Columbia, 120 km of streets have been declared free of motorized transport. In Paris, people are taking to cycles like never before with the French government incentivizing cycling by offering cash support. While a large part of this behavioural change has been driven by the apprehension of using public transport during a viral pandemic, environmentalists and policymakers are hoping this will be the foundation of a long-term shift in travel habits. Promote cycling India is one of those countries that desperately need a cycling revolution. Getting rid of emissions from motorized transport is the need of the hour. Unfortunately, without an active policy push, urban behaviour is not likely to change. As people return to work, the fear of the virus is keeping a large number of people of public transport. This section of people can either translate into highly unsustainable personal car users or environmental friendly cycle users. Simple policy measures can help ensure a shift to cycling rather than personal motorized vehicles. Governments must consider making it mandatory for every city to have at least 50 km of dedicated cycle lanes on some of the busiest routes. Cycling paths must be created in all municipal parks and residential areas to encourage cycling as a safe mode of exercise. Similarly, a cohesive infrastructure for cyclists with adequate safety measures lit upcycle paths and strict traffic rules against vehicles trespassing into cycle lanes must be implemented. Governments in India must also consider offering financial incentives to people taking up cycling to work on the lines of the UK and France. Tax concessions for those cycling to work and monetary help to people looking buy cycles are key incentives. Electric cycles have the potential to become a major element of a bike promotion strategy as they can allow people easily to travel moderate to longer distances as well. Subsidizing electric cycles can go a long way in promoting their usage in these circumstances.  (The writer is the Chairman of HMC, a Hero Motors Company)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/goodbye-clean-air-pollution-is-back-851157.html
18-06-2020||Right in the Middle||My first 'middle'||When a well-known London magazine carried his first article, English essayist J B Priestly was beside himself with joy. As he was riding on a tram, he saw a lady reading the very copy of the magazine. "Little did she know that one of its group of brilliant contributors was not two yards away," he told himself. When my first ‘middle,’ the column so-called by virtue of it being in the middle of the edit page, appeared in a (then) Bombay newspaper, thirty summers ago, I too experienced extreme joy just like Priestly. As I was travelling to my workplace by the suburban local, I assumed all those who were reading the newspaper that carried my piece were reading nothing but my ‘Middle’!   A few of them, I took it, were throwing glances at me occasionally while reading it! "Since none of them knew me, even if they were reading my article how would they know that I authored it,"  asked myself. Those were pre-e-mail days. Its absence handicapped the contributors a good deal in that they had to post their manuscripts to the newspaper offices. Luckily, the offices of two well-circulated newspapers were located not far from my workplace—one a stone’s throw away; the other hardly a kilometre off. In both offices, there were boxes for the ‘middle’ in which I dropped my contributions. Once the article was sent, I eagerly awaited the arrival of the newspaper every morning.  In the halcyon days of middle writers, if a newspaper accepted an article the remittance of remuneration preceded the appearance of the article. Writers had many green pastures then which alas have now shrunk. Whenever my middle appeared, I bought several copies of the newspaper for sending to such acquaintances and relatives of mine who got different dailies. After all, there is no art without audience!  Contrast me, a mere mortal, to Franz Kafka, a great in European literature. His literary output is not numerically great— three novels, a few short stories and letters. He wrote them only for the pleasure of writing. He asked Max Brod, his friend to burn whatever he had penned following his death as if he wanted to be consigned to oblivion! Ignoring his friend, Brod didn’t commit the ‘incendiary act’. Had he, the world of literature would have been much poorer! Kudos to Max Brod!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-first-middle-851158.html
18-06-2020||Second Edit||Be fair and fearless at UNSC||India’s election to the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as a non-permanent member from the Asia-Pacific category has opened up an opportunity for it to play a larger, responsible and more meaningful role in global politics. India has served as a non-permanent UNSC member seven times so far. Hence, it will bring to the high table of the UNSC its considerable experience.  It has received strong endorsement of its UNSC role. Not only did it win the unanimous endorsement of the 55-nation Asia-Pacific Group (APG) to emerge its candidate at the UNSC but it also received a solid 184 votes out of 192 valid votes in the UN General Assembly. This was far in excess of the 128 it needed to go through to the UNSC for the 2021-22 period. India owes its relatively easy ride to the UNSC to at least three countries: Pakistan, China and Afghanistan. Despite its tense relations with Pakistan and China, these two countries did not oppose India’s candidature in the APG. They also endorsed India subsequently. India’s entry to the UNSC in 2021 would not have been possible without Afghanistan’s support. Kabul had already put in its bid for the 2021-22 slot and on India’s request, it graciously stepped aside to allow India to throw its hat in the ring. For several decades now, India has been striving to become a veto-wielding permanent member of the UNSC. The reluctance of the UNSC’s five permanent members (P-5), especially China, to democratise the UN and expand the UNSC to include powers like India and Japan, has stood in the way of New Delhi realising this ambition. Non-permanent membership is therefore not the big prize that India is seeking as this does not come with veto powers. Still, as a non-permanent member, India can play an influential role. In its previous stints as a UNSC non-permanent member, India had waffled on important issues, preferring to abstain rather than upset one country or another. Instead of fence-sitting, it must take a principled stand on issues, one that is fearless and fair and furthers the cause of international peace and justice. It must push for UN reforms with greater energy. It is in a position to use its influence with all permanent and non-permanent members to build consensus on UNSC resolutions. UNSC membership is a big opportunity for India. It would be a wasted opportunity if Delhi gets preoccupied with using its new role to settle scores with Pakistan rather than to carve for itself the role of a global leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/be-fair-and-fearless-at-unsc-851152.html
18-06-2020||South||Telangana govt to celebrate birth centenary of ex-PM Narasimha Rao on grand scale||The birth centenary of former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao will be celebrated by the Telangana government in a grand manner for one year beginning June 28, birth anniversary of the late leader who hailed from the state, in honour of his yeoman services to the nation. Announcing the decision taken on Wednesday, Chief Minister K Chadrashekar Rao said the former PM, who headed the Congress government from 1991 to 1996, was a literary personality, educationist and freedom fighter. It was a matter of pride for Telangana that a man with such extraordinary qualities hailed from the state, Rao was quoted as saying in an official release. It has been decided to organise the birth centenary celebrations of Narasimha Rao on a grand scale to recall his great services, he said. The Chief Minister appointed a committee under the leadership of TRS MP K Keshav Rao in connection for the centenary celebrations, the release said. State governments chief advisor Rajiv Sharma, Narasimha Raos son Prabhakar Rao, daughter Vani Devi, among others, are members of the committee. The first meeting of the committee would be held on Thursday at the residence of Keshav Rao, the release said. The CM asked the committee to get in touch with those who had association with Narasimha Rao, his other family members, well-wishers and followers to finalise a plan for the centenary celebrations, it added. Narasimha Rao, credited with ushering in economic reforms in the country during his stint as PM, was born on June 28, 1921 at Karimnagar. He had died on December 23, 2004.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-to-celebrate-birth-centenary-of-ex-pm-narasimha-rao-on-grand-scale-850793.html
18-06-2020||South||Man killed in suspected tiger attack in Kerala's Wayanad||In a gruesome incident, a youth hailing from the tribal community in Wayanad district in Kerala was found dead in the forest areas of the district on Wednesday. He was suspected to be killed in an attack by a tiger. The deceased, identified as Sivakumar, 23, of Pulpally in Wayanad south was said to have gone into the forest on Tuesday to collect firewood. As he did not return by night, local people and forest officials carried out a search in the area. By Wednesday afternoon, Sivakumar's machete and footwear were spotted and by afternoon his body was spotted in parts. His identity was confirmed with head and legs. Wayanad Divisional Forest Officer (south) Renjith Kumar said that one tiger was spotted in the region earlier and hence it was suspected that Sivakumar could have been killed during a tiger's attack. A search was launched in the region. Sivakumar was an autorickshaw driver. He is survived by his father Madhavadas, mother, Janaki, and sister, Manju. Members of tribal community are allowed to go to the forest to collect firewoods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-killed-in-suspected-tiger-attack-in-keralas-wayanad-850929.html
18-06-2020||South||Kerala Excise Department's staff succumbs to COVID-19||K P Sunil Kumar, 28, who was hospitalised on June 12, died at Pariyaram Medical College Hospital in Kannur. The exact source of his infection was yet to be ascertained.  According to sources, Sunil was on duty till June 12 and he had taken a suspected person from Karnataka for COVID-19 test earlier in the month. Sunil, later developed pneumonia and was on ventilator support. As many as 18 officials of the excise range office at Mattanur in Kannur district were kept in quarantine.  With this, the total COVID-19 deaths in Kerala reached 21, which included a native of Mahe that comes under Puducherry. Meanwhile, a tight vigil was being maintained in Kannur district owing to a spike in COVID-19 cases in the district. At present, there are 119 COVID-19 active patients in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-excise-departments-staff-succumbs-to-covid-19-850949.html
18-06-2020||South||Directives issued by Ernakulam dist on glass doors, wall partitions||In the wake of a woman's death at Ernakulam district in Kerala due to the collapse of glass door, the district administration directed all commercial establishments to ensure the use of quality glass doors and wall partitions. A set of instructions were also issued, like, only toughened or tempered glasses should be used and there should be proper stickers or signs to ensure that the glass doors and walls are easily noticeable. The door opening direction should be given both in English and Malayalam. District collector S Suhas directed all local body secretaries in the district to ensure that all buildings adhered to the norms within 45 days. Similar directives were likely to be issued across the state. A 45-year-old woman died after the glass door of a bank collapsed and pierced into her body after she rammed into the door accidentally. The shocking incident took place at Bank of Baroda's Perumbavoor branch, about 35 kilometres from Kochi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/directives-issued-by-ernakulam-dist-on-glass-doors-wall-partitions-851066.html
18-06-2020||South||Kerala to provide COVID-19 test kits for returning NRIs||The Kerala government has decided to acquire COVID-19 test kits for conducting pre-departure tests of NRIs returning to the state, even as the Opposition parties strongly opposed the state government's decision to insist on the no-virus certificate. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state was expecting the Centre's cooperation for its demand for mandatory pre-departure COVID-19 test for all NRIs. For certain Gulf countries, where adequate number of test kits were not available, the state government would procure necessary number of Truenat test kits. Discussions were being held with airlines in this regard.  The state already decided to mandate on COVID-19 test for all returning to the state from other countries in chartered flights from June 20. It has also demanded centre to mandate on COVID test for all returning and arrange separate flights for the infected. The Congress and BJP were strongly opposing the decision maintaining that it would cause additional burden to NRIs. Meanwhile, a 28-year-old person died of COVID-19 in Kerala, 97 more fresh cases were reported and 89 got recovered from the infection. According to health department sources, K P Sunil Kumar, a driver with the excise department, who was under treatment at Pariyaram medical college hospital in Kannur for COVID-19 died. Of the 20 others died of COVID-19 in Kerala so far most were aged persons or children. Medical authorities said that Kumar's condition worsened owing to pneumonia and this led to his death. As many as 18 excise officials and over 100 others were quarantined. Among the 97 fresh cases, 65 were from abroad and 29 from other states. Only three got infected through local contact. The total number of COVID-19 active patients now is 1,358. Meanwhile, the state government announced subsidies and power tariff relaxations to the electricity consumers in the state for the lockdown days owing to widespread complaints of heavy bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-provide-covid-19-test-kits-for-returning-nris-851079.html
18-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu withdraws GO on name change of 1,018 towns, cities||Tamil Nadu government on Thursday withdrew a GO that altered the English names of 1,018 cities, towns and villages in line with their Tamil pronunciation, after it came under much attack for discrepancies in the spellings.  The move was criticised on two counts by people -- the need to change them and the non-uniformity in use of English alphabets while writing the names of different cities.  The move is part of an initiative taken up in 2018 to change anglicised names of cities and towns to their original names in Tamil and altering their English spelling.  As criticism mounted, Tamil Development Minister 'MaFoi' K Pandiarajan said the discrepancies will be looked into. However, on Thursday evening he took to Twitter to announce that the GO has been withdrawn and will be reissued.  "We are working on alignment of views by experts on Transliteration standards from Tamil to English. Hopefully, we should get this released in 2/3 days. The GO on the change of English names for Tamil names for places has been withdrawn. Will absorb all feedback & reissue shortly, " Pandiarajan wrote. According to the GO, the names of Coimbatore, the industrial city known as Manchester of South India, was changed to Koyampuththoor, the port city of Tuticorin is Thooththukkudi and Vellore to Veeloor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-withdraws-go-on-name-change-of-1018-towns-cities-851134.html
18-06-2020||State||BJP releases lists of candidates for legislative council elections in Karnataka||The BJP on Wednesday announced party tickets to former Minister R Shankar, former Minister  M T B Nagaraj, and former MLA Sunil Valyapure and Pratap Simha Nayak for Legislative Council Elections scheduled on June 29. The party announced the candidate list at midnight, since Thursday is the last day for filing nominations. Former MLA Sunil  Valyapure and Pratap Simha Nayak from Dakshina Kannada are party loyalists, while Nagaraj and Shankar are defectors from Congress. Shankar after defecting to BJP did not contest Assembly elections while Nagaraj lost in Hosakote segment from BJP ticket. Since the party can win 4 seats with its 117 seats in Assembly, it has announced only four candidates. However, the party did not give tickets to former Minister H Vishwanath and former MLA Miniratna, who are defectors from Congress. Vishwanath, who defected from JD (S) to BJP lost from Hunsur Assembly segment in bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-releases-lists-of-candidates-for-legislative-council-elections-in-karnataka-850808.html
18-06-2020||State||Checking flow of outsiders may have stemmed virus: BSY||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said the state should have checked the entry of outsiders in order to control the spread of coronavirus. "Had we controlled the influx of those coming from other states, Karnataka would have tackled the virus better," the chief minister said on the occasion of Mask Day. He was, however, optimistic of the state being in a good position to control the disease. "We have not lost much time. We all have to cautiously contribute to contain the virus," he said. He emphasised on wearing of masks, washing hands with soap, usage of sanitisers, maintaining social distancing and other norms to check coronavirus. The Chief Minister said masks and personal hygiene have become part of life. While lauding the administration staff, policemen, medical fraternity and Asha workers for working round the clock in containing the spread of the infection, he said the state government has provided essential medical equipment to the COVID-19 warriors. Yediyurappa thanked ministers, officials, cricketer Anil Kumble, Kannada film actor Puneeth Rajkumar and others for taking part in observing the Mask Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/checking-flow-of-outsiders-may-have-stemmed-virus-bsy-851159.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5.95 lakh students to appear for II PU English exam today in Karnataka; all precautions in place||Over 5,95,997 students will appear for the English subject of II Year Pre- University Course examinations which are set to held at 1,016 centres across the state on Thursday. The Department of Pre-University Education has issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for conducting the examination where each centre is equipped with thermal guns, boxes to maintain social distance and hand sanitisers. Face masks are a must for both students and staff during exams. Explaining the preparations, the director (examinations) said, “It is compulsory for every student to undergo thermal check and sanitise their hands before entering the exam hall. We have informed all students to reach the centres at least an hour before the commencement of the examinations.” Students are exempted from attending the exam if they or their family members have tested positive for Covid-19. “There is no compulsion. Even non-Covid students concerned about the pandemic can take the supplementary exams and we will consider them as freshers,” the director explained. However, no details were available about the number of students who have sought the exemption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/595-lakh-students-to-appear-for-ii-pu-english-exam-today-in-karnataka-all-precautions-in-place-850874.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 relief: Labour Dept comes under PAC scanner||The expenditure incurred by the Labour Department to the tune of around Rs 800 crore in providing relief, food kits and other amenities to labourers has now come under the scanner of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). After the PAC sensed irregularities in distribution of relief to beneficiaries, it has sought a detailed report on the expenses incurred by the department since the lockdown. According to the submissions of the Labour Department to the PAC, accessed by DH, Rs 739.19 crore was distributed to 14.78 lakh beneficiaries in Karnataka. Though relief was distributed based on valid documents, the department is yet to ascertain the native district of 1.25 lakh beneficiaries, raising eyebrows. Food kits The department has also claimed that it distributed 83.44 lakh food kits worth Rs 69.9 crore, which, according to sources, was flagged by even members of the ruling party in the PAC. About Rs 4.1 crore was for masks and sanitisers, according to the department’s submission.  After Health and Family Welfare, this is the second department to be pulled up by the PAC over alleged irregularities during Covid-19 relief. During the recent meeting, PAC chairman H K Patil highlighted that Rs 62 crore distributed to 1.25 lakh beneficiaries was suspect in nature. While 11.62 lakh of the 21.78 lakh registered members of the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board — who had linked their bank accounts and Aadhaar cards — were provided compensation worth Rs 581.12 crore, officials had compiled data of another 3.16 lakh beneficiaries and sent them to banks. The PAC took objection to the fact that even though officials had collected data from employees, beneficiaries ‘pending for segregation’ were 1.25 lakh. The department’s claim of distributing 83.44 lakh food packets from April 30 to June 10 also attracted criticism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-relief-labour-dept-comes-under-pac-scanner-850878.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 5.9 lakh students appear for II PUC English exam in Karnataka amidst coronavirus||Close to about 6 lakh students are the first batch of students in Karnataka appearing for an annual examination after a hiatus of three months due to lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 with adequate social distancing and thermal screening rules. Sources in the Pre-University Education department told DH that as many as 5.95 lakh students had enrolled for the exam, which is underway at 1,016 examination centres across Karnataka. Aligning with the SOP and guidelines issued by the Health Department, students descended on exam centres much earlier than the scheduled time to avoid the last-minute rush for thermal screening and sanitisation process.     Even though the rule of social distancing was not adhered to at some of the exam centres, the examination began on a peaceful note on Thursday morning. “I reached the centre at around 8:45 am though the exam commences at 10:15 am,” said Nandita, a student in one of the city colleges. Yet another student, Chinmay Kulkarni said, “This is an entirely different experience for all of us as we are writing exams in a different scenario. I know it is uncomfortable to write while wearing a mask. But it is the new normal and we have been rehearsing that for weeks.” Dr Manjunath, Principal, Seshadripuram PU College, Kengeri said, “We have put in place all safety measures as directed by the Health Department. Over 270 students are writing exams at our centre. Separate arrangements have been made for students with cold, fever and cough to write the exam.” Every student was checked for body temperature and sanitiser was sprayed into their hands at the entrance of the exam centre. Wearing masks was made compulsory and those who did not have masks were provided with masks by the officials at the exam centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-59-lakh-students-appear-for-ii-puc-english-exam-in-karnataka-amidst-coronavirus-850909.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus may hit Karnataka's oral cancer case detection rate||Dr Pramila AG, Deputy Director, Oral Health, of the state's Health Department told DH, "Our dentists would participate in the camps conducted by the Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) department. Now that it is risky to come in contact with saliva due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are performing only emergency oral health procedures." This is expected to affect the state's oral cancer case detection rates. Currently, 257 dentists under the oral health wing have been called back from COVID-19 duties in fever clinics and since June 1, they have been back in their OPDs in the dental department of various public hospitals.  "Oral cancer accounts for 7.4% of the total cancers in the state. Whoever comes to our NCD clinics will be screened based on the symptoms told verbally like white patches, swelling, bleeding etc," said Dr Rangaswamy HV, Deputy Director, Non-Communicable Diseases, of the state's Health Department.  Even Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, which conducted screening camps for smokers and tobacco users, is not conducting camps anymore. In the past two years, the intensity of the camps was increased by Kidwai because BEL company donated a high-tech bus equipped with all facilities. Per month, ten to twelve camps were conducted and each camp screened a hundred people, which stopped after the start of the pandemic. Dr Vishal Rao, Head and Neck Cancer surgeon with HCG hospital said, "The only effective strategy to reduce oral cancer mortality is screening and early detection. These are especially effective in high-risk groups for oral cancer who consume tobacco and alcohol. COVID-19 is known to cause higher mortality in patients with NCD such as cancer. Screening high-risk populations combined with health education is useful."  "Kidwai alone sees around 1,200 new oral cancer cases every year. Karnataka sees 15,000 new cases every year and has an existing caseload of 35,000. Twelve percent ofKidwai's cases were detected through screening by the hospital and NGOs. White patches, red patches, injuries to the gum, are classical signs of oral cancer," said Dr C Ramesh, Professor of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-may-hit-karnatakas-oral-cancer-case-detection-rate-850917.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Candidates line up to file nominations for Legislative Council polls in Karnataka||Candidates of all the three major political parties in Karnataka filed their nominations for the June 29 Legislative Council polls on Thursday, the last date to do so. While the BJP has fielded four candidates, Congress two and JD(S) one respectively for the biennial elections to seven seats of the legislative council to be elected by the MLAs. The election is necessitated as the term of seven MLCs- Naseer Ahmed, Jayamma, M C Venugopal, N S Bose Raju, H M Revanna (all Congress), T A Sharavana (JD(S)) and independent D U Mallikarjuna- will end June 30. Based on their strength in the Assembly, while BJP is in a position to win four out of seven seats, Congress can win two and JD(S) one. Twenty-eight valid votes of MLAs are required for each candidate to win. Four BJP candidates MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar, Sunil Vallyapure and Pratap Simha Nayak filed their nominations today, after the party high command announced their names late last night. Nagaraj and Shankar had played a key role in the formation of the BJP government after the coup that led to the collapse of Congress-JD(S) coalition, they had subsequently defected to the saffron party. While Nagaraj lost the byelections held later, Shankar did not contest in exchange for a Council berth promise. Among the other BJP candidates- Vallyapure is a former MLA from Chincholi and had given up his seat abiding by the party decision to field Avinash Jadhav; while Nayak is a senior party worker and had served as Dakshina Kannada district president. Sources said while Shankar and Vallyapure have been given MLC tickets as they had given up their Assembly seats, Nagraj was considered as he had faced a defeat during the bypolls because party MP B N Bachhe Gowda's son Sharath contested as a rebel. However, Nayak's candidature is being seen as BJP high command's choice by party insiders, ignoring the state units recommendation of H Vishwanath, a former JD(S) MLA who had defected to BJP. Two Congress candidates- senior party leader B K Hariprasad and incumbent Naseer Ahmed also filed their nominations today at the office of Legislative Assembly Secretary M K Vishalakshi, who is also the returning officer for the polls. Hariprasad was fielded as a candidate by the party on Wednesday, even as his tenure in Rajya Sabha is to end on June 25; while Naseer Ahmed, who is retiring as MLC on June 30 is seeking another term. JD(S) has fielded Govindaraju from Koral as the party candidate for the MLC polls. Incumbent MLC T A Sharavana and outgoing Rajya Sabha member Kupendra Reddy were seen as the prime aspirants for the ticket. JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy said Govindaraju was chosen as it would help organise and strengthen the party in Kolar and Chikkaballapura region. An independent candidate PC Krishnegowda also filed his papers today. While scrutiny of nominations will take place on Friday, June 22 is the last date for withdrawal of candidature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/candidates-line-up-to-file-nominations-for-legislative-council-polls-in-karnataka-850996.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: BS Yediyurappa laments influx into Karnataka from other states||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said Karnataka could have managed the COVID-19 pandemic better had it been able to stop the influx of people coming in from other states.  He was speaking during the ‘Mask Day’ celebrations that saw participation from former India cricket captain Anil Kumble, Sandalwood stars Puneeth Rajkumar and Ragini Dwivedi. As part of the awareness programme, Yediyurappa led a walkathon to underline the importance of wearing face masks.  “If only we could stop people coming from other states, we’d have been more successful in containing the spread (of the coronavirus),” Yediyurappa said while inaugurating the ‘Mask Day’ event. “But there’s still time. We need to work together.”  Yediyurappa was referring to the fact that Karnataka’s COVID-19 tally skyrocketed with people returning from Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and other ‘high-risk’ states.   Hailing the services being rendered by officials, including the police personnel, Yediyurappa said Karnataka had been largely successful in managing the COVID-19 pandemic. “They are working day and night, especially Asha workers and the medical staff who have set aside their problems for the pandemic,” he said, adding that the state needed to take “stricter measures” in the coming days.  Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol and CN Ashwath Narayan, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya, Bangalore Central MP PC Mohan and others participated in the 'Mask Day' event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-bs-yediyurappa-laments-influx-into-karnataka-from-other-states-851048.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: No general transfers this year, says Karnataka govt||Karnataka has decided not to take up general transfers of its employees this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  An order issued by the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) on Thursday stated that transfers will be done only in “rare” cases approved by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa.  General transfers are done usually in the months of May and June. “In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and as an economy measure as well as to ensure COVID-19-related works are not affected, the general transfers for 2020-21 will not be done...,” the DPAR said.  According to rules, the cap on the transfer of government employees is 4 per cent. That is, the number of employees being transferred should not be more than 4 per cent of the total number of employees in service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-no-general-transfers-this-year-says-karnataka-govt-851064.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Experts caution Karnataka govt over possible landslides; demand action||An experts’ committee appointed to study the landslide-hit regions and map vulnerable areas of landslides along the Western Ghats in Karnataka has recommended the state government to convene an urgent meeting to discuss plans on shifting of people and families prone to catastrophe in the region. Following an active monsoon and copious rainfall all over the Coastal and Malnad districts, the experts’ committee led by Ananth Hegade Ashisara, Chairperson of the State Biodiversity Board visited a few areas. “The IMD has already issued a forecast about heavy rainfall in the coming days. Already the scientists from Geological Survey of India (GSI) have identified sensitive areas that are prone to landslides in Chikkamagalur and Kodagu districts. To avoid any possible loss of human life and other related damage, the government must draw a contingency plan to set up rehabilitation camps and shifting of villages from the landslide region to safe locations,” Ashisara told DH soon after holding a brief meeting with CM Yediyurappa. He further said that these activities require coordination between Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Forest and Home department along with local bodies and elected representatives. “We have recommended the CM to convene a high level meeting at the earliest,” Ashisara said. The experts committee appointed by the state government following massive landslides in Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru in the last two-years has already visited affected areas of Mudigere in Chikkamagalur district and Kalasavalli of Shivamogga district. The committee is expected to visit the geo-sensitive areas of Kodagu in the third week of June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/experts-caution-karnataka-govt-over-possible-landslides-demand-action-851116.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) springs surprise, picks Kolar man||The JD(S) nominated Govinda Raju, a lesser-known party worker, for the June 29 polls to Legislative Council. Albeit some senior leaders in fray like the incumbent MLC TA Saravana and former MP Kupendra Reddy, the party nominated Raju, a grassroots worker from Kolar. JDLP leader HD Kumaraswamy said, "Raju is a progressive farmer. He played a crucial role in ensuring Srinivasa Gowda's victory from Kolar. He had completely taken over the task of bringing people together. We took this decision in the interest of strengthening our party in Kolar and Chikkaballapur." Raju, who owns a poultry business, is also an agriculturist. He told DH, "I'd never aspired to get into politics. With the party trusting me with this role, I will put all my efforts to do justice."  Hariprasad, Naseer Ahmed file papers Congress leader BK Hariprasad and incumbent Naseer Ahmed filed their nominations for the June 29 Legislative Council elections. Their selection by the high command is being seen as a bittersweet result for Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah. While Ahmed is backed by Siddaramaiah, Hariprasad is said to have found support from KPCC president Shivakumar. Hariprasad and Siddaramaiah are not known to befriends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-springs-surprise-picks-kolar-man-851120.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Maha rain increases inflows into Almatti dam||Incessant rain in the Western Ghats of Maharashtra has increased inflows into Almatti dam (Lal Bahadur Shastri Sagar). On Thursday, the dam received 15,391 cusecs of water. The inflows are expected to clock 20,000 cusecs by night. As much as 1.32 tmcft of water had flown into the dam in a single day. This year, Almatti dam started receiving inflows in June first week. With Krishna river catchment experiencing heavy showers, the inflows will increase further and the dam is expected to reach the full reservoir level (FRL) before its schedule. The water level in the dam has increased to 511.23 meters on June 18. It was 509.47 metres on June 5. The maximum level of the dam is 519.60 metres. Copious rain in Konkan region of Maharashtra has resulted in increased inflows into Krishna river and its tributaries including Vedganga and Doodhganga. On Thursday, two more low-lying barrage-cum-bridges in Belagavi district were submerged. With this all six barrage-cum-bridges, including Kallol-Yadur bridge, have gone underwater. Kallol barrage in Chikkodi taluk recorded an inflow of 26,000 cusecs on Thursday. With southwest monsoon gaining momentum, coastal districts and Malnad experienced widespread rain on in the last 24 hours. Sea erosion was reported in Gokarna, Kaup and other places. With water level in several rivers including Swarna, Seetha rising, flood threat looms large over parts of Udupi district. A 58-year-old man from Kaalthodu in Baindoor taluk washed swept away by strong undercurrent in Kodla Halla (stream). Kota in Udupi district has recorded 12 cm of rain while Bhagamandala in Kodagu and Karwar witnessed 11 cm each. Yellow alert The India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy showers in Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi district from June 19 to June 23. The IMD has declared Yellow Alert and cautioned the fishermen not to venture into the sea. Parts of Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts received rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maha-rain-increases-inflows-into-almatti-dam-851121.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||MLC polls: BSY breathes easy, most picks of state unit make the cut||BJP leaders, including Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, heaved a sigh of relief after the central leadership approved the names they recommended for the June 29 MLC elections. This includes two turncoats - M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar - who helped the BJP come to power. Ex-MLA Sunil Vallyapure, a Yediyurappa loyalist, also got the ticket as a reward, along with Pratap Simha Nayak, who was backed by BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel. In all this, another turncoat A H Vishwanath has been left high and dry, saying his name was removed at the last minute. Nominations for MLC elections came days after the party’s central leadership snubbed the state unit and nominated ‘ordinary party workers’ to Rajya Sabha. This led to speculation that a similar snub may be in the offing now. Yediyurappa, who was under pressure, ensured that Nagaraj and Shankar secured the nomination. His recommendation of Vallyapure also made the cut, as Vallyapure had given up the Chincholi Assembly seat to Avinash Jadhav in the April 2019 by-elections, after Jadhav’s father Umesh Jadhav jumped ship to BJP. Nagaraj suffered a defeat in the December by-polls last year, losing to independent candidate Sharath Bache Gowda - son of BJP MP B N Bache Gowda, and had accused ‘some’ BJP leaders of sabotaging his imminent win in Hoskote constituency.  But former minister A H Vishwanath, another turncoat, was left disappointed. What was to be his ticket went to Nayak. Recalling that the CM had assured him of the nomination, Vishwanath said his name featured in the list sent to the high command and alleged that the Opposition Congress and JD(S) lobbied to ensure he missed the ticket. “I will reveal more about it in the coming days.” Nagaraj, who has set his eyes on becoming a minister along with Shankar, thanked Yediyurappa for “being true to his word”. On ministerial aspirations, he said that there are no promises yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlc-polls-bsy-breathes-easy-most-picks-of-state-unit-make-the-cut-851122.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: CM B S Yediyurappa laments influx into Karnataka from other states||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said Karnataka could have managed the Covid-19 pandemic better had it been able to stop the influx of people coming in from other states.  He was speaking during the ‘Mask Day’ celebrations that saw participation from former India cricket captain Anil Kumble, Sandalwood stars Puneeth Rajkumar and Ragini Dwivedi. As part of the awareness programme, Yediyurappa led a walkathon to underline the importance of wearing face masks.  “If only we could stop people coming from other states, we’d have been more successful in containing the spread (of the coronavirus),” Yediyurappa said. “But there’s still time. We need to work together.”  Yediyurappa was referring to the fact that Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally skyrocketed with people returning from Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and other ‘high-risk’ states. Hailing the services of the officials, Yediyurappa said Karnataka had been largely successful in managing the Covid-19 pandemic. “They are working day and night, especially Asha workers and the medical staff who have set aside their problems for the pandemic,” he said, adding that the state needed to take ‘stricter measures’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-laments-influx-into-karnataka-from-other-states-851126.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No general transfers this year, says govt||Karnataka has decided not to take up general transfers of its employees this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  An order issued by the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) on Thursday stated that transfers will be done only in 'rare' cases approved by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  General transfers are done usually in the months of May and June. "In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and as an economy measure as well as to ensure Covid-related works are not affected, the general transfers for 2020-21 will not be done...," the DPAR said.  According to rules, the cap on the transfer of government employees is 4%. That is, the number of employees being transferred should not be more than 4% of the total number of employees in service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-general-transfers-this-year-says-govt-851127.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bittersweet pill for Cong as Hariprasad, Ahmed get tickets||Senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad and incumbent Naseer Ahmed filed their nominations Thursday for the June 29 Legislative Council elections.  For Hariprasad, whose term as a Rajya Sabha member ends on June 25 and will be replaced by veteran Mallikarjun Kharge, the MLC ticket marks return to state politics after having spent years with the AICC as a general secretary. Ahmed had been seeking re-election for another term. Their selection by the high command is being seen as a bittersweet result for Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah. While Ahmed was backed by Siddaramaiah, Hariprasad is said to have found support from Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar. Both Hariprasad and Siddaramaiah are not known to be friends. Hailing from the Billava (OBC) community, Hariprasad might go on to become the floor leader in the Upper House to counter Siddaramaiah, who is also from the OBC Kuruba community. Known to be a Gandhi family loyalist, Hariprasad unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the Bangalore South seat, where he was fielded in response to speculation that Prime Minister Narendra Modi might contest from there. He was also pitched for the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman’s post, but lost to NDA’s Harivansh Narayan Singh. Not everyone in the Congress is happy with Hariprasad and Ahmed getting the tickets. When asked about the expectations party workers had in getting the ticket, Shivakumar justified saying:“Both Hariprasad and Ahmed are party workers first, leaders next. This is the Upper House that needs experienced leaders. Their nominations will strengthen the Congress.”  According to sources, former union minister KH Muniyappa is especially irked with Ahmed’s re-election bid. Apparently, Muniyappa had lodged a complaint with the party high command that Ahmed worked against him during the Lok Sabha polls last year, leading to his defeat in Kolar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bittersweet-pill-for-cong-as-hariprasad-ahmed-get-tickets-851128.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sanitisation at Vikasa Soudha today||All offices in the Vikasa Soudha, one of the government's prime administrative buildings that forms a part of the secretariat, will remain closed on Friday to take up a sanitisation exercise after a staffer here tested positive Covid-19. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the city's civic body responsible for Covid-19 containment, has taken up a massive sanitisation exercise of the Vikasa Soudha that started Thursday evening.  According to a circular issued by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR), all officers and staff working at the Vikasa Soudha "are exempted from reporting to duty" on June 19. "They are directed to work from home on that day," the circular said.  On June 16, an employee working in the Food and Civil Supplies Department on the ground floor of the Vikasa Soudha was tested positive for Covid-19. This sent officials into a tizzy over tracing the primary contacts of the patient in the busy building, leading to some offices being sealed off.  Vikasa Soudha, which is situated right next to the towering Vidhana Soudha, is home to offices of several ministers and secretaries of more than ten departments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sanitisation-at-vikasa-soudha-today-851129.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cong to launch ‘jail bharo’ against fuel hike, land reforms||Congress will soon launch a statewide ‘jail bharo’ campaign against the policies of the BJP governments in the Centre and the state, including the fuel price hike and the proposed amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. It was decided in the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting chaired by former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday that protests should be held all over the state against the ruling BJP. Siddaramaiah has even shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre to roll back the fuel price hike and the “reduced burden will help the common man to have additional money in hand...” The CLP meeting also discussed the implications of the government’s plan to open up agricultural land for purchase by even non-agriculturists by amending the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. “This will be a black legislation. The Congress will protest this across the state,” Siddaramaiah, who is also the leader of the opposition, said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cong-to-launch-jail-bharo-against-fuel-hike-land-reforms-851131.html
18-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 5.72 lakh students trump fear, write PU exam||The desire to complete pre-university and chart out a future seemed to have trumped the fear of COVID-19 as 5.72 lakh students wrote the English exam of the course on Thursday. This was the first batch of students in the state which attempted board exams during the pandemic. Students had to complete the exams by wearing face masks in view of the COVID-19 crisis.  Amid the nervousness brought by the new normal, many said the precautions taken by the department and safety measures at the examination centres brought some measure of confidence among students to finish their exams. "When the department announced the schedule for the exam, I was worried because of Covid-19. But, I am relieved as I have completed the last remaining subject with confidence and peace," said Bhuvan, a student. "It was not comfortable to sit for three long hours wearing a face mask and it was suffocating, but we had to manage as it was mandated for our safety," said Prateeksha Rao, another student. However, some students were seen pulling their masks down for a while during the exam. Not just students, even the parents who accompanied their wards were worried, but after looking at the preparedness at the centres, they said they were relieved. "I came all the way from Mandya district to accompany my daughter as she was staying at our relatives' house. While coming to the centre in the morning I was worried, but the department has made all necessary arrangements. I was relieved and happy," said Sandhya a parent. Meanwhile, the students reached the centre early as they had to undergo thermal check, hand over their mobile phones, sanitise their hands. 96% attended As per the details available from the department of Pre University Education as many as 96.03% students appeared for the exams on Thursday. Of the 5,96,300 students registered for exams, 5,72,665 students appeared for the exams and 23,635 students were absent. Compared to previous year, the number of students appearing for the exams is higher. During 2019 exams over 6,71,635 registered for English exams, of which 6,34,993 were present and 36,642 were absent. 223 from containment zone Over 223 students appeared for the exams were from containment zones and highest number of students appeared from containment zones were from Dharwad with 162. Separate arrangements were made for these students to write the exams and also around 20 students were diagnosed with high temperature and other health issues across the state and made special arrangements to write exams. Results expected in first week of July Briefing the media after the exams Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the results can be expected during first week of July. "The evaluation of 26 subjects has been completed and rest 10 subjects are almost at the end. The evaluation for other subjects will begin from Friday and for English it is decentralised," said Kumar. "We are planning to declare results in the first week of July and I request all teachers to take part in evaluation considering the interest of students," said the minister. Social distancing at stake However, social distancing was at stake at some of the centres as students gathered in groups while checking the rooms allotted to them. This has even come to the notice of the department. The minister said, "Such incidents have happened at 24-26 centres across the state and mainly near the entrance, barricade and where notice boards were kept. We are issuing notices to chief examination superintendents, seeking explanation about the same." Meanwhile, learning lessons from these incidents, the department has decided to send details about examination halls allotted to registered mobile number of students during SSLC exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-572-lakh-students-trump-fear-write-pu-exam-851133.html
18-06-2020||West||Scrap Chinese firm's contract for Metro project, says Maharashtra minister||In the wake of the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a violent clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh, Maharashtra NCP minister Jitendra Awhad has asked the Centre to scrap the Delhi-Meerut Metro work contract bagged by a Chinese firm. "After the talk of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), the contract has been awarded to a Chinese company. Who gave the contract? Under whose jurisdiction the Railways comes? Is it not the Centre?" Awhad asked in a tweet on Wednesday, while demanding that the contract be scrapped. "On June 12, the Delhi-Meerut Metro project work was given to Chinese firm Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Company, by sidelining the Indian company L&T. Then on June 15, the Chinese killed our 20 jawans. What kind of a foreign policy is this?" the minister wondered, and sought that the Centre "teach a lesson" to China. Incidentally, the Maharashtra government on Monday signed MoUs collectively worth over Rs 5,000 crore with three Chinese companies, according to an official statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/scrap-chinese-firms-contract-for-metro-project-says-maharashtra-minister-850907.html
18-06-2020||West||COVID-19 death toll in Mumbai Metropolitan Region crosses 4,000-mark||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video conference with chief ministers held on Wednesday about some of the measures like Chase-the-Virus.  The first death was reported on March 17 in Mumbai and as on June 17, the toll in Mumbai stood at 3,224 and cases 61,587. As far as MMR is concerned, the toll stands at 4,054 and cases 86,512. The MMR comprises of five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad - and this has the maximum cases and casualties in whole of India. Thane - with 20,167 cases and 642 fatalities - has emerged as the second worst-hit district after Mumbai. Meanwhile, Pune district has dropped to the third position with 13,250 patients and 610 deaths till now. However, Pune division ranks second (after MMR) with 16,023 patients and 828 deaths. Meanwhile, from only three isolation hospitals, the state today has 282 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, 434 dedicated COVID-19 health centres, 1,631 dedicated COVID-19 centres spread across all 36 districts. The state now has over 2.81 lakhs isolation beds, 37,000-plus beds with oxygen facilities, nearly 8,000 ICU beds, and another 80,000 beds in 1,543 quarantine centres, 3,028 ventilators, 5.63 lakh PPEs, and 10.77 lakh masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-death-toll-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-crosses-4000-mark-850960.html
18-06-2020||West||India-China border clash: RPI(A) workers protest outside Mumbai's Chinese hotel||In the wake of the escalating border tension between India and China, the workers of Union minister Ramdas Athawale-led Republican Party of India (RPI) held a protest outside a Chinese hotel in suburban Chembur here on Thursday, a police official said. A violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops took place on Monday evening at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh that resulted in the death of a colonel and 19 other Indian Army soldiers. Around 18 Indian soldiers also sustained serious injuries in the clash. A few RPI(A) supporters gathered outside the Chinese hotel this afternoon to protest against China's aggression. They sat on a street outside the hotel and chanted slogans against the Chinese government, the official said. The protesters also held banners and placards that criticised China. The party workers paid tributes to the martyred soldiers. Talking to reporters on the occasion, some RPI(A) workers urged people to boycott Chinese products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-china-border-clash-rpia-workers-protest-outside-mumbais-chinese-hotel-850984.html
18-06-2020||West||NCP MLA deals a blow to Gujarat Congress on eve of Rajya Sabha polls||On the eve of Rajya Sabha polls, Congress suffered another setback on Thursday after the lone Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Kandhal Jadeja attended a meeting of BJP MLAs at the party's headquarters in Gandhinagar, ending the speculation over his vote preference. Congress was hoping for his vote in its favour. Incidentally, Congress and NCP are partners in the coalition government in Maharashtra led by Shiv Sena. With this, the chances of victory for Congress candidates, national spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil and former Gujarat Congress president and ex-union minister Bharatsinh Solanki, have faded. It is being speculated that Gohil, said to be the party's first choice, will sail through while Solanki will have to face defeat. The Congress suffered setbacks after eight of its MLAs resigned ahead of the polls. One of the BJP candidates, Narhari Amin told reporters that the party will win all the three seats. Meanwhile, Bharatsinh Solanki claimed that "Some of the BJP MLAs are going to cross-vote that will ensure Congress victory." In 2017, senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel had narrowly escaped defeat in the Rajya Sabha polls after a BJP vote was termed invalid. Since 2017, Congress has faced resignation and cross-voting by many MLAs, and had to shift its MLAs to resorts. Leader of opposition in the state assembly and Congress MLA from Amreli Paresh Dhanani told DH that Congress was hopeful of winning the two seats, and accused the BJP of "using power and money to win polls because it didn't have enough numbers." BJP has fielded three candidates. The victory of Bharadwaj and Bara is certain but to ensure Amin's election, the BJP needs one vote which the NCP MLA Jadeja is said to have confirmed by attending the party meeting at the headquarters, Kamalam in Gandhinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-mla-deals-a-blow-to-gujarat-congress-on-eve-of-rajya-sabha-polls-851109.html
