19-06-2020||First Edit||Moratorium: RBI’s half-baked loan scheme||The Supreme Court has taken the right decision by directing the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), to review the much-hyped loan moratorium scheme, which, instead of bailing out stressed borrowers, levies an additional financial burden on them. With the countrywide COVID-19 lockdown leading to job loss and salary cuts, the RBI had, in March, announced a three-month moratorium, later extended to six months, on the payment of monthly EMIs on home, automobile and personal term loans. The scheme was then hailed as a major relief to both - banks which have become increasingly dependent on retail lending, and borrowers who would not have to go through the ignominy of being declared defaulters and their credit ratings downgraded. Far from the RBI’s stated objective of “providing deferment specifically to tide over the economic fallout of COVID-19”, the scheme increases the load on the borrower as they will now have to pay an additional interest on the interest accrued on the unpaid EMI during the moratorium period. It is unfortunate that the Centre, instead of providing succour to the common man in these testing times, is pushing him to the brink by taking a belligerent stand and refusing to offer any relief. The Union government’s mind became amply clear when Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta told the court, “If you want deferment of your loan, you have to pay the price for the deferment,” while strongly opposing any waiver of ‘interest on interest’. The government’s despicable attempt to wash its hands off the issue arguing that the matter was between the banks and the customers, drew a sharp retort from the bench which observed, “You cannot now claim helplessness after announcing the moratorium.” The banks, on the other hand, contended that such a waiver will drive them to insolvency and disable them from paying interest to their depositors, especially senior citizens who live out of their savings. The irony was not lost on the court which quickly pointed out to the increasing non-performing assets of banks due to the default of loans amounting to thousands of crores of rupees. The Centre and RBI have none but themselves to blame for this mess as they seem to have taken a half-baked decision without consulting banks regarding the possible repercussions. With not many borrowers coming forward to avail of the moratorium, given the increased liability on them, the very purpose of the scheme is defeated. The case is now posted for August and the government would do well to comply with the court’s suggestion and bear the burden of penal interest on its own or equip the banks to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/moratorium-rbi-s-half-baked-loan-scheme-851547.html
19-06-2020||In Perspective||Unemployment, a festering wound||Recently, the data published by Centre for Monitoring India Economy (CMIE) showed that the rate of unemployment in the country shot up to 27.11% for the week ending on May 3 from 6.74% at the end of March 15, 2020. The spike in the unemployment rate was due to the shut down of all economic activities by the government to combat the spread of the coronavirus. The unemployment rate was highest in the urban areas, constituting most of the red zones due to the highest number of COVID-19 cases. Incidentally, Puducherry in South India recorded the highest number of the unemployment rate at 75.8%. In the United States, the unemployment rate jumped to 14.7% in April, the highest level since the Great Depression, as many businesses shut down or curtailed operations to limit the spread of the deadly virus. It is a known fact that unemployment creates misery to all sections of society and even more hardships to the underprivileged class who have to depend on government handouts, which only creates further poverty as these sections struggle to make ends meet. Unemployment refers to a situation where people who are able and are willing to work are unable to get a job commensurate with their qualification and skills. All of us know the economic impact that unemployment on the growth of any economy. Arthur Okun, an American economist and a Yale professor, studied the relationship between unemployment and GDP. He first published his research on the topic in the 1960s, and his findings were referred to as Okun’s law. The law states that when unemployment levels go up, the GDP of the country would fall. The percentage increase by which GDP changes when unemployment falls by 1% is the Okun coefficient. The Okun coefficient estimated that in the US when unemployment increases by 1%, then GDP would fall by 2%. Though his findings were applicable more to the United States, economists world over have acknowledged that there is an inverse relationship between unemployment and GDP. Other than the economic impact that unemployment can have on the economy, there are social issues as well which cannot be measured through a number like GDP. The French philosopher and sociologist Emily Durkheim’s theory of functionalism highlighted the sociological perspective of unemployment. For Durkheim, society was greater than the sum of its parts and the basis for social order was moral rather than economic. In a functionalist capitalist society, everyone had a role and a purpose, and division of labour meant everyone was aware of what he was expected to do. This also ensured that there was balance in the society when individuals believed that whatever they were doing was in their self-interest. Another theory on unemployment was the conflict theory by Karl Marx which looked at society as a whole and focused on the different conflicts that occur between classes in the society. As Marx explained, conflicts occurred between the proletariat or the lower class, and the bourgeoisie—the upper class. The theory supported the idea that those with more power and money have the ability to gain a higher level of services like education and healthcare, therefore creating a greater level of stratification in society. Stratification was the division in a society based on class and wealth. Creating conflict Stratification, particularly in the workforce, creates a tremendous amount of conflict because those who do not have the means to get the services they need, turn to unconventional ways to get what they need. Conflict theory viewed unemployment as evidence of those in a powerful or privileged position exploiting others. Both theories believed that social structure controlled the individual through the socialisation of values. While Durkheim thought positive, Marx felt negative about the social order. Unemployment is a burning social problem and every successive government tries to grapple with it. Chronic employment will lead to an increase in cases of domestic violence, vandalism, crime, drug abuse depression and suicide. The low self-esteem and alienation of the youth makes it difficult for any government to integrate them into society. Whether we look at unemployment from a functional or conflict perspective, there are no right or wrong answers. The perspectives of both theories are helpful in getting a better idea of unemployment. For a government, higher unemployment means loss of tax revenue as fewer people are paying income taxes. The decrease in aggregate demand and less spending will also result in loss of GST revenue. The other burden will be that the government has to spend more on unemployment and related benefits. One study in the UK showed that the cost to the exchequer for one person being unemployed is £6,243 a year in benefits and lost tax revenue. The Union Finance Ministry recently announced the fifth and the final tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat stimulus package, announced measures to provide liquidity to MSMEs, allocation of an additional Rs 40,000 crore to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment (MGNREGA). These should help in reducing the unemployment rate in the days to come. While no government can guarantee full employment, the issue confronting the Centre is what rate of unemployment is tolerable. And unemployment will be a festering wound for any government worth its salt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/unemployment-a-festering-wound-851548.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Assistant Professor from Nitte develops ‘theertha dispenser’ for temples amid coronavirus||Ever since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, lives of billions of people around the world have been affected one way or another. Due to the pandemic, requirements and expectations have changed in every domain. Santhosh, Assistant Professor in the Department of Information Science and Engineering, NMAMIT, Nitte, has developed an innovative touchless ‘theertha dispenser’ for temples. This innovative device was inaugurated at the Mahaganapathi Temple of Nitte campus by Dr Niranjan Chiplunkar, Principal, NMAMIT. The touchless 'theertha dispenser' provides the advantages of social distancing. “One needs to just place a hand near the dispenser output and the device will automatically sense the palm and dispense theertha. Easy installation, easy refill, low maintenance cost and low power consumption are its added advantages,” said Santhosh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/assistant-professor-from-nitte-develops-theertha-dispenser-for-temples-amid-coronavirus-851304.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Dakshina Kannada raises language awareness through coronavirus masks||Kannada Sahitya Parishat of Dakshina Kannada unit has initiated awareness of the Kannada language through mask. On Mask day, organised by the district administration, masks with 'Ka' alphabet were distributed among the public. Kannada Sahitya Parishat of Dakshina Kannada unit President Pradeep Kumar Kalkura said "along with creating awareness to check the spread of COVID-19, there is a need to save Kannada and culture associated with it. Hence, masks with the 'Ka' alphabet have been distributed." For a healthy society, there is a need to wear a mask mandatorily while in public places, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-dakshina-kannada-raises-language-awareness-through-coronavirus-masks-851374.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||State Information Commission office becomes functional at Suvarna Vidhan Soudha in Belagavi||State Information Commission (SIC) office is becoming functional in the premises of Suvarna Vidhan Soudha from June 22 in Belagavi. It's the first government office to become functional from the State's second secretariat. State Information Commissioner B V Geeta informed reporters that the commission, with the jurisdiction of seven districts from Belagavi Revenue Division, will commence the hearing of the pending 4000+ cases. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Karnataka Legislative Assembly Speaker Visveshwar Hegde-Kageri have made the office and court premises available, she added. There has been a demand to shift some of the government offices to the premises of Suvarna Vidhan Soudha for a while. "State Information Commission office is the maiden office to be shifted and we expect more offices to shift to the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha premises in the coming days," she expressed.Earlier, a private building had been identified for the Commission's office but it required Rs 1.20 crore for renovation and annual rent. Hence it was decided to establish the SIC office in the premises of Suvarna Vidhan Soudha, she said. During the winter session of the state legislature, the commission will shift its working to jurisdictional districts by holding video conferences and conducting workshops, Geeta said. It has come to the notice that many public information officers were unaware of their responsibilities and delegated powers to their juniors who did not provide information under the provisions of the Right To Information Act. Awareness workshops will stress on such flaws and make everyone aware of their responsibilities, she stated. Many of the appeals with the commission were due to information not given according to the provisions of the act and the appellate too did not provide justice, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/state-information-commission-office-becomes-functional-at-suvarna-vidhan-soudha-in-belagavi-851385.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Vatal Nagaraj detained near Hirebagewadi, Karnataka||Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha leader Vatal Nagaraj, who was on his way to protest before the Suvarna Vidhan Sabha demanding cancellation of SSLC and other degree examinations, was detained by the City Police near Hirebagewadi on the national highway on Friday. Vatal Nagaraj was not allowed to stage the protest because of lockdown restrictions. His demand was to promote students appearing for SSLC and degree examinations. "Students had appeared for the second PU examination with fear. Now nine lakh students have to appear for SSLC and we are unaware of the preparations made," he said. He also added that the government should keep a deposit of Rs 50 lakh for each student appearing for SSLC examination and Rs 25 lakh for each teacher. Vatal Nagaraj announced that he will stage a protest before Suresh Kumar's residence in Bengaluru on June 23 and before Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board office on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vatal-nagaraj-detained-near-hirebagewadi-karnataka-851390.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Protests against China, Chinese products in Hubbali||Burning the Chinese flag and portraits of Chinese President Xi Jinping, advocates under the banner of Rashtra Rakshana Vedike urged the Union Government to declare China as an enemy country and launch a full-fledged military operation against it, if talks and other peaceful methods failed. "So far, China indirectly conspired against India, by supporting Pakistan. Now, it has directly entered into a clash with India in Eastern Ladakh. This is the high time for retaliation, and all Indians are with it. If a war is declared against China, most of the countries, except Pakistan, will support India," opined the Vedike convener Ashok Anwekar. Staging a protest in front of the new court complex at Vidyanagar in Hubballi on Friday, raising slogans and displaying the tricolour, advocates also called upon people to uninstall Chinese apps from their phones, and to boycott all China-made material, to stagger China's economy. "China may be considered more advanced than us, but Indians are mentally very strong, and victory always favours the truth. Just like the country started making manufacturing material required for COVID-19 testing and treatment in such a short time, Indians, if united, can prepare all Indian-made products in a short span of time, and teach China a fitting lesson," Anwekar noted. Hubballi Bar Association General Secretary Guru Hiremath stated that "If our can soldiers face China in border areas, Indians should join hands in their fight against China by boycotting Chinese products. Advocate R G Matti observed that China has violated its 1962 agreement with India. Prakash Hanasi, Suresh Jituri, Sadanand Dodmani, and others took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protests-against-china-chinese-products-in-hubbali-851394.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bank sealed down as employee tests positive for COVID-19||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) authorities have sealed down a bank in the city after an employee tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. A 32-year-woman, an employee of Syndicate Bank, Saraswathipuram branch, tested positive after she came in contact with her brother. Her brother, a police personnel in Kolar, had visited her house in Ramakrishna Nagar and had stayed here for three days between June 6 and 10. He tested positive for COVID-19 during a test recently. MCC health officer Dr Jayanth told DH that the employee has no travel history, but, her brother from Kolar, who tested positive, had visited her house a few days back. The bank branch will be sealed down until Monday, as per norms, he said. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “The people who had visited the branch in the last two weeks will be considered as contacts and must be under quarantine for 14 days.” The DC appealed to the people to register by calling 0821-2423200 or 1077.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bank-sealed-down-as-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-851521.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Target to construct 10,000 quarters for police: Basavaraj Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that there is a target to construct 10,000 quarters for police personnel, in the next five years, across the state. Speaking to reporters here, on Friday, Bommai said, "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has given approval and the works would begin from January 2021." The CM has already inaugurated 646 quarters in Bengaluru and 1,638 quarters are nearing completion. The quarters were being constructed on a dimension of 20x20 ft so far. It has been revised and hereafter, it would be constructed on 20x25 dimension, he said. There are plans to construct Forensic Science Labs at district-levels to minimise the time required for availing the reports. Besides, all police stations would be upgraded, he said. To a query on illegal sand mining, Bommai said that a new policy would be introduced and it will help in controlling illegal sand mining.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/target-to-construct-10000-quarters-for-police-basavaraj-bommai-851522.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||MCC, VVWW form squads to recover pending water bills||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW) have formed two squads to recover long-pending water bills and have also introduced a new system for water bill collection. The teams will be launched in a few days.    The members of the squads ‘Kaveri’ and ‘Kabini’ will visit the houses of the consumers, who have not paid the water bill since a long time. The squad will ask the consumers to pay the bill and if they failed to do, water supply will be disconnected, said an engineer attached to VVWW. Two vehicles have been reserved for the door-to-door collection. Collection of water bills is a challenge and the revenue has declined after the outbreak of COVID-19. The water bill collection is a challenge and hardly a few persons are paying waters bill after the outbreak of COVID-19. The people are reluctant to visit MCC offices to pay the bills. An officer said, “A huge amount of money is outstanding. A total of Rs 180 crore, including Rs 46 crore interest amount, is pending. Several commercial complex, houses and institutions have to pay huge amounts of arrears. It has to be noted that the city has thousands of illegal water connections and the MCC incurs huge loss.”   Besides the online facility to pay water bill, the MCC has initiated a new system to collect the bills. Water meter readers will be equipped with Point of Sale (PoS). The residents can pay the bill using debit or credit cards. The VVWW has 80 PoS machines for the purpose. The officer claimed that the MCC has an online system to pay water bill, a large number of people pay the bill by cash, either at MCC offices or at Mysore One centres. With the new system, digital transaction can be increased. Ashwini Chandrashekar, a resident of Vijayanagar, said, “The new initiative is helpful for the people during the crisis. The initiative is good, meanwhile, the online system must be promoted as it saves time and manpower.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-vvww-form-squads-to-recover-pending-water-bills-851524.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two injured in clash over shifting COVID-19 patient to hospital||A police constable and a resident of Kolkunda Dodda Tanda in Sedam taluk suffered injuries in a clash between the residents of the tanda and the medical staff over shifting of a COVID-19 patient to the designated hospital. This is second such attack on corona warriors, in less than a week, in the district. The incident occurred when the medical staff, along with the police, visited the tanda on Thursday night to shift the 17-year-old girl, who'd tested positive for COVID-19, to the hospital. The family members of the girl refused to send her to the hospital. Soon argument between the parties escalated into a physical altercation. The residents of tanda started pelting stones at the medical staff and the ambulance. Tahsildar Basavaraj Benneshirur, along with the police and health workers, managed to convince the family and shifted the girl to the hospital on Friday morning. A similar incident was witnessed at Maramanchi Tanda in Kamalapur taluk, a few days back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-injured-in-clash-over-shifting-covid-19-patient-to-hospital-851539.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Information Commission's first govt office to shift to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha||Come Monday (June 22), State Information Commission (SIC) will start functioning from the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha here. The SIC will become the first state-level government department/agency to be shifted from the Vidhana Soudha to the state's second secretariat.   The move comes after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed the authorities, during the June 3 meeting in Bengaluru, to identify and shift a few state-level government offices to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha. State Information Commissioner B V Geeta told reporters here on Friday that the information commission with jurisdiction over seven districts under Belagavi Revenue Division will commence hearing of over pending 4,000 cases. "State Information Commission office is the maiden office to be shifted and we expect more offices in Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in the coming days," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/information-commissions-first-govt-office-to-shift-to-suvarna-vidhana-soudha-851541.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Immunity booster medicines distributed to coronavirus warriors||Corona warriors should build their immunity in order to take care of others’ health, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. She was speaking at a programme organised by the district administration, Zilla Panchayat and the district AYUSH Department, at her office in Madikeri on Friday. Immunity boosting medicines provided by the AYUSH Department was distributed to Corona warriors on the occasion. MLA Appachu Ranjan, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr K Mohan and District Ayush officer Dr Ramachandra were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/immunity-booster-medicines-distributed-to-coronavirus-warriors-851559.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||YouTube channel helps II PUC students study from home||To help second PUC students study lessons in the comfort of their homes, Dakshina Kannada Pre-University Colleges Principals’ Association (DKPUCPA) has launched a study channel on YouTube. The channel, which features lessons on subjects, like Science, Arts and Commerce, can be accessed by searching for DKPUCPA on YouTube. Some of the lessons on English and Physics featured on the study channel has nearly 20,000 to 30,000 viewers. “Many private colleges had launched online classes in urban areas. But students particularly from rural areas faced many difficulties in attending the online classes due to poor internet connectivity. The students of government colleges have no access to online classes. To help students make use of their time during the lockdown, the Association launched the study channel on the YouTube and initially featured two to three lessons of each subject,” said Association president Umesh Karkera to DH. “As there was uncertainty on opening of PU colleges due to COVID-19 pandemic, the association took an initiative to launch the channel. We wanted to ensure that studies of the second PUC students were not disrupted. The channel is being accessed by all students across the state,” Karkera added. The lessons taught by experienced lecturers were recorded in colleges, includingSt Aloysius College and Vivekananda College in Puttur, before uploading them online. Students from rural areas with poor network connectivity can download all videos in areas with good network coverage and revise lessons by listening to the videos at home. “We uploaded lessons not only from science subjects but also from commerce, arts and even languages. The lecturers voluntarily took part in the initiative,” he stressed and added that the initiative would continue and lecture series in Kannada language would also be uploaded soon. Lecture notes Besides videos of the lessons, lecture notes can be downloaded from ‘SuVidya web portal’ of the DKPUPA. Apart from lessons, portal includes motivational talks by Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade and career guidance among others. There is also a video clipping on COVID-19 by Sharath Babu S, a specialist in TB and chest diseases at Wenlock District Hospital, and motivational talk by Dr Gururaj Karjagi of Academy for Creative Teaching, Bengaluru.   A video also shares details on how to score a minimum of 35 to 40 in second PUC English final exam by B V Sooryanarayana, a lecturer in English at Government PU College in Savanoor. His lessons on how students can perform well and score maximum marks have garnered 30,000 views.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youtube-channel-helps-ii-puc-students-study-from-home-851569.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka MLC polls: All seven candidates set to be elected unopposed||With seven candidates in the fray for as many berths, the legislative council elections in Karnataka is all set to be a unanimous affair. Karnataka Legislative Assembly Secretary M K Vishalakshi, who is the returning officer on Friday, declared all seven candidates fielded by three main political parties in the state for June 29 polls to be elected by the MLAs as "validly nominated." They include- BJP's MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar, Sunil Vallyapure and Pratap Simha Nayak, Congress' B K Hariprasad and Naseer Ahmed, and JD(S)' Govinda Raju. The papers filed by P C Krishnegowda as an independent and Mandikkal Nagaraja- claiming to be associated with BJP, were rejected during the scrutiny as they did not have any proposers. "With only seven candidates in the fray for as many seats, the election is set to be unopposed and polling will not be required. It will be official on the last date for withdrawal of nominations," official sources said. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is June 22. The election is necessitated as the term of seven MLCs- Naseer Ahmed, Jayamma, M C Venugopal, N S Bose Raju, H M Revanna (all Congress), T A Sharavana (JD(S)) and independent D U Mallikarjuna- will end June 30. Based on their strength in the Assembly, while BJP is in a position to win four out of seven seats, Congress could win two and JD(S) one. Twenty-eight valid votes of MLAs are required for each candidate to win. However, with no party fielding additional candidates against each other and deciding to contest only on the number of seats they can win based on their strength in the assembly, the polls to the upper house will be a unanimous affair, without necessitating the voting process. BJP's candidates include two turncoats- MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, who helped the party come to power. Among the other two candidates- Sunil Vallyapure was rewarded for abiding by the party decision and giving up his Chincholi assembly seat to a new candidate during polls earlier, while Pratap Simha Nayak is a long time party worker and was said to be backed by state party chief Nalin Kumar Kateel. Congress candidates are- senior party leader B K Hariprasad and incumbent Naseer Ahmed. Hariprasad's name was announced by the party, even as his tenure in Rajya Sabha is to end on June 25.Naseer Ahmed, who is retiring as MLC on June 30, is seeking another term. In a surprise move, the JD(S) has fielded Govinda Raju from Koral as the party candidate, with an aim to organise and strengthen the party in Kolar and Chikkaballapura region. Incumbent MLC T A Sharavana and outgoing Rajya Sabha member Kupendra Reddy were seen as the prime aspirants for the ticket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-mlc-polls-all-seven-candidates-set-to-be-elected-unopposed-851466.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||What happened to 'Compete with China' policy, H D Kumaraswamy asks Karna govt||Amid calls for the boycott of Chinese products in the backdrop of Indo-China border faceoff, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy sought to know from the BJP government in Karnataka the status of the "Compete with China" policy brought during the previous JDS-Congress rule. Boycotting Chinese products was not easy like sloganeering but required a creative policy and the coalition government's initiative was a model for it, he said in a series of tweets. "After the border skirmish, some people got the realisation to boycott the Chinese products but during my tenure (as chief minister) a serious thought was given to it," the JDS leader said. He was apparently referring to the growing clamour for the boycott of China-made products after a violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh left 20 Indian Army personnel dead early this week. Kumaraswamy said he had brought the Compete With China policy to effectively deal with the neighbouring country. "My government's objective was to offer jobs to the local residents, snatch away market opportunities for China and discard the Chinese products. "However, what has the present government done to our scheme? It is not known whether it is still continuing or not," Kumaraswamy said. The Kumaraswamy government had identified clusters and earmarked Rs 2,000 crore for their development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-happened-to-compete-with-china-policy-h-d-kumaraswamy-asks-karna-govt-851486.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa has no guts, says Siddaramaiah||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has no guts. Speaking to reporters here, Siddaramaiah said, “The Union government has not released the funds reserved under the 15th Finance Commission, but Yediyurappa has no guts to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release the pending amount.” “There must be discussion in the Cabinet about APMC, Labour, Electricity and Land Reforms Act, but the state government is amending the acts through ordinance, which is murder of democracy,” Siddaramaiah said. He claimed that the Union government has no funds and the country’s economy is in bad condition. The Union government has been hiking petrol price and it will have severe affect on poor people, he said.    Congress is ready for ‘jail bharo’ movement against the state government. The government is trying to control the Opposition party, by clamping Section 144 of CrPC in the name of COVID-19. Siddaramaiah participated in a protest organised by Congress leader M K Somashekar to condemn fuel price hike, at Chikkammaniketana Marriage Hall. Petrol was sold at Rs 25 per litre. The party workers condemned the Union government and said though the actual price of petrol is Rs 25, the government has increased the price and is looting the people.  Siddaramaiah filled petrol to two-wheelers as a mark of protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-has-no-guts-says-siddaramaiah-851519.html
19-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Manel alert: 75-member Karnataka Legislative Council has just two women||Women constitute barely 2.6% of the total members in the Legislative Council. On Thursday, the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress and JD(S) announced seven candidates for the June 29 MLC elections: All men. With this, the number of women in the 75-member Upper House will soon reduce to two. Until this month, there were four women MLCs, including three Congress MLCs Jayamala (Governor-nominated), Jayamma and Veena Achaiah (both elected by MLAs) apart from BJP's Tejaswini Gowda (also elected by MLAs). The terms of both Jayamma and Jayamala will end this month, leaving the Council with only two women. Soon, there will be five vacancies under the Governor-nominated category. Even if all these five will be women, their number in the Council will still not cross the single-digit mark.  This skewed gender representation has come as a dampener for several aspirants. "The party has given an opportunity to BK Hariprasad who was already an MP for four times! When will the leaders ever make way for women," one Congress leader asked.  Senior Congress leader Motamma also said this was a huge disappointment. "When it comes to women, somehow party loyalty does not seem to count. This is highly unfortunate and is discouraging for women in political parties," she said.  Veena Devi, professor, political science at Bangalore University opined this was the "unfortunate outcome" of political parties being preoccupied with caste and religious parameters. "They have to consciously keep aside a section of seats for women. Across the globe, we're talking about how women-led countries have fared better in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. It's unfortunate that our leaders do not have the political will to ensure equitable representation," she said.  Activist Cynthia Stephen also added that unless there was institutional reservation, political establishment would not be motivated for ensuring gender parity. "The government should reserve for women either all of the 25 MLC seats elected from Local Authorities or at least 50% of them," she said. "Usually women leaders are not allowed to grow beyond zilla panchayat and their political experience tends to get wasted," added Stephen, who was part of the KR Ramesh Kumar committee that redrafted the Panchayat Raj Act and is also a member of the Shakti group to promote political empowerment of women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/manel-alert-75-member-karnataka-legislative-council-has-just-two-women-851572.html
19-06-2020||Main Article||Social isolation: A silent killer||On June 14, 2020, Sunday, we lost a bright star of India’s movie world —34-year-old Sushant Singh Rajput who Mumbai Police said died of suicide by hanging —prompting us to ask if we are ready to deal with a post-COVID-19 suicide epidemic?  A deadly combination of social distancing mandates, area-wise lockdowns and high stress due to job losses are a recipe for a coming disaster. It is speculated that Rajput’s last message on his Instagram, where he records his gut-wrenching feelings for his late mother, red-flagged his emotional state of mind. Maybe things would have been different if we had a robust system in place to spot those red alerts and have a sort of emergency responder system for those hurting mentally like him. We don’t know.  Physics can help us gauge the cataclysmic chemistry of the Covid-19 lockdown that has compressed millions of people inside a pressure cooker of sorts, steaming hot with fear, stress and anxiety: what if the cooker’s safety valve fails to withstand the pressure and the steam breaches the danger mark?  For several months, almost three billion people —a big chunk of them children —were confined to their spaces via government diktat, leaving us with a potential pressure cooker explosion that can leave us with a big mess in the kitchen, taking years and trillions of dollars to clean up from what a Brussels clinical psychologist calls “the world’s largest psychological experiment”.  The International Labour Organization estimates more than two billion workers in the global informal economy being at high risk in these times. Millions of migrant workers, caught in a crossfire between the Centre and the states, are part of this economy. Stressed and burned-out, they have sailed straight into the eye of the storm, in the face of an apathetic administration.  The deluge of COVID-19 media coverage is equally depressing: an abundance of depressing news, the constant dirge of doom from an endless roll of economists and epidemiologists, the never-ending missiles of disinformation on our media platforms and the high anxiety-inducing proclamations of pessimism from our leaders.  Shaken and stirred, you get a concoction of calamitous proportions. Damming the deluge of bad news or distorted COVID-19 coverage —an infodemic, as it were —will help us stave off a mental health-related epidemic.  Paul, one of the most prolific New Testament authors, writing to his friends in a Roman colony Philippi, summed it up well: “Friends, I’d say you’ll do best by filling your minds and meditating on things true, noble, reputable, authentic, compelling, gracious—the best, not the worst; the beautiful, not the ugly; things to praise, not things to curse.” When facts replace fear, leaders can inspire faith and confidence. Dr Elke Van Hoof, Professor, health psychology and primary care psychology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, warned in a recent World Economic Forum note that we could see “a secondary epidemic of burnouts and stress-related absenteeism in the latter half of 2020.”  We are a social species, social creatures and are hard-wired to move and have our being in the community, with face to face, hands-on interactions. Our faith ecosystem has been hit the most: online religious services are welcome, but they are no substitute to greeting your fellow brothers and sisters across the church pews or praying at the local mosque or offering pujas in temples.  Others enjoy their brand of faith experience in smoky beer bars, noisy food joints or even messy marketplaces. In other words, we are simply not designed for social isolation, pathogens or not, as studies on the effects of social isolation show us.  Social recession Julianne Holt-Lunstad, a professor of psychology and neuroscience at Brigham Young University in Idaho, USA, knows this subject well: her 2015 meta-analysis of 70 studies, surveying 3.4 million people across the world, studied the impact of social isolation, loneliness and living alone. And her bone-rattling results: loneliness increases the rate of early death by 26%, social isolation by 29% and living alone by 32% no matter the subject’s age, gender, location or culture.  Juxtapose that against the 1.3 billion Indian population, 20% of the world. Prof Holt-Lunstad’s warning, in a recent New Yorker story, is eye-opening: “So, just like we’re worried about an economic recession, we should worry about a social recession—a continued pattern of distancing socially, beyond the immediate pandemic, that will have broader societal effects, particularly for the vulnerable.”  Prof John Cacioppo, author of Loneliness: Human Nature and the Need for Social Connection, said the need to interact is deeply ingrained in our genetic code. “So much so, the absence of social connection triggers the same, primal alarm bells as hunger, thirst and physical pain,” he wrote, demonstrating the negative impacts social isolation has on both mental and physical health when there are no social connections.  The key is to deal with social isolation as that is a silent killer behind the coming Great Depression which will be different from the 1930s Great Depression that swept away thousands of jobs in America and Europe. Today we are left dealing with the deadly effects of social isolation no matter how close we can get online with friends and family on the other side of the phone or the computer.  Harvard psychology professor Matthew Nock was quoted saying in May 19, 2020, New York Times piece, “There’s not only an increase in anxiety, but the more important piece is social isolation…We’ve never had anything like this – and we know social isolation is related to suicide.” With the World Health Organisation reporting close to eight lakh deaths by suicide every year that’s a warning we cannot take lightly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/social-isolation-a-silent-killer-851549.html
19-06-2020||Mysuru||Bank employee tests COVID-19 positive in Mysuru||A bank employee tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru on Friday. A 32-year-woman Syndicate Bank employee tested positive. Following the positive, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) authorities have sealed down the bank branch for a day. MCC health officer Dr. Jayanth told DH that the employee has no travel history but, her brother from Kolar, who tested positive, had visited her house a few days back. The authorities have taken a total of four samples and the report of two samples is pending. The house, as well as the bank, have been sealed, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/bank-employee-tests-covid-19-positive-in-mysuru-851370.html
19-06-2020||National||India has taken Ladakh incident very seriously: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar||Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday that India always desires peace but it is not afraid of giving a befitting reply to any provocation. The country has taken the incident in Galwan valley in Ladakh -- where 19 Army jawans and a colonel were killed in a clash with Chinese soldiers -- very seriously, he said here. The Union Information and Broadcasting Minister was speaking to the All India Radio, Bhopal, a PIB release said. "We all pay tributes to the martyred Army officers and soldiers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made clear India's view over what was done by the neighbouring country China," the PIB release quoted him as saying. "India has taken this incident very seriously," the senior BJP leader said, adding that the country wants peace, but can give "a befitting reply" when necessary. Javadekar, who is here as his party's observer for Friday's Rajya Sabha election to three seats from Madhya Pradesh, also said that there was a need to rise above political comments and ideology in these difficult times. "The country is united and stands with our soldiers. One of the sons of the soil from Rewa, Madhya Pradesh has also sacrificed his life in the recent dispute on the China border," he said. Asked about fake news, he said this menace would not be tolerated. "It is people's right to get the right information. The Information and Broadcasting Ministry has also formed `PIB Fact Check' unit to expose fake news. Such units are also being formed in states," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-taken-ladakh-incident-very-seriously-union-minister-prakash-javadekar-851167.html
19-06-2020||National||Enhancing counter-terrorism action by UNSC among main priorities: MEA on India's election to UN body||Hours after getting elected to the UN Security Council, India on Thursday said enhancing counter-terrorism action by the powerful UN body and depoliticising the process of putting sanctions on terror entities will be among its top priorities. He said this was one of India's best performance in the UNSC elections as the country, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the elections for the five non-permanent seats of the Security Council. Talking about the priorities of India as a member of the UNSC, he said enhancing counter terrorism action by the Council is one of the main priorities for the country. "Earlier also, when India was a member of the Security Council during 2011-12, we had chaired the United Nations counter-terrorism committee and had brought in the concept of 'zero tolerance to terrorism'," Swarup said. During the coming term, India will work to enhance global action against terrorism, their supporters and sympathisers, and safe havens by seeking the streamlining of the process of putting sanctions on terrorists and terrorist entities, he said. "The process of sanctions also needs to be depoliticised as there is no justification of any act of terrorism," Swarup said. His remarks assume significance as it was only last year after many attempts that the 1267 Al-Qaeda Sanctions Committee of the powerful Security Council designated Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar as a global terrorist following veto-wielding permanent member China lifting its technical hold on the proposal by the US, the UK and France to list him. India will also work for the early finalisation of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, which India had proposed way back in 1996, Swarup said. Asked if a Pakistani representative had raised a bilateral issue at the multilateral forum and politicised the platform, Swarup said this is the kind of behaviour "we have been seeing from Pakistan over the past many months and years". "They always rake up bilateral issues in multilateral fora. In fact, they have made it almost a standard norm for their policy," Swarup said. "As far as we are concerned, our foreign policy has a much broader canvas, we have a much wider and global focus and as a member of the UNSC, we will be dealing with all those issues which are under the consideration of the security council in line with priorities that the External Affairs Minister (S Jaishankar) has outlined," he said. India's work in the Security Council will be guided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a reformed multilateralism and the dynamic 5S vision for foreign policy -- Samman (Respect), Samvad (Dialogue), Sahyog (Cooperation), and Shanti (Peace), to create conditions for universal Samriddhi (Prosperity). "Through this approach we seek to move towards a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system which can be encapsulated as N.O.R.M.S -- New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System," he said. India will act as a voice of reason and moderation, he said, asserting that India is a firm believer in respect for international law and peaceful settlement of disputes. Swarup said seeking responsible and inclusive solutions, concrete and result oriented action at the Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism, reformed multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities, a comprehensive approach to peace and security guided by dialogue, mutual respect commitment to international law, will be among India's priorities at the UNSC. "The COVID-19 pandemic is perhaps the most serious crisis this generation has ever faced. We believe the current crisis offers us new opportunities to seek innovative and new solutions through multilateralism and international cooperation," Swarup said. "It is clear to us that the UN and indeed multilateralism itself needs to change to reflect contemporary realities and remain effective and credible," he asserted. India's two-year term as the non-permanent member of the UNSC would begin from January 1, 2021. Along with India, Ireland, Mexico and Norway also won the Security Council elections held on Wednesday. This is the eighth time that India will sit at the UN high-table. Previously, India was elected for 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985, 1991-1992 and most recently in 2011-2012 when Hardeep Singh Puri, now India's Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs and Civil Aviation, was India's Permanent Representative. Less than a year after its term at the Security Council ended, India had put in its candidature for the non-permanent seat in 2013 under the tenure of then Permanent Representative Ambassador Asoke Mukerji. Afghanistan too was looking at a non-permanent member slot in 2021-22 but Kabul, in a rare gesture, decided to withdraw its candidacy in favour of New Delhi, Mukerji had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enhancing-counter-terrorism-action-by-unsc-among-main-priorities-mea-on-indias-election-to-un-body-851186.html
19-06-2020||National||Over 2.5 lakh Indians returned to India after launch of Vande Bharat mission: MEA||Over 2.5 lakh Indians have returned to India from abroad after the government launched the 'Vande Bharat' evacuation mission on May 7 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said about 4.5 lakh people have registered their request with Indian missions abroad for repatriation to India on compelling grounds. As per the government's policy for evacuation, Indians with "compelling reasons" to return like pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing the prospect of deportation are being brought back home. The first phase of the mission was carried out from May 7 to 15. The second phase of the evacuation mission was scheduled from May 17 to 22. However, the government had extended it till June 10. The third phase of the evacuation exercise was launched on June 11 and will continue till July 2. "In the third phase, we would have 550 flights, including 191 feeder flights. We would be covering 41 countries and operating from 55 international airports and 27 domestic ones," Srivastava said at an online media briefing. He said 2,50,087 Indians have returned to India since the launch of the mega evacuation mission. The MEA Spokesperson said, "21 per cent of these returnees are migrant workers. More than 75,000 Indians have returned through land border immigration checkpoints from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh". He said more than 57,000 Indian nationals have been brought back by chartered flights. Chartered flights operations commenced on May 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-25-lakh-indians-returned-to-india-after-launch-of-vande-bharat-mission-mea-851187.html
19-06-2020||National||Union Jal Shakti Ministry alerts states about fraud in the name of Jal Jeevan Mission||Union Jal Shakti Ministry has written a letter to chief secretaries of all states alerting them about a fraud in the name of Jal Jeevan Mission and asked them to bring to the notice of the ministry on finding such matters. The move came after the CBI, on complaint by the ministry headed by Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, unearthed a fraud involving crores of rupees. "I received certain complaints about an NGO operating from different states and cheating people in the name of Jal Jeevan Mission. The NGO was signing MoUs for providing people with contracts in the mission. I then asked officials to file a complaint with CBI and the agency has arrested two persons in this connection,” he told reporters here. The action was taken in March under which the NGO founder Suresh Kumar Verma and manager Subhash Singh were arrested and several fake MoUs were recovered. Shekhawat said he had received complaints from several states including Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana that money was taken in the name of awarding contracts for works related to Jal Jeevan Mission and Jal Shakti Abhiyan. In the investigation, the CBI found that the Delhi-based RS Foundation, registered as an NGO, was signing agreements with people in the name of getting them contracts. The foundation used to show contractors the fake documents of agreement between it and the Ministry of Jal Shakti to win their confidence. He said the NGO took crores of rupees from people in the name of getting them work contracts. Shekhawat informed that his ministry has written a letter to chief secretaries to all the states asking them to bring to the notice of the ministry on finding such matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-jal-shakti-ministry-alerts-states-about-fraud-in-the-name-of-jal-jeevan-mission-851196.html
19-06-2020||National||Centre revises quarantine period to 1 week for doctors, health workers in COVID-19 facilities||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday revised to one week, against 14 days earlier, the quarantine period for doctors, nursing officers and other health workers with high-risk exposure to confirmed COVID-19 cases or respiratory specimens. A decision on extending the quarantine period further by one week will be taken by the nodal officer or head of the department after taking into account the profile of such doctors and other health workers, according to an updated advisory issued on the management of healthcare professionals working in COVID and non-COVID areas of hospitals. The earlier May 15 advisory stated that high risk contacts should be quarantined for 14 days, tested as per ICMR testing protocol, actively monitored for development of symptoms and managed as per laid down protocol.   "For doctors, nursing officers and other health workers with high risk exposure, the quarantine period shall be initially for one week only," the updated advisory issued on Thursday read. The profile of the healthcare professionals which will be taken into account for extending the quarantine period include the age, health condition, the extent of exposure and presence of any co-morbidities, a health ministry source explained.  After a week, such high-risk contacts shall be tested as per ICMR testing protocol, actively monitored for development of symptoms and managed as per laid down protocol.  If they test positive but remain asymptomatic they will follow protocol for very mild, mild and presymptomatic cases. If they test negative and remain asymptomatic, they should complete the 14-day quarantine and return to work. Should symptoms develop, mild cases can opt for home isolation while moderate cases that require oxygen therapy should be managed at a Dedicated COVID Health Centre and severe cases should be managed in a Dedicated COVID Hospital. As for low risk contacts, they shall continue to work. They will self-monitor their health for development of symptoms. In case symptoms develop, the guidance based on mild, moderate and severe cases should be followed, the advisory said. "The advisory has been updated based on the evolving scenario and with more information regarding coronavirus infection coming to the fore," a health ministry official said.   The document underlines that healthcare personnel working in hospitals are at increased risk of contracting the COVID-19 disease if there is a breach in the personal protection while managing patients.  A large number of COVID-19 affected health personnel getting isolated for treatment and their close contacts undergoing quarantine affects the health/ hospital service delivery. According to the standard operating procedures to be followed in case of  exposure/breach of PPE, all healthcare workers must report every exposure to COVID-19 to the concerned nodal officer and HoD of the concerned department immediately.  The Nodal officer will get the exact details of exposure to ascertain whether the exposure constitutes a high risk or low risk exposure. Besides, as mentioned in the earlier advisory,  nodal officer (Infection Control Officer) shall be identified by each hospital to address all matters related to Healthcare Associated Infections (HAIs). The nodal officer has to ensure that healthcare workers in different settings of hospitals use PPEs appropriate to their risk profile, as detailed in the guidelines issued by the ministry, and they have undergone training on IPC and are aware of common signs and symptoms, need for self-health monitoring and prompt reporting of such symptoms, the advisory stated. The officer also has to make provisions for regular (thermal) screening of all hospital staff and ensure that all healthcare workers managing COVID-19 cases are provided with chemo-prophylaxis under medical supervision, the ministry said. On actions for healthcare workers, the advisory says it needs to be ensured that all preventive measures like frequent washing of hands/use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers and respiratory etiquettes (using tissue/handkerchief while coughing or sneezing) are followed at all times. "He or she shall use appropriate PPE at all times while on duty," it said, stressing on the need to ensure that there is no breach in infection prevention control practices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-revises-quarantine-period-to-1-week-for-doctors-health-workers-in-covid-19-facilities-851197.html
19-06-2020||National||China crossed LAC, provocation was from their side: BJP MP Subramanian Swamy||BJP MP Subramanian Swamy on Thursday said China crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and there was no question that the provocation in the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh came from their side. Swamy said India should reclaim the land China has occupied in the standoff as most Indians want the country to fight for it. Asked during a webinar hosted by the Foreign Correspondents Club whether India will go to the extent of going to war to reclaim the land, Swamy said, "I know the mood in my party. I know on what basis we came to power and it will be suicide for us not to recover that land, no matter what the price we have to pay." He asserted that diplomacy will not solve the problem. "The Chinese will not move back, the Indian people will not tolerate (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi accepting the new status quo, so we will have to go to war, may be a localised war... whatever is hanging around our neck of 1962, we can't have a similar situation where we lump it," Swamy said. They should not think we are the same "softies of 1962", the Rajya Sabha MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-crossed-lac-provocation-was-from-their-side-bjp-mp-subramanian-swamy-851202.html
19-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 19, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-19-2020-edition-851218.html
19-06-2020||National||The Lead: Empowering children from underprivileged backgrounds||The Lead from Deccan Herald Podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In this episode, DH's L Subramani speaks to CEO of Dream a Dream, Sucheta Bhatt, on how the organization is helping children from underprivileged backgrounds.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-empowering-children-from-underprivileged-backgrounds-851219.html
19-06-2020||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for the 13th straight day||In Delhi, petrol will cost 56 paise more per litre at Rs 78.37, while diesel will be costlier by 63 paise at Rs 77.06 per litre.  In Bengaluru, petrol will now cost 58 paise more per litre, while diesel will be costlier by 60 paise more per litre. After today's hike, Bengalureans will have to shell out Rs 80.91 per litre for petrol and Rs 73.28 per litre for diesel.  Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. In 13 hikes, petrol price has gone up by Rs 7.11 per litre and diesel by Rs 7.67 a litre. The freeze in rates was imposed in mid-March soon after the government hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel to shore up additional finances. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices to two-decade low. International oil prices have since rebounded and oil firms are now adjusting retail rates in line with them.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-the-13th-straight-day-851220.html
19-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 19||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 4,13,486 as of June 19. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 13,514 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 2,34,875  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-19-851221.html
19-06-2020||National||Mike Pompeo extends deepest condolences to Indians for loss of soldiers' lives in clashes with Chinese||The United States on Thursday expressed its deepest condolences to India on the loss of lives of its soldiers in violent clashes with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh early this week. “We extend our deepest condolences to the people of India for the lives lost as a result of the recent confrontation with China,” US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a tweet, hours after his meeting with top Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi. “We will remember the soldiers' families, loved ones, and communities as they grieve,” said Pompeo. The State Department did not say if the recent India-China confrontation along the Line of Actual Control in East Laddakh appeared during the Pompeo-Yang talks in Hawaii. A day earlier, the White House had said President Donald Trump is aware of the fierce clashes between the Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel, were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on Monday night, in the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff between the two countries. “The president is aware of it. We're monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh,” White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany had told reporters when asked about the border clash. “We have seen the Indian Army statement that 20 Indian soldiers died as a result of the confrontation today, and we extend our deepest condolences on that,” she had said. McEnany stressed that there are no formal plans to mediate between India and China. “No formal plans on that beyond what I already said in expressing our absolute condolences to the Indian soldiers that died as a result of today's confrontation. We extend our deepest condolences there,” she said. “I would note just that during the phone call on June 2 of this year that President (Donald) Trump had with Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi, they did discuss the situation on the India-China border,” McEnany said. Monday's face-off was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed in the face-off. According to a report in the US News, at least 35 Chinese troops including one senior official died in the violent clash with Indian soldiers. The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to border transgressions and has demanded their immediate withdrawal for the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides have held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the row. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC). China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mike-pompeo-extends-deepest-condolences-to-indians-for-loss-of-soldiers-lives-in-clashes-with-chinese-851256.html
19-06-2020||National||Rajasthani puppeteers, diving students on Vande Bharat flight from South Africa||A group of puppet artists from Rajasthan and several students visiting South Africa on a sea diving training were among 247 passengers on an Air India flight that left for New Delhi from here on Wednesday evening. The flight was the part of India’s Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate its citizens stuck abroad amid the COVID-19 lockdown. There was an infant too on board. "Most of these Indian citizens were the ones who could not be accommodated on the outbound South African Airways (SAA) flight which went to Delhi and Mumbai recently to bring back South Africans stranded there," said India’s Consul General in Johannesburg Anju Ranjan. "The criteria used to select passengers included compelling reasons such as medical conditions, pregnant women, the elderly and people whose tourist visas had expired," Ranjan said. The Rajasthani group of five puppetry experts had been participating in a workshop when the lockdown was imposed in India and got stuck here. "We were able to get them onto the flight, thanks to a sponsorship from Satguru Travel," Ranjan said.  The majority of passengers were from the economic hub of Johannesburg and neighbouring cities, besides some others from Durban and Cape Town. Among those from Durban were Indian staffers of an MSC cruise ship and some traders from India. "The traders had come here to participate in local India fairs held regularly in the city," Consul General in Durban Anish Rajan told PTI. "Some returned on the earlier SAA flight, but others who had stayed on in the hope of the Fairs being revived have now also gone back as these events are not allowed under the COVID-19 lockdown regulations in South Africa," Rajan said. Ashish Sharma from Satguru Travels' Johannesburg office, which was the special booking agent for this Vande Bharat flight, said about 100 passengers would disembark in Delhi and others in Mumbai. All passengers will undergo quarantine in these cities before heading to their respective home towns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthani-puppeteers-diving-students-on-vande-bharat-flight-from-south-africa-851259.html
19-06-2020||National||Punjab raises ex gratia for martyrs' kin to Rs 50 lakh||The Punjab government has decided to raise the ex gratia payment to families of soldiers killed in action from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. The state government took the decision on Thursday night saying “this is the least we can do for our brave” soldiers. “Punjab Government has decided to increase the ex gratia amount for our soldiers killed in action from Rs 10 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh, along with a job to the Next-of-Kin," Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tweeted. “This is the least we can do for our brave servicemen who make the supreme sacrifice for our motherland,” he said. The state government gives Rs 10 to 12 lakh to the families of fallen soldiers. Besides, it also offers a government job to a next of kin of the martyr, hailing from Punjab. The decision of giving ex gratia of Rs 10 to 12 lakh to the family of a martyr was last taken in 1999. On Wednesday, the CM had announced an ex gratia compensation of Rs 12 lakh each for the families of Naib Subedars Satnam Singh and Mandeep Singh and Rs 10 lakh each for Sepoys Gurtej Singh and Gurbinder Singh. Besides, a government job to a next of kin of the deceased was also announced. Four soldiers, hailing from Punjab, were among twenty Army men killed in a clash with the Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh. They were Naib Subedar Satnam Singh (Gurdaspur), Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh (Patiala), Sepoy Gurbinder Singh (Sangrur) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (Mansa).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-raises-ex-gratia-for-martyrs-kin-to-rs-50-lakh-851272.html
19-06-2020||National||China’s military releases 10 Indian soldiers days after Galwan Valley clash||Ten Indian Army soldiers including four officers have been released by the China’s People’s Liberation Army capping three days of hard negotiations that followed the bloody battle at the eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley on Monday. The officers and men were returned around 5.30 PM on Thursday near Patrol Point-14 after Indian team leader Maj Gen Abhijit Bapat, the commanding officer of the 3 Division made it clear to his PLA counterpart that there couldn’t be any progress in the disengagement talk unless the soldiers were returned safely. Asked to comment on the release of the soldiers, Indian Army spokespersons maintained a silence. The force has released a brief statement stating all its men were accounted for. On Friday, China said it did not detain any Indian soldiers at the moment. The brief statement of the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian came a day after the Indian Army statement that all Indian soldiers involved in the clashes with the Chinese army at the Galwan Valley had been accounted for. “As far as I know, China presently has not detained any Indian personnel,” Zhao told a media briefing in Beijing. While an uneasy calm prevails over the Galwan valley on Friday, the extent of the brutality in the clash can be gauged from the fact that 76 Indian Army soldiers are still in hospital out of which, 58 soldiers have “minor injuries” and “should be back on duty within a week”, according to the Army, Return of the Indian soldiers were the main point of negotiations in the last three days. With their release secured, there was no meeting on disengagement on Friday as large numbers of troops from both sides are still present in the area. Meanwhile, analysis of satellite images has revealed a large presence of Chinese troops in the northern banks of Pangong Tso, which remains a disputed territory for years. “In the past month, Chinese forces have become an overwhelming majority in the disputed areas (on the north bank of the 135 km long lake). Significant positions have been constructed between Fingers 4 and 5, including around 500 structures, fortified trenches and a new boat shed over 20 km further forward than previously. More structures appear to be under construction,” says a report published in the Strategist, the journal of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. “The scale and provocative nature of these new Chinese outposts is hard to overstate: 53 different forward positions have been built, including 19 that sit exactly on the ridge line separating Indian and Chinese patrols,” says the report, accompanied by satellite images showing overwhelming PLA presence. The June 6 meeting Corps Commander level meeting Indian and PLA armies couldn’t find a solution to the contentious muscle flexing by the Chinese on the shores of the Pangong lake. The meeting ended with the conclusion that more Lt Gen level talks between the two armies are needed to resolve such issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-s-military-releases-10-indian-soldiers-days-after-galwan-valley-clash-851277.html
19-06-2020||National||India sees highest single-day spike of 13,586 COVID-19 cases||In some positive news, the number of recoveries crossed the two lakh-mark and stands at 2,04,710, while there are 1,63,248 total COVID-19 active cases, according to the updated official figure at 8 am.  One patient had migrated. "Thus, around 53.79 percent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.   India registered over 10,000 cases for the eighth day in a row.  Of the 336 new deaths reported till Friday morning, 100 were in Maharashtra, 65 in Delhi, 49 in Tamil Nadu, 31 in Gujarat, 30 in Uttar Pradesh, 12 each in Karnataka and West Bengal, 10 in Rajasthan, six in Jammu and Kashmir, five in Punjab, four each in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, three in Telangana, two in Andhra Pradesh and one each in Assam, Jharkhand and Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-13586-covid-19-cases-851287.html
19-06-2020||National||Voting underway in Jharkhand for two RS seats||Voting is underway for two Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand, where three candidates are in the fray, including ruling JMM founder and former chief minister Shibu Soren. Congress leader Shahzada Anwar and BJP state chief Deepak Prakash are the two other candidates. Polling began at 9 am and will continue till 4 pm, amid elaborate safety arrangements in place in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, assembly officials said. Seventy-nine MLAs in the 82-member House are eligible for casting their votes. While the only nominated MLA has no right to vote in the Rajya Sabha elections, two assembly seats fell vacant after Chief Minister Hemant Soren gave up Dumka, while retaining Barhait, following state polls, and senior Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died last month, leaving Bermo constituency without a representative. The polling for the two Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand was necessitated as the tenure of Independent member Parimal Nathwani and RJD's Prem Chand Gupta had ended in April. All three candidates had filed their nomination papers in March after the Election Commission issued notification for the Upper House seats. The election was scheduled to be held on March 26 but was postponed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voting-underway-in-jharkhand-for-two-rs-seats-851289.html
19-06-2020||National||COVID-19: J&K records two more deaths||Two more COVID-19 patients died at a hospital here, taking the number of fatalities due to the novel coronavirus in the Union Territory to 74, officials said on Friday. Both the deaths took place at SKIMS hospital in Soura area of the city here, the officials said. A 79-year-old man from Nowshera area of Srinagar, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at 11:15 pm on Thursday night, the officials said. They said the patient was admitted to the hospital on June 8 and was suffering from hypertension, hypothyroidism, with bilateral chest infiltrate. He had contact history with a positive patient, they said. In another death at the hospital, an 80-year-old man from Sopore area of north Kashmir's Baramulla district passed away at 9 am in Friday, the officials said. They said the patient suffering from hypertension and cardiac failure was admitted to the hospital on June 17. His sampling was done that day only and the report returned as positive the next day, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-jk-records-two-more-deaths-851295.html
19-06-2020||National||India will intensify engagement at UN to move Security Council reform process ahead: Envoy||India will intensify its engagement at the United Nations to move the long-pending Security Council reform process forward as the UNSC’s current structure no longer reflects the geopolitical realities of the 21st century, according to the country’s envoy at the world body. India has been at the forefront of efforts at the United Nations to push for an urgent long-pending reform of the Security Council, emphasising that it rightly deserves a place at the UN high table as a permanent member. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told PTI: “We are of the view that Council’s membership no longer reflects the geopolitical realities of the 21st century and needs urgent reform. This is one of our five priorities we have set out”. His remarks came after India on Wednesday overwhelmingly won the election to the Security Council for a non-permanent seat. While the Security Council needs reform, the Council itself is not initially the forum for discussing it, Tirumurti said, adding that as per the 2008 General Assembly resolution, the Security Council reforms will be discussed by the member states at the Inter-governmental Negotiation (IGN) process in an informal plenary of the General Assembly. The General Assembly has renewed the mandate of the IGN annually, and it remains the principal vehicle for Council reform discussions today, he said. Noting that it has been 11 years since the first round of the IGN was held on February 19, 2009, he said this is "clearly a very unsatisfactory situation." “We will intensify our engagement with all reform-minded member states and groups” such as the G4 bloc of Brazil, Germany, India and Japan, the Africa group, L.69 group of developing countries, the African Union Committee of 10 (C10) and "explore ways and means of taking the discussions forward in the IGN." India, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States grouping, garnered 184 votes out of the total 192 polled in the Security Council elections on Wednesday in the UN General Assembly. Along with India, Norway, Ireland and Mexico will join the Security Council as the non-permanent members for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2021. This is the eighth time that India will sit at the Council’s horseshoe-shaped table. Previously, India was elected for the years 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985, 1991-1992 and most recently in 2011-2012. In 2021, India, Norway, Ireland and Mexico will sit in the most powerful UN organ along with the five permanent members -- China, France, Russia, the UK and the US as well as non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam. The two-year terms of Belgium, Dominican Republic, Germany, Indonesia and South Africa are ending this year. Tirumurti said last week that as the UN commemorates its 75th anniversary this year, “it is clear to us that United Nations and indeed multilateralism itself need to change to reflect the contemporary realities to enable them to remain effective and credible.” The Indian envoy referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a reformed multilateralism and the reform of multilateral system as essential to ensure that the international system is inclusive and caters to the requirements of all countries, which will, in turn, facilitate a stronger action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-intensify-engagement-at-un-to-move-security-council-reform-process-ahead-envoy-851312.html
19-06-2020||National||Pakistan Army shells forward areas along LoC in Rajouri||Pakistani troops shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Friday, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, officials said. "At around 1045 hours, Pakistani Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and resorting to intense shelling of mortars along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district," a defense spokesperson said. "The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly," the spokesperson said. The firing and shelling were on till last reports came in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-rajouri-851313.html
19-06-2020||National||SC refuses to stay prosecution of Sharjeel Imam||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the prosecution of JNU student Sharjeel Imam in multiple FIRs lodged at various places for his controversial speech of cutting the chicken neck corridor of the country during the anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protest. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and V Ramasubramanian told senior advocate Sidharth Dave, appearing for Imam that the court can't pass interim orders as the plea before the court for clubbing of cases. Dave said there was an urgency in the case as prosecution may start in different courts, as the top court was set to go on summer vacations from next week. The court, meanwhile, gave two more weeks to Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh governments to file their response to the writ petition filed by Imam. The Delhi and the Uttar Pradesh governments have already filed their reply to the petition. The court fixed the matter for consideration after three weeks. Sharjeel Imam was arrested from his native place at Bihar's Jehanabad district on January 28 after his speech on cutting India's chicken's neck, connecting India to North East, had gone viral. Delhi police filed its chargesheet against him this month invoking charges of sedition among others. Stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act have also been invoked against him. There were two speeches made by him one in Jamia Milia Islamia University here and another one in Aligarh Muslim University. Delhi Police alleged his speech "promoted enmity" between people that led to riots in and around Delhi's Jamia Milia Islamia University on December 15, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-stay-prosecution-of-sharjeel-imam-851319.html
19-06-2020||National||Forest fire triggers landmine blasts along LoC in J&K's Poonch||A massive forest fire broke out along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district triggering some landmine blasts on Friday, sources said. There was a forest fire that spread along the LoC in the Mankote sector. Few landmines exploded due to it, they said. Forest officials and the army are working to douse the fire, they said. Landmines are planted by the security forces to prevent infiltration from across the border||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forest-fire-triggers-landmine-blasts-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-851328.html
19-06-2020||National||16 COVID-19 cases in Pondy, tally touches 287||Sixteen new coronavirus cases were reported in Puducherry during the last 24 hours, taking the aggregate in the union territory to 287. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters here on Friday that the total number of infections in Puducherry, Karaikal and Mahe regions now stood at 287 while total active cases are 162. While 118 patients were treated and discharged so far, the total fatalities were seven. Yanam has not reported any COVID-19 case all along. While 12 of the fresh cases were admitted to the state-run Indira Gandhi Government Medical College hospital in neighbouring Kadirkamam, three patients were admitted to the Centrally run JIPMER hospital. He said the remaining one, a 35-year-old pregnant woman, was admitted to the government general hospital in Karaikal. The Minister claimed that strict enforcement of restrictions at the inter-state border points during the last couple of days had been very effective and had resulted in a lesser number of the flow of people from Chennai to Puducherry. In her message to the people of Puducherry, Lt Governor Kiran Bedi said, "the spread of infection is on in the Union Territory." Stressing the need on the part of everyone to wear masks the former IPS officer said, "although expanding, testing or contract tracing remains crucial, designing, producing and getting people to wear more protective masks is more feasible and more quickly achievable." "It may be single most important low hanging opportunity for slowing the COVID-19's spread and giving people the security they need to bring our society back to life," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-covid-19-cases-in-pondy-tally-touches-287-851339.html
19-06-2020||National||PIL in SC seeks uniform education system with common syllabus||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking uniform education, having a common syllabus and curriculum for all the children aged between 6-14 years, across the country. The plea filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay has sought directions to look into the feasibility of establishing “One Nation One Education Board” by merging the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education Board and the Central Board of Secondary Education. The plea, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, said the Centre and states have not taken appropriate steps to introduce a uniform education system having a common syllabus and common curriculum in the spirit of Article 21A (free and compulsory education). Children may not be able to exercise their fundamental right under Article 21A unless the Centre and the states provide value-based uniform education, the plea said. “To achieve substantive socio-economic equality and justice, it is necessary that syllabus and curriculum in all primary schools are similar whether it is run by management, local body, Union or State Government,” the plea said. The PIL said although the medium of instructions may differ according to the official language of the concerned state, the syllabus and curriculum must be common for all children aged 6-14 years. The petition has sought directions to ascertain the feasibility of constituting a National Education Council (on the lines of GST Council) or the National Education Commission to implement the system. At present each education board has its own syllabus and curriculum and entrance examinations are based on CBSE, so the prevailing system doesn't provide equal opportunity to all students, it said. The plea has also sought directions to ascertain the feasibility of introducing a standard textbook having chapters on fundamental rights, duties, directive principles and the golden goals set out in the Preamble, and make its study compulsory for all the children aged 6-14 years throughout the country. It contended that from the last ten years data, it can be seen that even though children are pursuing free and compulsory education under RTE Act, the students do not perform well as compared to CBSE affiliated convent and private schools.  Therefore, value-based uniform education having a common syllabus and common curriculum is need of the day, it said. “State board students are not equipped to compete with students of CBSE affiliated schools. Even this disparity cannot be fully removed but Union can establish a standardized entrance system for college and university aspirants," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-seeks-uniform-education-system-with-common-syllabus-851341.html
19-06-2020||National||NCW asks Uttar Pradesh Police to take action against Bhim army chief over derogatory comments against women||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has asked Uttar Pradesh police to take action against Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad for allegedly making derogatory and defamatory statements against women. In a letter to UP DGP H C Awasthy, NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said the commission has taken cognizance of Azad's tweets "wherein it is seen that derogatory and defamatory statements have been made against women by him". "The commission has taken note of the rise in cyber-harassment and use of derogatory statements in cyberspace against women amounts to a serious offence under the law," she said in the letter. In view of the above, it is requested that action shall be taken against the culprit as per the relevant provisions of law to avoid recurrence of the crime in the future, she added. However, Azad has clarified that the tweets were not been sent by him as he was in jail during the period. "Some tweets of hate speech on women are going viral from my account. I want to explain that I was in jail from 08/06/2017 to 14/09/2018 in the case of Saharanpur violence. These tweets belong to this period, which I do not know about. I respect women very much," he said in a tweet. "Let me clarify that this Twitter account was created in February 2018 and I was released from jail in September 2018. Some worker gave me this account. I am a soldier of Babasaheb and respect for sister, daughters is paramount. The tweets are very wrong. I am improving the account. Jai Bhima, Jai Bharat," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-asks-uttar-pradesh-police-to-take-action-against-bhim-army-chief-over-derogatory-comments-against-women-851344.html
19-06-2020||National||Retailers Association meets Aditya Thackeray||A delegation from Retailers Association of India (RAI) met Maharashtra's protocol minister Aditya Thackeray on opening malls and shopping centres in the state with strict COVID-19 safety guidelines and on allowing all stores to operate every day from 9:00 am to 9:00 pm. The minister appreciated the association's concern and agreed on the need to restart retail in the state. The retail sector employs more than over 46 million people and contributes to approx. 40% of India’s Consumption and 10% of the country’s GDP. With most consumers demonstrating hesitation to resume shopping, the retail sector has been seeking the support of all stakeholders to revive customer sentiment. In these days where demand is inelastic, RAI has been requesting for longer hours and all days working to help reduce crowding at stores. Kumar Rajagopalan, the CEO of Retailers Association of India, tweeted about the meeting saying "@AUThackeray Thank you for a very insightful meeting with members of @rai_india. We are confident that you will steer us towards wonderful retailing days in Maharashtra"  While retailers are amongst the most resilient entrepreneurs of the Indian ecosystem. Despite the lockdown relaxations, retailers are still facing a challenging time to revive their business. The impact on retail across the country is concerning and it will take a considerable amount of time for retailers to return to the green.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retailers-association-meets-aditya-thackeray-851350.html
19-06-2020||National||PM wishes former Kazakhstan Prez speedy recovery from COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday wished former Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev a speedy recovery from COVID-19. Kazakhstan's first president, Nazarbayev has been diagnosed with COVID-19 and has been placed in isolation, media reports said. "My best wishes to first President of Kazakhstan  - - Elbasy Nursultan Nazarbayev for early recovery and good health. We stand with our friend and strategic partner Kazakhstan in efforts to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-wishes-former-kazakhstan-prez-speedy-recovery-from-covid-19-851351.html
19-06-2020||National||Ensure migrant workers reach home within stipulated time: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday (June 19) told the Centre and States to ensure all stranded migrants reach their native places without having to pay any charges. The top court asked the Union as well as the state governments to comply with the 15 days time-limit given on June 9 for the purpose. "Our order of June 9 is very clear that all migrants must reach home within 15 days. It isn't that process has to be complete but that they must be transported," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said. Taking up the Suo Motu matter registered last month with regard to problems and miseries faced by the migrant workers, the bench said that no migrant has to pay anything to go back to home. The court, once again, reiterated its order that the adequate publicity would be given to its order to facilitate the safe return of the migrant workers, who faced the most harrowing times on clamping of nationwide lockdown on March 25, due to COVID-19 pandemic. During the hearing, senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for NLU alumni, contended that the Union government had on June 10 released a list of trains for which the migrants had to pay. He said the states did not have enough funds to pay even 15% of the charges of Shramik Special Trains. On this, the bench said, "our order was clear that no migrant had to pay, whether the Centre pays or the State, it is not the issue."  Senior advocate Indira Jaising complained that the order passed by the court was not being complied with in letter and spirits and details of trains were not available, due to lack of sufficient publicity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-migrant-workers-reach-home-within-stipulated-time-supreme-court-851354.html
19-06-2020||National||Bravery of Indian soldiers killed in Galwan Valley will not be forgotten: US||The US Embassy here on Friday condoled the death of Indian soldiers, killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, and said their bravery will not be forgotten. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. "The US Mission in India sends our heartfelt condolences to the families of the soldiers who were lost at Galwan. Their bravery and courage will not be forgotten," US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster tweeted. The casualties from the clashes on the Chinese side are not yet known. However, government sources, citing an American intelligence report, claimed the total number of soldiers killed and seriously wounded could be 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bravery-of-indian-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-valley-will-not-be-forgotten-us-851356.html
19-06-2020||National||Priests want SC to reconsider stay on Rath Yatra||Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati, along with priests of the Jagannath temple, on Friday insisted that the Supreme Court should "reconsider" its decision to stay the Rath Yatra, and allow servitors to observe the festival with precautions in place. Maintaining that the apex court had rightly halted the 'Mage Parab', amid the COVID-19 pandemic, he said the decision to stall the Rath Yatra, however, could be re-evaluated, "allowing only a handful of servitors to conduct the ceremony". "Devotees, this year, can witness the rituals on television," he stated. The nine-day festival is usually marked by a procession of chariots, in which three deities -- Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra -- emabark on an annual journey to Gundicha temple and back. The Shankaracharya of Govardhan Peeth in Puri is the religious head, whose views and opinions on disputes are accepted by one and all in the 12th century shrine. Chattisa Nijog, the apex body of servitors of the Shree Jagannath Temple, has also urged the state government to approach the Supreme Court for reassessment of the verdict. "It seems that the Supreme Court was not properly apprised of the preparations made by temple administration and the Odisha government for the June 23 Rath Yatra," Chattisa Nijog said in a letter to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. The cancellation of the annual car festival will adversely affect all future rituals, offerings and festivals, the servitors claimed. "The Centre had allowed chariot construction for the festival, and accordingly all arrangements were made, with carpenters and servitors made to undergo health screening from time to time. With just four days to go before the festival, the state government should immediately move the apex court seeking a modification of its order," the Nijog added. The apex court had on Thursday stayed Rath Yatra, which was scheduled to begin on June 23, and all activities related to the festival, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Shortly after, the Odisha cabinet, during an emergency meeting, passed a resolution, asking Shree Jagannath Temple Managing Committee (SJTMC) to carry out rituals inside the Puri shrine, in accordance with the direction of the court. A crucial meeting of the Jagannath temple management committee is set to be held here on Friday to discuss the possibility of performing all Rath Yatra rituals on the premises of the 12th century shrine, after carefully studying the decision of the state cabinet, and the apex court directions, SJTMC member Ramachandra Dasmohapatra said. After the meeting, a delegation is expected to meet Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalanand Saraswati to seek a final advice on the matter, he said. Meanwhile, two organisations -- Srijagannath Sena and Srikshetra Suraksha Bahini - have called for a dawn-to-dusk shutdown in Puri on Friday in protest against the cancellation of this year's Rath Yatra.  Members of the two outfits also staged protests in the town, claiming that the state government did nothing to facilitate the annual car festival. The apex court had issued its order on Thursday, based on a PIL filed by an Odisha-based NGO seeking cancellation or postponement of this year's Ratha yatra, which is attended by millions of devotees from across the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priests-want-sc-to-reconsider-stay-on-rath-yatra-851357.html
19-06-2020||National||Tone down the nationalist rhetoric: HD Deve Gowda on India-China border tension||Former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, said the “nationalist rhetoric should be toned down” amid heightened tensions between India and China. In a statement, Gowda said he “fully appreciated” Modi’s decision to call for a meeting of the Opposition leaders to discuss the India-China border situation. “In order to ensure that we do not escalate matters, I sincerely urge that nationalist rhetoric should be toned down,” Gowda said. “This is not the time for a language of provocation and revenge,” he said, adding that media outlets spreading “fake information and cheap rhetoric” endangered the lives of soldiers and diplomatic staff. “Social media retribution is of particular concern. Government should take steps to check this,” Gowda said, clarifying that he did not mean that “critical mainstream opinions, analyses and reporting should be stopped.” Gowda also rejected the idea of an economic boycott (of China), saying the government should not encourage such reactionary language. “Its implications are deep. We should here be guided by pragmatism,” he said. Gowda is no stranger to the India-China dispute. In 1996, when he was the PM, both nations signed an agreement that made it binding on soldiers to “exercise self-restraint” and go for “immediate consultation” in case a face-off arose. “I would also urge my colleagues in the opposition not to use intemperate language,” Gowda said. “This is an hour for cooperation. Domestic politics and national security interests cannot be equated. Having said this, I do not mean we should not question the government,” he said. The political leadership, Gowda said, should keep the nation informed at all times. “There is a feeling among our fellow citizens that we are engulfed by hostile nations. It is the duty of the political leadership to ensure that such anxiety is quelled with proper information,” he said. A senior serving military officer and a senior serving diplomat should make a detailed presentation to Opposition leaders on the ground situation and the progress of talks, Gowda urged. “The demand here is not for classified details, but truthful information.” The JD(S) patriarch also decried politicisation of the armed forces. “That is dangerous,” he said. “They should be allowed to remain a professional force. When they remain a professional force, they will advise the government of the day fearlessly and correctly,” he said, adding that it was important to institute an enquiry on the deaths of soldiers in the Galwan valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tone-down-the-nationalist-rhetoric-hd-deve-gowda-on-india-china-border-tension-851369.html
19-06-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses stay on Central Vista Project||A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna posted a batch of petitions filed by Rajeev Suri and others, questioning the project, for consideration on July 7. During the hearing, the petitioners questioned some orders passed by the environment clearance committee on Thursday. They wanted Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to give assurance that no ground work would be undertaken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-stay-on-central-vista-project-851371.html
19-06-2020||National||GoAir operates maiden flight from Kuwait to Jaipur under Vande Bharat Mission||Mumbai-based budget airline GoAir on Friday operated its maiden flight from Kuwait to Jaipur under the central government's Vande Bharat Mission with 180 passengers. GoAir flight G8 7098, which took off at 1040 hours (local time) from Kuwait and landed at Jaipur with 180 passengers aboard, operated with all the precautionary measures and guidelines laid down by the governments of the countries and other stakeholders, the airline said in a release. “Today (Friday) was a day that had special feelings across our cockpit crew, cabin crew, airport staff and the various teams involved in making the Vande Bharat flight happen and as we flew back our stranded citizens and reunited them with their families," a GoAir spokesperson said.  GoAir is thankful to the governments of India and Kuwait besides to the governments of Rajasthan and Gujarat for allowing the airline to operate this special flight at this crucial time, with safe return of Indian citizens, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goair-operates-maiden-flight-from-kuwait-to-jaipur-under-vande-bharat-mission-851375.html
19-06-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Centre to decide uniform COVID-19 testing charge||A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah, which would pass the order later, observed during the hearing that there should be uniformity in COVID-19 testing charge in all states. It indicated however that the court will not venture into the fixation of the charges which will be taken care of by the Centre. It said the court may also consider passing an order for installation of CCTVs in hospitals to ensure monitoring of patient care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-decide-uniform-covid-19-testing-charge-851387.html
19-06-2020||National||Quiet 50th birthday for Rahul Gandhi, wishes pour in||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi turned 50 on Friday but chose to spend the day at home sans celebration in view of the death of Indian soldiers in a violent clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh and the coronavirus crisis. A host of top Congress leaders wished him on his birthday, with former prime minister Manmohan Singh among the first to send his best wishes through a letter in the morning. The Congress has asked its state and district units not to hold any celebratory functions. AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal wrote to the state units in this regard. "Wishing good health, happiness and joy to dear Rahul Gandhi ji on his b'day. He has decided not to celebrate his b'day owing to the martyrdom of our soldiers and COVID crisis. To mark the occasion Congress shall provide food kits to the neediest and pay respect to our brave jawans," Venugopal said in a tweet. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of Ladakh on June 15, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated an already volatile border standoff in the region. India is also reeling under the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The country has been reporting record spikes in cases of the contagious respiratory disease, which has so far infected 3,80,532 people and claimed 12,573 lives. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel wished Gandhi good health, prosperity and a long life. Congress deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma said, "Wishing Rahul Gandhi a happy birthday. May the 50s bring him good health, happiness and success. May God give him the strength to uphold the ideals and commitment of the Indian National Congress to serve India and its people." Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, "Warmest birthday greetings to Rahul Gandhi Ji. May he be blessed with a long, healthy life full of happiness and peace. May Rahul ji succeed in his endeavors towards establishing a society based on NYAY for all, where common people can live with dignity." Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also took to the microblogging site to wish Gandhi. "Dear Rahul Gandhi, warm wishes to you on your birthday. Take care of yourself and keep working for India," he said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Tough times are testing times, struggle is intrinsic to men of resolve, the temperament to handle it all with equanimity, fearlessness of spirit and an intense commitment to serve is the test of a leader. Privileged to work with such a leader. Birthday wishes to Shri Rahul Gandhi." Congress students' wing National Students Union of India (NSUI) marked the day by holding a blood donation camp and providing financial aid to four families in Delhi who were badly affected by the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quiet-50th-birthday-for-rahul-gandhi-wishes-pour-in-851388.html
19-06-2020||National||Scrap billion-dollar-deal with Chinese automaker: Congress tells Maharashtra CM Uddhav||Congress, an ally in the Maharashtra government, on Friday asked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to scrap the billion-dollar-pact with China’s Great Wall Motors to start a vehicle manufacturing unit in the state. The Memorandum of Understanding between the Maharashtra government and the automobile company was inked on Tuesday as reports of the violent clash leading to deaths of 20 Indian soldiers by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh trickled in. “Respected Chief Minister Sahib, this agreement should be scrapped ASAP. We can not be filling the coffers of those who slaughter our soldiers,” Congress leader Manish Tewari said on Twitter in remarks targeted at the Maharashtra Chief Minister. Tewari’s comments come at a time when there is great sense of anger against China after the bloody clash in Eastern Ladakh that shattered the five-decade old peace on the Line of Actual Control. The government is also looking at ways to decrease non-essential imports from China and other countries and has also scrapped certain projects it had awarded to Chinese companies. China’s Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Corporation Limited is also building an underground tunnel for the Mumbai Metro Line-3. The Centre has already made it clear that scrapping projects implemented by Chinese companies sanctioned by multi-lateral finance companies was not possible. Congress, which has 44 legislators in the 288-member Maharashtra assembly, is a partner in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scrap-billion-dollar-deal-with-chinese-automaker-congress-tells-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-851395.html
19-06-2020||National||Soumitra Chatterjee, Aparna Sen among 500 persons address letter seeking bail of activists||A group of 500 prominent persons, including film personalities Soumitra Chatterjee, and Aparna Sen from West Bengal, have penned an open letter to the Centre demanding an immediate release on bail of activists like Varavara Rao and Safoora Zargar at a time when "a pandemic is raging across the country". Left leaning poet and writer Varavara Rao is among the 11 rights activists to have been jailed, apart from Sudha Bhardwaj, Shoma Sen, Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalvez, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Sudhir Dhawale and Rona Wilson, the letter said. "In the prisons of Maharashtra where they are being detained, some inmates have died and many others have tested positive for COVID-19," the letter issued by the Indian Cultural Forum platform on June 16, said. The letter also expressed dismay over denial of bail to student activist Safoora Zargar of Jamia Millia University and human rights activist of Assam, Akhil Gogoi. Zargar, a member of Jamia Coordination Committee, was arrested under the anti-terror law --UAPA -- in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. The statement was signed by Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Naseeruddin Shah, Shabana Azmi, Nandita Das, Amol Palekar, Onir, Anurag Kashyap apart from around 20 prominent Bengali personalities. The signatories of the letter said, "Gogoi has repeatedly raised his voice against human rights violations by the state," and Safoora Zargar, the pregnant student from Jamia Millia University...."was arrested for protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act." Pointing out these activists are "neither convicted criminals nor planning to flee the country", they said, "We demand that they all be granted bail immediately on humanitarian grounds as their lives are at risk at a time when a pandemic is raging across the country. "We have learnt that Mr. Varavara Rao who is 80 years old is already ill and has been removed to a police hospital." Veteran actor Dhritiman Chatterjee told PTI, "Several personalities from West Bengal, including me, have signed tbe letter. We demand that the liberal space is not encroached and throttled in a democracy. "We are also worried that the COVID-19 situation in prisons will affect the health of the jailed activists. The Centre and the states concerened should not sit idle over the issue." The letter also expressed concern over the health condition of Safoora Zargar and the "unborn baby in her womb". "The focus should not be on the suppression of dissent, but on the containment of the pandemic for all, in prison and out of it," the letter said. Eleven people, including Rao, were arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case which was transferred to the National Investigation Agency by the Centre in January. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune in December 31,2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial. The Pune police had claimed that the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soumitra-chatterjee-aparna-sen-among-500-persons-address-letter-seeking-bail-of-activists-851398.html
19-06-2020||National||Health Ministry launches India's first mobile I-Lab for coronavirus testing||It is supported by the Department of Biotechnology and the Ministry of Science and Technology. Taking to Twitter on June 18, he wrote that the Infectious disease diagnostic lab (I- Lab) will address the shortage of critical healthcare technologies in India and help move progressively towards a stage of self-sufficiency. Built in a record time of eight days by Andhra Pradesh Med-tech team, the I-Lab can perform 25 COVID-19 RT-PCR tests per day, 300 ELISA tests per day as well as additional tests for TB and HIV. Additional tests for other diseases are to be charged as per Central Government Health Scheme rates. Dr Harsh Vardhan said in a press meet that the Health Ministry is looking forward to scaling up the process and developing 50 more I-Labs.   भविष्य में गांव के नजदीक होगी जांच की सुविधा!   “In January 2020, we just had one lab, NIV Pune, where the virus could be tested. We have come a long way since then to test about 3 lakh samples daily,” he added. The Health Ministry’s note released on June 18 stated that India now has a total of 953 labs which are authorised for testing COVID-19 samples, out of which 699 are government labs and the rest 254 are private labs. In the last 24 hours, these labs collectively tested 1,65,412 COVID-19 samples, taking the total tested samples in India to 62,49,668.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-launches-indias-first-mobile-i-lab-for-coronavirus-testing-851401.html
19-06-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh special task force personnel to remove 52 'dubious' Chinese apps from their cell phones||Uttar Pradesh's police's special task force (STF) has banned 52 'dubious' Chinese apps and a directive has been issued to all its personnel to immediately uninstall all these apps from their cell phones. Inspector General, STF, Amitabh Yash, in a circular issued here on Friday, directed the STF personnel to also ensure that these Chinese apps were uninstalled by their family members as well. These apps included TikTok, UC Browser, Hello, WeChat, Shareit among others. The directive said that there was a possibility of theft of data if these apps were used. "These apps can prove to be a threat to our security," said a senior police official here. The circular, that contained the list of the 52 Chinese apps, said that the Union Home Ministry had advised not to use them. It was not clear if such a directive had also been issued by the state police for its jawans and officers. Anti-China sentiments were on display in several parts of the state on Friday also. In Kanpur town, the people set aflame Chinese toys, mobile phones and other products. UP Traders' associations have also called for a boycott of Chinese products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-special-task-force-personnel-to-remove-52-dubious-chinese-apps-from-their-cell-phones-851403.html
19-06-2020||National||Delhi to rope in NGOs, volunteers for COVID-19 work||Delhi government has set in motion to rope in volunteers from NGOs, Scouts, and Guides, NCC cadets, and individuals for COVID-19 related work such as a survey of suspected cases and surveillance and management of isolation cases. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday issued an order in this regard following a decision taken at a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Considering the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the national capital, the meeting had felt necessary to involve NGOs, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), individual volunteers, NCC and NSS cadets, and Scouts and Guides among others in the fight against the pandemic. It had also decided to evolve a mechanism for government-NGO coordination. "Delhi will fight COVID-19 together. I appeal to all NGOs and individuals to join in this effort on a large scale," Kejriwal tweeted. According to the order, a web portal and a dashboard will be developed for registration of NGOs, CSOs, and volunteers. Those willing to participate can register on the portal. The volunteers should be between 18 and 55 years and their health status should be "fit" and "asymptomatic". The volunteers and NGOs will be engaged in a survey of suspected cases, surveillance and management of isolation cases, helpline assistance, assistance to senior citizens, any assistance for government and temporary hospitals and training and capacity building of officials and volunteers on COVID-19 response.  Those who have recovered from COVID-19 and are willing to work for COVID-19 related activities can also register for volunteer work. "The district administration may utilise the services of these persons in Confidence Building Measures in the district, besides the above measures," the order said. NGOs and CSOs will be assigned to respective district administration based upon the district selected by the organisations. The individual volunteers will be assigned to the district administration based on their place of residence. These volunteers can also be assigned to work with NGOs and CSOs. A certificate of participation and appreciation will be issued to volunteers and organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-to-rope-in-ngos-volunteers-for-covid-19-work-851405.html
19-06-2020||National||Fact Check: Old image from Nigeria shared as slain Indian army soldiers in Ladakh||Alt News has received several requests to fact-check this on WhatsApp (+917600011160) and on its official Android application.    Thus the social media claim that the viral image shows Indian army troopers is false.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-old-image-from-nigeria-shared-as-slain-indian-army-soldiers-in-ladakh-851413.html
19-06-2020||National||SC unhappy over plea alleging bias in listing of cases by apex court registry||The Supreme Court Friday expressed unhappiness over a plea which alleged bias on the part of its Registry in listing the cases of influential lawyers before benches and said that the department has been working “day-and-night” for the benefit of litigants as well as advocates. A bench comprising Arun Mishra and S A Nazeer also reserved its verdict on a plea filed by lawyer Reepak Kansal seeking a direction to concerned apex court officials "not to give preferences to cases filed by influential lawyers/petitioners" during the period when the virtual courts are functioning during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. “Why are you making such reckless charges against the Registry and its section officers,” the bench asked the lawyer. The lawyer said that his plea on the issue of ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ has not been listed by the registry. “The registry is working day-and-night for you people...this has become a trend,” the bench said, adding that these pleas should not have been filed. Earlier, the plea was filed seeking a direction to the apex court’s Secretary General and other officials to stop discrimination against not-so-influential lawyers. The plea said that there was no mechanism to address complaints against erring officers of the registry who favour some law firms/advocates for reasons best known to them. It also sought direction to the officials concerned not to point out unnecessary defects in cases of ordinary advocates/petitioners and refund the excess court fee and other charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-unhappy-over-plea-alleging-bias-in-listing-of-cases-by-apex-court-registry-851417.html
19-06-2020||National||Mentally challenged man beaten to death||A mentally challenged man was beaten to death by villagers after he allegedly injured a seven-year-old boy with a sickle at a village in the district, police said on Friday. The man has been identified as Israr, a resident of Imaliya village in the district. Villagers of Dehra, where the seven-year-old boy lived, suspected him to be a thief, following which they beat him with sticks, Superintendent of Police (city) Vineet Bhatnagar said. On getting information about the incident, police reached the spot and took Israr to the district hospital where he died in the night. The body has been sent for post-mortem, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mentally-challenged-man-beaten-to-death-851420.html
19-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: China releases Indian soldiers; High-level panel suggests cutting COVID-19 treatment charges in Delhi||Ten Indian Army soldiers including four officers have been released by China’s People’s Liberation Army capping three days of hard negotiations that followed the bloody battle at the eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley on Monday. A high-level panel has recommended bringing down the charges for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals in the national capital by more than half.  Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who tested positive for COVID-19 three days ago, was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on Friday after his condition deteriorated, officials said. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-china-releases-indian-soldiers-high-level-panel-suggests-cutting-covid-19-treatment-charges-in-delhi-851421.html
19-06-2020||National||SC's larger bench to decide on divorced Muslim woman's plea for maintenance||The Supreme Court has referred to a larger bench to decide authoritatively a question whether a family court can entertain a divorced Muslim woman's plea for maintenance. A two-judge bench of Justices R Banumathi and Indira Banerjee differed on the subject and directed for placing the matter, arising out of a plea made by a woman from Rajasthan, for consideration before a larger bench. Justice Banumathi held that since the Muslim Women’s Protection Act, 1986 does not refer to the family court or does not say that an application under Sections 3 and 4 (for Mehr or other properties can be given at the time of divorce) can be filed before the family court, in my view, the family court cannot entertain the application of divorced Muslim woman for it. The application for maintenance by the divorced wife has to be filed before the competent magistrate having jurisdiction if she makes a claim for it, beyond the 'iddat' (40 days) period, she added.  "Even if the family court has been established in that area, it shall have no jurisdiction to entertain such an application," Justice Banumathi said. Justice Banerjee, for her part, said the family court had the jurisdiction to convert a plea filed under Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code into an application under Section 3 of the 1986 Act for Muslim Women and to decide it. "Though divorced Muslim women are excluded from the purview of Section 125 of the CrPC by reason of the 1986 Act, Parliament has in its wisdom considered it necessary to make provisions for expeditious orders in applications for maintenance filed by divorced Muslim women," she said. That is why Muslim women have been given the liberty of approaching the Magistrate, who is required to make an order within one month, she added. "In my view, it was never the intention of the 1986 Act to deprive divorced Muslim women of the litigant friendly procedures of the family courts Act and denude it of jurisdiction to decide applications for maintenance," Justice Banerjee wrote in her own separate judgement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scs-larger-bench-to-decide-on-divorced-muslim-womans-plea-for-maintenance-851429.html
19-06-2020||National||No connection between ceasefire violations along LoC and Indo-China border standoff: Army||The Army on Friday said there is no connection between the Pakistan-initiated ceasefire violations along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and the situation on the Line of Actual Control with China in the Ladakh region. It, however, asserted that no "misadventure" would be allowed along the borders in the union territory. "The ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) are happening as per the old strategy in which it wants to push in more terrorists into the valley. If there is one entity in the world which is not happy with the peace in the valley, it is Pakistan," Lt Gen B S Raju, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Srinagar-based Chinar Corps, said here. "The moment there is peace in the valley, it generates violence -- both from across as ceasefire violation as well as sending instructions to entities or its proxies within the valley to generate violence," he said. He was speaking at a joint press conference along with senior officers of Jammu and Kashmir Police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) here. Lt Gen Raju said he does not see any major connection between the situation in Ladakh and the ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir as of now. "I do not see any such major connection as of now. The existing ceasefire violations have happened through a pattern and there has not been any great increase in the number of ceasefire violations, but, definitely, some of them have been intense in which the Pakistan-initiated ceasefire violations have inflicted some civilian casualties," he said. He said the Army is taking proper measures to provide more security and safety to the civilian population in the areas near to the LoC. "Some action on the construction of civilian bunker has started, some places it has been done, but I think there is more required to be done. We are fully prepared at the LoC to ensure that this particular phenomena of ceasefire violations and infiltration is kept in check," he said. Lt Gen Raju said while the situation on the LoC was stable, the Army would ensure there will be no misadventure from across. "I would like to assure everybody that the situation on the Line of Control and in the hinterland is stable. We will ensure that there will be no misadventure both from outside of the Line of Control and as well as within the valley. And, we will ensure that the situation is kept normal and the people of the valley will be able to go about their jobs in the most normal manner," he said. Asked about the situation along the LAC in Ladakh, the GOC said, "The situation as far as I am aware is in control and whatever is required to be done in that area by the forces, which are required to operate, are capable of doing their job. "I must also say that this is one of the contingency that the Army is aware could happen and that particular contingency is being played out and whatever actions are required to be taken, are being done," he said. Speaking about the situation on the border, Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said the security forces were conscious of the threats and were adequately responding to those. "We are conscious of the fact that our neighbour and the agencies which are there to perpetuate violence in this region, are making efforts to infiltrate and send in more numbers of terrorists for various sectors, we have been adequately responding to that threat. "Our highway grids, our border grids are fully alert. We are in a position to take care of any emergent challenge anywhere and we would definitely be on the side of our people. They have been very cooperative and they have extended all kinds of cooperation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-connection-between-ceasefire-violations-along-loc-and-indo-china-border-standoff-army-851441.html
19-06-2020||National||Enough evidence against Davinder Singh, will file charge sheet in terror case in due course: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday said it had "adequate evidence" against tainted Deputy Superintendent of Police of Jammu and Kashmir Davinder Singh, arrested in a terror case, and a charge sheet would be filed against him in due course. In a brief statement, a spokesperson of the NIA said Singh continued to be in judicial custody in the case filed by the agency. "We have adequate evidence against him and he will be charge-sheeted in due course," the NIA said in the statement. Singh was on Friday granted bail in a separate case filed by the Delhi Police. The NIA had taken over the terror case on January 18, a week after Singh was caught in south Kashmir while ferrying two terrorists out of the valley on January 11. Besides Singh, the others arrested were two terrorists -- self-styled commander of Hizbul Mujahideen Syed Naveed Mushtaq Ahmed alias Naveed Babu and Rafi Ahmed Rather -- and Irfan Shafi Mir, who claims to be an advocate. Later on January 23, Naveed's brother, Syed Irfan Ahmed, was also arrested after he was brought from Punjab. He was in constant touch with his brother and had asked him to look for an accommodation in Chandigarh where they could stay to escape the harsh winter months of Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enough-evidence-against-davinder-singh-will-file-charge-sheet-in-terror-case-in-due-course-nia-851463.html
19-06-2020||National||SC directs for setting up experts panel for inspection, supervision of govt hospitals||The Supreme Court on Friday (June 19) directed all States to immediately constitute a team of doctors and other experts for inspection, supervision, and guidance of government and other hospitals, dedicated to the treatment of COVID-19 patients. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said the panel may inspect and supervise the hospitals in the State and issue necessary directions for the improvement. The court directed the Chief Secretary of each State to ensure that such committees are immediately constituted and start their works within a period of seven days. The court was dealing with Suo Motu matter related to the proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and dignified handling of the dead bodies. It directed for installing CCTV cameras at Covid dedicated hospitals, allowing one attendant of the patient, among others. It directed the Centre to issue directions to States, prescribing a reasonable rates for Covid-19 tests. It ordered Chief Secretaries of all States to take steps regarding the installation of CCTV Cameras in COVID-19 dedicated hospitals where patients were taking treatment to facilitate the management of such patients. The court also ordered all COVID-19-dedicated hospitals to permit one willing attendant of the patient in the hospital premise, and create a helpdesk accessible physically as well as by telephone from where well being of patients admitted in the hospitals can be enquired. It also directed the Ministry of Home Affairs to issue appropriate directions under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to all States and Union Territories to uniformly follow the revised discharge policy issued on May 8.  During the hearing, the court pulled up the Maharashtra government for not sharing COVID-19 test reports with the patients and relatives, saying "We have no doubt that the States and all concerned shall supply a copy of the report of the patient to him or his relatives and the hospital". The bench also appreciated the submissions that the number of tests in Delhi would be increased by up to 18,000 per day by June 20.  "Every organisation, every individual should be more than ready to know about shortcomings, lapses and it is only after knowing one’s shortcomings and deficiencies, remedial actions can be taken," the bench said. The court said the Delhi government should be more vigilant in knowing about the deficiency and lapses in the functioning of the hospitals and patient's care and take immediate and remedial steps to redeem the miseries of patients, and the public who needs medical care and help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-for-setting-up-experts-panel-for-inspection-supervision-of-govt-hospitals-851469.html
19-06-2020||National||Ban Chinese app TikTok in India: Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Friday called for a ban on TikTok to impact China economically, saying 15 crore Indians use the Chinese app due to which the neighbouring country makes crores in profit. His comments come after 20 Indian Army personnel lost their lives in a violent clash with the Chinese Army in Ladakh's Galwan Valley. In a tweet, Athawale said 15 crore people of India use TikTok due to which China makes profit of crores "Ban Chinese video app TikTok in India. 15 crore people of India use TikTok due to which China gets profit of crores. Stop TikTok to impact China economically! I humbly request all Indians to boycott TikTok," Athawale tweeted in Hindi. The comments come a day after he said all restaurants and hotels that sell Chinese food in India should be closed down and products made in China should be boycotted.   Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-chinese-app-tiktok-in-india-ramdas-athawale-851477.html
19-06-2020||National||Sonu Sood sends migrants stuck in Mumbai to Dehradun||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood on Friday sent 173 migrants in a chartered flight from Mumbai to Dehradun. The Air Asia plane with 173 migrants arrived at the Jolly Grant Airport this evening, Jolly Grant police station incharge Sub-Inspector Shanti Chamoli said.        Buses of all 13 districts of Uttarakhand were parked outside the airport to take the migrants to their respective destinations.  It is for the second time in less than a month that Sood has sent migrants in a chartered flight from Mumbai to Dehradun. Earlier this month, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat thanked him for the kind gesture and extended an invitation to him to visit the state when the COVID-19 crisis is over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonu-sood-sends-migrants-stuck-in-mumbai-to-dehradun-851480.html
19-06-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Niti Aayog forms panel to develop job platform for migrant labours||Government think tank Niti Aayog has formed a panel including top officials of tech companies like Google, Microsoft and Tech Mahindra to develop a job platform for migrant labours, according to sources involved in the project. The move comes at a time when a huge number of migrant workers have lost their jobs during the lockdown period. The goal is to develop a platform that can help blue-collar workers find job opportunities in their own language and location, an industry source said. The platform will connect job seekers, employers, government agencies, skill centres and external partners using new-age technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning, the source said. "Niti Aayog under the leadership of its CEO, Amitabh Kant has formed a high-powered committee to drive public and private partnership in order to engage and develop technologies that can solve this looming crisis and provide better job opportunities to the migrant workers," the source said. The panel has some prominent names from the industry including Reliance Industries President Kiran Thomas, Microsoft India President Anant Maheshwari, Tech Mahindra MD and CEO CP Gurnani, Google India country manager and vice president Sanjay Gupta,  Bharti Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal, among others. "With the pandemic continuing to create disruptions and lockdowns virtually bringing the economy to a standstill, lakhs of blue-collar workers and migrant labourers were left stranded without a job forcing them to return to their native places. The panel will look at technology-based solution to resolve the issues being faced by the migrant labours," the source said.  As per estimates, there are over 40 crore workers in the unorganized sector accounting for around 30 per cent of India's GDP and nearly 60 per cent of these migrant workers are either semi-skilled or unskilled who struggle everyday to find the right job opportunity. "The platform will cover the digital divide by providing these workers with an opportunity to find jobs, acquire requisite skillsets, find training centres that will provide them with the opportunity to train in their local language. This will also help the job providers with addressing their specific category of labour and worker requirements, location-based searches and adequate reference checks," the source said. The project would come up with a multilingual application that can be accessed via feature phones and help identify location-based jobs, skill development gaps.  "MSME secretary A K Sharma has been also engaged in this project," the source said. The government is also working to start a pan-India helpline number for migrant workers to report their grievances, according to an official note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-niti-aayog-forms-panel-to-develop-job-platform-for-migrant-labours-851488.html
19-06-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: SC asks Centre, states to send migrant workers home without charging fare||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre and all the states to ensure that all stranded migrant workers willing to return must be sent to their native places without any fare being charged from them. The top court, on June 9, had passed a slew of directions to the states and had asked them to send the migrant workers to their homes, register, counsel and help them in finding employment. Reiterating its order, a bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah, in the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, once again made clear that all migrant workers have to sent to their homes within 15 days from June 9 without being asked to pay the fare. “Our order of June 9 is very clear that all migrants must reach home within 15 days,” the bench said. The bench was told by lawyer Prashant Bhushan that Maharashtra has been seeking information from migrant workers, who are desirous to return, as to since when they have been living in the state. The bench said that it will pass necessary directions that as per the earlier order, all migrant workers, willing to return have to be sent. The top court did not consider the plea of Kerala government that it does not have the funds to ensure free return of migrant workers stranded in the state and the Centre should take care of it.  It has now posted the matter for hearing in July. The apex court, on May 28, had taken suo motu (on its own) note of the “problems and miseries” of labourers during COVID-19-induced country-wide lockdown and passed slew of directions to mitigate their woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-sc-asks-centre-states-to-send-migrant-workers-home-without-charging-fare-851491.html
19-06-2020||National||Congress leader's 'COVID Queen', 'Nipah Princess' remarks against Kerala health minister invite criticism||A remark of Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran against Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja that she was trying to earn 'COVID Queen' title has triggered widespread criticism. Even a campaign asking Ramachandran to tender apology was trending on the social media. Ramachandran alleged that the health minister was trying to earn publicity over COVID-19. "The health minister only played the role of a guest actor in the state's fight against NIPAH. But she earned the title of Nipah Princess. Now she is trying to get the title COVID Queen," Ramachandran said in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday while addressing a day-long fasting of Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala to protest against the government for insisting on COVID test for all NRIs before returning. While many on social media accused Ramachandran of being misogynistic and demanded him to tender apology, Shailaja was being widely appreciated for her fight against nipah and COVID-19 by recollecting the international attention Kerala earned in the fight against nipah and now against COVID-19. Many who took up the '#MullappallyShouldApologize' campaign on Twitter alleged that Ramachandran was jealous at Shailaja's effective work and he was feeling frustrated. Strongly condemning the statement, CPM leader Brinda Karat demanded Mullappally to tender a public apology. She said that it was a shame for the Congress that a party state president made such a sexiest and derogatory statement. Meanwhile, Mullappally later stated that he stand by what he said. He said that he did not criticise women, but only flayed the attempts to grab the claims for the effective work of health workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-covid-queen-nipah-princess-remarks-against-kerala-health-minister-invite-criticism-851499.html
19-06-2020||National||Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao announces Rs five crore for Col Santosh Babu's family and other benefits||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao has announced a Rs five crore compensation for the family Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu, besides a residential plot and a Group-1 job for his wife Santoshi. Babu, the commanding officer of the 16th Bihar Regiment, died along with 19 others on Monday night in a violent clash with the Chinese troops, along the LAC in Ladakh. Rao has also announced that his government would give Rs 10 lakh each to the 19 martyred soldiers through the union defence ministry. “We would extend all help to the family of Col Santosh Babu who martyred in the clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan valley. I would personally visit his family house and hand over the aid,” the CM said on Friday. Colonel Babu’s last rites were conducted with full military honours on Thursday morning, in his farm at Kesaram close to his hometown Suryapet in Telangana. Babu leaves behind his parents Bikkumalla Upendar and Manjula, wife Santoshi and kids Abhignya (8) and Anirudh (4). “The entire nation should stand by the military personnel guarding our country’s borders. We have to support those martyred in their line of duty by helping the personnel’s family members. With such actions, one should instill self-confidence among the army personnel and a sense of security for family members. We have to send a message that the entire country is with them,” Rao said. “Though there are (financial) problems because of the COVID-19 pandemic, one should cut expenditure somewhere and work for welfare of our defence forces,” the CM said while interacting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video-conference with all parties on the standoff with China at borders issue. While the central government does its part for the martyred, states should also extend all possible help. It is only then that the army personnel and their family members would have the confidence that the country is standing with them, the CM stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-cm-k-chandrashekar-rao-announces-rs-five-crore-for-col-santosh-babus-family-and-other-benefits-851500.html
19-06-2020||National||SC seeks explanation from own registry why Mallya's plea not listed for 3 years||The Supreme Court has sought an explanation from its own registry as to why a review petition filed by fugitive industrialist Vijay Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017 was not listed before it for consideration in last three years. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan directed the officials to furnish all the details including names of the officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition for last three years. The court gave the Registry two weeks of time for it. The order was passed by the judges in their chamber on June 16 after the review petition came up for consideration before them. The review petition would be considered on merits, after going through the explanation, the court ordered, while noting that the petition was filed within time. On May 9, 2017, the court had held beleaguered industrialist Mallya guilty of contempt of court for transferring $40 million to his children's accounts despite an order against transferring his assets. Mallya, who evaded law enforcement authorities here and stayed at the United Kingdom, is facing extradition request from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-explanation-from-own-registry-why-mallyas-plea-not-listed-for-3-years-851503.html
19-06-2020||National||Madras HC erred in holding lockdown was akin to Emergency: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday (June 19) overturned a Madras High Court judgement, which maintained that lockdown announced by the government was akin to the proclamation of Emergency.  "We are of the clear opinion that the judgement erred in holding that the lockdown announced by the government of India is akin to the proclamation of Emergency," a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said. The court pointed out during such proclamation, the right to life and liberty cannot be suspended.  It concurred with the submission of senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing an accused, that the Supreme Court's March order extending the deadline for filing petitions, suits and appeals was applicable only in civil matters. It did not extend the time period for police to file chargesheets under Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code.  The bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah and V Ramasubramanian, allowed his plea for default bail on the failure of police to file a charge sheet within the statutory time limit of 60 and 90 days. In its judgement, the top court described its 1976 judgment during the Emergency as "retrograde", saying the right to life and liberty cannot be taken away without a due process of law even during such proclamations.  The court referred to the judgment in the ADM Jabalpur case where the majority had held that no proceedings can be initiated for enforcement of right under Article 21 (life and liberty) on the proclamation of Emergency under Article 352. The court said the "retrograde steps taken in respect of right protected under Article 21" in the ADM, Jabalpur judgment has already been overturned by the Parliament through 44th Constitutional amendment in 1978, by laying down that rights under Articles 20 and 21 will not be suspended even during the Emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-hc-erred-in-holding-lockdown-was-akin-to-emergency-supreme-court-851512.html
19-06-2020||National||Anti-viral drug favipiravir gets nod for restricted emergency use in mild to moderate COVID-19 cases||India's drug regulator has approved anti-viral drug favipiravir for "restricted emergency use" in mild to moderate cases of COVID-19, official sources said, as instances of coronavirus infection and fatalities in the country continued its steady upward trend. Considering the emergency and unmet medical need for COVID-19, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) under the fast-tracked approval process granted domestic firm Glenmark Pharmaceuticals the permission to manufacture and market favipiravir (200 mg) tablet. "The drug has been approved for restricted emergency use in the country for the treatment of mild to moderate cases of COVID-19," an official source in the know of developments told PTI. Following this approval, Mumbai-headquartered Glenmark Pharmaceuticals will make a separate application to state regulators to get a manufacturing license under the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and its rules. "This emergency use authorisation has been granted with certain conditions which include taking written informed consent from each patient or his/her representative. Besides, the company will have to conduct active post-marketing surveillance on the first 1,000 patients to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug," the source said.  The marketing authorisation was given based on the interim report of phase three clinical trials to ensure the early availability of the anti-viral drug in the country. While the trials are still ongoing, the DCGI approved the drug as the interim results so far have been encouraging, the source said. The patient will be given a 3,600 mg dose for the first day as a loading dose and subsequently followed by 1,600 mg for maximum up to 14 days depending upon the viral load.  The DCGI had recommended that the drug should be used only in adults and not on patients with severe liver and renal impairment and pregnant and lactating women, the source said, adding it should be used with caution in patients having a history of abnormalities in uric acid metabolism or gout. Glenmark pharmaceuticals was the first company in India to initiate phase three clinical trials on favipiravir for COVID-19 patients in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-viral-drug-favipiravir-gets-nod-for-restricted-emergency-use-in-mild-to-moderate-covid-19-cases-851514.html
19-06-2020||National||India registers a record daily jump of nearly 14K COVID-19 cases, Chennai back into lockdown after spike||India on Friday registered a record one-day jump of 13,856 COVID-19 cases in a grim trend that has continued for most of this month as Chennai was back into lockdown after a sharp rise in the infections. In some positive news, the number of recoveries crossed the two lakh mark and now stands at 2,04,710, while there are 1,63,248 total COVID-19 active cases, according to the Union Health ministry data. This showed that around 53.79 per cent of the patients have recovered so far. The jump of 13,586 COVID-19 cases pushed the countrywide tally to 3,80,532, while the death toll stood at 12,573 with 336 new fatalities, the data showed. A total of 1,89,997 cases--around half of the overall tally--was reported this month alone largely due to the rise in the infections in the worst affected states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. UP, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh were among the states which registered a record daily spike on Friday. Kerala recorded a rise in cases by over 100 for the second time so far. The first coronavirus case in the country was reported in this state on January 30. As states focused on rigorous testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR) said 1,76,959 samples were tested on Thursday, the highest for a day so far to take the cumulative total to 64,26,627 samples. The Centre also asked states to replicate the best practices implemented by Karnataka, which includes comprehensive contact tracing of COVID-19 cases and physical or phone-based household survey, for better management. India's Drug Regulator, meanwhile, has approved anti-viral drug favipiravir for "restricted emergency use" in mild to moderate cases of COVID-19 in view of the crisis posed by the pandemic, official sources said. Considering the emergency and unmet medical need in COVID-19, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) under the fast-tracked approval process granted domestic firm Glenmark Pharmaceuticals the permission to manufacture and market favipiravir (200 mg) tablet. "The drug has been approved for restricted emergency use in the country for the treatment of mild to moderate cases of COVID-19," a source in the know of developments told PTI. Chennai wore a deserted look as the 12-day lockdown without previous relaxations came into force in the Tamil Nadu capital and in a string of other localities in nearby three districts—Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur with police deploying drones and intensifying patrols to check violations. Tamil Nadu reported 2,115 new COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 54,449. Chennai accounted for 70 per cent of these cases. While arterial roads to neighbouhood streets were deserted, police placed barricades in key intersections and blocked free access to several main thoroughfares in the city and suburbs. Shops selling essentials including vegetables functioned from morning till 2 pm and private vehicles and autos, taxis were off the roads. Only some cargo trucks and vehicles related to essential services were seen plying on roads and other key highways in Chennai's southern and northern periphery. Under the lockdown, only essential services are allowed unlike the relaxations available previously. City Police Commissioner A K Viswanathan asserted that curbs will be strictly enforced. Cooperation from people was good, he said, and appealed to them to continue that for the success of the complete lockdown to help prevent spread of COVID-19. With 809 COVID-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh was among the states which recorded the highest single-day spike to take the tally to 16,594, officials said. Andhra Pradesh also witnessed a similar trend with a record daily jump of record 465 cases to reach a total of 7,961. In Kerala, the COVID-19 inched towards the 3,000 mark with 118 new cases being reported in the highest single day spike. With the addition of the fresh cases, 2,912 people have been infected, Health minister K K Shailaja said. New positive cases on a single day had touched three digits for the first time in Kerala on June 5 when 111 people were infected. In Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said while the spread of coronavirus has been contained in the state the increase in the mortality rate was not a good sign. "After the easing of lockdown restrictions, there is an increase in the number of patients in some districts. Tracing patients and their contacts expeditiously is very important and the only solution. There should be no complacency," he said during a video conference with collectors, municipal commissioners and divisional commissioners to review the pandemic situation. Maharashtra accounts for 1,20,504 cases in the country while the death toll stood at 5,751. Lauding the two initiatives taken by Karnataka developed as part of the ‘whole of government’ approach with the involvement of multi-sectoral agencies and supported by technology-based solutions and interventions, the Union Health ministry said they effectively trace and track each case thereby successfully containing the spread of the epidemic. "The Centre has asked the other states to adapt these best practices to their local context and replicate them for better management of the COVID-19 pandemic," the ministry said in a statement. Karnataka has widened the definition of ‘contact’ to include both the high-risk as well as low-risk contacts as defined by the central government. The number of primary and secondary contacts in the state were meticulously traced and put under strict quarantine, the ministry said. Contact tracing is a critical component towards containing the epidemic and ensuring that the health infrastructure does not get overwhelmed. The state has been able to curtail the spread of infection in slums of big corporation areas through compulsory institutional quarantine of the contacts residing in slums or similar areas, it said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's office-cum-residence in Bengaluru was shut for sanitisation for a day after an employee's relative tested positive for coronavirus. According to sources, a woman staff working at 'Krishna', the office-cum-residence of Yediyurappa, did not turn up for duty for two days after her husband was infected by the virus. "Her husband has been tested positive and not the woman, but still as a precautionary measure the entire building has been sanitised," an official told PTI. The chief minister conducted all the important meetings of the day at the Vidhana Soudha instead of 'Krishna', the official said. Amid the rising COVID-19 cases in West Bengal, the number of containment zones in the state has also increased from 1,907 to 2,428 in a week, the state government said. Kolkata, which has reported the highest number of active cases in the state (2,173) so far, also has the maximum number of containment zones at 1,512, according to the state government website 'Egiye Bangla'. Till Thursday, the state registered 12,735 COVID-19 cases and 518 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-a-record-daily-jump-of-nearly-14k-covid-19-cases-chennai-back-into-lockdown-after-spike-851531.html
19-06-2020||National||No one is inside India's territory, says PM Narendra Modi; Remarks trigger row||Chairing an all-party meeting on the violent clash in Galwan in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said, “Neither has anybody intruded into our territory, nor is anybody inside our territory, nor any of our posts have been captured,” drawing strong reactions on social media. Former diplomat and strategic affairs expert K C Singh tweeted, “PM Modi to nation: no post or land lost. Semantically true but LAC is Indian boundary claim, till which we patrol. China has some overlapping claims/patrolling. But when Chinese entrench at their claim limit & block us either PM concedes Chinese version of LAC or he misspoke.” Strategic expert Brahma Chellaney asked, “Does Modi’s statement signal India is willing to live with China’s forcible change of the status quo in the Galwan Valley and Lake Pangong? By occupying unoccupied areas, China has put a halt to India’s patrolling of those areas and built positions overlooking Indian defenses.” “In order to ease the situation, China and India have stayed in close communication through military and diplomatic channels,” Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said. “In response to the strong demand of the Chinese side, India agreed to withdraw the personnel who crossed the LAC and demolish the facilities, and so they did.” Zhao’s statement was released in Beijing late in the evening on Friday. It gave the Chinese government’s version of the clash between the soldiers of its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and the Indian Army in Galwan Valley on June 15. The statement was added with the transcript of his press-conference earlier on the day.    Earlier, the Indian Ministry of External Affairs had on June 16 said that a consensus had been reached on June 6 on a process of de-escalation of the situation after a meeting of senior Commanders from both the nations but the Chinese side later departed from the consensus to respect the LAC in the Galwan Valley. On the late evening and night of June 15, a violent face-off happened as a result of an attempt by the Chinese side “to unilaterally change the status quo there”, the MEA had said. At the all-party meeting on Friday, Modi also assured the leaders that the country today has such capability that “no one can even dare look towards an inch of our land”. At the virtual meeting that lasted nearly four hours and attended by presidents of 16 parties, some of them raised questions about the intelligence inputs before the government. They also questioned the status of border security in view of the killing of 20 soldiers, with Modi saying the soldiers, who sacrificed their lives “taught a lesson to those who had dared to look towards our motherland”. Assuring the leaders that the armed forces were leaving no stone unturned to protect the country, the Prime Minister said, “While on the one hand, the army has been given freedom to take necessary steps, India has also conveyed its position clearly to China through diplomatic means.”  He said that today, Indian forces are capable of moving together across sectors. And with the recently developed infrastructure, patrolling capacity at LAC has also increased. With this, transgressions which earlier went unchecked, are now detected by our jawans, which at times leads to tension. Modi’s remarks came at the end of the meeting in which Congress President Sonia Gandhi rued that the leaders are still in the dark about the details of the Galwan incident. Gandhi posed a number of questions regarding the date of intrusion of Chinese troops and when government found out these transgressions. She also asked if there was a failure of intelligence.  The CPM also questioned the government on “lapses, intelligence failures” and the government not briefing the Opposition earlier. Sitaram Yechury said that it was agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner. The general tone at the meet was of fully backing the government on its strategy to deal with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-is-inside-indias-territory-says-pm-narendra-modi-remarks-trigger-row-851553.html
19-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre cautions states on routine home isolation||Centre on Friday cautioned state governments against assigning COVID-19 patients home isolation without adherence to the guidelines hinting that it could be the reason for the sudden spurt in infections. “...some instances have been noticed wherein home isolation is allowed in a routine manner in certain States, and clauses of the Revised Guidelines are not followed in letter and spirit,” Luv Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said in a letter to all state governments. He said routine assignment of home isolation may lead to spread of the disease within the family members and neighbours, more so in urban settings such as dense urban agglomerations. Agarwal pointed out that home isolation can be assigned only after physical assessment of the patient’s residential premises to ensure a separate room with toilet facilities for him and access to a dedicated caregiver. The guidelines also state that the patient shall agree to monitor his/her health and regularly inform the health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-cautions-states-on-routine-home-isolation-851556.html
19-06-2020||National||Supreme Court seeks explanation from registry on why Mallya's review plea not listed for three years||The Supreme Court has directed its registry to explain why the petition filed by businessman Vijay Mallya, who had sought review of its 2017 order holding him guilty of contempt of court for transferring USD 40 million to his children, was not listed before the concerned court for last three years. A bench Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, which took up the review petition on June 16, directed the apex court registry to furnish all the details including names of the officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition for last three years. "According to the record, placed before us, the review petition was not listed before the court for last three years. Before we deal with the submissions raised in the review petition, we direct the registry to explain why the review petition was not listed before the concerned court for last three years," the bench said in its June 16 order which was uploaded on the apex court website on Friday. Taking strong note of the undue delay in listing of the review petition, the bench asked the registry to furnish explanation within two weeks. "The review petition shall, thereafter, be considered on merits," the bench said in its order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-seeks-explanation-from-registry-on-why-mallyas-review-plea-not-listed-for-three-years-851558.html
19-06-2020||National||India is one when it comes to national security: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said India is one when it comes to national security and the all-party meeting has unequivocally conveyed this message. He also said the meeting was a manifestation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment to take all political stakeholders along, when it comes to key matters involving India's strategic interests. "Attended the all party meet chaired by PM @narendramodi. Meeting had an unequivocal message - India is one when it comes to national security," he said in a tweet. The home minister said all parties are proud of country's armed forces, their valour and have full faith in them to defend India's sovereignty and territorial integrity.  "The all-party meeting today was enriched by the views of various esteemed leaders. It was a manifestation of PM @narendramodi's commitment to take all political stakeholders along, when it comes to key matters involving India's strategic interests," he said in another tweet. The all-party meeting was called in the wake of Indian Army's stand-off with China's PLA along the Sino-Indian border in Ladakh. Twenty soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Galwan valley in Ladakh on June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-one-when-it-comes-to-national-security-amit-shah-851568.html
19-06-2020||National||Neither has anyone intruded into Indian territory nor has anyone taken over any post: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asserted that neither has anyone intruded into Indian territory nor has anyone taken over any post. In his closing remarks at an all-party meeting on the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, Modi said the whole country is hurt and angry at what the Chinese have done. India wants peace and friendship, but its sovereignty is supreme, he said. Indian forces are doing what they have to do to protect the country, whether it is in terms of deployment, action or counter-action, Modi told political leaders. "Our patrolling capacity has increased due to newly built infrastructure, especially along LAC," he said. The meeting was convened after 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neither-has-anyone-intruded-into-indian-territory-nor-has-anyone-taken-over-any-post-pm-narendra-modi-851582.html
19-06-2020||National||Lockdown provided 'breathing space' to ramp up testing, health infrastructure: Govt||The lockdown provided a "breathing space" for the government to ramp up COVID-19 testing facilities and health infrastructure which ensured improved recovery rate by timely detection and clinical management of coronavirus cases, the health ministry said on Friday. The Union health ministry assertion came on a day India saw another record spike of 13,586 new COVID-19 cases in a single-day, pushing the tally to 3,80,532, while the death toll rose to 12,573 with 336 new fatalities. In some positive news, the number of recoveries crossed the two-lakh mark and stands at 2,04,710, while there are 1,63,248 total COVID-19 active cases, according to the updated ministry data at 8.00 am. One patient had migrated. With the confirmation of 10,386 patients having recovered from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the total recovery rate consequently rose to 53.79 per cent. The trend in the daily numbers shows an increasing rate of recovery, and an increasing gap between active and recovered cases, the ministry said. The increase in the proportion of recovered cases is a demonstration of India's strategy of timely management of COVID-19, it said. "Proactive measures like implementation of lockdown, sensitisation of the general public to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour by the government of India in coordination with the states/union territories, have significantly restricted the spread," the ministry said. "The lockdown provided a breathing space for the government to ramp up the testing facilities and health infrastructure which ensured improved recovery rate by timely detection and clinical management of COVID-19 cases," it said. This increasing gap is thus a result of the timely, graded, pre-emptive approach of the government to contain COVID-19 and its implementation by countless frontline workers, the ministry said. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. It was further extended till May 31. The lockdown is now restricted only in containment zones across the country and will continue till June 30. A large number of social, economic, religious and sports activities are currently allowed to function which the Ministry of Home Affairs termed "Unlock 1". The number of government laboratories has been increased to 703 and private labs has been increased to 257 (a total of 960). In the last 24 hours, 1,76,959 samples were tested while the total number of samples tested thus far is 64,26,627, according to the official figures. India registered over 10,000 cases for the eighth day in a row. The country has witnessed a surge of 1,89,997 infections from June 1 till 19 with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh among the top five states that have seen a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. Of the 336 new deaths reported till Friday morning, 100 were in Maharashtra, 65 in Delhi, 49 in Tamil Nadu, 31 in Gujarat, 30 in Uttar Pradesh, 12 each in Karnataka and West Bengal, 10 in Rajasthan, six in Jammu and Kashmir, five in Punjab, four each in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, three in Telangana, two in Andhra Pradesh and one each in Assam, Jharkhand and Kerala. India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is at the eighth position in terms of the death toll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-provided-breathing-space-to-ramp-up-testing-health-infrastructure-govt-851596.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Galwan Valley: Shashi Tharoor posts PM Narendra Modi's old tweets to attack govt over handling of standoff with China||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday posted old tweets of Narendra Modi, when he was the Gujarat chief minister, to attack the BJP-led government over its handling of the current Sino-India standoff in eastern Ladakh. Without posting any comments, Tharoor retweeted a series of three tweets -- one posted by Modi on February 8, 2014, and two by the Twitter handle of his website and mobile application dated May 13, 2013, and August 15, 2013. "A noble nation like ours is being troubled by our neighbours while the Centre stands helplessly. We need a strong government to change this," Modi had tweeted in February 2014 when he was the Gujarat chief minister. A tweet by the handle of Modi's website on August 15, 2013, quoted him as saying, "Security of the nation is under threat. What did China do? They enter our borders and we silently watch." The third tweet re-tweeted by Tharoor quoted Modi as saying, "China withdraws its forces but I wonder why Indian forces are withdrawing from Indian territory? Why did we retreat?"  The re-tweets by Tharoor came in the backdrop of the Congress attacking the government over its handling of the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, raising questions over its claims of strong leadership. Tensions are running high between China and India after a clash between the troops of the two countries in the Galwan Valley which left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The casualties on the Chinese side are not yet known. However, government sources, citing an American intelligence report, claimed the total number of soldiers killed and seriously wounded could be 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/galwan-valley-shashi-tharoor-posts-pm-narendra-modis-old-tweets-to-attack-govt-over-handling-of-standoff-with-china-851172.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Voting for three Rajya Sabha seats in Madhya Pradesh commences||Voting for the three vacant Rajya Sabha seats from Madhya Pradesh began in the state assembly complex on Friday morning. As the voting process began at 9 am, BJP members along with the state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reached the assembly premises here to cast their votes. Congress members along with the former chief minister Kamal Nath also reached the assembly complex for voting. The first vote was cast by Chouhan, followed by state Home Minister Narottam Mishra. The BJP has fielded senior leader and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and former professor of a government college Sumer Singh Solanki for the Rajya Sabha polls. The Congress has fielded party veteran Digvijaya Singh and Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya for the crucial elections. For winning a seat in the Rajya Sabha polls, a candidate needs 52 votes and as per the numerical strength of the two parties, BJP is set to win two seats as it has 107 MLAs of its own and enjoys the support of two MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), one MLA of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and two Independents, party sources said. The saffron party has the support of 112 in the 230-member Assembly whose effective strength is 206. Scindia and Solanki, thus, can get the 52 votes each needed for victory. In the 230-member Madhya Pradesh assembly, 24 seats are currently vacant. Congress has been left with 92 MLAs after 22 of its legislators, including six ministers, quit the party in support of Scindia's move to join the BJP. Thus, Congress is set to win a single seat out of the total three for which polls are being held, sources added. The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) had asked 54 of its 92 MLAs to cast their first preference vote for Digvijaya Singh. The former chief minister needs 52 votes to get elected to Rajya Sabha for the second consecutive term. Baraiya, placed after Singh in the pecking order by his party, does not have the numbers on his side to win.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/voting-for-three-rajya-sabha-seats-in-madhya-pradesh-commences-851280.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Voting for four Rajya Sabha seats begins in Gujarat||Voting for the four Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat began here on Friday, where the contest between the Congress and the BJP is likely to go down to the wire as none of the two parties has absolute numbers. The BJP has fielded three candidates for four seats, while the Congress has given tickets to two candidates. The BJP, with its numbers, can easily win two seats, while the Congress can bag one seat. But there is a tough fight for the fourth seat between the two parties. Both the parties have expressed hope that all their candidates will win the Rajya Sabha polls. BJP has fielded Abhay Bharadwaj, Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin, while the Congress has fielded Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki. Every voter (MLA) is being screened for temperatures and will have use mask and maintain social distance. For those with fever or other symptoms, a separate waiting room has been kept. Earlier, one MLA from the Congress and three from BJP had tested positive for coronavirus but all of them have recovered now. As per the numbers, each candidate will require the support of 35 MLAs to win the seat. While the BJP has 103 MLAs, Congress has 65, Bharatiya Tribal Party has two seats, NCP has one and independent candidate Jignesh Mewani holds one seat. Although the total strength of the assembly is 182, its effective strength has come down to 172 as 10 assembly seats are currently vacant -- eight due to resignations of Congress MLAs and two due to court cases. The counting of votes will begin at 5 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/voting-for-four-rajya-sabha-seats-begins-in-gujarat-851282.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||India-China Border: AAP, RJD not invited for all-party meeting called by PM Modi, spurs controversy||The all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday on the situation in India-China border landed in a controversy with the government not extending an invite to RJD, AAP, JD(S) and some others left them fuming, with some MPs protested in Parliament House while some others shot off angry letters. Parties like RJD, AAP and AIMIM accused the government of playing politics on an issue of national sovereignty and not taking everyone together. Sources said the government had set a criteria to invite only parties with five or more MPs in Parliament for the digital meet, where the Prime Minister will brief the top leaders of parties and hear their views on the way ahead, in a repeat of what it did during a similar meeting on Covid-19 situation in April. However, RJD with five MPs did not get an invite despite having the requisite numbers while parties like CPI with three MPs attended the meeting. There are 27 parties in Parliament, which have less than five members, while 17 have more than five or more MPs. A fuming RJD MPs held a protest near Gandhi Statue in Parliament in the afternoon while its senior MP Manoj K Jha shot off a letter to Modi, saying the "blatant nature of this exclusion will be a matter of record" as several parties with lesser numbers of MPs were invited to the meeting. Top RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav had on Thursday night tweeted that his party would like to know the criteria for inviting political parties for the meeting and the grounds for inclusion or exclusion. AAP's Rajya Sabha leader Sanjay Singh also raised the issue, saying parties with lesser numbers have been invited while ignoring three-time “elected” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. AAP has four MPs and is one of the prominent Opposition parties in Punjab. While JD(S) supremo and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda did not talk about invitation, he issued a statement urging the government to ensure the “nationalist rhetoric” is toned down and it should not encourage reactionary language of economic boycott, whose "implications are deep". Sources said the government reached out to parties like TDP, Muslim League and CPI with less than five MPs. However, only CPI with three MPs made it to the meeting with its General Secretary D Raja attending the meeting. “It is a pity that JD(S), RJD and AAP were not invited. The former PM Shri HD Deve Gowda had some very important points to raise,” CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, who attended the meeting, said. Excluded from the meeting, AIMIM party chief Asaduddin Owaisi also shot off a letter to Modi saying it was "unfortunate" that his party was not invited at a time when "national consensus and a unified response" is essential". He demanded convening the Parliament to discuss the issue as well as a White Paper, which provides details like how much Indian territory is under Chinese occupation since 2014. "We have not been invited and the government's bogus argument has been exposed," RJD's Jha told DH.  In his letter to Modi, Jha said RJD is the main opposition party in Bihar, which has a strategic location in the relations with neighbouring countries in South Asia because of the open border with Nepal. "It is regrettable that electoral victory is being used to exclude a historically important party from having a say in a matter of such crucial national interest. But it is even more regrettable that the Parliament Secretariat is unable to count MPs properly," he said adding that it has five MPs, "which makes us qualify for this strange and arbitrary criteria" set by the government to attend the meeting. AAP's Singh said, "there is a strange ego-driven government at the centre. AAP has a government in Delhi and is the main opposition in Punjab. We have four MPs. But on a vital subject, AAP's views are not needed? The country is waiting for what the Prime Minister will say at the meeting." He said the government should have invited all parties and it was condemnable that it felt that there was no need to hear the views of AAP. "Why are doing politics at this critical juncture when the country should remain united? You talk about 'sabke saath, sabka vikas' (With everyone, development for all). But you don't want to take everyone along," he added. The AAP leader also accused the government of not keeping all facts regarding the situation on the border on the table and hiding things. Former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha tweeted, "it is low level politics not to invite RJD and AAP to the all party meeting on the border clash with China. It is shocking." It is low level politics not to invite RJD and AAP to the all party meeting on the border clash with China. It is shocking. "Exclusion of AAP and RJD in all-party meet on a National debate does not augur well. AAP is ruling Delhi and has its CM. Why should people of Delhi be kept out in such an important debate on National integrity and Sovereignty?" former NCP MP Majeed Memon tweeted. Exclusion of AAP and RJD in all party meet on a National debate doesnot augment well. AAP is ruling Delhi and has its CM. Why should people of Delhi be kept out in such an important debate on National integrity and Sovereignity ? Just before the all-party meeting on COVID-19 situation, Raja had written a letter to Modi demanding that the government should not get into "technicality" and discuss the issue with all parties in Parliament. CPI was not invited to the meeting then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-border-aap-rjd-not-invited-for-all-party-meeting-called-by-pm-modi-spurs-controversy-851305.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah wishes Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain speedy recovery from COVID-19||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday wished speedy recovery of COVID-19-infected Delhi's Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who has been shifted to an ICU after his condition deteriorated. "Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi, who is battling with COVID-19 infection," Shah tweeted. Jain, who is in hospital for COVID-19 treatment, has been diagnosed with pneumonia and is being shifted to an ICU as his condition has deteriorated, officials said on Friday. According to doctors treating him, the 55-year-old minister has now been kept full-time on oxygen support as his oxygen saturation level (Spo2) has dipped. On Sunday, Jain had attended a high-level meeting on the coronavirus situation in the national capital, convened by the home minister and attended by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan besides others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-wishes-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-speedy-recovery-from-covid-19-851410.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Jyotiraditya Scindia, Digvijaya Singh win Rajya Sabha poll from Madhya Pradesh||As expected, BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki easily won Rajya Sabha election garnering 56 and 55 votes while Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh emerged victorious with 57 votes out of the 206 votes cast for three seats on Friday. The second Congress candidate Phool Singh Barraiya failed to make a cut, falling way behind the requisite 52 votes to elect candidates. He managed to garner 36 votes.   The last MLA to cast vote was Congress’s Kunal Choudhary wearing a PPE kit as he is in quarantine after being detected positive for Covid-19. He was brought in an ambulance at the voting centre. He returned to the hospital after voting. Before his turn came, the voting centre was evacuated and sanitised. Samajwadi Party’s lone MLA Rajesh Singh and BSP’s Sanjiv Kushwaha voted in favour of the BJP candidates, saying they did so on the voice of their conscience. The BJP, which entered the fray with support of 112 MLAs including two BSP’s, one Samawvadi Party and three independents, suffered the loss of two votes. One BJP MLA did cross-voting while the other’s was rejected. One vote of the Congress was also rejected.   Rejection of votes surprised both the parties because they had conducted a mock poll for two days to ensure that no vote is wasted. After thorough counselling to the MLAs, the chief whips of the Congress and BJP had issued whips.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jyotiraditya-scindia-digvijaya-singh-win-rajya-sabha-poll-from-madhya-pradesh-851464.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Congress' Digvijaya, BJP's Scindia and Solanki win Rajya Sabha polls||Veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and BJP candidates Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki on Friday won Rajya Sabha election from Madhya Pradesh, an official said. The Congress' other candidate, Dalit leader Phool Singh Barriya, lost the election. Digvijaya Singh bagged 57 votes, Scindia 56 and Solanki 55, the poll official said. Barriya got 36 votes in the biennial election to three vacant seats from Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-digvijaya-bjps-scindia-and-solanki-win-rajya-sabha-polls-851474.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Was there intelligence failure on situation along LAC with China: Sonia Gandhi asks government at all-party meet||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday asked the government whether there was any intelligence failure on the situation along the LAC where 20 army personnel were killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops, and sought an assurance from the prime minister that status quo ante would be restored at the border and China will revert to its original position. In her introductory remarks at an all-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Gandhi posed a set of questions to the government, asking specifics about when Chinese troops intruded into the Indian territory in Ladakh and whether the country's external intelligence agencies did not report any unusual activity there. "The question is, what next? What is the way forward? The entire country would like an assurance that the status quo ante would be restored and China will revert to the original position on the Line of Actual Control," she said. Gandhi alleged that valuable time was lost between May 5 and June 6 and the government failed to use all avenues of talks to ease the situation and the result was the loss of 20 lives as well as injury to dozens of personnel. She also asked about the current status of the Mountain Strike Corps, with two mountain infantry divisions, that was sanctioned in 2013. "Should the government not treat it with utmost priority," she asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/was-there-intelligence-failure-on-situation-along-lac-with-china-sonia-gandhi-asks-government-at-all-party-meet-851476.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Congress wins 2 Rajya Sabha seats from Rajasthan, BJP 1||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan won two Rajya Sabha seats, while the opposition BJP got one in elections held in the state on Friday. KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi of the Congress were declared winner, while Rajendra Gehlot of the BJP also got elected, an assembly spokesperson said. The BJP had fielded a second candidate as well, Onkar Singh Lakhawat, but he lost. With this, the number of Congress party's Rajya Sabha MPs from Rajasthan has increased to three, out of a total of 10. The rest seven are BJP members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-wins-2-rajya-sabha-seats-from-rajasthan-bjp-1-851482.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||BJP wins eight of 19 Rajya Sabha seats, Congress four||BJP won eight of the 19 Rajya Sabha seats, while Congress had to be content with four victories in the elections to the Upper House held in eight states on Friday. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who recently quit the Congress to join the BJP, made his maiden entry into the Upper House from Madhya Pradesh, while AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal made it to the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan. YSRCP swept the Rajya Sabha elections in Andhra Pradesh, winning all the four seats comfortably. BJP won three of the four seats in Gujarat, two of three seats in Madhya Pradesh and one seat each in Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Manipur. The elections were fought closely in Manipur and Gujarat with Congress alleging irregularities in the voting process and moving the Election Commission which dismissed the complaints and gave the go ahead for the counting process late Friday evening. BJP’s Leisemba Sanajaoba’s victory in Manipur was significant as the party-led government was on a sticky wicket after its allies and a section of the party MLAs shifted allegiance to the Congress. Prominent winners of the Congress were Digvijay Singh (Madhya Pradesh), Shaktisinh Gohil (Gujarat) and Neeraj Dangi (Rajasthan). Former Union Minister Bharatsinh Solanki lost the election in Gujarat, where three Congress MLAs had quit the party ahead of the polls and two allies did not turn up to vote. Besides Leisemba and Scindia, the BJP winners were Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin (all Gujarat), Sumer Singh Solanki (Madhya Pradesh), Rajendra Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Deepak Acharya (Jharkhand). In Andhra Pradesh, the YSRCP ensured easy win for its four candidates – Pilli Subhaschandra Bose, M Venkata Ramana, Parimal Nathwani and Ayodhya Rami Reddy to the Rajya Sabha. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha veteran Shibu Soren was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Jharkhand. In Meghalaya, National Peoples’ Party candidate Wanweiroy Kharlukhi won the lone seat while Mizo National Front candidate K Kanlalvena emerged victorious from Mizoram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-wins-eight-of-19-rajya-sabha-seats-congress-four-851510.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||China's aggression on border with India brings into question Modi Govt's policy||China’s aggression along its disputed boundary with India has brought into question the policy, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has been pursuing over the past two years to mend New Delhi’s ties with the neighbouring communist country.   The Modi Government has been carefully avoiding hurting the sensitivities of China, be it on the issue of Tibet or Taiwan or Hong Kong. It started sometime in early 2018, when New Delhi was trying to bring back on track its relation with Beijing after it had reached its nadir over the 72-day-long military face-off between the two nations in Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan the previous year. Two months before the Prime Minister had an “informal summit” with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in central China on April 27 and 28, 2018, the cabinet secretariat issued an advisory in New Delhi asking “senior leaders” and “government functionaries” in the states as well as at the Centre to stay away from events attended by the Dalai Lama. It also made the Tibetan Government-in-Exile based at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh scale down an event it was planning to hold to mark the 60th anniversary of the Dalai Lama’s escape to India in the wake of Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s occupation of Tibet in 1959. New Delhi’s move was obviously intended to avoid irking Beijing ahead of Modi-Xi “informal summit”. Nudged by Beijing, India in July 2018 virtually re-asserted its adherence to “One-China” policy, with the national carrier Air India replacing “Taiwan” with “Chinese Taipei” in the list of destinations on its website. When Modi took oath for his second term in office on May 30, 2019, the chief of Tibetan Government-in-Exile, Lobsang Sangay, was not invited to the swearing-in ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. His presence in the same ceremony five years ago had riled China. New Delhi also maintained silence on protests in Hong Kong. Unlike many other nations, India did not send any official of its consulate in Hong Kong to go out and meet the protesters when they came at the gate of the mission on June 26, 2019. Beijing, however, did not bother to reciprocate to the series of gestures by New Delhi. It continued to oppose India’s bid to get the membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group. It supported its “iron brother” Pakistan’s campaign against India at the United Nations on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. It continued to China-Pakistan Economic Corridor through areas India claims to be its own and accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying. No wonder, the continuing stand-off along the disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh, particularly the brutal killing of 20 Indian Army soldiers in a premeditated attack by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army personnel at Galwan Valley has triggered call for the Modi Government to give a hard look to the policy it has been pursuing in its engagement with Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chinas-aggression-on-border-with-india-brings-into-question-modi-govts-policy-851515.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||China’s attack was pre-planned: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||The attack by Chinese troops on Indian Army personnel in Ladakh was pre-planed said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday at the all-party meeting. According to a release issued by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) the Chief Minister said that she welcomes the Centre's decision to convene the all-party meeting and will support whatever decision the Centre takes regarding the issue. “We fully support whatever decision the Central government takes for the country but we should also exercise precaution,” she said.  The Chief Minister said that even it causes problems Chinese companies should be kept out of India’s railways, telecommunication and civil aviation sector. “We want peaceful coexistence with all our neighbors but we cannot ever compromise when our nation’s sovereignty and territorial integrity is violated,” said Banerjee. Terming China as a “dictatorship” the Chief Minister said that India will ultimately emerge victorious. “India will win and China will loose. Have that strength and confidence. Let us speak with unity. Let us think with unit. Let us work with unity,” said Banerjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/china-s-attack-was-pre-planned-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-851533.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha seat boost for BJP in Manipur amid political crisis||The victory of BJP candidate in Manipur in the Rajya Sabha election on Friday came as a boost for the saffron party grappling with the "political crisis" since resignation of nine MLAs from the coalition government on Wednesday. BJP candidate for the lone Rajya Sabha seat, Leishema Sanajaoba, the titular king received 28 of the 52 votes polled on Friday. Congress' T. Mangibabu got 24 votes even as the party on Thursday claimed the support of 26 MLAs. The traditional king enjoys strong reputation and respect in Manipur society. "It is a big victory for BJP and for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership. This shows people of Manipur are with the BJP," Chief Minister N. Biren Singh told reporters at Imphal minutes after the result for Rajya Sabha polls was announced. The result was delayed due to complaint by the opposition Congress over Speaker Yumnum Khemchand's decision to allow three of the seven Congress MLAs, who had earlier switched over to BJP, to vote on Friday. The seven MLAs were earlier barred by Manipur high court from entering the Assembly till the Speaker's decision regarding their disqualification under anti-defection law. Congress on Thursday sought removal of the Speaker alleging "authoritarian style" of functioning in the disqualification issue. Three BJP MLAs and the lone Trinamul Congress legislators, who resigned on Wednesday and joined a Congress-led front were also not allowed to vote in the Rajya Sabha polls. Sources said two Congress MLAs cross voted in favour of Sanajaoba giving an edge to the BJP candidate in the middle of the political crisis. The victory comes a day after nine MLAs, three from BJP, four from NPP, one from TMC and one Independent resigned from N. Biren Singh-led coalition government, which wrested power from Congress in 2017. All nine later joined the Congress-led Secular Progressive Front and decided to support efforts to topple the government. The front led by former Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh met Governor Najma Heptulla on Thursday and staked claim to form their government. They also sought dismissal of the "minority government" led by BJP and a special session of the Assembly for a floor test. All eyes are now on the Governor's next couse of action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-seat-boost-for-bjp-in-manipur-amid-political-crisis-851534.html
19-06-2020||National Politics||BJP fielded second candidate with sole intention to defeat Congress's Dalit nominee: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday alleged that the BJP fielded a second candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections only because it wanted to defeat the Congress' Dalit candidate Neeraj Dangi. The BJP knew that they did not have the numbers for winning two seats. Despite this, they fielded a second candidate, he said. In Rajasthan, elections were held on three Rajya Sabha on Friday. While the Congress won two seats, the BJP got one. "They knew that they did not have the numbers. Despite this, they fielded an extra candidate just because one candidate from the Congress, Neeraj Dangi, is a Dalit. The BJP people are anti-Dalit and therefore they deliberately fielded their (second) candidate for defeating Dangi," Gehlot told reporters after the announcement of results. "Their conspiracy has been exposed. They are the killers of democracy. They wanted to do what they did in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh but the voting pattern today remained the same as we had expected. This is a big victory," he said. He said the Congress was supported by independents and parties like Communist Party of India and Bharatiya Tribal Party, among others. Both Congress candidates, AICC general secretary and former Union minister K C Venugopal and state unit general secretary Neeraj Dangi were declared elected. Rajasthan BJP vice president Rajendra Gehlot won the third Rajya Sabha seat. Onkar Singh Lakhawat, the second candidate fielded by the opposition party, lost. Ahead of the elections, the state witnessed political drama as Gehlot and other Congress leaders alleged that the BJP was trying to poach the ruling party's MLAs. The Congress had confined its MLAs, independents and other supporting party MLAs to a resort. The BJP had rejected the charge as theatrics. Earlier this week, the opposition party too shifted its MLAs to a hotel, saying it wanted them to get some "training" for the Rajya Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-fielded-second-candidate-with-sole-intention-to-defeat-congresss-dalit-nominee-ashok-gehlot-851554.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Journalist booked over story on Varanasi woman's lockdown 'misery'||An FIR has been filed against a journalist for allegedly misrepresenting facts in a report on the impact of the lockdown in a village adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, police sources said on Thursday. The First Information Report (FIR) was filed against Supriya Sharma, the executive editor of Scroll.in, at Ramnagar Police Station based on a complaint from Mala Devi, a resident of Domari village, they said. Domari village, which falls in Varanasi constituency, was adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana. The news report had quoted Mala Devi as having said that she is a domestic worker and had been facing shortage of essential food items as she did not have a ration card. Mala Devi alleged that the journalist misquoted her, according to the police sources. Mala Devi complained that she was not a domestic help but worked as a sanitation worker with Varanasi city municipality through outsourcing. She also said none of her family members faced any problem during the lockdown . In the FIR, she accused Sharma of "mocking my poverty and caste" by claiming that she and her children went hungry during the lockdown. Police booked Sharma under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-booked-over-story-on-varanasi-womans-lockdown-misery-851185.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19:Centre pitches for unified strategy for Delhi-NCR; Delhi ramps up testing with rapid tests||The Centre on Thursday pitched for a unified strategy for Delhi and its satellite cities to tackle the coronavirus pandemic, while the city government ramped up COVID-19 diagnosis by commencing testing through the rapid antigen method. With 2,877 fresh instances, the total number of coronavirus cases here reached 49,979, while the death toll climbed to 1,969. The national capital now has 26,669 active cases.  The satellites cities of Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad have nearly 7,630 cases and together reported 142 deaths. While reviewing the coronavirus situation in Delhi-NCR, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the satellite cities like Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad cannot be separated from the national capital in this battle. “The home minister favoured a unified strategy for Delhi-NCR to tackle the coronavirus,” a home ministry source said. Besides Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava, senior officials of NCR districts and Ministries of Home and Health and ICMR attended the meeting. Shah assured the NCR districts that the central government will provide all support to them in their fight against the coronavirus pandemic, another source said. Delhi and its satellite cities -- an urban belt sprawling across three states -- has one of the highest population densities in the country. A large number of people reside in Delhi and work in the satellite cities or vice versa. The NCR comprises districts belonging to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, the prominent ones being Gurgaon, Faridabad (both in Haryana), Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) and Ghaziabad (both in UP). “In view of the structure of Delhi-NCR region, all concerned bodies need to unite and work on a common strategy against the coronavirus pandemic. In this context, I met with Delhi Chief Minister and senior officials of Center and Delhi-NCR today to discuss how to evolve a strategy as soon as possible,” Shah tweeted. On the meeting by Shah with officials of Delhi-NCR, a home ministry statement said the minister said an expert committee decided the rates for COVID-19 beds and treatment in Delhi, and these could be applied in hospitals in the NCR cities after consultations.       It would be better to conduct COVID-19 testing through the new rapid antigen methodology approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which will ramp up the testing capacity and help in early diagnosis and treatment, he said. Shah also directed officials from UP and Haryana governments to submit information about COVID-19 beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, ICU and ambulances available with them and their plan to augment these resources by July 15 to the Union Home Ministry so that a common strategy can be devised in the NCR in the battle against the virus, the statement said. Shah said there was need to scale-up testing for COVID-19 and provide treatment to those found positive. The home minister also suggested that the NCR districts can consider adopting Rs 2,400 charge fixed for COVID-19 testing in Delhi. Meanwhile, the national capital commenced the new rapid antigen test at 169 centres in and around containment zones of the city. A total of 341 teams are involved in rapid antigen testing which makes results available within 30 minutes, an official said. People with mild symptoms or no symptoms at all can get themselves tested, another official said. A total of 7,040 people were tested for coronavirus of which 456 turned positive, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. In the initial phase, tests will be conducted only on those who live in containment zones, he added. S G Kishan Reddy, Union Minister of State for Home, said the Centre plans to conduct six lakh rapid antigen tests at these 169 facilities. Delhi currently has 431 ventilators and the central government will provide 500 more to hospitals in the city. Similarly, the Centre will provide 650 ambulances to add to the 350 that the city already has, Reddy added. Kejriwal tweeted, "Two important things happened today. COVID-19 testing rates in Delhi have been reduced to Rs 2,400 and rapid-antigen testing has started. I hope people won't face any problem in getting themselves tested now." Those who came to get themselves tested at a centre in Sunlight Colony in southeast Delhi said the entire process took only about an hour. The centre started operating at 10 am and by around 5 pm 125 swab samples were collected, a healthcare worker said. A healthcare worker at the testing centre said each testing kit costs Rs 450 and can provide results within 30 minutes as compared to RT-PCR test that takes three to four hours. The kits, called Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection, have been developed by South Korean company S D Biosensor. The testing method involves looking for antibodies which are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen. If a person has antibodies associated with novel coronavirus, it means the person is either COVID-19 positive or has recovered. Shah has had a series of meetings with Delhi L-G Anil Baijal, Kejriwal and senior officials in the last four days to strengthen Delhi's health infrastructure. On June 4, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing interstate movement at all borders in the NCR. It also observed that there should be a consistent policy in this regard for the NCR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19centre-pitches-for-unified-strategy-for-delhi-ncr-delhi-ramps-up-testing-with-rapid-tests-851191.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Body of COVID-19 positive man found inside his car in west Delhi||The body of a 38-year-old man, who had tested COVID-19 positive a couple of days back, was found inside his car in west Delhi's Moti Nagar area on Thursday, police said. The deceased has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Moti Nagar. He owned a motor mechanic shop in Jwalaheri area, they said. Police received information at 3.25 pm about the body inside the car which was parked near Jhulelal Mandir foot over bridge in Moti Nagar, a senior police officer said. Police found that the car was locked and the AC was on, the officer said. It is suspected that the man died due to a cardiac arrest, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-covid-19-positive-man-found-inside-his-car-in-west-delhi-851195.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Martyred jawan's body to reach his village in Madhya Pradesh||The mortal remains of martyred soldier Nayak Deepak Singh will reach his ancestral village in Madhya Pradesh's Rewa district on Friday morning, an official said. Singh was among 20 Indian Army personnel who were killed in a violent clash with Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. "The mortal remains of the martyred soldier reached Prayagraj from Leh in the evening. On Friday morning his body will be brought to his ancestral village Faranda for last rites with full military honours," the official said. Paying tributes to Deepak Singh, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that his family will be paid an honorarium of Rs one crore and given a pucca house. He salutes the sacrifice made by the martyred soldier who laid down his life for the nation happily, Chouhan said. A member of the family will also be given a government job, he said. Rewa division commissioner Rajesh Jain and collector T Illaiya Raja visited Faranda on Thursday to oversee arrangements for the funeral. "I will come on leave after lockdown ends," were the parting words of Deepak to his grand-mother when he spoke to her last on phone. He had got married in November 2019. He joined the Army in 2013 and was posted at Galwan valley in Ladakh with Bihar Regiment. His father Gajraj Singh is a farmer, while elder brother Prakash Singh is also an armyman and posted at Jaisalmer, family sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/martyred-jawans-body-to-reach-his-village-in-madhya-pradesh-851200.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Six more militants killed in two encounters in J&K||Six more militants were killed in two separate encounters with security forces in Pulwama and Shopian districts of Jammu and Kashmir, taking the number of ultras killed in the overnight operations to eight, officials said. While two militants were killed in the Pulwama encounter, four were killed in Shopian operation on Friday, the officials said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Meej in Pampore area of Pulwama, in South Kashmir, on Thursday morning after receiving specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a search party of the forces. One militant was killed in the gunfight on Thursday, but two more ultras entered a nearby mosque to take refuge inside it, the official said. He said the cordon around the mosque was maintained throughout the night. On Friday morning, security forces used tear smoke shells to force the holed up militants out of the mosque, the officials said, adding the two were then killed by the forces while maintaining the sanctity of the religious place. In total, three militants were killed in the operation. Inspector-General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said no firing or IED was used to force the militants out of the Mosque. "Patience and professionalism worked. No use of firing an IED. Used tear smoke shells only. Maintained sanctity of the mosque. Both terrorists hiding inside mosque neutralised," the IGP said. In another anti-militancy operation at Munand-Bandpava area of Shopian, which also began on Thursday, four more militants were killed on Friday morning, defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said. The forces had launched the operation thereafter receiving intelligence inputs about the presence of militants there. While one militant was killed in the operation there on Thursday, four more were gunned down on Friday, Col Kalia said, taking the number of ultras killed in the encounter to five. In total, eight militants were killed in these two overnight operations in the last 24 hours. The IGP Kashmir has congratulated the security forces in Kashmir for killing 100 militants in the valley this year so far. "IGP Kashmir Shri Vijay Kumar #congratulates “Team Kashmir" for completing a #century on the front of #AntiTerrorist operations. @JmuKmrPolice," Kashmir Zone Police said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-more-militants-killed-in-two-encounters-in-jk-851278.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya suspended amidst India-China border tension||Amidst the Indo-China border tensions, the Ram Mandir trust has put on hold its plan to begin the construction of the temple in Ayodhya. The decision comes days after a violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh left 20 Indian Army personnel dead. Expressing concern over the killing of Indian soldiers, the trust which has been charged with the construction of the temple after the historic Supreme Court verdict last year, said a new date will be decided soon. "The decision to begin construction (of temple) will be taken according to the situation in the country and will be announced officially," Anil Mishra, member of the trust told PTI. In an official communique, the trust said that the situation at the India-China border is “serious” and defending the country is “most important”. The trust also paid tributes to the soldiers. Meanwhile, different Hindu organisations staged protests against China in Ayodhya. While Hindu Mahasabha activists burned the Chinese flag, activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) burned the effigy of Chinese President Xi Jinping and smashed Chinese-made products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-construction-in-ayodhya-suspended-amidst-india-china-border-tension-851291.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Admit COVID-19 patients on regular beds: Aurangabad official to private hospitals||As on Thursday, Maharashtra's Aurangabad district had recorded 3,106 COVID-19 cases, of which 1,709 patients have recovered from the infection, while 166 have succumbed to it.  In a meeting here on Thursday, the collector asked hospitals to inform the civic authorities before treating COVID-19 patients or suspects and shift them to a dedicated facility if beds were available, the official said. Private hospitals were also directed to admit patients, irrespective of whether they were referred by the civic body, to ensure timely treatment and accommodate them on regular beds if ICU ones were unavailable, he said. The collector further asked private hospitals to reserve two beds in their casualty wards with oxygen facilities, till the time beds were made available at dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, he said. If some patients don't show any symptoms of coronavirus infection after five days of treatment, they can be shifted to civic-run COVID-19 care centres to recuperate, the official said, adding that this will free the beds for more patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/admit-covid-19-patients-on-regular-beds-aurangabad-official-to-private-hospitals-851297.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Prepare plan to set up COVID-19 testing labs in all districts: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||The chief minister gave the instructions during a meeting with nodal officers of 11 coronavirus-hit districts including Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar late on Thursday night, an official release said on Friday. The chief minister sought from the officials a detailed work plan for setting up the labs in all the districts of the state, the release said. The chief minister held a video conferencing with nodal officers of 11 districts including Meerut, Agra, Firozabad, Kanpur Nagar, Aligarh, Moradabad, Bulandshahar, Jhansi and Basti besides Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad and reviewed the situation there, the release said. Adityanath had appointed the nodal officers to better evaluate the situation in each of the districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prepare-plan-to-set-up-covid-19-testing-labs-in-all-districts-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-851311.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||India-China border tension: Chinese attack in Galwan pre-planned, Centre was fast asleep, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused senior ministers in the government of "lying" to protect the prime minister and that the Centre was "fast asleep" while martyred jawans paid the price in Ladakh. "It's sad to see senior GOI ministers reduced to lying in order to protect the PM. Don't insult our martyrs with your lies," he tweeted using the hashtag ‘BJPBetraysOurJawans’. Gandhi also tagged a one-minute video of a jawan's father saying the Indian soldiers were unarmed when they were attacked by Chinese troops. The Congress leader’s attack on the Union ministers comes after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar rebutted him saying all Indian troops guarding the border with China carry arms. Jaishankar was replying to Gandhi's poser on why Army personnel in Galwan Valley were sent "unarmed to martyrdom". "It's now crystal clear that: The Chinese attack in Galwan was pre-planned. GOI was fast asleep and denied the problem. The price was paid by our martyred Jawans," Gandhi earlier said on Twitter. It’s now crystal clear that: 1. The Chinese attack in Galwan was pre-planned. 2. GOI was fast asleep and denied the problem. He had also tagged a report quoting Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik saying the attack was pre-planned by China and the Indian forces would give a befitting reply. Gandhi's remarks also come ahead of an all-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday evening to discuss the situation along the India-China border. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. Gandhi has been questioning the government on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) stand off and asking how the Chinese occupied Indian territory and why Indian soldiers were sent "unarmed to martyrdom" in Ladakh. The external affairs minister on Thursday said armies of the two sides do not use firearms as per provisions of bilateral agreements sealed in 1996 and 2005. "Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on 15 June did so," Jaishankar said on Twitter. He also said there was a long-standing practice between the two countries of not resorting to use of firearms in faceoffs in view of the two agreements of 1996 and 2005. Hitting out at the incident, Gandhi, in a video message, had said, "China has committed a big crime by killing unarmed Indian soldiers. I want to ask who sent these bravehearts towards danger without arms and why. Who is responsible for this?” "How dare China kill our UNARMED soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent UNARMED to martyrdom," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-border-tension-chinese-attack-in-galwan-pre-planned-centre-was-fast-asleep-says-rahul-gandhi-851316.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Two labourers commit suicide in separate incidents in UP's Banda||Two laborers allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves in separate incidents in the district, police said on Friday. The body of Rajju (21), who had returned from Vapi in Gujarat around 25 days ago, was found in Tendra locality under Bisanda Police Station area on Thursday, sub-inspector in-charge of Oran police chowki, Sultan Singh said. In the second incident in Mahotara village under Atarra Police Station area, Brij Raghav Yadav (36), took the extreme step allegedly due to a financial crisis, SHO Ravindra Tiwari said. Father of Raghav, who was a mason, said that he was unemployed for the last two months and the financial crunch led to frequent fights in the house. The bodies were handed over to the family members after post mortem examination, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-labourers-commit-suicide-in-separate-incidents-in-ups-banda-851326.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Indore detects 55 fresh COVID-19 cases; tally reaches 4,246||At least 55 new cases of COVID-19 were detected in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 4,246 in the region, a health official said on Friday. Of the 2,439 swab samples tested on Thursday, results of 55 persons were found to be positive, the official said. Four persons, including an 80-year-old man and a 74- year-old woman, have died of the deadly infection at hospitals in the city, the official said, without providing specific dates for these casualties. With these four deaths, the toll in the district now stands at 189, he said. The 55 fresh cases have taken the district's tally to 4,246, of which 3,149 patients have recovered from the infection, the official said. As per the official data, the district's recovery rate was nearly 74 per cent, while the COVID-19 mortality rate was at 4.45 per cent till Friday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-detects-55-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-4246-851327.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||NCP leaders wish Rahul Gandhi on his birthday||Several NCP leaders, including Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, extended greetings to former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on his 50th birthday on Friday. "Best Wishes to @RahulGandhi ji on his birthday today. Wish you a happy and healthy life always!" Pawar tweeted. Praising the Wayanad MP, Pawar said that he has been ably carrying forward the Grand Old Party's ideology and legacy of the Nehru-Gandhi family. "The aspirations of the people of the country are linked to you. Hope you get the strength and long life to fulfil those," Pawar said in his message. NCP MP Supriya Sule tweeted, "Wishing @RahulGandhi Ji - Happy Birthday. Have a Healthy Year Ahead!" Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik also wished Gandhi and hailed him for exhibiting "remarkable vision and exemplary leadership". "May you continue to spread optimism," he tweeted and wished "abundance of happiness, good health and success" to the Congress leader. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, too, took to the micro-blogging site to extend wishes to the Congress parliamentarian. NCP and Congress are part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncp-leaders-wish-rahul-gandhi-on-his-birthday-851340.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||'Minor improvement' in MP Governor Lalji Tandon's condition; continues to be on ventilator, says hospital||There is a slight improvement in the condition of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon but he is still on the ventilator, hospital officials said on Friday. "There has been a very minor improvement in the condition of the Madhya Pradesh governor but he is still on the ventilator. His condition continues to be serious but under control," Medanta Hospital Director, Rakesh Kapoor told PTI.  A team of specialist doctors is continuously keeping a watch on him, Kapoor said. The director of Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) R K Dhiman, specialist doctors of the King George's Medical University are being consulted for the treatment of Tandon, Kapoor said. Tandon (85), was admitted to the Medanta Hospital here on June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-improvement-in-mp-governor-lalji-tandons-condition-continues-to-be-on-ventilator-says-hospital-851345.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||High-level panel recommends slashing COVID-19 hospital charges by over 50% in Delhi||A high-level panel has recommended bringing down the charges for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals in the national capital by more than half with charges for isolation beds being capped at Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000, ICU beds Rs 13000-15000 and ICU beds with ventilators at Rs 15,000-18,000, which also includes the charges for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). In comparison, the existing rates for an isolation bed is Rs 24,000-25,000, ICU bed is Rs 34,000-43,000 and ICU beds with ventilators Rs 44,000-53,000, which does not include the charges for PPE. Earlier this week, the Delhi government had issued an order capping the rate of COVID-19 tests at Rs 2,400 following the recommendation of the Dr Paul committee. The intensive house-to-house survey, a decision taken on Sunday, in 243 containment zones for contact mapping concluded on Thursday during which 2.3 lakh people were surveyed. A Ministry of Home Affairs spokesperson said the increase in testing capacity and quick delivery of results through Rapid Antigen testing methodology was started on Thursday and 7040 people have been tested in 193 testing centres. Testing will continue with increased numbers in the coming days, he said. In view of another decision to increase testing samples, the spokesperson said "a total of testing samples of 27,263 have been collected in Delhi from June 15 to 17 against the daily collection which varied between 4,000-4,500 earlier." Except for one day between June 1 and June 14, the number of samples tested in the capital was over 4,750 a day, according to medical bulletins issued by Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-level-panel-recommends-slashing-covid-19-hospital-charges-by-over-50-in-delhi-851346.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||HC asks police to file report on AAP MLA Jarwal’s bail plea in doctor’s suicide case||The Delhi High Court Friday directed the police to file a status report by evening on a plea by AAP legislator Prakash Jarwal seeking bail in connection with a case of alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, reserved its order on the bail plea which was opposed by the counsel for Delhi Police. The court, which issued notice to the police on the bail application, also directed it to file status report along with case related documents including a dairy and doctor’s suicide note by the evening. Rajendra Singh, 52, allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18. In his suicide note, the doctor held Jarwal responsible for his death. Like Jarwal, Singh was also involved in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007, and the police alleged that the MLA and his associates were extorting money from other water-tanker owners, including the doctor. Jarwal, who was arrested on May 9, sought bail claiming that the allegations of extortion or threat levelled by the deceased doctor’s wife are “mala fide” and the doctor or his family members never made any complaint to the police in the last 6 years.  Three-time MLA Jarwal, represented through senior advocate Rebecca John and lawyer Ravi Drall, said the alleged suicide note was fabricated and it was in two different handwritings with different pens. The plea said the doctor’s wife has given a complaint to the Delhi Jal Board on April 9, a week before the suicide, but there was no allegations of extortion and his name was not mentioned anywhere. It claimed that the investigation was completed in the case and he was in judicial custody since 40 days and there was no proof of extortion or instigation for suicide A trial court had dismissed his bail plea on May 28 saying the investigation was at a crucial stage. Jarwal, who represents the Deoli assembly constituency, was arrested on May 9, after a case of extortion and abetment to suicide was filed against him and others based on a police complaint by the doctor's son -- Hemant. His close aide Kapil Nagar is co-accused in the case. The FIR alleged that Singh had been threatened and intimidated by Jarwal and others.  During investigation it was found that there was a big nexus between water-tanker owners and the accused person," the police had said. Police had said earlier that their investigation showed the money extorted from water-tanker owners was routed through the MLA's brother Anil Jarwal and invested in several properties and farm-houses in Delhi, Gurugram (Haryana) and Jaipur (Rajasthan). It also claimed that Jarwal had got allotted many water borewells in his constituency by influencing the Jal Board and one water borewell was illegally given after taking Rs 10 lakh as "gratification money". The police said complaints against the accused were filed to various authorities but action was never taken. It said they have found a WhatsApp group in the name of tanker-owners whose administrator is Kapil Nagar, a co-accused and Jarwal's close aide. Jarwal was one of its members. The chat details clearly showed the direct involvement of both the accused in running the tanker mafia in Sangam Vihar and Tigri, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-police-to-file-report-on-aap-mla-jarwal-s-bail-plea-in-doctor-s-suicide-case-851353.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||MP govt to move SC over GI tag for Basmati-growing regions||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to approach the Supreme Court to challenge the Madras High Court's ruling in the matter of not providing GI (geographical indication) tag to the state's Basmati rice- growing regions, state minister Kamal Patel said on Friday. Earlier this year, the state government and a Basmati growers association lost two separate cases in the Madras high court filed in 2016, challenging the exclusion of 13 districts of the state from a map submitted by the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) for GI tags. "We are traditional growers of high-quality basmati rice. However, our farmers have not been getting the right price for the produce because of the lack of GI (geographical indication) tag," the state agriculture minister said. Earlier, the Congress government did not take the matter seriously, which is why the court ruled against the interest of the state's farmers, he alleged. After reviewing the situation, the matter has been filed in Supreme Court on May 28 and the hearing will begin soon, Patel said, adding that the government will take all possible measures to protect the interest of farmers. The matter dates back to 2008 when the APEDA filed an application before the Chennai-based assistant registrar of GI seeking GI-Tag for the basmati rice. In 2010, the state government had opposed the APEDA's application on the ground that it had excluded 13 basmati- producing districts, following which the authority directed APEDA to again file its application along with a map clearly showing areas where the rice is actually cultivated. However, the APEDA moved to Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB) against the authority and since then the litigation in the matter is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-to-move-sc-over-gi-tag-for-basmati-growing-regions-851359.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Delhi Health minister in ICU as his condition deteriorates; also diagnosed with pneumonia||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who tested positive for COVID-19 three days ago, was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on Friday after his condition deteriorated, officials said. He was first admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Monday with COVID-19 symptoms like fever and low oxygen levels. He was shifted to Max Hospital in South Delhi's Saket on Friday where he will be administered plasma therapy. Jain's oxygen level dipped and has been shifted to the ICU. He has also been diagnosed with pneumonia, officials said. "His latest CT scan report shows that the pneumonia patches in his lungs have increased. He experienced increased giddiness and tiredness today. The advice of doctors will be followed," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, "praying for the speedy recovery of Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with Covid-19 infection." Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with COVID-19 infection. He was admitted to the hospital on Monday night with COVID-19 symptoms like fever and low oxygen levels. A sample test on Tuesday returned negative but a repeat test the next day confirmed the virus infection. Following his hospitalisation, the ministries held by Jain was given to Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. The 55-year-old politician, a close aide of Kejriwal, has been in the forefront of the Delhi government's activities against the spread of the pandemic. He has been holding regular media briefings every morning. He also attended the meeting called by Shah on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-health-minister-in-icu-as-his-condition-deteriorates-also-diagnosed-with-pneumonia-851367.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Over 15,000 samples collected in 24 hours for COVID-19 testing||Over 15,000 samples were collected for testing coronavirus in the national capital within a 24-hour span, a senior official said on Friday. A total of 7,040 samples were collected for rapid antigen test and 7,972 samples were collected for the RT-PCR test for coronavirus on Thursday, the official said.  The Delhi government has also capped the rate of COVID-19 RT-PCR test at Rs 2,400 with the city witnessing an alarming spurt in coronavirus cases. On Thursday, the national capital recorded its highest spike of 2,877 cases taking the tally close to the 50,000 marks, while the death toll mounted to 1,969, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-15000-samples-collected-in-24-hours-for-covid-19-testing-851373.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Bodies of 3 martyred jawans in Galwan Valley clash reach Chandigarh, CM Amarinder Singh pays tributes||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday paid floral tributes to three Indian army personnel, who died fighting the Chinese in Galwan Valley. The mortal remains of sepoys Gurbinder Singh (Sangrur), Gurtej Singh (Mansa) and sepoy Ankush Thakur (Hamirpur, HP) were brought to the Chandigarh Air Force station from Leh and will be taken by road to their native places in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh later. "Laying a wreath on the mortal remains of Sepoys Gurbinder Singh from Sangrur, Gurtej Singh from Mansa & Ankush from Hamirpur, HP at Chandigarh. Salute their supreme sacrifice at this young age. The nation is forever indebted. Jai Hind!" Singh tweeted. "The bodies were brought from Leh to Chandigarh. We paid our tributes. The mortal remains of two soldiers from Punjab and one from Himachal Pradesh will be taken to their native places,” Singh told reporters while coming out from the Air Force station.          He termed the attack as horrendous and barbaric and said India should take strict retaliatory action. “I have said that what they (China) have done is very wrong and India should take strict action on this issue,” he said. On Thursday, two Punjab soldiers Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh who died fighting the Chinese in Galwan Valley were cremated at their native villages in Patiala and Gurdaspur districts. Four of the 20 soldiers who died in the clash in Ladakh on Monday were from Punjab. As the bodies of sepoys Gurbinder Singh and Gurtej Singh are expected to reach their villages later in their day, several youngsters including children from their villages are waiting with tricolours in their hands to pay their tributes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodies-of-3-martyred-jawans-in-galwan-valley-clash-reach-chandigarh-cm-amarinder-singh-pays-tributes-851392.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Suspended J&K DSP Davinder Singh gets bail in terror case as police fails to file charge sheet||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh, arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year, was granted bail on Friday by a court here in another terror case filed by Delhi Police after it failed to file a charge sheet within the prescribed time period. Singh and another accused in the case — Irfan Shafi Mir — were granted the relief by Special Judge Dharmender Rana in the case filed by the special cell of Delhi police, who noted that it failed to file the charge sheet within 90 days from their arrest, as prescribed under the law. In the bail applications filed on behalf of the accused, their lawyer M S Khan said that neither the police filed charge sheet within statutory period of 90 days, nor any permission was sought from the court to extend that period. “Considering the fact that despite the lapse of statutory time limit to complete investigation, charge sheet in the instant matter is not filed till date, both the accused persons are entitled to be released on bail,” the judge said, while granting the relief on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each and two sureties of like amount. Singh, however, will remain in jail since he has yet not secured bail in the case filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in relation to his arrest on January 10 this year while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway. The case was initially lodged by J&K police which was later taken over by the NIA.  Singh was suspended from the Jammu and Kashmir Police in January this year. In the current case, filed by the special cell of Delhi Police under section 18 (conspiracy for terror acts) of stringent UAPA and section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC, Singh and Mir were arrested on March 14 and 19 respectively. The special cell had brought Singh to Delhi from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir. The case relates to planning/ execution of terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country. According to Delhi Police, Sayed Naveed Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahiddeen, and others were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country as well as carry out targeted killings of protected persons. The FIR said the youth of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab are being trained for carrying out terrorist activities. The FIR also mentioned the mafia's D Company and Chhota Shakeel. According to the FIR, Delhi Police's Special Cell had received an input that the D Company, run by fugitive Indian underworld kingpin Dawood Ibrahim, is funding pro-Khalistan terrorist organisations in Punjab. Davinder Singh was taken in custody under the same FIR. The special cell had also interrogated Singh regarding the Khalistan angle, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspended-jk-dsp-davinder-singh-gets-bail-in-terror-case-as-police-fails-to-file-charge-sheet-851399.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day spike of 809 COVID-19 cases, tally rises to 16,594||Uttar Pradesh on Friday recorded the highest single-day spike of 809 coronavirus cases, with the tally rising to 16,594 in the state, officials said. The death toll due to COVID-19 mounted to 507 after 19 fresh fatalities were reported from different districts of the state, they said. The previous highest single-day spike in cases was on Thursday when the state recorded 604 cases. "Of the total infected people, 9,995 have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. The number of active cases in the state stands at 6,092," Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. He said record 17,221 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Thursday. The official said the state health department has also started random sampling. "Of the 3,475 samples taken from urban slums in 75 districts, 65 were found positive in 17 districts," he said. Prasad said 1.30 lakh teams of the health department have conducted surveys of 97 lakh houses. The additional chief secretary said the bodies of patients will be handed over to their family members without awaiting COVID-19 test report. He said family members will have to take all precautions while cremating the bodies. Besides, the state government has fixed the price of COVID-19 testing by the RT-PCR method to a maximum of Rs 2,500 and hospitals have been asked to make help desks equipped with pulse oximeters and thermal scanners to provide immediate help to patients. Prasad appealed to the people to follow social-distancing norms, use face covers and take proper care of the aged, pregnant women, children and those suffering from co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-809-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-16594-851406.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||PM Modi reviews development projects in Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reviewed various development projects in his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi, where he batted for turning it into a hub of national waterway. The presentation also highlighted the progress made in the Kashi Vishwanath Mandir complex by using a drone video of the layout.  The efforts undertaken on effective management of COVID-19 were also discussed, an official statement said.  The presentation dwelled upon development of world-class communication and connectivity infrastructure in Varanasi. "The prime minister directed that Varanasi should become a hub of national waterway connecting Haldia.  Planning should be done for development of entire ecosystem, cargo shipping and freight movement, as is being done in major port cities.  He also directed the officials to complete the expansion and modernisation work of the Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport on priority, so that Kashi becomes one of the leading cities to provide state-of-the-art rail, road, water and air connectivity, the statement said. The virtual meeting was attended by public representative of Varanasi and senior officials. He directed that appropriate skill mapping of the returning migrant workers be taken up on priority and they should be provided gainful employment on the basis of their skill sets. Feedback was also taken about the positive impact of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and state government-led COVID-19 relief schemes. Reviewing the progress of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Project, Modi directed that all such old temples, which were unearthed during the development of the Kashi Vishwanath Parisar, should be protected and preserved.  Help of experts should be taken to maintain their historical and architectural legacy. Carbon dating should also be conducted, he said. The Kashi Vishwanath Trust should prepare a route map with appropriate tourist guides to facilitate the pilgrims who make a visit in this complex, he suggested. The review meet was informed that more than 100 major projects within the financial outflow of around Rs 8,000 crore are currently being undertaken in Varanasi pertaining to creation of social and physical infrastructure like hospital buildings, national waterways, ring roads, by-pass, international convention centre and a  'Rudraksh' built with Indo-Japan collaboration. He suggested that optimum utilisation of non-renewable energy should be utilised for creation of next generation infrastructure. Saturation of households and street lights with LED bulbs should be taken on a mission mode in the entire Varanasi district, Modi told the officials. For increasing the tourism and travel footprint in Kashi, it was directed that work of cruise tourism, light and sound show, rejuvenation of Khidkiya and Dashaswamedh Ghats, display of Ganga Aarti through audio-video screens should be fast-tracked.  He directed the officials to organise week-long festivals of countries like Japan and Thailand where Buddhism is practised to celebrate their art and culture heritage. He felt that as Varanasi is a tourist destination, it should excel in all parameters of sanitation and cleanliness.  All efforts should be taken to achieve the desired levels of open defecation-free '(ODF) plus', use of mechanised sweeping and cleaning, ensuring 100 per cent door-to-door waste collection and making the entire environment very positive and healthy. The prime minister also reviewed the progress of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat announcements and directed that the benefits of this scheme should reach the citizens expeditiously.  The progress of PM SVANidhi Scheme for street vendors should be closely monitored, he said.  All street vendors should be equipped with appropriate technology and infrastructure, for helping them switch to cashless transactions, he said.  The prime minister emphasised that farmers are one of the key priorities of the government and intensive efforts should be made to enhance their incomes. He directed for promotion of beekeeping and highlighted the potential of bee wax in augmenting the income of the farmers. The officials were asked to ensure setting up a packaging institute in Varanasi on priority, so as to enable the farmers get better purchase of their products and make them export ready in Varanasi itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-reviews-development-projects-in-lok-sabha-constituency-varanasi-851416.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Teachers recruitment case: Priyanka Gandhi says Uttar Pradesh govt in 'cover-up mode'||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the teachers' recruitment case, alleging that it is in "cover-up mode" as names of people associated with the ruling dispensation have come to the fore. Taking to Twitter, she also tagged a media report which claimed that so far 11 people have been arrested in Uttar Pradesh for the alleged fraud in the recruitment of teachers in the Basic Education Department, but the main accused or its masterminds are still absconding. Those young people who worked hard, took the exam and had been waiting for the fruits of their hard work for a year, should get justice, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "In such a big scam, the government is in cover-up mode because the names of people associated with the ruling dispensation have come to the fore," she claimed. Injustice towards youth is unacceptable, the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP East said. Earlier, Priyanka Gandhi had demanded that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath must take responsibility in the matter and take "strong action" with transparency to ensure justice is done. The Congress has been strongly raising the issue after the Allahabad High Court stayed the appointment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in the state. The Lucknow bench of Justice Alok Mathur on June 3 had stayed the selection process, prima facie finding that certain questions and answers were ''ambiguous and wrong'' and, hence, it required fresh scrutiny by the UGC. The recruitment examination was held on January 6, 2019 and its result was declared on May 12 this year||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teachers-recruitment-case-priyanka-gandhi-says-uttar-pradesh-govt-in-cover-up-mode-851442.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Pak-linked terror module busted, 2 Khalistani operatives nabbed: Punjab DGP||The Punjab Police on Friday said it has busted a Pakistan-linked terror module by arresting two alleged Khalistani operatives, who were planning to carry out a series of attacks and targeted killings in the state. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh were arrested late Thursday night from a spot near Gurdaspuria Dhaba on the GT Road, under Jandiala Police Station, during a raid by an Amritsar Rural Police team, acting on a tip-off from the general public. A German-made MP5 sub-machine gun, a 9-mm pistol with four magazines, and two mobile phones with a host of incriminatory conversations, messages, photographs etc were seized from the duo, he said. "The mobile phones revealed suspicious transactions with Pakistan-based elements, including photographs, voice messages, as well as the coordinates of a particular geo-location," Gupta said. In addition, several posts and web-links propagating the formation of Khalistan were also found from the mobile phone of Gurmeet Singh, who has been in regular touch with the ISI, Pakistan’s intelligence agency, and anti-India elements sponsored by the Pakistani establishment, he said.  A case has been registered under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Arms Act, and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, he said. According to the DGP, 44-year-old Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Ganda Singh Colony, Sultanwind Road, Amritsar, revealed during questioning that the photographs and voice messages had been shared with them by their Pakistan-based handlers to locate and pick up sophisticated weapons kept at that location by their associates. He further revealed that their Pakistan-based handlers had been instructing them to carry out terror attacks in Punjab, especially targeting persons belonging to a particular community, to further the cause of Khalistan. Gurmeet Singh further disclosed that he had visited Pakistan about 3 years ago to meet his handlers. "Gurmeet Singh was earlier involved in a case of fraud with his brother, and a case was registered against him in Police station B-Division, Amritsar," he said. Efforts were being made to identify their Pakistan-based mentors and handlers, said Gupta, adding that further investigations to unearth the full linkages and ramifications of the terror module, including those based across the border, were in progress. Gupta said the Punjab Police was working round-the-clock to thwart the nefarious designs of anti-India elements trying to disturb the state's communal harmony and law and order, in furtherance of their separatist and divisive agenda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-linked-terror-module-busted-2-khalistani-operatives-nabbed-punjab-dgp-851443.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Puja performed at Gangotri for martyred soldiers||Teerth purohits performed puja at Gangotri on Friday for the soldiers martyred along the Indo-China border in Ladakh. The teerth purohits at the Himalayan temple prayed to goddess Ganga asking for strength to the families of the martyred soldiers to bear the loss. They also urged the Centre to ensure that their martyrdom does not go in vain and their killing is avenged, Gangotri Mandir Samiti president Suresh Semwal said. A tribute will also be paid to the martyred soldiers by lighting 108 earthen lamps at the temple, he said. Located 18 km from the Harsil army camp, Gangotri temple in Uttarkashi district is close to the Indo-China border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/puja-performed-at-gangotri-for-martyred-soldiers-851448.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Nizamuddin Markaz: Delhi police files charge sheets before court against 46 foreigners||The Delhi police on Thursday filed twelve charge sheets, including supplementary charge sheets, against 46 foreign nationals from twelve countries for attending Markaz at Nizamuddin in national capital by violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country. With these, police filed 59 charge sheets till date against 956 foreign nationals belonging to 36 different countries. The Centre has cancelled their Visa and blacklisted them. The foreign nationals have not been arrested yet and are presently residing at various places approved by the Delhi High Court. The Crime Branch of the Delhi police filed one main charge sheet and 11 supplementary charge sheets before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur. In the charge sheet filed on Friday, one of the foreign nationals named as accused was from Ethiopia, two each from Sudan, Bangladesh and Thailand, one each from Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Kazakhstan and France, four from Myanmar, three from Sri Lanka, 27 from Indonesia. The punishment for various offences under penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. According to the charge sheets, all the foreign nationals have been booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. They have also been booked for the offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act. The police had earlier filed 47 charge sheets against 915 foreigners in the case. The police had on May 27 filed 12 charge sheets against 541 foreigners and on May 26 against 294 from 14 countries in the case. It had filed 20 chargesheets against 82 foreigners from 20 countries on May 25. According to the May 27 chargesheets, 42 of the accused are from Malaysia, 85 from different parts of Kyrgyzstan and 414 from different parts of Indonesia. As per the May 25 charge sheet, four of the accused were from Afghanistan, seven each from Brazil and China, five from US, two from Australia, Kazakhstan, Morocco, UK, one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Jordan, France, Tunisia, Belgium, eight from Algeria, 10 from Saudi Arabia, 14 from Fiji and six each from Sudan and Philippines.  Out of the 82 foreigners charge sheeted earlier, four of the accused were from Afghanistan, seven each from Brazil and China, five from US, two from Australia, Kajahstan, Morocco, UK, one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Jordan, France, Tunisia, Belgium, eight from Algeria, 10 from Saudi Arabia, 14 from Fiji and six each from Sudan and Philippines. In April, COVID-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of many Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event, tested positive. At least 9,000 people, including the foreign nationals participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. According to police, these foreign nationals had entered India on tourist visa and had participated in the gathering at Markaz illegally. Besides, violating the provisions of visa, these foreign nationals also led to a situation where a highly infectious disease Covid-19 infection spread and threatened the lives of the inmates and the general public at large, they said. The police also said that more than 900 foreign nationals who are accused in the case belong to 34 different countries and charge sheets are being prepared country-wise, under sections of  Foreigners Act, The Epidemic Diseases Act,  Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of IPC. A FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to Covid-19, police said. After being exposed to a large gathering in March amid the COVID-19 or coronavirus lockdown many members of Tablighi Jamaat from Markaz Hazrat Nizamuddin were taken out by the authorities and lodged in different quarantine centres in Delhi. Some of them were sent to the centres a few days later after being detained from various mosques. The other members were directly taken to quarantine centres to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nizamuddin-markaz-delhi-police-files-charge-sheets-before-court-against-46-foreigners-851478.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Noida Metro to have 'She-Man' station for transgenders||In a first-of-its-kind initiative by a metro rail system in northern India, the Noida-Greater Noida Metro has decided to convert the Sector 50 station into a "She-Man" station that will have special facilities and employment for the transgender community. This step is being taken by the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) for the "inclusion and meaningful participation" of the members of the transgender community, NMRC Managing Director Ritu Maheshwari said.   Earlier in 2017, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited in Kerala had taken a similar step by employing 23 transgenders, breaking new ground in gender justice. Maheshwari said as per Census 2011, there are 4.9 lakh transgenders in India, out of which 30,000 to 35,000 are staying in Delhi national capital region. "The 'She-Man' station will be on the lines of the Pink stations, which were inaugurated on March 8 this year and provided special facilities for women passengers. The staff deployed at the Pink stations also consisted only of women except security personnel," she said. "The 'She-Man' station will cater especially to the transgender community, though it will be open for all passengers, and will give facilities to facilitate the travel of the trans community in the metro system and also provide employment opportunities for them," the NMRC MD added. She said structural changes in terms of change in restroom infrastructure and creation of a separate security check for the community are also being considered at sector 50 station. In a statement, the NMRC said it will also be generating awareness about the community among its other commuters through signages at its stations and announcements inside the trains and stations. "The NMRC staff will also be sensitised and trained to communicate with the transgender community in a sensitive and cordial manner," it said. The NMRC said it also plans to include members of the transgender community into its system by engaging their services in various aspects of the functioning of its system, like ticket counters and other areas through deployed contractors. "Transgenders will be provided proper training, like other NMRC employees, before being inducted into the NMRC system," it added. The NMRC has also interacted with various NGOs who work closely with the community to understand their challenges and struggles and devise an effective method for an inclusive society, according to the statement. The NMRC said it has "always been sensitive" towards the needs of "all its commuters" who come from various walks of life and has made constant endeavours to provide a safe and comfortable travelling experience to all its commuters. "Transgenders form a major chunk of the commuters that use the metro system to travel. This step by the NMRC will make the travelling experience for this community more enriching," it said. Also known as the 'Aqua-Line', the Noida-Greater Noida Metro, which started functioning in January 2019, runs between the eponymous twin-cities of Gautam Buddh Nagar covering nearly 30 km over 21 stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-metro-to-have-she-man-station-for-transgenders-851489.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||India-China Ladakh clash: Indian Air Force Chief spends two quiet days in Leh, Srinagar||Amidst rising tension along the disputed Sino-Indian border, Indian Air Force Chief Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria spent two quiet days in Leh and Srinagar, taking stock of the force’s operational preparedness. "The Air Force chief was on a two-day visit where he checked the operational readiness of all the platforms that have been moved to the area in view of the Chinese aggression along the LAC in the eastern Ladakh where more than 10,000 troops have been amassed by China," news agency ANI reported, quoting government sources. IAF operates fighter jets and other aircraft from three nearby bases - Awantipura, Srinagar and Leh. Coinciding with the IAF chief’s visit to Leh, the IAF’s recently acquired Apache armed helicopters and several fighter jets have been seen flying over Leh. The Apache attack helicopters have been deployed in the close vicinity of the areas where operations by the ground troops are taking place at the moment. An IAF spokesperson refused to comment on the Chief’s visit to Leh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-ladakh-clash-indian-air-force-chief-spends-two-quiet-days-in-leh-srinagar-851490.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi's recovery rate rises above 42%||Delhi's recovery rate increased to 42.69 percent on June 18, after staying below the 40 percent mark for 13 days, according to official figures. This is the first time in two weeks that the recovery rate has crossed the 40 percent mark, amid a surge in coronavirus cases. The cases in the national capital look poised to breach the 50,000-mark on Friday.  From June 12-14, over 2,000 cases were reported per day in Delhi.  On June 15 and 16, 1,647 and 1,859 cases respectively were reported while on June 17 the cases went up to 2,414 in a single day. On June 18, the national capital saw its highest one-day spike of 2,877 cases taking the case tally closer to the 50,000-mark. Between June 4 to June 17, the recovery rate hovered between 39 percent to 36 percent. On June 4, the recovery rate was pegged at 39.58 percent while on June 5, it was 39.16 percent and it subsequently declined to 38.01 percent in the next couple of days.  On June 8, the recovery rate was 37.92 percent and it declined to 36.38 percent by June 12. On June 13, the recovery rate registered an increase to climb up to 38.36 percent. On June 14, the coronavirus cases in Delhi crossed the 40,000-mark with 2,224 new cases taking the tally of cases to 41,182. On the same day,  the recovery rate was 38.42 percent while the next day, it was 38.35 percent. On June 16, the recovery rate decreased to 36.92 percent while it marginally increased to 37.06 percent the next day. However, on June 18, when the national capital witnessed the highest one-day spike of 2,877 cases taking the tally closer to the 50,000-mark, it also witnessed its best recovery rate in the last 14 days. According to the authorities, 3,884 patients recovered or migrated outside the city on Thursday taking the total number of such patients to 21,341. The recovery rate also crossed the 40 percent mark with 42.69 percent of patients recovering from the virus. Prior to June 4 when the recovery rate started declining, the rate varied from 48.18 percent on May 25 to 40.35 percent on June 3, according to the figures shared by the Delhi health department in its bulletins. However, from May 20 (46.82 percent) to May 25 (48.18 percent), the recovery rate was gradually increasing, behind which it successively declined per day, as per the data. The recovery rate in the country stands at 53.79 percent.   India on Friday added 13,586 new COVID-19 cases, pushing the tally to 3,80,532, while the death toll rose to 12,573 with 336 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. In some positive news, the number of recoveries crossed the two lakh mark and stands at 2,04,710, while there are 1,63,248 total COVID-19 active cases, according to the updated official figure at 8 am. The national capital also commenced COVID-19 testing through rapid antigen methodology at 193 centres on Thursday. According to official figures, a total of 7,040 samples were collected for rapid antigen tested and 7,972 samples were collected for the RT-PCR test for coronavirus on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhis-recovery-rate-rises-above-42-851498.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Police files charge sheets before court against suspended AAP Councillor||Delhi Police Friday filed two charge sheets against suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain in a case related to communal violence during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in northeast Delhi in February. The police submitted the charge sheets before Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri in cases of rioting. The charge sheets have been filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 147 and 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 34 (common intention), said a lawyer privy to the matter. The police had earlier charge-sheeted Hussain in IB official Ankit Sharma's murder case and another one related to rioting in February. Advocate Javed Ali said Hussain has been falsely implicated in the cases. Hussain has also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a case related to alleged conspiracy in the northeast Delhi riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-police-files-charge-sheets-before-court-against-suspended-aap-councillor-851523.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi tweaks home isolation norms; Discontinues services of Bengaluru-firm||Tweaking one more decision of Arvind Kejriwal government on Covid-19, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday made five-day institutional quarantine mandatory for the coronavirus-infected, who were otherwise ordered home isolation. In a late-night statement, the Delhi government found fault with Baijal's order, saying the "arbitrary decision" will seriously harm" the capital in its fight against the pandemic and why different parameters are being used in the capital when the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are still applicable to the rest of India. Through an order, Baijal also discontinued the services of Bengaluru-based M/s Portea, which was hired by the Delhi government to make telephonic contact with home quarantined COVID-19 patients, "with immediate effect. At present, COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms or are asymptomatic were allowed to undergo medication at home. In his order, Baijal said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is reviewing the situation regularly and it was observed that 'home isolation' without physical contact to monitor patients could be the reason for increase in COVID-19's spread in the capital. "To limit the spread of COVID-19, in a view of the surge in cases, it is felt that mandatory physical verification of each case under home isolation needs to be carried out by the surveillance teams...," the order said. "Five days institutional quarantine of each case under home quarantine is to be made mandatory and thereafter will be sent for home isolation except in case where symptoms require further hospitalisation," it added. Responding to the new order, a Delhi government spokesperson said the capital's home isolation programme has been "one of the most successful initiatives" in the battle against coronavirus. "Home isolation encouraged a lot of people with minor symptoms to come out and test as they knew that they would not be taken to a hospital or quarantine centre forcibly. Today’s order of the Centre stopping home isolation will discourage people from testing and further spread Corona as asymptomatic and mild symptoms patients will resist testing and will not be quarantined," the spokesperson warned. "ICMR guidelines are still applicable to the rest of India, then why are there different parameters for Delhi? There is already a serious shortage of doctors and nurses to treat serious patients, where would medical manpower come for taking care of these quarantine centres?" the spokesperson said demanding that the order be withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-tweaks-home-isolation-norms-discontinues-services-of-bengaluru-firm-851560.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day spike of 809 COVID-19 cases, tally rises to 16,594||Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported its highest single-day spike of 809 coronavirus cases, taking the state's tally to 16,594, officials said. The death toll due to COVID-19 mounted to 507 after 19 fresh fatalities were reported from different districts of the state, they said. The previous highest single-day spike in cases was on Thursday when the state recorded 604 cases. Among the fresh 19 deaths, five from Ghaziabad, four from Gautam Buddh Nagar, three each are from Agra and Kanpur, one each from Meerut, Bulandshahr, Ambdekar Nagar and Banda, an official report said. "Of the total infected people, 9,995 have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. The number of active cases in the state stands at 6,092," Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. He said record 17,221 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Thursday. The official said the state health department has also started random sampling. "Of the 3,475 samples taken from urban slums in 75 districts, 65 were found positive in 17 districts," he said. Prasad said 1.30 lakh teams of the health department have conducted surveys of 97 lakh houses. The additional chief secretary said the bodies of patients will be handed over to their family members without awaiting COVID-19 test report. He said family members will have to take all precautions while cremating the bodies. Besides, the state government has fixed the price of COVID-19 testing by the RT-PCR method to a maximum of Rs 2,500 and hospitals have been asked to make help desks equipped with pulse oximeters and thermal scanners to provide immediate help to patients. Prasad appealed to the people to follow social distancing norms, use face covers and take proper care of th aged, pregnant women, children and those suffering from co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-809-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-16594-851563.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Bengaluru: Migrant workers who left for Madhya Pradesh, stranded in Uttar Pradesh||About 30 migrant workers who left Bengaluru to reach Madhya Pradesh were stranded in Gorakhpur railway station in Uttar Pradesh, exposing the broken system of the state government which has failed to get its act together nearly two months after starting special trains. Ramlal, a migrant worker who spoke to DH, said they left Bengaluru on Tuesday and arrived at Gorakhpur. “We didn’t know that the train would terminate at Gorakhpur. We were stuck there for a whole day without food and water. Some people and officials helped us and later arranged a bus for us,” he said. Sonu Saketh, another worker, said that the officials in Bengaluru had said that the train would reach Madhya Pradesh. “We asked them whether the train will go to MP. They said it will. Only after coming to Gorakhpur we were told that it will not go further,” he said. The chief public relations officer of the North Eastern Railway confirmed to Deccan Herald that several migrant workers were stranded. “Bus has been arranged by state authorities well in time as per ADM/ FR Gorakhpur. These people may be reaching their destination,” the official replied in the night. Officials at South Western Railway said that unlike regular trains, the Shramik Specials have not been going via Madhya Pradesh. “Shramik Trains are arranged as per the state government’s request. Hence, the trains are running through Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar,” the official said. Aditi Chanchani, a volunteer with the civic group Bangalore With Migrants, said the entire drama was the result of the state government’s failure to set up a system to process the requests of the migrant workers.  “There are multiple factors at play leading to such problems. Even though the officials may not give false information, the lack of information itself will lead to such problems among migrants who are desperate to get home,” she said. She said confusion prevails at Tripura Vasini, the mustering centre for migrant workers. “Of late, officials are also allowing workers who didn’t register on Seva Sindhu portal to travel in trains. While this helps the workers, the lack of basic information about the route of the train will lead to complications. We are now aware of at least three more persons from MP who will reach Gorakhpur tomorrow (Saturday),” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bengaluru-migrant-workers-who-left-for-madhya-pradesh-stranded-in-uttar-pradesh-851565.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urges Centre to issue ultimatum to Beijing to ‘vacate’ Galwan Valley territory||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday advocated "aggressive" steps to take back the Galwan Valley territory "seized by the Chinese", and urged the Centre to issue an ultimatum to Beijing "to vacate the occupied land immediately". His statement came even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an all-party meeting in Delhi on Friday that neither has anyone intruded into Indian territory nor has anyone taken over any post. "Advocating aggressive steps to take back the Galwan Valley territory seized by the Chinese, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged the Government of India to issue an ultimatum to Beijing to vacate the occupied land immediately, with a clear warning that failure to do so would lead to serious consequences for them," an official statement said in Chandigarh. “While India would also have to suffer some consequences of such an act, it could no longer afford to allow such intrusions and attacks on its territorial integrity to continue,” Singh said. He said that past experience showed that when faced with aggression, the Chinese have always backed off. "It is time to call their bluff." “The Chinese, with their Salami tactics, had been nibbling into Indian territory piece by piece since 1962,” said the chief minister in a statement here, demanding an end to these intrusions, claiming 60 years of diplomacy has failed to stop such Chinese activities. Questioning the “so-called agreement which prevented the Indian troops from firing” during the faceoff with the Chinese on Monday night, he asked, “How can one have an agreement of this nature with a hostile neighbour?” “In any case, it was clear that the attack on Indian soldiers was a premeditated one by the Chinese, who had come prepared with their crude but deadly weapons,” he said. “By carrying nail-studded lathis and barbed-wire clubs and by attacking our troops they abrogated whatever agreement was in place.” In the circumstances, the Indian soldiers had full right to retaliated by using their own weapons, he remarked. Singh said Colonel Santosh Babu’s death at the hands of the Chinese was an insult to the entire Indian Army. He said the Indian Army is well-trained and equipped with the best of weapons, and it has every right to use them when faced with such a brutal and treacherous attack. He recalled that during his term in the Army, armed soldiers were always strategically deployed whenever senior officers went for meetings with the other side, and were ready to jump in for a rescue operation, if needed. “Why were soldiers not so deployed in this case? And if they were, why did they not use their weapons to rescue the officers and men under attack?” he asked. “If the situation is allowed to escalate further, then China, in collusion with Pakistan, would get further emboldened to encroach into more Indian territories, which had to be stopped at all costs,” said the chief minister. On Thursday, he had asked, “Why no orders to fire at the Chinese were given” in the face of the brutal attack on Indian soldiers in Ladakh's Galwan Valley. Twenty soldiers including four from Punjab had died in the clash in Ladakh on Monday. Meanwhile, reacting to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal's tweet accusing him of playing politics on the Galwan Valley issue, the CM said as an ex-Army man, he had every right to express his opinion. “With 20 soldiers dead, no soldier, in fact no Indian, could remain unaffected,” Singh said. Contrary to the “misleading picture being projected by Sukhbir”, Singh said that he, like every Indian, stood with the government of India at this critical hour. In his tweet, Sukhbir had said, “Let us all resolve to stand with PM @narendramodi &Indian Army & support them in giving strong msg to China that #India won't allow transgressions on its borders. Also urge CM@ capt amarinder not to play politics & let our Generals take decisions on guarding our sovereignty (sic)”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-urges-centre-to-issue-ultimatum-to-beijing-to-vacate-galwan-valley-territory-851567.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Mandatory 5-day institutional-quarantine for each COVID-19 case under home-quarantine: Delhi LG Anil Baijal||Five-day institutional-quarantine has been made mandatory for every COVID-19 patient under home-quarantine in Delhi, Lt Governor Anil Baijal ordered on Friday. In his order, the LG said that after the five-day institutional-quarantine, asymptomatic COVID-19 patients will be sent for home-isolation. “Five days institutional quarantine of each case under home-quarantine is to be made mandatory and, thereafter, (they) will be sent for home-isolation, except in cases where symptoms require further hospitalization,” Baijal said in his order. However, a Delhi government official said that the decision will only serve to scare away people from getting tested. According to the government, there are around 8,500 COVID-19 patients in home isolation in Delhi, who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mandatory-5-day-institutional-quarantine-for-each-covid-19-case-under-home-quarantine-delhi-lg-anil-baijal-851578.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Last one-and-a-half yrs have been most peaceful times in Jammu and Kashmir: Senior police, Army officers||Senior police and Army officers on Friday said that the last one-and-a-half years have been the most peaceful times in Jammu and Kashmir and with every successful anti-militancy operation, security forces are moving on the path of peace. "It gives me immense pleasure to say that the last full year and about five-and-a-half months of this year have been the most peaceful months that we had in terms of handling law and order in general and the law and order situations around the (anti-militancy) operation sites in particular," Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said. He was speaking at a joint press conference of senior officers of Army, Jammu and Kashmir Police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) here. Singh said the mission of the security forces is to stabilise peace in Jammu and Kashmir and they were continuously working towards attaining that.  "During the last about five-and-a-half months, 100 plus terrorists have been neutralised, out of them 50 plus were from the Hizbul Mujahideen, around 20 of them from the Lashkar-e-Taiba, 20 from the Jaish-e-Mohammed and the rest from smaller outfits like Al-Badr, Ansar Gazwatul Hind.   "Similarly, about a half-a-dozen successful operations have been conducted in Jammu region as well in which around a dozen terrorists have been neutralised. Our Pir Panjal range is very well under control, Doda-Kishtwar is almost nearing to be militancy-free with one terrorist remaining in Doda district and three in Kishtwar," he said. The DGP said the security forces have been successful only because people of the union territory were cooperating. "I would also like to compliment our youth if they are not joining terror ranks despite huge provocations by Pakistan and the agencies involved in the terror business, credit goes to our youth, they have perhaps started seeing through the game-plans of these agencies which have brought violence, death, destruction to this beautiful place. "We would also like to help and assist those who have gone adrift as we have done in case of some people. Anybody who has gone adrift is willing to surrender, come out, handover his weapon, may be confidentially, we would welcome that and we would make sure to provide him whatever support he needs to lead a new peaceful life," he said. Speaking about the situation, General Officer Commanding (GoC) of the Srinagar-based Chinar Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju said with every operation, the security forces are moving on the path of peace. "With every operation that is being concluded, we are moving on the path of peace. I can feel it on ground, there is a palpable difference that at the end of every operation, the next operation is taking place in much cleaner circumstances. "For this, I would also compliment people of Kashmir because they are believing in peace and it this belief which is leading to the successful operations and I am sure at the end of the next few months, we will be able to take this peace process forward and ensure that the normalcy is brought into the environment," he said. Lt Gen Raju said so far this year, the security forces have neutralised 102 militants and "because of the professional manner in which these operations have been conducted, we have had just one or two civilian casualties, which means that the security forces have exercised extraordinary restraint and that is because we want to retain that connect with the people". "And I would like to commit here that all of us will continue to conduct our operations in a manner where we cause minimal inconvenience to the environment," he added. The GOC said of the 49 new militant recruits this year, 27 have been neutralised. "It doesn't give us any pleasure to neutralise these young boys, but if anybody takes up arms and is causing harm to others, we will do what we are doing. But to stop this whole process, a large number of steps are being taken. "We make fervent appeals to militants to surrender before the operations commence. We have had limited success on this front, but where we have been very successful, and I must compliment the security forces here, is our ability to prevent new recruitment as well as to identify those people who are on the cusp of recruitment," he said. The DGP said the militant recruitment in the valley has come down drastically. "It has come down because of joint efforts of the civil society, parents, police officers on ground who maintain a very close liaison with people whose wards are likely to drift away. We take many pre-emptive actions which are not brought to the fore deliberately just to ensure security of the youth concerned," he said. On being asked about security forces focussing on the militant leadership, the GOC said they will ensure that no militant leader gains ground as it brings in more violence. "As far as the terrorist leadership is concerned, there is definitely a void taking place on a weekly basis, there are places where the district commanders are required to be changed because of the intensity of the operations that are being conducted and that will certainly bring a lot of disarray and we would like to ensure that there is no terrorist leader who gains ground...," Lt Gen Raju said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/last-one-and-a-half-yrs-have-been-most-peaceful-times-in-jammu-and-kashmir-senior-police-army-officers-851581.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||India completes construction of key bridge over Galwan river in eastern Ladakh||India has completed construction of a strategically important bridge over the Galwan river in eastern Ladakh, notwithstanding strong opposition to it by the Chinese military, government sources said on Friday. The construction of the bridge was one of the reasons behind the aggressive behaviour by China's People's Liberation Army in the region that triggered the six-week standoff between the two sides. The 60-metre bridge is around four kilometres east of the confluence of Shyok and Galwan rivers, and links the narrow mountainous region to the Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road. The sources said the bridge will facilitate quicker movement of Indian troops in the area that is not very far from the site of the violent clashes in Galwan on Monday evening. "The bridge will definitely improve movement of Indian troops in the region. We completed construction of the bridge despite the military standoff and Chinese army's strong protest," said a senior military official on condition of anonymity. The Galwan Valley was the site of the violent clash between the two militaries on Monday evening in which a Colonel and 19 other Indian Army personnel were killed. The People's Liberation Army has not yet talked about the number of casualties it suffered during the cross border clash, the worst in 45 years. The clash in Galwan Valley is the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control in Galwan. Military sources said the two sides are holding another round of military talks on Friday. In a telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called the clashes a "premeditated" action by Chinese PLA. India has already trashed the Chinese army's claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley, saying such "exaggerated" and "untenable" claims are contrary to the understanding reached during a high-level military dialogue on June 6. The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso. The situation in the area deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-completes-construction-of-key-bridge-over-galwan-river-in-eastern-ladakh-851592.html
19-06-2020||North and Central||Patient dies after family members unplug ventilator to turn on cooler at Kota hospital||A 40-year-old man died at a government hospital here after his family members allegedly unplugged the ventilator he was on to plug in an air cooler. He was suspected to be suffering from COVID-19 and admitted at ICU in the Maharao Bhim Singh (MBS) Hospital on June 13. His test report, however, came negative later. Hospital authorities said a three-member committee will probe the incident. The man was shifted to an isolation ward on June 15 as a safety measure after another patient in the ICU tested positive for the disease. Since it was very hot in the isolation ward, his family members bought an air cooler the same day. On finding no socket for the cooler, they allegedly unplugged the ventilator but almost half-an-hour later, the ventilator ran out of power. The immediately informed doctors and medical staff, who administered CPR upon the patient, but he died. Hospital superintendent Dr Naveen Saxena said the committee comprising the deputy superintendent, nursing superintendent and chief medical officer on duty will probe the incident and submit the report on Saturday. The committee has recorded statements of medical staff in the isolation ward but the family members of the deceased patient are not responding to the panel, he alleged. The doctor said action would be taken against whoever is found responsible in the probe report. Hospital deputy superintendent Dr Sameer Tandon refused to comment on findings by the committee citing that a probe was underway. The isolation ward is furnished with a medical station with 4-5 medical staff and a resident doctor on duty. The family members allegedly did not seek permission to plug in the cooler and when the patient died, they "misbehaved" with the medical staff and the resident doctor on duty, the hospital authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/patient-dies-after-family-members-unplug-ventilator-to-turn-on-cooler-at-kota-hospital-851597.html
19-06-2020||Right in the Middle||In the dead of the night||Ours was one of the three spacious houses within a vast compound in a residential locality called, Salem Extension. Flanking our house on one side was a sprawling kitchen garden awash with a variety of vegetables, tended by my mother. On the other side, there was a circular patch of land with undergrowth. A vast bawn was right opposite our house, providing a grazing field for the cattle. A common driveway from the road led to each of the houses. None of the three houses had electrical connection in the 1940s.  In one of the spacious rooms in my house, there were two big wooden racks groaning with books, two revolving shelves packed with them and some spilt onto a table and chair, besides four steel trunks, each bursting with bundles of dry palm-leaf scripts in Granth, a language unknown to everyone in the family. He was a research assistant at the department of archaeology in the University of Madras where he was staying with one of our relatives.  A boy of nine and the youngest among my siblings, I used to sleep cuddling up to my mother. That day fumbling for my mom in the dead of night I woke up. She whispered to me that a loud swish from outside had disturbed her slumber, focussing a torchlight through the window and asking me sleep. Curious to know what it was I stood behind her and kept peeking outside. The sight of a mongoose hopping from side to side before a big cobra with its broad hood raised high, trying to attack sent a chill down my spine. Probably not so full-grown to stand against the snake in a fight, the mongoose bolted. Fear-stricken I snuggled into my bedsheet.   The very next morning, my mother managed to get a snake charmer at our house. As the guy started playing enchanting music on his bamboo pipe, serpents of different sorts came wriggling towards him from all nooks and crannies around our house. A boy, maybe his assistant quite gingerly trapped them one by one in baskets. A sizeably big cobra appearing to be not less than seven feet long was the last one that came wriggling only to be caught and confined by its captor. The hissing noise ceased to be heard any more from around our house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/in-the-dead-of-the-night-851550.html
19-06-2020||Second Edit||How not to promote media freedom||The new media policy announced by the Jammu & Kashmir government will not promote freedom and independence of the media in the Union Territory but will curb its functioning in many ways. The policy has attracted widespread criticism and has been seen as an attempt by the government to extend and further tighten its control over media and communications, including the internet. The internet and other digital forums have still not been fully restored in the Valley after the scrapping of Article 370 in August last year. The administration has said that the new policy attempts to “thwart misinformation, fake news and tries to develop a mechanism that will raise alarm against any attempt to use the media to vitiate public peace, sovereignty and integrity of the country”. It will allow the Directorate of Information to "examine the content of the media for any fake news, plagiarism and unethical and anti-national activities” and any individual or group indulging in such activities “shall be de-empanelled besides being proceeded against under the law’’.  Government officials will be sitting in judgment over news and other content and will themselves decide whether such content is "fake’’ or "anti-national’’. A mechanism will be set up to monitor news and to decide the conditions for empanelling or disempanelling of journalists and media organisations. The policy says this is to build  “a genuinely positive image of the government based on performance”, to “build public trust” and “increase public understanding about the government’s roles and responsibilities”. The short point is that those who support the government and its policies will be allowed to function freely but those who criticise them will have to suffer consequences. Importantly, the decisions will be taken by officials who will follow no guidelines other than the political plans and interests of the government.  It is not by regulating and controlling the media that a government can build public trust in it. A government cannot create a positive image of itself by allowing only positive and favourable news about it to appear in the media. It is actually counter-productive. A democratic system calls for free and fair expression of views in the media and this is ensured by the basic rights granted to all citizens by the Constitution. It is unfortunate that these freedoms are denied to the citizens of Kashmir though it is close to one year since a measure was taken to make the people of Kashmir equal to other citizens of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/how-not-to-promote-media-freedom-851546.html
19-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Minister K P Anbalagan tests positive for COVID-19; Under treatment||Tamil Nadu Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan, who was actively involved in COVID-19 containment efforts in this metropolis, has tested positive for Coronavirus, two top sources in the government told DH on Friday. Anbalagan is being treated at a private hospital after his swab samples returned positive on Thursday. He went to the hospital on Wednesday for a check-up and tested positive for coronavirus the next day. The Minister is part of a committee constituted by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to oversee and coordinate COVID-19 containment efforts in Chennai, which has over 37,000 cases. Anbalagan was given in-charge of three zones in the city a fortnight ago. “Yes. He tested positive for COVID-19 and is under treatment,” two top government officials told DH. Both officials are a crucial part of COVID-19 containment efforts in Tamil Nadu. The minister had also attended a review meeting on Wednesday in which nearly half-a-dozen of his colleagues also participated. Anbalagan was also part of the media briefing that the ministers held after the review meeting. The press briefing was criticised as ministers did not follow social distancing protcols. Anbalagan is the first minister in the Tamil Nadu cabinet to get infected with coronavirus. Two MLAs – J Anbazhagan of DMK and K Palani of AIADMK – also tested positive for COVID-19. However, Anbazhagan died on June 10 on his 62nd birthday, while Palani is under treatment.    Though the government was silent on Anbalagan’s health, Opposition Leader and DMK President M K Stalin said he spoke to the Higher Education Minister over phone after hearing that the latter tested positive for COVID-19. “He (Anbalagan) should recover fast and come back to serve the people. People who are in public life should be more careful and exercise caution (while stepping out),” Stalin said. The Minister testing positive for coronavirus set the alarm bells ringing as he was quite active in COVID-19 containment efforts till a couple of days ago. Later, the Ministers, including Anbalagan, spoke to the media during which social distancing norms were thrown to the wind. The impromptu press briefings by ministers have come under criticism from the public, who have been taking to social media to ask those in power to “practice what they preach.” Anbalagan, who hails from Dharmapuri district, was elected to the Tamil Nadu assembly from Palacode constituency in 2011 and again in 2016. He was appointed Higher Education Minister by the then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-minister-k-p-anbalagan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-under-treatment-851307.html
19-06-2020||South||Chennai locked down again as COVID-19 cases surge||A lockdown was reimposed on 15 million people in southern India on Friday as the number of coronavirus infections in the hard-hit nation neared 400,000. New restrictions in Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu, and surrounding districts followed a surge of cases, even as the rest of the country of 1.3 billion people gradually resumes normal life. During the 12-day lockdown, food shops and petrol stations will be allowed to open between 6:00 am and 2:00 pm. People can only travel within two kilometres (1.2 miles) of their homes except for medical emergencies. "If someone calls me for air conditioner servicing then I will walk over if it is within a two-kilometre radius," said Kumar, the owner of an electrical repair shop in Chennai where normally bustling streets were quiet. "But I heard that the cops are going to be really strict about movement on the streets after 2:00 pm." India has recorded more than 380,000 cases of COVID-19, the fourth-highest in the world, with over 12,500 deaths, health ministry data show. Many experts say limited testing means the real figures are likely much higher. This week India hiked its official death toll by more than 2,000 after financial hub Mumbai increased the number of fatalities by almost 900 following an audit of its data. The virus is raging across South Asia, home to some of the most crowded and poorest cities in the world, overwhelming hospitals and crematoria.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-locked-down-again-as-covid-19-cases-surge-851331.html
19-06-2020||South||Noted economist B P R Vithal dies at 93||Noted economist B P R Vithal, who served as a Member of the Tenth Finance Commission, died here on Friday. He was 93 and is survived by his wife, daughter and two sons. Vithal, a 1950-batch IAS officer, died early this morning due to old age ailments, his son Sanjay Baru, media advisor to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, told PTI. Vithal had served as Secretary, finance and planning in the government of Andhra Pradesh from 1972 to 1982 and as Deputy Chairman of the State Planning Board. He was also Chairman of the Expenditure Commission, Government of Kerala. Vithal had a brief stint at the International Monetary Fund as Fiscal Advisor to the governments of Sudan and Malawi. He had established the Centre for Economic and Social Studies in Hyderabad. Educated at Madrasa-e-Aliya high school, Hyderabad, he graduated from Madras Christian College and joined the Hyderabad Civil Service in 194, qualifying for IAS in 1950. In 1942, Vithal quit his under-graduate studies at Nizam College, Hyderabad, and attended the Quit India session of the Indian National Congress in Mumbai and actively participated in the national movement. On Mahatma Gandhiji's advice, written on a postcard that Vithal preserved with care, he returned to his studies at Madras, where he was the first Indian president of the MCC students' union to fly the Indian tricolour, Baru said. Vithal has also many publications to his credit. His essay "The Telangana Surpluses: A Case Study" played an influential role in shaping the demand for a separate state of Telangana, he said. Over his long retired life, Vithal was associated with many social organisations and causes, including the Nizam's trust, Hyderabad Literary Society and others. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed his deep sorrow over Vithal's death and recalled his services as Finance and Planning secretary in undivided Andhra Pradesh and as Member of the Tenth Finance Commission, an official release said. Rao conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/noted-economist-b-p-r-vithal-dies-at-93-851332.html
19-06-2020||South||Kerala opposition steps up protest against mandating COVID-19 test for NRIs as state sees highest rise in cases||While the opposition Congress and BJP in Kerala are stepping up attack against the state government over its stand on mandatory pre-departure COVID-19 test for all NRIs returning, the state government is firm on its stand, but postponed the directive for mandatory COVID-19 test for those returning in chartered flights for five days. Meanwhile, Kerala witnessed the highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases on a single day on Friday with 118, while 96 infected persons recovered. The total number of active cases reached 1,380. It was in view of the high number of NRIs returning with COVID-19 infection that Kerala government decided to insist on pre-departure COVID test for NRIs. The state also suggested that those being tested positive shall be brought down in separate flights in order to avoid spread of infection to other passengers. Though the government earlier issued an order that from June 20 onward only those who undergo COVID-19 test will be allowed to come down in chartered flights, that decision was put on hold till June 25. The delay in setting up testing facilities abroad was learnt to be the reason for delaying implementation of the order. A fresh stand of Kerala government in connection with a case in the High Court that NRIs can't be treated like migrant workers from other states and hence the protection given to migrant workers could not be given to overseas returnees also triggered protests. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the government stand amounted to discrimination against expatriates. The opposition led by Chennithala also staged a day-long fasting in Thiruvananthapuram to protest against the mandatory pre-departure COVID-19 test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-steps-up-protest-against-mandating-covid-19-test-for-nris-as-state-sees-highest-rise-in-cases-851428.html
19-06-2020||South||Over 80% of COVID-19 deaths in Telangana linked to comorbidity||Of the total COVID-19 deaths recorded in Telangana, 65 percent is associated with hypertension, Diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular conditions. Only 35 deaths or 18 percent of total deaths are those with no comorbidities, shows an analysis of the 192 deaths registered in the state till Wednesday evening. Comorbid deaths constitute 82 percent of all COVID-19 deaths. The rest of the comorbid deaths are linked to lung infections, cancer, neurological disorders, chronic kidney disease etc. In Telangana too, males are getting infected more than females - 65 percent of the overall positive cases are male.  It is the working-age population i.e., between 21 years to 60 years that is the most exposed to the novel coronavirus – 76 percent of the total positive cases are from these age groups. As of Thursday evening, the state has an aggregate of 6027 infections, with 2531 active cases. Thursday’s 352 fresh cases are the record one-day addition in the state so far. 302 of these cases are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation jurisdiction, indicating the alarming spread of the virus in the capital. Over three-fourths of the COVID-19 cases in the state are reportedly from Hyderabad. Telangana is among the lowest in the country in terms of testing, which is allegedly concealing the true extent of the virus spread in the state. Till Wednesday evening, the Chandrasekhar Rao government has conducted only 45,911 tests. For comparison, neighboring Andhra Pradesh has by Wednesday conducted 612397 tests with average tests conducted per a million population at 11468. Telangana which also has been secretive about the number of tests conducted, made a mention of these statistics this week in the COVID-19 bulletin. The Telangana High Court which is reviewing various petitions challenging the state’s COVID-19 mitigation approach has also censured the health department for the inadequate information provided in the media bulletins. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has reported 465 new COVID-19 cases on Friday – record high number registered within 24 hours, in the state till now. Out of the 465 fresh cases, 376 are locals and rest are either foreign returnees or those who returned from other states. The total infections in the state are now at 7961, while 96 patients have succumbed to the virus till now. 3905 patients have recovered, whereas 3960 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-80-of-covid-19-deaths-in-telangana-linked-to-comorbidity-851433.html
19-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: 12-day ‘strict’ coronavirus lockdown begins in Chennai, arterial roads closed||Struggling with over 38,000 COVID-19 positive cases, this metropolis on Friday began observing a 12-day ‘strict’ lockdown with authorities hoping against hope that the new restrictions would help reduce the city’s heavy caseload. The lockdown was announced on Monday by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami after an expert committee of doctors suggested tightening the restrictions imposed in the city to contain the coronavirus. The 12-day lockdown is similar to the first two phases of the nation-wide lockdown during which only essential services were allowed to function. At last count on Friday evening, Chennai’s individual COVID-19 tally was 38,327, even as the government said it has tested 2.10 lakh people in the city so far. The city has 16,699 active cases and accounts for 529 of the total 666 COVID-19 deaths in Tamil Nadu.   To ensure that the lockdown is implemented on the ground, the Chennai Police has set up checkpoints at 288 places across this metropolis to check the movement of people. While air services and limited train services are exempted from the lockdown, there is a blanket ban on using private transport even for buying groceries. Police were seeing stop vehicles, including two-wheelers, that were plying on the road on Friday and asked those driving or riding them to show necessary documents for their travel. Sources said people who stepped out of their homes without any “urgent need” were booked and their vehicles were impounded. The lockdown seemed effective on the first day as majority of the roads look deserted with only policemen standing guard. The city police also took the help of drones to monitor movements of people by fitting cameras to the devices. That the city police were unwilling to take chances this time was evident from its decision to close the arterial Anna Salai and a few other key routes to prevent people from stepping out of their homes. Only shops that sell groceries and vegetables and filling stations were allowed to function till 2 pm, while skeletal bus services were run for the movement of conservancy and health care workers. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G Prakash appealed to people not to hide their health status or symptoms to health workers who will visit them during the lockdown period. Experts said the lockdown will have an effect only if the administration makes use of the 12-day period to identify symptomatic people, isolate them, test them, and subsequently test their contacts if their swab samples return positive. “Chennai Lock Down will be effective if there is aggressive testing of people with symptoms & contacts of #COVID19, early isolation of #COVID19 and compliance to masks/social distancing - report to doctor if you have fever/cough/sore throat/breathlessness,” Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director of the National Institute of Epidemiology, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-12-day-strict-coronavirus-lockdown-begins-in-chennai-arterial-roads-closed-851449.html
19-06-2020||South||YSRCP wins all four Rajya Sabha seats; Reliance Industries Parimal Nathwani to represent Andhra Pradesh||The YSRCP has won all the four vacant Rajya Sabha seats from Andhra Pradesh that went for polls on Friday. With this victory, YSRCP’s strength in the upper house went up to six. Andhra has a total of 11 seats in Rajya Sabha. The biennial elections to the house of elders in Parliament were scheduled to be held on March 26. But the elections, where MLAs are the voters, could not be held then due to the COVID-19 incidence. Though the opposition TDP, with 23 MLAs officially (three of them had switched to YSRCP) has fielded Varla Ramaiah as its candidate, the ruling party with 151 MLAs had a comfortable gain of all seats. YSRCP has fielded state ministers Mopidevi Venkatramana, Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and industrialists Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy and Parimal Nathwani. Nathwani is a close associate of Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani and has earlier represented Jharkhand in the Rajya Sabha.” “I thank CM Jaganmohan Reddy for reposing faith in me and will work with him for further development of the state,” Nathwani, senior group president, Reliance Industries Limited said. YSRCP leaders state that Nathwani’s representation would provide leverage to the state on the industrial front.   The ruling party in AP has 22 Lok Sabha members, out of the total 25 seats in the lower house from the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrcp-wins-all-four-rajya-sabha-seats-reliance-industries-parimal-nathwani-to-represent-andhra-pradesh-851470.html
19-06-2020||South||AIADMK, DMK on same page; support PM Modi over face-off with China||In a rarity, the ruling AIADMK and main opposition DMK on Friday extended their firm support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to defend the nation's sovereignty and territorial integrity in the wake of face-off with China in Ladakh. Taking part in a virtual all party conference convened by Modi, AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said the Prime Minister displayed "great sagacity and firmness" in dealing with the situation. "We fully support the measures proposed to be taken by the Prime Minister, the government of India and our armed forces," he said. He recalled AIADMK late supremo J Jayalalithaa's donation of her jewellery to then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri for the 1965 Indo-Pakistan war fund and her stand that there can be no compromise on defending the nation's territorial integrity. "I am sure, our nation under the wise and inspirational leadership of the Prime Minister, will definitely overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic and by the adventurism of any of our adversaries," he said. The people of Tamil Nadu and AIADMK firmly stood behind the Prime Minister, the Centre and armed forces vis-a- vis defence of the country's borders, he said. "This is an opportunity for all of us, to demonstrate that we stand united, as a country, behind the Government of India, to protect our frontiers and our nation," Panneerselvam said. DMK president M K Stalin said his party stood firmly, "with the Prime Minister, at this moment, in regard to any steps he must take to protect the integrity, and sovereignty of India. We will not retreat, when the battle cry is sounded. Let us go forth, as a country together, and restore, the pride of India." He welcomed the statement of the Prime Minister, that India will protect her self-respect, and every single inch of its territory, from any external aggression. "The DMK, and the people of Tamil Nadu, are always at the forefront, when it comes to defending our country," he said and added that during the 1962 Indo-China war, the DMK was "the first political party" to condemn China. "We collected money, and donated it for the Indias Defence Fund," Stalin recalled. Right from the 1962 Indo-China war to the 1999 Kargil battle, the DMK had stood behind the Prime Ministers of the time, he said. "Today, we have no hesitation in supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi." Though different parties had diverse ideologies, when it came to defending the country, the parties are united so that people can have a better future, he said. Both the AIADMK and DMK top leaders recalled the supreme sacrifice of Havildar K Palani from Tamil Nadu besides that of 19 other soldiers who were killed on Monday in the face-off with Chinese troops in Ladakh. Also, they said the country was facing difficult times since India had to handle the coronavirus pandemic in addition to the Chinese aggression. Prime Minister Narendra Modi convened an all party meeting over the face-off with Chinese troops in Ladakh days ago. In his closing remarks at the virtual meeting, Modi said the whole country is hurt and angry at what the Chinese have done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-dmk-on-same-page-support-pm-modi-over-face-off-with-china-851602.html
19-06-2020||State||Follow Karnataka model, Centre tells states as COVID-19 tally rises||India on Friday reported its steepest increase in COVID-19 cases as 13,586 new infections took the total number of patients to 3,80,532, as per MoHFW data, even as the Centre asked states to aggressively pursue contact tracing, on the lines of Karnataka, to check the spread of the disease. Maharashtra and Delhi reported their biggest spike in COVID-19 cases – 3,752 and 2,877 respectively, while Uttar Pradesh (583), Andhra Pradesh (447) and Telangana (352) also witnessed their sharpest spike in cases yet. On the brighter side, more than two lakh patients have been cured of the highly infectious disease, pegging the recovery rate 53.79%. According to the Health Ministry, 1,63,248 patients were under active medical supervision, while 2,04,710 persons have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospital. The Centre appreciated Karnataka government initiatives of aggressive contact tracing and physical house-to-house survey covering more than 1.5 crore households to track and trace each COVID-19 case that had led to containing the spread of the disease. “The Centre has asked other states to adopt these best practices to their local context and replicate them for better management of the COVID-19 pandemic,” a Health Ministry statement said. It noted that the contact tracing exercise in Karnataka had ensured that the health infrastructure in the state does not get overwhelmed during the ongoing pandemic. The Centre lauded the use of technology through use of mobile apps for effective COVID-19 management by Karnataka. India is the fourth hardest hit nation by the COVID-19 outbreak after the US, Brazil and Russia. The John Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 statistics from across the globe, has placed India at the eighth position in terms of deaths due to the viral infection. The country has reported 12,573 deaths due to Covid-19 with 336 fatalities reported on Thursday alone. India has also stepped up testing for Covid-19 having tested 1,76,959 samples using a mix of platforms such as RT-PCR, TrueNat and CBNAAT platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/follow-karnataka-model-centre-tells-states-as-covid-19-tally-rises-851383.html
19-06-2020||State||Karnataka: BJP's MTB Nagaraj, wife worth Rs 1,220 crore||BJP's Legislative Council election candidate MTB Nagaraj, one of India's richest politicians, has total assets worth Rs 880 crore, while his wife is worth around Rs 340 crore. His movable assets rose by 9.2% (around Rs 39 crore) in a span of six months.  According to the affidavit, Nagaraj's movable assets surged from Rs 419.28 crore in December last, when he contested the Hoskote bypoll, to Rs 461.68 crore this month. Nagaraj, who has studied up to Class 9, has declared that his sources of income were agriculture, house property and business. Similarly, his immovable assets saw an increase from Rs 419.28 crore to Rs 422.76 crore. The assets of his wife, however, witnessed a slight decline between the two elections. The couple has liabilities of about Rs 53 crore. They also own six cars worth Rs 4 crore.  Another BJP candidate R Shankar is worth around Rs 200 crore. Shankar, who had won as an independent in the 2018 Assembly elections, also saw a marginal increase in wealth. His moveable assets increased from Rs 26.71 crore to Rs 28.90 crore, while immovable assets grew from Rs 131.69 crore to Rs 166.30 crore. His wife's movable assets also increased from Rs 8.82 crore to Rs 13.90 crore. The value of immovable assets in her name rose from Rs 86.93 crore to Rs 92.25 crore. They have liabilities worth Rs 65 crore.  Two other BJP candidates Sunil Vallyapure and Pratap Simha Nayak paled in comparison. While Nayak's movable assets was Rs 45.53 crore, his immovable assets were worth Rs 1.31 crore. Moveable and immoveable assets of Vallyapure was Rs 1.44 crore and Rs 15.43 crore, respectively. JD(S) candidate Govindaraju, a poultry farmer, owns about 54 acres of land along with his wife. That apart, the family (as the Hindu Undivided Family) also owns about 123 acres of agricultural land in Kolar district, together amounting close to Rs 10 crore. The couple is worth Rs 43 crore, movable and immovable assets included. Govindaraju is also the owner of five high-end cars, including a Benz and a commercial vehicle.  Congress candidate Naseer Ahmed, an incumbent MLC, has two criminal cases against him - assault and criminal breach of trust. Ahmed and his wife have assets worth Rs 25.44 crore, and liabilities worth Rs 13.54 crore.  Meanwhile, senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad and his wife are worth Rs 15.26 crore. His source of income, according to his affidavit, is the salary he gets as the Rajya Sabha MP whereas his wife earns tuition fee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bjps-mtb-nagaraj-wife-worth-rs-1220-crore-851545.html
19-06-2020||State||COVID-19 cases breach 8,000-mark in Karnataka, tally now 8,281||COVID-19 cases in Karnataka has breached the 8,000 mark, as the state on Friday reported 337 new cases and ten related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 8,281 and death toll to 124. Also, total discharges in the state breached 5,000 mark, with 230 patients getting discharged in a day after recovery. As of June 19 evening, cumulatively 8,281 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 124 deaths and 5,210 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 2,943 active cases, 2,865 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 78 are in ICU. The ten dead include- seven from Bengaluru urban, two from Bidar and one from Vijayapura. Out of the 337 new cases, 93 are returnees from other states, majority of them from neighboring Maharashtra,while 11 are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with history of SARI and ILI, among others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru accounted for 138 cases, followed by Kalaburagi 52, Ballari 37, Hassan 18, Dakshina Kannada 13, Davangere 12, Udupi 11; Bidar 10, six each from Mysuru and Koppal, four each from Yadgir, Kolar and Bengaluru rural, three each from Mandya, Dharwad, Chikkaballapura, Bagalkote and Ramanagara, two each from Tumakuru and Chikkamagaluru, and one each from Belagavi, Uttara Kannada and Shivamogga. Kalaburagi district tops the list of positive cases, with 1,126 infections, followed by Udupi 1,050 and Bengaluru urban 982. Among discharges Udupi tops the list with 944 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 646 and Yadgir 477. A total of 4,84,060 samples were tested so far, out of which 10,553 were tested on Thursday alone. According to the bulletin,4,64,338 samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 9,862 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-cases-breach-8000-mark-in-karnataka-tally-now-8281-851595.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | What changes are proposed to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act? Why do they matter?||In what is being seen as a landmark policy move, the BJP-ruled Karnataka has decided to do away with restrictions on purchasing agricultural land. This will require amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, which will allow anyone, even non-agriculturists, to purchase and own farmland. The decision taken by the cabinet on June 11 has met with mixed responses and the opposition Congress is up in arms. So what's all the fuss about?  What has the government proposed? The proposal is to repeal Sections 79A, B, C and 80 of the Act with retrospective effect, and amending Section 63.  What do these sections say?  Section 79A says no person (or a family) that has an assured annual income of at least Rs 25 lakh whose source is non-agricultural land can acquire farmland.  Section 79B says that only a person cultivating land personally can hold agricultural land. Other exceptions to holding farmlands are educational, religious or charitable institutions, societies or trusts, companies, associations and cooperative societies.  Section 79C deals with penalty for falsely claiming eligibility to hold agricultural land.  Section 80 bars agricultural land from being transferred to a non-agriculturist, an agriculturist who already owns or has a tenancy of land as per the ceiling or someone who is not an agricultural labourer.   Section 63 prescribes the ceiling on farmland ownership. The ceiling for a person (or a family of four) is 10 units, whereas a family consisting of more than five members can hold 20 units. One unit is 5.4 acres.  What happens if the Act is changed as proposed? If Sections 79A, B, C and 80 are repealed, then anyone, even non-agriculturists, can purchase and own farmland. Amending Section 63 will mean agricultural landholding will go up from 10 units to 20 units for an individual without family or a family up to four people and from 20 units to 40 units for a family of more than five. So what's the big deal? This is being seen as a major land reform that will throw open agricultural lands for purchases in Karnataka, which currently has restrictions on this front. Many states have done away with such restrictions.  Why is the government doing this? The government has laid out several points of argument. Section 79A bars those with an annual income exceeding Rs 25 lakh from acquiring farmland even if they are basically agriculturists. Section 79B says non-agriculturists cannot hold farmland.  Because of these clauses, the government says, large parcels of land cannot be brought under cultivation. If these prohibitions are removed, then people who are not agriculturists but are interested in agriculture can purchase farmland. The government believes it will enable youths to practise modern agricultural techniques. Also, if the ceiling limit is enhanced, then more people will be interested in purchasing farmland and hence, the value of land will increase naturally, the government argues.  What happened all these years?  Non-agriculturists have managed to purchase farmland over the years by subverting the law. Totally, 83,171 cases covering 1.76 lakh acres have been registered for violating sections 79A and B, of which 12,231 cases on 24,553 acres are still pending adjudication.  Even the high court has noted that proceedings under sections 79A and B are fraught with difficulties for the public, especially litigants who want to get Khata, Podi and land conversion (agricultural to non-agricultural use) done. Also, many cases were either dropped or no confiscation of land was done by the government.  So by retrospectively repealing these sections, the government will close all cases pending adjudication.  Why is this being opposed?  The Congress says this is against the rights of farmers, especially those with smaller landholdings. It fears the move will lead to the creation of land banks which, in turn, will give rise to the land mafia. Ultimately, the move will benefit capitalists, it argues.  What's the government response?  In response to criticism, the government has said some guidelines will be put in place to prevent the misuse of purchased farmland. It also says the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act will restrict the use of farmland for other purposes.  What's next? If the monsoon session of the legislature is held later this month or in July, then an amendment bill will be tabled for passage. Otherwise, the government may promulgate an ordinance to bring these amendments into effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-what-changes-are-proposed-to-the-karnataka-land-reforms-act-why-do-they-matter-851190.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa home office sanitised after policewoman's husband tests COVID-19 positive||Krishna, the home office of Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, was sanitised on Friday after the husband of a policewoman working there was tested positive for COVID-19. This forced the CM to shift all the meetings scheduled at Krishna during the day to Vidhana Soudha. According to sources, the husband of a police constable stationed at the reception of Krishna was tested positive for COVID-19. "Her husband also works in the police and was attached to the Central Crime Branch (CCB). He was tested positive a few days ago and is under quarantine. The lady constable also has not attended work since Monday," according to a source in the Chief Minister's Office. The constable has not come in contact with the chief minister or senior officials and her contacts are being traced by authorities. Sources said that Krishna was being sanitised every week on Saturday, as a large number of people visited the home office on a daily basis despite recent restrictions due to COVID-19. "However, since the primary contact of an employee at Krishna tested positive, it was completely sanitised on Friday," sources added. It can be noted that Vikas Soudha was shut down for sanitisation on Friday, after an employee of Food and Civil Supplies Department in the secretariat building tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-home-office-sanitised-after-policewomans-husband-tests-covid-19-positive-851439.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Well crafted policies, good governance has helped Karnataka, says Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa credited good governance, well-crafted policies and its meticulous implementation using technology as the Centre on Friday asked all states to replicate the best practices implemented by Karnataka for better management of the COVID-19 pandemic. "Karnataka's management of #COVID19 is lauded by Union Govt as a role model. At the core of our success is Good Governance with well-crafted policies & meticulous implementation using technology. Congrats to our Corona Warriors & Team Karnataka!" Yediyurappa tweeted. The Centre has asked all states to replicate the best practices implemented by Karnataka, which includes comprehensive contact tracing of COVID-19 cases and physical or phone-based household survey, for better management of the coronavirus pandemic. The Union Health Ministry on Friday lauded the two initiatives taken by Karnataka that have been developed as part of the 'whole of government' approach with the involvement of multi-sectoral agencies and supported by technology-based solutions and interventions. As of June 19 evening, cumulatively 8,281 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 124 deaths and 5,210 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-well-crafted-policies-good-governance-has-helped-karnataka-says-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-851508.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Temporary vehicle registrations valid till July 31||The temporary registration of vehicles which was to expire after March 24, will remain valid till July 31 in view of the extraordinary situation due to COVID-19 crisis, according to latest order issued by the state Transport department. Meanwhile, the Union government has written to the state secretaries informing that the validity of driving and learners licences, fitness certificates and permits and other documents concerned that expired from February 1 will continue to be in force till September 30. Officials said the relaxation is not likely to stop the flood of applications being recieved by the RTOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/temporary-vehicle-registrations-valid-till-july-31-851525.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Experts caution govt over landslides, demand action||An expert committee, appointed to study the landslide-hit regions and map vulnerable areas of landslides along the Western Ghats in Karnataka, has recommended the state government to convene an urgent meeting to discuss plans on shifting of people and families prone to catastrophe in the region. Following an active monsoon and copious rain over the coastal and Malnad districts, the committee of experts, led by Ananth Hegade Ashisara, Chairperson of the Sate Biodiversity Board, visited a few areas. “The India Meteorological Department has already issued forecast of heavy rainfall in the coming days. Already the scientists from Geological Survey of India (GSI) have identified sensitive areas that are prone to landslides in Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu districts.” “To avoid any possible human loss and other related damage, the government must draw a contingency plan to set up rehabilitation camps and shifting of villages from the landslide region to safe locations,” Ashisara told DH soon after holding a brief meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. He further said that these activities require coordination between the departments of Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Forest and Home along with local bodies and elected representatives. “We have recommended the CM to convene a high-level meeting at the earliest,” Ashisara said. The expert committee appointed by the state government following massive landslides in Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru in the last two-years has already visited affected areas of Mudigere in Chikkamagaluru district and Kalasavalli of Shivamogga district. The committee is expected to visit the geosensitive areas of Kodagu in the third week of June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/experts-caution-govt-over-landslides-demand-action-851526.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC exams: PE teachers to ensure social distancing||Amidst complaints of several colleges violating the social distancing rule during the II PUC examination, the Primary and Secondary Education department, which is chalking out plans to hold SSLC examinations from next week, has entrusted the responsibility to physical education (PE) teachers. A detailed circular issued by the Karnataka State Secondary Education Board Director V Sumangala to all the DDPIs and BEOs across Karnataka directed PE teachers to be present at examination centres well in advance and must ensure that all students adhere to social distancing rule. "The DDPIs and BEOs shall assign duties to PE teachers and deploy them to centres accordingly," the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-exams-pe-teachers-to-ensure-social-distancing-851527.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 derails oral cancer detection drives in state||Karnataka has one of the highest oral cancer cases among all states in the country owing to its high tobacco cultivation. As dentists come in close contact with oral cavity, saliva and blood, and respiratory tract secretions, oral cancer screening outreach programmes under the National Cancer Screening Programme has been deferred in the light of COVID-19. Dr Pramila A G, Deputy Director, Oral Health, of the health department told DH, “Our dentists used to participate in the camps conducted by Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) department. Now that it is risky to come in contact with saliva due to the pandemic, we are performing only emergency oral health procedures.” This is expected to affect the state’s oral cancer case detection rates. Currently, 257 dentists under the oral health wing have been called back from COVID-19 duties in fever clinics and, since June 1, are back in their OPDs in the dental departments of public hospitals. Dr Rangaswamy H V, Deputy Director, Non Communicable Diseases, of the health department said, “Oral cancer accounts for 7.4% of the total cancers in the state. Whoever comes to our NCD clinics is screened based on the symptoms told verbally like white patches, swelling, bleeding etc.” Even the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, which conducted screening camps for smokers and tobacco users, is not conducting camps anymore. In the past two years, the intensity of the camps were increased by Kidwai because BEL company donated a hi-tech bus equipped with all facilities. Per month, 10 to 12 camps were conducted and each camp screened hundred people, which stopped after the pandemic outbreak.      Dr Vishal Rao, Head and Neck Cancer surgeon with HCG hospital, said, “The only effective strategy to reduce oral cancer mortality is screening and early detection. These are specially effective in high risk groups for oral cancer who consume tobacco and alcohol. COVID is known to cause higher mortality in patients with NCD such as cancer. Screening high risk population combined with health education is useful.” Dr C Ramesh, Professor of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology. said, “Kidwai alone sees around 1,200 new oral cancer cases every year. Karnataka sees 15,000 new cases every year and has an existing case load of 35,000. Twelve per cent of Kidwai’s cases were detected through screening by the hospital and NGOs. White patches, red patches, injuries to the gum, are classical signs of oral cancer.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-derails-oral-cancer-detection-drives-in-state-851529.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Too afraid to step out for SSLC exams? Write supplementary exams||Here is some good news for students preparing for their Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations, but afraid to step out due to COVID-19. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) is in discussions on allowing such students to appear for the supplementary exams in July. Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar promised to facilitate the exam in July during his recent phone-in programme organised by Deccan Herald and Prajavani.  Answering a query by a student, the minister said, “If you have prepared well for the exams, but afraid to attend due to COVID-19, then you can attend the supplementary exam which will be conducted in the month of July.” “Some students and parents have expressed fear to step out and asked whether exams could be postponed. Instead of postponing the exams, we are thinking of providing an option for such students to write the supplementary exam,” said a KSEEB source. According to officials from the Board, even after the official announcement made by the department about the exams and the release of time table, they are getting calls from anxious parents and students on whether the exams can be put off. “There is no question of postponing the exams and this has been clarified even by the minister. But we are still getting calls from parents and students every day,” said a source. During the phone-in programme, some parents and students requested the minister to cancel the exams. However, the officials from the Board said, “We cannot allow all students to change their exam schedule according to their comfort. But if the cases are genuine, we will consider them as fresh candidates during the supplementary exams.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/too-afraid-to-step-out-for-sslc-exams-write-supplementary-exams-851530.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||ComedK-UGET deferred to Aug 1||The ComedK-UGET 2020 has been postponed to August 1. The action comes following the requests made by the students appearing for NEET on July 26. The test was scheduled for July 25 earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/comedk-uget-deferred-to-aug-1-851535.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt advised to cancel Jayanti holidays to schools, colleges||The state government has been advised to cancel holidays on all Jayantis, including Gandhi Jayanti for educational institutions. Prof M R Doreswamy, adviser to the Government of Karnataka (Education Reforms), held a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and recommended that more meaningful programmes shall be held in memory of these great personalities on those days. Currently, the state government has declared public holidays on Valmiki Jayanti, Basava Jayanti, Kanaka Jayanti, Mahaveer Jayanti, Ambedkar Jayanti and Gandhi Jayanti. Prof Doreswamy submitted a report to the deputy chief minister and urged the government to hold ‘thematic workshops, lectures, conferences and other related activities to recall the life and works of these great personalities rather than reducing those days to mere festival.’ “The move will not only educate our youth about the contributions of these great personalities to our culture and society but also reinvents the tradition of paying tribute to their work towards mankind,” Prof Doreswamy said. Ashwath Narayan said that a decision in this regard shall be taken by the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-advised-to-cancel-jayanti-holidays-to-schools-colleges-851537.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM's home office sanitised after cop's husband tests positive||Krishna, the home office of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, was sanitised on Friday after a relative of a policewoman working there was tested positive for Covid-19. This forced the CM to shift all the meetings scheduled at Krishna during the day to Vidhana Soudha. According to sources, the husband of a police constable stationed at the reception of Krishna was tested positive for Covid-19. "Her husband also works in the police and was attached to the Central Crime Branch (CCB). He was tested positive a few days ago and is under quarantine. The lady constable also has not attended work since Monday," according to a source in the Chief Minister's Office. The constable has not come in contact with the chief minister or senior officials and her contacts are being traced by the authorities. Sources said that Krishna was being sanitised every week on Saturday, as a large number of people visited the home office on a daily basis despite recent restrictions due to Covid-19. "However, since the primary contact of an employee at Krishna tested positive, it was completely sanitised on Friday," sources added. It can be noted that Vikasa Soudha was shut down for sanitisation on Friday, after an employee of Food and Civil Supplies Department in the secretariat building tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cms-home-office-sanitised-after-cops-husband-tests-positive-851540.html
19-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka patients a step away from private COVID-19 treatment||Karnataka is a step away from offering treatment facilities for COVID-19 at private hospitals. Following recommendations by an experts-led task force meeting chaired by Health Minister B Sriramulu, the health department pinned hopes on the cabinet to ratify the decisions. Recommendations include a 33% reduction in the rate proposed by private hospitals for general ward cash patients. The task force has also sought a 40% price reduction in the ward with oxygen and isolation ICU, and 28.57% price reduction in isolation ICU with a ventilator. Package rates from Maharashtra, Odisha, Kerala, Gujarat, and Telangana were compared and arrived at rates for BPL patients or those covered under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK). The other category of rates is for patients not covered under AB-ArK. Dr. CN Manjunath, nodal officer for lab testing in state Covid-19 taskforce told DH, "We arrived at these package rates after comparison with rates in other states. Instead of a 20% reduction in package rates as recommended by a nine-member panel headed by NT Abroo of Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, we sought a price reduction in absolute numbers." "For non-BPL patients, for general ward, we have recommended Rs. 10,000. For the ward with oxygen support, Rs. 12,000 and for an isolation ICU, it is set for Rs. 15,000, and for an isolation ICU with a ventilator- Rs. 25,000," he added. Karnataka to purchase Remdesvir The union health ministry, in its updated clinical management protocol for COVID-19 patients, recently included antiviral drug Remdesivir as part of investigational therapy only for restricted emergency use. "The Karnataka COVID-19 task force has decided to place an order for 500 vials of Remdesvir injections from Cipla. Each injection costs Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 3,500," Dr. CN Manjunath said. "The government has decided to administer it to coronavirus patients with pneumonia or other lung issues, or to critically ill patients requiring ventilation which accounts for five percent to 10 percent of the total COVID-19 cases in the state. Each patient will require ten vials for five days," he added.  Among other decisions taken by the government for which circulars are yet to be issued are- seven days of work and quarantine for doctors/nurses as opposed to 14-day work and quarantine cycle, Rs.2,300 for COVID-19 test at private hospitals/labs for walk-in patients if referred by government hospitals, and 50% reservation of beds as opposed to the earlier demand to reserve 20% beds for COVID-19 in private hospitals. "Under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the government has the power to ask private hospitals to treat patients once it exhausts its capacity irrespective of the beds reserved for COVID-19," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-patients-a-step-away-from-private-covid-19-treatment-851574.html
19-06-2020||West||Sign pact with Karnataka to avoid 2019-like flood: Devendra Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should sign an agreement with neighbouring Karnataka to avoid a repeat of flood in part of the state like it happened in August last year. In August 2019, Kolhapur, Sangli districts and some other parts of the state faced unprecedented floods triggered by huge release of water from dams in western Maharashtra and from the Almatti dam in Karnataka. Fadnavis said, The Maharashtra chief minister should hold an urgent meeting with the Karnataka chief minister and enter into an agreement over-discharge of water from the Almatti dam located on the border of both the states." If water is not released from the Almatti dam in time, it will cause flooding in border areas of Maharashtra such as Kolhapur and Sangli. "A pact between the two states would benefit both as it would help in keeping water levels in control, the former chief minister said. The dams in the state already have sizeable water stock. It would be better if the chief minster schedules a meeting with the Karnataka chief minister regarding the same (agreement), the Leader of Opposition in the assembly said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sign-pact-with-karnataka-to-avoid-2019-like-flood-devendra-fadnavis-851184.html
19-06-2020||West||Four of family end life in Pune||Four members of a family were found dead in Pune. The Pune police is investigating the matter. The deceased include a husband-wife duo, Atul Shinde and Jaya Shinde and their two minor children. The couple is suspected to have ended their lives. The family was found hanging in their home in Sukhsagar Nagar in Pune city. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. As per preliminary information, Shinde was engaged in a small business of making identity cards for students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-of-family-end-life-in-pune-851285.html
19-06-2020||West||Mumbai building converted to COVID-19 hospital||Shreeji Sharan Developers have decided to hand over a newly constructed, ready-to-move-in building complex to the city's municipal body.The private builder handed over its 19-storey 'Shreeji Paradise' to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai to hospitalise COVID-19 patients in the area. The building, located on SV Road in Malad, has 130 flats, for which it had received an occupation certificate from the state government. It was, in fact, ready to be handed over to the flat owners. "The country is going through a difficult phase right now. It's our responsibility to ensure that we step up and serve the nation to our best abilities. Locally speaking, our area, Malad is a COVID hotspot, where cases would likely double in the next 17 days. When MP Gopal Shetty suggested that we lend the building to the effort, we immediately agreed to do so, said Mehul Sanghavi, the owner of Shreeji Sharan Developers. "Rather than meet financial goals, we've decided to hand over the building to the municipality to house COVID patients in the area. We have also decided to bear the costs for the buyers, by providing them rent for their flats for the period, from our coffers", he added. Till now, 300 patients have been transferred to the building, with four patients per flat. Their treatment is continuing within the building premises. Gopal Shetty, the MP from Malad, played an essential role in this move. The Mumbai North lawmaker has been working towards ensuring adequate space for COVID-19 patients in the area. He got in touch with Mehul Sanghvi and convinced him to provide the building for the cause. "We hope that others come forward and collaborate for such gestures, helping us save as many lives as possible," he said. "The building has been given to us as a Corona hospital and quarantine centre. We believe that this first-of-its-kind gesture will help us serve the ailing patients better," said Sanjay Kabre, ward officer from Malad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-building-converted-to-covid-19-hospital-851293.html
19-06-2020||West||Pune: Couple, their two minor children found hanging at home||Bodies of a couple and their two minor children were found hanging at their residence in Pune city of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The bodies were found late on Thursday night, police said. Police suspect that the couple might have taken the extreme step as the family was apparently facing a financial crisis due to COVID-19. "All the four members of the family were found hanging from the ceiling of their residence in Sukhsagar Nagar area late on Thursday night," a police official said. The police said that it could be a suicide pact, wherein Atul Shinde (33) and his wife Jaya (32) first killed their children- son Rugved (6) and daughter Antara (3)- before hanging themselves, he said. "Shinde ran a small business of making identity cards for schools and it seems the family was facing a financial crisis as their business might have suffered due to the COVID-19 pandemic," the official said. As there was no response to the repeated phone calls made to the victim by their family members and friends on Thursday, the police were alerted, he said. "Although no suicide note was recovered from the scene, the couple had allegedly written a message on a wall saying that no one should be held responsible for their deaths," an official from the Bharti Vidyapeeth Police Station said. The couple's signatures were also found below the message, he said. The police are in the process of registering a case and further investigation is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-couple-their-two-minor-children-found-hanging-at-home-851384.html
19-06-2020||West||Pilot confident of Congress' victory in Rajya Sabha polls in Rajasthan||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan on Friday expressed confidence that the party will win the Rajya Sabha polls. Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot claimed that efforts were made to "create confusion" and spread rumour, but the candidates nominated by the AICC are going to win. "Both of our party candidates are going to win and I want to wish them in advance for their victory," he said. The polling for three Rajya Sabha seats in the state started at 9 am and got over at 4 pm. The counting of votes will begin at 5 pm. The Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi for the polls, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pilot-confident-of-congress-victory-in-rajya-sabha-polls-in-rajasthan-851412.html
19-06-2020||West||Elgar Parishad case: 2 accused approach Bombay High Court against transfer of case to NIA||Human rights lawyer Surendra Gadling and writer-activist Sudhir Dhawale, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, approached Bombay High Court on Friday challenging the transfer of the probe from Pune police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The case, in which several human rights activists have been arrested for alleged Maoist links, was transferred from Pune police to NIA on January 24 this year. Gadling and Dhawale were arrested in June 2018 and are lodged at the Taloja jail near Mumbai. The petition, filed through advocate S B Talekar, alleged the transfer of the probe was done by the Central government after BJP lost power in Maharashtra and was hence "politically motivated". "The transfer order is arbitrary, discriminatory, unjust and violative of the fundamental rights of the accused persons in the case," the petition said. "The then BJP-led state government with Hindutva agency used the incident of violence at Koregaon Bhima in Pune in December 2017-January 2018 to target influential Dalit thinkers by showing the Elgar Parishad meeting as part of a Maoist movement," the petition said. The petition said "political expediency" cannot be a ground to invoke powers of NIA Act and transfer probe. The petition further claimed the NIA Act, 2008 does not permit transfer of case after completion of investigation and commencement of trial, particularly when there are no compelling circumstances necessitating such a transfer. "The order transferring the investigation to NIA after completion of probe amounts to re-investigation, which is not permissible under law," the petition said, and claimed the transfer was bad in law as no permission was sought from the High Court to initiate re-investigation. The petition claimed charge sheets have been filed in the case, but in November last year the newly-formed Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra proposed to form a special investigation team to look into the case. "The Central government immediately issued a notification directing NIA to take up the investigation in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case without assigning any reason," the petition said. The petition further claimed that in April 2018, the Pune police had submitted a report to the Union government on the nature of offences alleged in the FIR, the role of each of the accused and other details. After going through the report, the Central government deemed it appropriate to allow the state machinery to continue with the investigation, but in January this year changed its mind and transferred the probe to NIA, the petition said. "The Central government, since the registration of the FIR in January 2018, did not feel it necessary to transfer the investigation to NIA till there was a change of government in Maharashtra," the petition said. The plea is likely to be taken up for hearing on June 23 by the high court. Apart from Gadling and Dhawale, the other arrested accused in the case include Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Shoma Sen, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira and Sudha Bharadwaj. They are accused of having Maoist links and have been charged under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to the prosecution, inflammatory speeches and provocative statements made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017 triggered caste violence at Koregaon Bhima the next day. The police claim the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-2-accused-approach-bombay-high-court-against-transfer-of-case-to-nia-851424.html
19-06-2020||West||Gujarat Rajya Sabha poll: 170 MLAs cast vote; 2 BTP legislators skip voting||Of the 172 MLAs eligible to vote in the Rajya Sabha elections in Gujarat on Friday, 170 legislators cast their votes, while two others from the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) stayed away from the process after they demanded a written assurance about the welfare of tribals, migrants and Dalits. Voting for the election to four Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat commenced at 9 am and ended at 4 pm. While the BJP had fielded three candidates, two candidates were in the fray from the Congress. Apart from 103 members of the BJP, including Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, 65 members of Congress and one MLA of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) cast their ballots before 3 pm. The only Independent MLA, Jignesh Mevani, also cast his vote. In the morning, two BTP MLAs -Chhotu Vasava and his son Mahesh - claimed they would not give their votes until and unless they are given a written assurance about the welfare of tribals, migrants and Dalits. Talking to reporters, Mahesh Vasava said that he and his father would vote only if they get a written assurance about the implementation of schedule 5 of the Constitution and PESA Act in Gujarat. "Though our votes are important, people whom we represent are more important to us," he said. "Despite repeated representation to both the parties in the past, nothing has been done for the welfare of ST,SC, OBC, minority and migrant workers. We will think about voting only after getting an assurance," Vasava said. Although the leaders from the BJP and the Congress later met the Vasava duo separately and tried to convince them, the two MLAs stayed away from voting. Rajya Sabha election for four seats in Gujarat became necessary as the BJP decided to field a third candidate, taking the number of candidates in the fray to five. While the Congress had fielded Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, the BJP had fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin. As per the numbers, each candidate required support of 35 MLAs to win the seat. Although the total strength of the Gujarat assembly is 182, its effective strength has come down to 172 as 10 seats are currently vacant- eight due to resignations of Congress MLAs and two due to court cases. While the BJP has 103 MLAs, Congress has 65, Bharatiya Tribal Party has two seats, NCP has one and one seat is held by Independent MLA Jignesh Mewani. The counting of votes was scheduled to begin at 5 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-rajya-sabha-poll-170-mlas-cast-vote-2-btp-legislators-skip-voting-851427.html
19-06-2020||West||Goa Lokayukta issued notices to officials over labour 'compensation' scam||The Goa Lokayukta on Friday issued notices to top Goa government officials, in connection with a complaint filed by Goa Forward an opposition party, which has alleged fraud in the distribution of financial compensation meant for migrant construction workers stranded due to the COVID-19 pandemic, to several elected representatives, including panchayat members as well as housewives, drivers and shopkeepers! "Ongoing through the material on record, it is found that there are sufficient and reasonable grounds to hold a detailed investigation as envisaged in Section 13 of the Act," Goa Lokayukta P.K. Mishra said in his order on Friday. "For the time being, this institution will examine the only question as to whether any investigating agency like ACB or CB can be directed to register FIR against unknown persons and to carry on investigation to find and prosecute the culprits," the order also states. Goa Chief Secretary and Labour Secretary have been directed to file their responses to the Lokayukta's notice by July 2. On March 28, the Labour Ministry of the Goa government had announced a one-time relief package of Rs. 6,000 each for 19,000 construction workers, who were impacted by the restrictions imposed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The package was announced under the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board Assistance Scheme. However, an investigation conducted by NGOs revealed that many of the beneficiaries were not construction workers but elected panchayat members, house-wives, meat store owners, taxi drivers, etc. Following this revelation, multiple complaints were filed before investigating agencies, including the state police and the office of the Lokayukta.Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has admitted that faulty data could have led to undeserving persons availing of the Rs. 6,000 benefit and said that the Labour Ministry was probing the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-lokayukta-issued-notices-to-officials-over-labour-compensation-scam-851532.html
19-06-2020||West||Two brothers, their four kids die under mysterious circumstances||Two brothers and their four children were found hanging in a flat in Vatva police station area in Ahmedabad early Friday morning.  Police suspect that it is a case of a suicide pact in which the brothers first killed the children and then hanged themselves. The police have registered the case as an accidental death but said it is too early to arrive at any conclusion. Police said that Gaurang Patel, 42, Amrish Patel, 40, were found hanging in the hall, two boys in the bedroom and two girls were found in the kitchen. The brothers had a daughter and a son each. The one BHK flat was bought by Gaurang but left it some six months ago after he was not able to pay the home loan. Outside the flat, there were bank notices posted on the wall stating that the owner of the flat owed Rs 7.87 lakh bank loan. The brothers left home on June 17 with their children promising their wives to come back soon. When they didn’t return till late at night, the family started looking. On June 18, they decided to check the mortgaged flat at Shree Prayosha Residency apartment. "The family found the car and a bike belonging to the brothers parked outside the apartment. The flat was locked from inside and they called fire brigade team which broke open the door. The police found the bodies hanging in the hall, bedroom and kitchen. We have also found four cups which have traces of some liquid which might contain some sedative that they would have used on the children before hanging them. These all primary details but we can't say anything conclusively. We have registered the case as accidental death," said Deputy Commissioner of Police Bipin Ahire. Another police officer told DH that "It looks like a suicide pact between the brothers but we don't know why they left their wives. We have information suggesting that the brothers were very close to each other. Their car and motorcycle had same numbers. One of the brothers Amrish was a cab driver but was out of job due to lockdown. A week back, Gaurang, who worked in a textile company, had provided a job to Amrish in the textile company." He added that "more than monetary problem, we believe that there could be some social issues which might have led the brothers to end their lives. If money was the issue, we wonder why would they leave their wives behind. It is a strange case." Police said that mother of Patel brothers had passed away about a one-and-a-half ago while their father died some ten years back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-brothers-their-four-kids-die-under-mysterious-circumstances-851543.html
19-06-2020||West||BJP retains its three RS seats in Gujarat, Congress loses one||After more than five hours of suspense on the outcome of Rajya Sabha polls, the election commission late on Friday night announced all three BJP candidates victorious while Congress had to satisfy with only one seat that went to its national spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil who was party's first choice whereas the second preferred candidate former union minister Bharatsinh Solanki lost. The BJP candidates- criminal lawyer Abhay Bharadwaj, a tribal leader from north Gujarat's Sabarkantha district Ramila Bara, and Narhari Amin won the poll. Incidentally, Amin was one of the popular leaders in Congress till 2012, the year he switched over to BJP. The BJP fielded him as the third candidate against Bharatsinh Solanki despite the party not having enough number of legislators who chose members of upper house in the parliament.  Interestingly, Rajkot-based Bharadwaj had represented accused in the Gulberg Society Massacre of 2002 after Godhra riots along with BJP MLA Rajendra Trivedi who is currently speaker in Gujarat Assembly. In 2016, Bharadwaj was appointed as a part-time member in the 21st Law Commission of India. In February, when the election commission announced dates for the polls, which was to be held on March 24, five Congress MLAs tendered their resignations, forcing the party to take the remaining 68 MLAs to Jaipur. The polls were postponed after coronavirus outbreak and subsequently, when new date, June 19, was announced, the Congress suffered another setback when three more legislator tendering their resignation. "We were winning two seats but due to horse-trading by the BJP, many of our MLAs left the party which led to our defeat," said senior Congress leader Arjun Modhwadia after the result was announced. The BJP shot back to say that "Congress lost due to its internal infighting." As a matter of fact, the result is said to be causing another rift in Congress in coming days. The poll for the upper house had its element of drama since the beginning. First, it was due to Congress suffering resignations of total eight MLAs and then non-cooperation of past allies like Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) which ditched the party at the last moment. NCP's lone MLA Kandhal Jadeja is reported to have voted for BJP against party's whip while BTP's two MLAs-Chhotu Vasava and his son Mahesh- boycotted polls. The Congress tried to checkmate BJP by writing to the election commission raising objection over validity of two votes of BJP on technical grounds which was eventually rejected which took nearly four hours of examination. This was yet another reminder of 2017 polls when Congress had outsmarted BJP in the nick of time and clinched the victory for its senior leader Ahmed Patel. Entire Congress teams including Shaktisinh Gohil was instrumental in the victory that had boasted the party morale so much that it had almost defeated the BJP in the Assembly polls of 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-retains-its-three-rs-seats-in-gujarat-congress-loses-one-851577.html
19-06-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Weddings with 50 people in attendance to be allowed in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Friday said weddings ceremonies will be allowed in the state with an attendance cap of 50 people. Wadettiwar, also minister for Disaster Management, said social distancing norms will have to be followed strictly as well as wearing of masks, adding open spaces, residential premises, non-AC halls will be allowed to host such functions. A government resolution (GR) will be issued on this subject in two days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-weddings-with-50-people-in-attendance-to-be-allowed-in-maharashtra-851590.html
