20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Equal Rights Karnataka to file complaint against anchor Amish Devgan in Hubbali over Islamophobic remark||Equal Rights Karnataka has decided to file a complaint against news TV anchor Amish Devgan, with the Suburban Police Station in Hubballi within a couple of days, on charges of making disgraceful remarks against Hazarat Kwaja Garib Nawaj of Ajmer. "Terming the Sufi saint as invader and looter is an effort to damage communal harmony and to spread Islamophobia mindset' said the organisation president S N Badiger. Memoranda seeking action against Amish would also be submitted to Union and State governments, he added. Moulana Nayimuddin Ashrafi stated that the fight would continue till legal action is taken against Amish and he is punished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/equal-rights-karnataka-to-file-complaint-against-anchor-amish-devgan-in-hubbali-over-islamophobic-remark-851704.html
20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more test positive in Chikkamagaluru; district tally 8||Two persons including an undertrial tested positive for COVID-19 in Chikkamagaluru. With this, the number of active cases in the district has risen to 8. A man (P-8091) who had reached Tarikere from Kundapura in Udupi district and an undertrial (P8020) at Chikkamagaluru district prison have tested positive. The officials are collecting information on all the primary contacts of those who tested positive, said DC Dr Bagadi Gautham. The report of 298 samples are awaited. A total of 167 persons have been admitted for observation, said district surveillance officer Dr H K Manjunath. The district had reported a total of 26 positive cases with 17 having recovered and one succumbed to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-test-positive-in-chikkamagaluru-district-tally-8-851722.html
20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ban on movement of heavy vehicles on Agumbe Ghat||The movement of heavy vehicles on Agumbe Ghat has been banned till October 15. The Agumbe Ghat connects Shivamogga with the Udupi district. There is a possibility of landslides on either side of the Ghat road if movement of heavy vehicles is allowed during the monsoon, said Udupi DC G Jagadeesh. The movement of all heavy vehicles above 12 tonne has been banned on the road. Till the end of monsoon, all the heavy vehicles have to travel via Udupi-Brahmavar-Barkur-Shankaranarayana; Siddapura-Hosangady-Hulikal Ghat-Hosanagara-Theerthahalli; Udupi-Karkala-Bajagoli-S K Border-Kerekatte-Sringeri- Shivamogga, said the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ban-on-movement-of-heavy-vehicles-on-agumbe-ghat-851771.html
20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more COVID-19 deaths in Bidar||Two more people died of COVID-19 in Bidar district of Karnataka on Saturday, taking the total fatalities to 13. The district had seen two deaths on Friday and has been reporting casualties for the past five days in a row. Bidar has the second highest deaths in the state after Bengaluru. The district has reported 73 fresh cases on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-bidar-851827.html
20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC student tests positive for COVID-19||An 18-year-old boy from a village in Kittur taluk, who had recently returned from Tamil Nadu to appear for SSLC examination, has tested positive for COVID-19. He was shifted to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital for treatment by Health Department personnel on Saturday.  The boy, a native from a village Kittur was in Tamil Nadu during the lockdown period and had recently returned to appear for SSLC examination. His swab sample had been sent for testing and it tested positive for COVID-19. Assistant Commissioner, Bailhongal Sub-Division Shivanand Bajantri confirmed that the boy has tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-student-tests-positive-for-covid-19-851883.html
20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||No change in APMC Act amendment: Minister||Co-operation Minister S T Somashekhar clarified that there is no chance of stepping back from the amendment made to the APMC Act, as it is intended at the welfare of farmers. "There is no meaning in the allegation of privatisation of everything, and the amendment would not lead to monopoly also, but it just gives freedom to farmers. Considering the results of the implementation of the amendment, we will think about whether some changes have to be made in APMCs or not," he said. Distributing incentive amount to Asha wrokers who have worked in Covid-19 situation, function for Asha workers, at Karnatak Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KCCI) hall at J C Nagar in Hubballi on Saturday, he stated that the change in the act would help farmers to choose between government and private APMCs, and get better price for their crops. The co-operative societies under crisis would be visited, and steps would be planned for their revival, the minister assured. Lauds Shettar "Being Mysuru district in-charge minister, I requested Large & Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar to visit Nanjanagud, where 84 Covid-19 cases were reported in a factory, and entire place was sealed down," Somashekhar recalled. Due to the efforts of Shettar, 1,550 employees of Jubilant factory are now working in shifts, and all cases there have turned negative. Food kits were distributed to residents, and 10 surrounding villages were adopted, he added. Somashekhar also distributed Rs 3,000 incentive cheque each to a few Asha workers symbolically. MLA Prasad Abbayya, MLCs Basavaraj Horatti, S V Sankanur, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan, KCC Bank chairman Bapugouda Patil, DMF president Basavaraj Arabagonda, and others were present. APMC visit Later, Somashekhar and Shettar visited Amargol APMC premises, and inspected vegetable vending at the Sunday market complex area there. APMC office-bearers and officials were present. Somashekhar also assured to hold discussion about issuing final title-deeds for godowns and plots allotted to traders in APMCs, and to waive off pending property tax. APMC Hamali Workers' Federation sought financial help for Hamalis who are troubled due to the lockdown. The minister also visited RSS office 'Keshav Kunja' on Gokul Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-change-in-apmc-act-amendment-minister-851902.html
20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'No cloud seeding in Karnataka this year'||Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) Director G S Srinivasa Reddy said that the cloud seeding project has been dropped in Karnataka this year.  "Cloud seeding was not taken up in Kodagu district in 2018 and 2019. People should not have any doubts over it. The cloud seeding was carried out in only those areas, which failed to receive expected rainfall," he said while answering to a query.  Karnataka State Biodiversity Board President Anant Hegde Ashisar who is heading a high-level committee to conduct a study on the landslides said, "A study is being carried out on the landslides that took place in Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Kodagu districts. The panel will submit a detailed report along with recommendations to the government within three months."  The high-level committee visited the landslide affected areas of Jodupala, Made, second Monnangeri, Karnangeri, Hattihole and Haleri in Kodagu, on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-cloud-seeding-in-karnataka-this-year-851909.html
20-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC student tests COVID-19 positive||An SSLC student in Kittur taluk of Belagavi district has tested positive for novel coronavirus. The student, aged 18, had recently visited virus-hit Chennai to meet his parents. Upon his return, on June 1, he was sent to home quarantine. On June 16, his throat swab sample was sent for testing. The report came back positive on Saturday. The Education department officials have written to the school not to allow the student take SSLC examination, which is scheduled to begin from June 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-student-tests-covid-19-positive-851936.html
20-06-2020||Mysuru||Fire at medical store in Mysore's Kuvempunagar; no casualties||A medical shop at Kuvempunagar in Mysuru was gutted in fire. However, no casualty was reported. A massive fire broke out at Mega Medicals in Kuvempunagar and medicines worth lakhs of rupees were destroyed due to the fire. The Fire and Emergency Services personnel managed to douse the fire. An official of the emergency department said the exact reason for the mishap is yet to be ascertained and no casualty has been reported. As the shop was filled with medicines and chemicals, the fire spread in a short span of time, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/fire-at-medical-store-in-mysores-kuvempunagar-no-casualties-851724.html
20-06-2020||National||Bhima Koregaon case: SC frowns over entertaining of Navlakha's bail plea by Delhi HC||The Supreme Court on Friday expressed unhappiness and questioned the Delhi High Court's decision to entertain the bail plea of civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha, when it had already dismissed his petition for similar relief and asked him to surrender within a specific date. Navlakha was arrested in August 2018 by the Pune Police from his Delhi residence in connection with the violence at Koregaon Bhima village in Pune district on January 1, 2018. The transit remand order was, however, set aside by the Delhi High Court. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer said that interim orders granted by the top court on June 2 will continue in the case. The apex court had stayed the May 27 order of the High Court by which the NIA was pulled up for acting in haste in taking away Navlakha from Tihar Jail to Mumbai. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for National Investigation Agency (NIA) said that Delhi High Court had no territorial jurisdiction to call for records from the lower courts. The bench said, “When we had dismissed his bail plea on similar grounds and asked him to surrender then what is the right of Delhi High Court to entertain his bail petition”. Lekhi said that NIA had not acted in haste in moving Navlakha to Mumbai as a production warrant was issued by the trial court. He said that in compliance to top court’s order of April 8, Navlakha had surrendered on April 14 in Delhi but could not be moved from Mumbai due to lockdown. Advocate Shadan Farasat, appearing Navlakha said that he does not have the copy of NIA’s petition and could file reply after getting the copy. The bench then ordered that the copy of petition be served upon Navlakha and posted the matter for further hearing in the month of July. It said all interim orders will continue till further orders. On June 2, the top court had stayed the proceedings before the Delhi High Court till further orders and issued notice to Navlakha on NIA’s appeal. The NIA in its plea alleged that the high court in its order erroneously continues to entertain the interim bail application of an accused, who is charged by an authority outside its territorial jurisdiction and is in judicial custody vide a valid jurisdictional remand order passed by special judge (NIA) Mumbai (which is outside the territorial jurisdiction of the Delhi High Court). It sought setting aside of the May 27 order of the high court and claimed that the top court had already adjudicated the issue of medical health of Navlakha and declined him the relief by its order on April 8. The probe agency has also questioned the maintainability of the Navlakha’s bail plea before the high court and pointed out that the accused is being prosecuted for offences under IPC and UAPA and thus the bail application would lie before the special court under the NIA Act. It pointed out that the Delhi High Court also lacked the territorial jurisdiction to pass directions as the FIR by NIA pertaining to the Bhima Koregaon case was registered on January 24 at Mumbai. On May 27, the high court had pulled up the NIA for acting in “unseemly haste” in taking away Navlakha, from the national capital to Mumbai even when his interim bail plea was pending here. It said there was an evident haste shown by the NIA in moving pleas across Mumbai and Delhi over weekends and Gazetted holidays (Eid) and obtaining orders by e-mail, and “whisking away” Navlakha to Mumbai, which has rendered these proceedings infructuous. Navlakha, who had surrendered before the NIA on April 14 in pursuance to the apex court's direction and was lodged in Tihar jail, was taken to Mumbai by train on May 26. On April 8, the top court had directed Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to surrender to jail authorities within a week in the Bhima Koregaon violence case saying the time will not be extended now as the courts are functioning in Maharashtra. The activists, who were directed by the apex court on March 16 to surrender within three weeks, had moved the plea seeking extension of time on the ground that going to jail during ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is "virtually a death sentence". The top court had said the accused should have honoured its decision of dismissal of the anticipatory bail and the direction to surrender themselves within three weeks. It had also made clear that there shall not be any further extension of time for surrendering. The apex court on March 16 had rejected anticipatory bail pleas of the activists, observing that it cannot be said no prima facie case is made out. It had granted three weeks’ time to them to surrender themselves to the jail. Navlakha, Teltumbde and several other activists have been booked by the Pune Police for their alleged Maoist links and several other charges following the violence at Koregaon Bhima village in Pune district on January 1, 2018. All the accused have denied the allegations. According to Pune Police, "inflammatory" speeches and "provocative" statements made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017 had triggered caste violence at Koregaon Bhima the next day. The police alleged that the conclave was backed by Maoists. Teltumbde and Navlakha had approached the high court seeking pre-arrest bail in November last year after a sessions court in Pune had rejected their pleas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhima-koregaon-case-sc-frowns-over-entertaining-of-navlakhas-bail-plea-by-delhi-hc-851603.html
20-06-2020||National||SC goes on vacation, will continue hearing urgent matters||The Supreme Court, which has rescheduled it's summer vacation from June 22 to July 3 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will continue to hear the “matters of urgent nature” via video conferencing during this period, a circular said on Friday. During the first week of the summer vacation, i.e. from June 22 to 26, two division benches, one court of Judges-in-Chamber and one Registrar Court will conduct hearings through Video Conferencing/Tele-conferencing mode.  During the second week of rescheduled summer vacation two benches will hear the matter on June 30 and July 3 respectively. “The existing 'Standard Operating Procedure' issued for advocates and parties-in-person, uploaded on the website on June 14, will continue to operate for listing and hearing of matters before the Judge-in-Chamber and the Registrar Court,” the circular said. Fresh matters filed up to June 19 which are 'mentioned' on the e-mail address 'HYPERLINK "mailto:mention.sc@sci.nic.in"mention.sc@sci.nic.in' up to 5:00 PM on a particular day for urgent listing, may be processed for listing on the next to next working day, subject to the directions of the competent authority and availability of the Bench as per roster, it said. However, the after notice matters which will be mentioned for early listing on the ground of urgency may be placed before the judge having coram, and the same may be listed subject to acceptance of the request, provided the judge is available during vacation, it added. “Moreover, it was added that matters seeking to be listed on the ground of urgency would be listed only after the competent authority approves it. This will be subject to the direction/roster and the availability of the respective Bench. However, matters of extreme urgency shall be dealt with by the Vacation Officer/Registrar as per prevailing practice, the circular reads,” it said. It added that the filing counter will remain closed for two weeks and that, only e-filing of documents would be permitted. However, in case of extreme exigency, the Registry may open the filing counter, the circular concludes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-goes-on-vacation-will-continue-hearing-urgent-matters-851604.html
20-06-2020||National||Record 3,137 fresh COVID-19 cases in Delhi take tally to over 53,000; death toll mounts to 2,035||For the first time, over 3,000 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in a single day in the national capital on Friday, taking the tally here beyond the 53,000-mark while the death toll from the disease climbed to 2,035, authorities said.   Delhi recorded 3,137 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday in its highest single-day spike so far. The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi had stood at 1,969 on Thursday. Sixty-six fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department bulletin said. The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 2,877-- was recorded on June 18. The bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 2,035 and the total number of cases mounted to 53,116.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-3137-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-53000-death-toll-mounts-to-2035-851608.html
20-06-2020||National||Shiv Sena has not changed its ideology: Uddhav Thackeray||The Shiv Sena has not changed its ideology, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday as he addressed party leaders and office-bearers on the occasion of the 54th anniversary of its formation. The Sena last year severed ties with erstwhile ally BJP after the two parties fell out over sharing of the chief ministerial post for two-and-half years on a rotational basis. The Thackeray-led party then joined forces with the ideologically different NCP and Congress in a post-poll arrangement and formed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Thackeray was sworn-in as chief minister in November last year. "The Shiv Sena has not changed its ideology," Thackeray told Shiv Sena leaders via an online platform, according to a statement shared by the party after the meeting. The Sena was born to fight injustice, he said. The Shiv Sena chief added he would take forward the legacy of his late father and party founder Bal Thackeray. "This is not a helpless Shiv Sena and your Shiv Sena chief too will not be helpless," Thackeray said. He informed that the number of COVID-19 testing laboratories in the state has now increased to 100 from two initially, and more labs will be set up. The chief minister said the Shiv Sena shakhas (branches) in the city will be turned into temporary clinics to treat patients. Doctors were being provided all the required equipment like masks, PPE kits and hand gloves as they combat the disease, he said. Thackeray praised the party workers, saying they are never afraid of any crisis and work for people by putting everything else aside. Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray also spoke on the occasion and pitched for expanding the party's base in each of the country's states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-has-not-changed-its-ideology-uddhav-thackeray-851615.html
20-06-2020||National||LG's guidelines on home isolation will 'seriously harm' Delhi: City govt||The Delhi government on Friday said the new guidelines on home isolation of COVID-19 patients issued by the Lt Governor was an "arbitrary decision" and will "seriously harm" the national capital. In a statement, it also pointed out that Delhi already has "serious shortage" of doctors and nurses to provide care for COVID-19 patients and asked where the extra manpower would come from. "We have been completely supportive of the Central government in our collective fight against coronavirus, but this arbitrary decision will seriously harm Delhi," it said. The Delhi government urged that the decision should be reconsidered. Five-day institutional-quarantine has been made mandatory for every COVID-19 patient who is under home-quarantine in Delhi, Lt Governor Anil Baijal ordered on Friday. This will also discourage many people from getting tested and "spread corona" further as asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms will resist testing, the statement said. "Entire manpower of Delhi government is already stretched. Large quarantine centres would need to be made to house thousands of asymptomatic people," it said. According to authorities, the total number of COVID-19 positive patients under home isolation in the city till June 17 stood at 25,020. A total of 3,34,376 tests have been conducted in Delhi till Friday, they said. The statement said the city government's home isolation programme has been "one of the most successful initiatives" in the battle against COVID-19. "We have treated thousands of mild and asymptomatic cases at home so far through daily monitoring and counselling," it said. Home isolation has encouraged a lot of people with minor symptoms to come out and get tested as they knew that they would not be taken to a hospital or quarantine centre forcibly, it said. The Delhi government also asked if ICMR guidelines are still applicable to the rest of India, then why are there "different parameters for Delhi". Further, Delhi has already seen escalating number of cases and preparations have to be done for patients from the entire region. In addition to 80,000 beds being planned for serious patients in July, thousands of quarantine rooms will have to be added, the statement said. "Thousands of patients are being treated at home at the moment. After this order, we would immediately need thousands of beds in quarantine centres," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lgs-guidelines-on-home-isolation-will-seriously-harm-delhi-city-govt-851621.html
20-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 20, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-20-2020-edition-851628.html
20-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 20||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of COVID-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 4 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  While COVID-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. COVID-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of COVID-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact; the positive case total includes deaths: 4,10,830 as of June 20 Total deaths in India: 13,260 states/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information) Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 2,13,830 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the COVID-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-20-851633.html
20-06-2020||National||Raj govt caps costs for COVID-19 testing, treatment in pvt hospitals||Rajasthan government on Friday capped the charges for coronavirus testing and treatment of COVID-19 patients in private labs and hospitals. The government fixed Rs. 2,200 for the testing of samples by private labs. No private hospital shall charge more than Rs. 2,000 per day for normal bed and Rs. 4,000 for ICU bed with ventilator. The decisions to regulate the charges were taken in a review meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. He asked the officials to take stern action if any private lab or hospital charges more than these prices.  Health minister Raghu Sharma, chief secretary DB Gupta and other senior officials were present in the review meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raj-govt-caps-costs-for-covid-19-testing-treatment-in-pvt-hospitals-851634.html
20-06-2020||National||Fact-check: Is this martyr Col Santosh Babu's daughter?||On June 13, the Indian army confirmed the demise of Colonel Santosh Babu, Commanding Officer of the 16 Bihar. Babu was martyred during a face-off with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan valley near patrolling point 14, reported The Economic Times. The child in the viral image is a sister of an ABVP Karnataka member. On June 17, the Twitter handle of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) posted multiple tweets and clarified, “We understand their sentiments, but deem it necessary to clarify that the girl is younger sister of an @ABVPKarnataka karyakarta.” We noticed some personalities & prominent handles have mistakenly, without any ill-will reported the girl to be daughter of martyr Col Santhosh Babu. Their Facebook page also shared multiple pictures from the private homage ceremony along with the caption, “Karyakarta of ABVP in Nelamangala Taluk of Karnataka, along with his little sister, paid homage to Col. Santhosh Babu who was martyred during the scuffle between India and China at LAC in Galwan Valley, Ladakh.” We noticed some personalities & prominent handles have mistakenly, without any ill-will reported the girl to be daughter of martyr Col Santhosh Babu. The Times of India had earlier fact-checked the image. Thus the social media claim associated with the viral image is false. The girl is not late Col Santosh Babu’s daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-is-this-martyr-col-santosh-babus-daughter-851657.html
20-06-2020||National||Well prepared to respond to any contingency: IAF chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria||The Indian Air Force is “very well prepared and suitably deployed to respond to any contingency,” asserted the defence wing chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday. Amid a continuing standoff between the Indian and Chinese sides at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the Air Chief Marshal has assured the nation of the force’s “determination to deliver.” “The security scenario in our region mandates our armed forces remain prepared and vigilant at all times. The development at the LAC in Ladakh is a small snapshot of what we are required to handle at short notice,” the Chief of Air Staff said in his address at the combined graduation parade at the Dundigal Airforce Academy near Hyderabad. “We will never let the supreme sacrifice of our braves, while defending the LAC in the Galwan Valley, go in vain,” Bhadauria said days after 20 Indian army soldiers along with Commanding Officer Colonel Santosh Babu were slain by the Chinese troops. “Their gallant actions in a highly challenging situation have demonstrated our resolve to protect the sovereignty of our country – at any cost.”  The Chief of Air Staff has reportedly spent two days in Ladakh this week, following the Galwan incident, to take stock of the IAF’s preparedness in case of a war like eventuality. “In spite of unacceptable Chinese actions after agreements that reached during military talks and resultant loss of life, all efforts are underway to ensure that the current situation on LAC is resolved peacefully,” Bhadauria, however, said.   Speaking to the reporters later, the CAS said that this year China has increased its deployments at the LAC, which further went up after May. “We have been monitoring all their postures; we know the situation and we took necessary action,” Bhadauria said. “We know what their airfields are, where they are deployed, what are their operational bases.” “We have deployed aircrafts as per the requirements, details I cannot specify. Be rest assured, we have done the needful,” the air chief said. “Adversaries would take due cognizance of our capabilities; you will see it in due course. I do not have to give any message,” he said in response to a question if he has any message for the opponents. 123 officers have graduated from the academy with successful completion of their training and awarded the President's commission. Two Vietnam Air Force officers have also earned their wings from the academy.  The air chief said that the newly commissioned IAF officers, instead of going home for a break, will be proceeding straight to their next units “to shoulder their responsibilities for the task at hand.” Given the current situation, we are expediting the further training of our officers, to make them operational at the earliest, Bhadauria said while rejecting it as an emergency situation measure.    Because of the COVID-19, parents of the graduate cadets were not allowed for the ceremony this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/well-prepared-to-respond-to-any-contingency-iaf-chief-marshal-rks-bhadauria-851666.html
20-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 tally nears 4 lakh with highest single-day spike of 14,516 cases||India on Saturday saw another record spike of 14,516 new COVID-19 cases in a single-day, pushing the tally to 3,95,048, while the death toll rose to 12,948 with 375 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of recoveries continued to surge with 2,13,830 patients cured so far, while there are 1,68,269 active cases, according to the updated official figures at 8 am. One patient has migrated. "Thus, around 54.12 per cent of the patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. India registered over 10,000 cases for the ninth day in a row. The country has witnessed a surge of over two lakh infections from June 1 till 20 with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh among the top five states that have seen a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-nears-4-lakh-with-highest-single-day-spike-of-14516-cases-851671.html
20-06-2020||National||Woman allegedly shot dead by ex-boyfriend in Kolkata||A woman in her early twenties was shot dead allegedly by her former beau in the southern part of Kolkata on Saturday morning, police said. The woman, identified as third-year college student Priyanka Purakayasta, was shot dead allegedly by another youngster, Jayanta Halder, in the Regent Park area, a senior officer said. The accused had allegedly barged into the victim's house around 8 am, shot her from a close range without provocation and then escaped, he said. "Both were in a relationship but after coming to know that the man was married, the woman had ceased all ties with him. This might have led to the killing," the officer said. A manhunt has been launched to nab the accused and the woman's body has been sent for post-mortem examination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-allegedly-shot-dead-by-ex-boyfriend-in-kolkata-851698.html
20-06-2020||National||Chinese could lose in combat with India in Ladakh: Studies||Fifty-eight years after India suffered a bloody nose in a brisk war with China in 1962, the two nations are once again at a standoff in the same region of the Himalayas. Although there have been previous fracas with Chinese troops along the border, the June 15 incident, which saw at least 20 Indian troops (from the Bihar Regiment) killed, plus 76 wounded and perhaps 45 casualties within the Chinese Army, represents a new upping of the ante. Where the Galwan River incident differs from previous encounters is the level of Chinese actions. First, the Chinese had appeared in large numbers in a new area which they had not previously focused on. Second, the Chinese have now dug in along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a de facto international border which was solidified after the 1962 war. Satellite photos taken in the days after the fracas also show a Chinese military build-up on the other side of the LAC.    Ghost of 1962 Defeat In 1962, Beijing declared a ceasefire after a month-long campaign following its capture of the Aksai Chin area. Some 1,383 Indian troops had been killed in that war, as were 722 Chinese. With the spectre of that stinging defeat hanging over its war record, India’s ability to withstand another military “push” appears questionable. However, two studies from the Belfer Centre at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government in Boston and the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) in Washington D C, seem to suggest that a repeat attempt at military adventurism could prompt difficulties for China. India’s primary advantage is that unlike the Chinese People Liberation Army (PLA), its conflicts with Pakistan and low-intensity border skirmishes have served to maintain the army’s battle hardiness, said the October 2019 report of the Center for a New American Security, titled Imbalance of Power: India’s Military Choices in an Era of Strategic Competition with China. “The PLA, on the other hand, has not experienced the crucible of combat since its conflict with Vietnam in 1979,” it added. That month-long border war which was started by China to counter Vietnam’s thrust into neighboring Cambodia resulted in a PLA which was outfought by a Vietnamese battle-hardened in combat against the United States. Chinese Troops Waiting in the Wing The March 2020 Belfer report suggests that the Chinese could bring at least 70,000 troops into action in the Aksai Chin without weakening forces from other border areas. Against this, India can initially pit only 34,000 troops. However, this number disparity could be misleading. The CNAS report points out that India has the home advantage of already having its 34,000 troops “in position.” However, being holed up in mountainous terrain is a double-edged sword for India. Troops could find it difficult to move in order to plug gaps in the line when under artillery and missile strikes, the CNAS report says. At the same time, the Chinese face greater privations. The majority of their units in Tibet and Xinjiang are second-echelon troops tasked with suppressing insurrection in these two areas, coupled with exigencies of maintaining border security along the Russian frontier. To move these troops hundreds of kilometers into Aksai Chin would require using rail lines or mountain roads, which are vulnerable to airstrikes by the Indian Air Force (IAF). According to the Belfer study, India can wield about 270 fighters and 68 nuclear-weapons certified ground-attack aircraft against an opposing military offensive, without weakening its defenses arrayed against Pakistan. India’s maintenance of several advanced landing grounds in the area are critical to staging and supporting potential airstrikes. While China has 157 fighters and 44 ground-attack drones in the area, most of them are 700 kilometers from the Aksai Chin. The People's Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) has eight airbases in the region, but most of those are civilian airfields located at high altitude. It has no advanced landing grounds around Aksay Chin. "The high altitude of Chinese air bases in Tibet and Xinjiang, plus the generally difficult geographic and weather conditions of the region, means that Chinese fighters are limited to carrying around half their design payload and fuel," the Belfer study says. The study also gives the IAF, with its all-weather Mirage 2000s and Sukhoi Su-30s, a qualitative edge over the Chinese J-10s, J-11s and Su-27 fighters in the region. Only the J-10 is an all-weather aircraft. Much like the Indian Army, the IAF has a degree of institutional experience in “networked” aerial combat unlike the PLAAF, the Belfer study adds. One way to keep the IAF down is through missile strikes on the airfields. But according to a former Indian Air Force official quoted in the study, China would need 220 ballistic missiles to knock out a single Indian airfield for a day. “China’s stock of 1,000-1,200 missiles will be over in less than two days when attacking just three airfields, with no other major target systems like C2 centres or air defence units being addressed,” the officer says. While the chance of the Galwan River Valley incident becoming a flashpoint for a larger conflict is as remote as the valley it happened in, the rising tensions between the two Asian nations is all too real. While the Chinese could deploy more troops and newer specialized weaponry such as the Type 15 light tank, India’s battlefield experience and involvement in sophisticated joint exercises with advanced world militaries, including the United States, could alter the balance, the CNAS report claimed. One thing is clear: the armies that fought the 1962 engagement no longer exist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-could-lose-in-combat-with-india-in-ladakh-studies-851712.html
20-06-2020||National||5 of family travelling from Delhi to Allahabad killed in road accident in UP||Five members of a family, traveling from Delhi to Allahabad in a car, were killed on Saturday morning when the driver lost control of the vehicle, hitting into the road median and a truck in Firozabad district in Uttar Pradesh, police said. The impact of the accident on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway was such that the vehicle was completely mangled, a police officer said. The deceased have been identified as Ravinesh Pandey (40), his wife Ruby Pandey (35), and three children Keshav (17), Lakshya (7), and Nandini (5). Another person, identified as Priyanka Pandey, was injured in the accident and has been hospitalised, said Additional Superintendent of Police Iraj Raja. The bodies of the deceased have been sent for post-mortem, he said. Efforts are on to nab the truck driver, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-of-family-travelling-from-delhi-to-allahabad-killed-in-road-accident-in-up-851723.html
20-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Glenmark launches COVID-19 drug after DCGI nod||Amid the struggle to beat the COVID-19 pandemic, global pharma major, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, launched an antiviral drug for treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19 patients. The research-led integrated global pharmaceutical company announced the launch of antiviral drug Favipiravir with a brand name FabiFlu. Glenmark has received manufacturing and marketing approval from India’s drug regulator, making FabiFlu the first oral Favipiravir-approved medication in India for the treatment of COVID-19,  a press statement issued said. Favipiravir is backed by strong clinical evidence showing encouraging results in patients with mild to moderate COVID-19. The antiviral offers broad spectrum RNA virus coverage with clinical improvement noted across age groups 20 to >90 years. Favipiravir can be used in COVID-19 patients with co-morbid  conditions such as diabetes and heart disease with mild to moderate COVID-19 symptoms. It offers rapid reduction in viral load within 4 days and provides faster symptomatic and radiological improvement. Of most importance, Favipiravir has shown clinical improvement of up to 88 per cent in COVID-19 mild to moderate cases. According to the statement, Glenmark successfully developed the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and the formulation for FabiFlu through its own in-house R&D team.  Glenmark filed the product for clinical trial with India’s drug regulator DCGI and became the first pharmaceutical company in India to receive approval for conducting phase 3 clinical trial on mild to moderate COVID-19 patients. Commenting on the significance of this development, Glenn Saldanha, Chairman and Managing Director of Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd, said, “This approval comes at a time when cases in India are spiralling like never before, putting a tremendous pressure on our healthcare system. We hope the  availability of an effective treatment such as FabiFlu will considerably help assuage this pressure, and offer patients in India a much needed and timely therapy option.” The drug is orally administered, and so it serves as a more convenient treatment option over other intravenously administered medications. "Glenmark will work closely with the government and medical community to make FabiFlu quickly accessible to patients across the country," he said. Favipiravir is approved in Japan since 2014 for the treatment of novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections. It has a unique mechanism of action: it is converted into an active phosphoribosylated form (favipiravir-RTP) in cells and recognised as a substrate by viral RNA polymerase, thereby inhibiting RNA polymerase activity.  The drug will be available as a prescription-based medication for Rs 103/tablet, with recommended dose being 1800 mg  twice daily on day 1, followed by 800 mg twice daily up to day 14. Earlier last month, Glenmark also announced that it is conducting another clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of two antivirals Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a combination therapy in moderate hospitalised adult COVID-19 patients in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-glenmark-launches-covid-19-drug-after-dcgi-nod-851732.html
20-06-2020||National||Lawyer appears in virtual hearing while lying on bed; SC says minimum court etiquette be followed||A lawyer appeared in a virtual hearing in the Supreme Court while lying on bed and donning a T-shirt, drawing displeasure of the judge who observed that "minimum court etiquette" should be followed given the public nature of hearings. The apex court observed that lawyers appearing in matters via video- conferencing should be "presentable" and avoid showing images that are not appropriate. Justice S Ravindra Bhat accepted the apology tendered by the advocate, who said it was "inappropriate on his part to make a court appearance, whilst lying on the bed dressed in a T-shirt". "This court is of the view that when counsel appear in court video hearings, they should be presentable and avoid showing images, which are not appropriate and can only be tolerable in the privacy of their homes," the court noted in its June 15 order. "We are all passing through trying times and hearings by virtual courts has become an order of the day. Yet minimum court etiquette in terms of what can be considered decent dress, background, etc should be followed, given the public nature of the hearings," the apex court said. The incident had happened when the top court was hearing a petition seeking transfer of a case pending in a family court in Haryana's Rewari to a competent court in Bihar's Jehanabad. The apex court, which has restricted its functioning amid the COVID-19 pandemic, is presently hearing matters through video-conferencing. In April this year, a similar incident had come to light when a lawyer had appeared in a bail hearing conducted through video-conferencing in vest, drawing the ire of the Rajasthan High Court. The high court had criticised the advocate for not appearing in proper uniform during the hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyer-appears-in-virtual-hearing-while-lying-on-bed-sc-says-minimum-court-etiquette-be-followed-851737.html
20-06-2020||National||179 new COVID-19 cases detected in Odisha, death toll rises to 12||A 60-year-old man from Puri district became the latest COVID-19 fatality in Odisha, raising the death toll due to the contagion in the state to 12, a health department official said on Saturday. Odisha also recorded 179 new cases of the respiratory ailment, including 18 disaster response personnel, he said. "Regret to report the death of a 60-year-old COVID-19 positive male of Puri district while under treatment at the hospital," the Health and Family Welfare Department said in a statement. "The deceased was also suffering for long from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease," it said. With the detection of the new cases, Odisha's COVI9-19 tally rose to 4,856, the official said. The state has 1,543 active cases, while 3,297 patients have recovered. Ganjam district reported the highest number of fresh coronavirus cases at 57, followed by Khurda at 27. Fifteen of Odisha's 30 districts have reported over 100 cases each, officials added. Meanwhile, National Disaster Response Force DG S N Pradhan said in a tweet 50 personnel have so far recovered. Eleven fire service personnel have also been cured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/179-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-odisha-death-toll-rises-to-12-851749.html
20-06-2020||National||Yoga Day to be marked on digital platforms amid COVID-19 pandemic||With the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic looming large, International Day of Yoga on Sunday will be celebrated on digital media platforms sans mass gatherings and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message would be the highlight of the occasion. Yoga Day will go digital for the first time since June 21, 2015, when it began to be celebrated annually across the world, coinciding with the Summer Solstice each year. This year's theme is 'Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family' and people will be able to join the celebrations virtually at 7 am on June 21. The Indian missions abroad are trying to reach out to the people through digital media as well as through the network of institutions that support yoga, officials said. The Ministry of AYUSH had planned to hold a grand event in Leh, but canceled it due to the pandemic. On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly declared June 21 as 'International Day of Yoga', months after Modi had proposed the idea. A message from Prime Minister Modi will be the highlight of the International Day of Yoga which will be observed on electronic and digital platforms on June 21, the AYUSH ministry said on Thursday. "Due to the current global health emergency due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the focus this year is less on such celebrations and more on people performing Yoga at their respective homes with participation of the entire family," the ministry said. The prime minister's remarks will be televised at 6.30 am, a statement by the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) said. As has been the practice in International Day of Yoga (IDY) observation, the PM's message will be followed by a live demonstration of a 45-minute Common Yoga Protocol (CYP) by a team from Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga. The CYP drill has been designed keeping in mind people of different age groups and of varied walks of life, the ministry had said in its statement. "Yoga is found to be especially relevant in the pandemic situation, since its practice leads to both physical and mental wellbeing, and increases the individual's ability to fight diseases," it said. Modi on Thursday had urged people, in a video message, to observe the day from the confines of their homes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "This year, the event will highlight the utility of yoga for individuals, to develop immunity to combat the global pandemic and strengthen the community in managing some of the significant aspects of this crisis," Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, president, Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) had said earlier this month. The ministry and ICCR, through the 'My Life - My Yoga' video blogging competition which was launched by the prime minister on May 31, has sought to raise awareness about yoga and inspire people to prepare for and become active participants in the observation of IDY 2020. The contest has two legs -- the first one consisting of an international video blogging contest wherein the winners will be picked within a country. This will be followed by global prize winners who will be selected from different countries. To enter the contest, participants were required to upload a three-minute video of three yogic practices (‘kriya’, ‘asana’, ‘pranayama’, ‘bandha’ or ‘mudra’), including a short video message/description on how the said yogic practices influenced their lives. The videos could be uploaded on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram with the contest hashtag #MyLifeMyYogaINDIA and appropriate category hashtag. Entries could be submitted by participants under three categories-- youth (male and female aged under 18), adults (male and female above 18 years) and yoga professionals (male and female), Kotecha said. This made it a total of six categories in all. For India contestants, prizes worth Rs 1 lakh, Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000 will be given for first, second and third positions within each of the categories. The Indian missions abroad will give away prizes in each country. At the global level, cash prizes worth USD 2,500, USD 1,500 and USD 1,000 along with a trophy and certificate will be given to those ranking first, second and third, respectively. The blogging contest which has started on various digital platforms such as MyGov.gov.in will end on Sunday. The jury will then later collectively decide and announce the names of the winners. Yoga programmes are organaised across the globe by Indian missions every year, but this year will be different. Several missions are organizing digital events to mark the occasion. Thousands of yoga enthusiasts in Texas and adjoining US states are all set to roll out their mats to bend and twist their bodies in complex postures from the safety of their homes with acclaimed yoga guru Baba Ramdev on Livestream to mark the International Day of Yoga on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-day-to-be-marked-on-digital-platforms-amid-covid-19-pandemic-851752.html
20-06-2020||National||Plea moved in SC to modify order on stay of Jagannath Rath Yatra||A plea has been moved in the Supreme Court for recall of June 18 order staying the world famous Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra in Puri, saying the ritual can be performed by 500-600 servitors by following the necessary guidelines including social distancing and other conditions. In a modification application filed by Jagannath Sanskruti Jana Jagran Manch through its secretary, Saroj Kumar Sahoo said that as many as 1304 people have been in isolation for more than one and half months as part of the preparation of the event. "The Puri municipality is categorised as a green zone and thousands of people have gathered on the road connecting the Puri Jagannath temple to Gindicha temple on May 30 by maintaining social distance and following the guidelines and sang Odisha state anthem -- 'Bande Utkal Jnani'," it said. The applicant also pointed out 'Deba Snan' ritual was performed on June 5 with the help of 800 servitors. Before that all of them had undergone COVID-19 tests and were found negative. Lakhs of Lord Jagannath devotees were faced with a sense of deprivation as the Supreme Court on Thursday, June 18 stayed any activity related to the Rath Yatra, on the ground of threat to public health and safety in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The top court then acted on a plea by NGO - Odisha Vikas Parishad. The application filed in the court for recall of the order said that the petitioner had concealed the fact that Orissa High Court had already dealt with the matter and left it to the state government to decide upon organising the Rath Yatra in strict adherence with the guidelines. This is the first time that the Rath Yatra -- where devotees pull the chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balbhadra and Devi Subhadra, --would not take place as scheduled on June 23 in its over rehundred years of history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-moved-in-sc-to-modify-order-on-stay-of-jagannath-rath-yatra-851762.html
20-06-2020||National||Surviving cancer and towards a life less scarred||Seven years ago, Salil Jain, an industrialist and an educationist, had to welcome an unbidden visitor to his home – in the form of rectum cancer. Caught in a cataclysmic situation, he went helter-skelter looking for the right treatment. Salil, who had earlier lost his sister to breast cancer due to inadequate treatment, didn’t want the mistake to recur. In the days that followed, he discovered the best way forward for him was to go for robotic surgery in a Bengaluru hospital. Now, in the best of health, he has dedicated his life to help and guide cancer patients, survivors and their families. Cancer brings along not just the disease itself but issues that are emotional, psychosocial, financial and the paraphernalia. Patients are caught in a whirlpool of emotions and confusion. “First treatment is the most important treatment in cancer. Cancer does not give you a second chance so one has to get it right," says Salil. "Unfortunately, most often, patients and their families do not get the right information on cancer and its treatment. There is lots to know apart from medical treatment," he says. "Patients also hesitate to ask doctors all their questions and doctors don’t have the time to keep clarifying all doubts of all patients and rightly so, because their calibre and time must be used for treating,” adds Salil. He points out that cancer survivorship helps bridge this gap and therefore is a must for all patients. He thus launched the organisation ‘The Survivors’ to address these issues. Three months back, Salil, along with Manipal Hospitals, Bengaluru initiated Cancer Survivorship Programme under 'We Can' – the cancer support group at the hospital - to make cancer journey and survivorship much easier. "The Cancer Survivorship Programme handholds patients helping them bounce back to life," informs Salil. Swati Suramya is a 36-year-old breast cancer survivor and mother of a five-year-old. Recollecting what she went through at the time of her diagnosis, she says, “It came out of the blue. I had always lived a healthy lifestyle and couldn’t understand what this was all about. My hands went numb. I did shed a few tears, but that was about it.” “My family was very strong and supported me in every way. When my treatment was halfway through, I started blogging. It helped me unburden myself,’’ recollects Swati, a business content writer and blogger. Information is the first step forward but sadly a lot of people don’t know what exactly chemotherapy or radiation is. “If you are diagnosed, see an oncologist. Don’t go to any other doctor. Don’t go for alternative therapies. Only an oncologist knows what is good for you,” advises Swati. “One of the doctors who treated me, Dr Shabber Zaveri, told me something very important -- ‘Don’t Google your illness, don’t discuss it with friends, relatives or neighbours till the treatment is over and till I tell you to',” she says. "Dr Zaveri got me in touch with his patients. They were in the same age group as me and that was such an amazing thing to do,” she recollects. Salil informs that a patient’s health needs to be checked for possible side-effects post-treatment and needs to be attended to by specialists. "A healthy lifestyle needs to be followed too. We give information about all this,” he says. There are also situations when patients are relaxed and fail to go for review sessions. “Most cancer patients do not go for their follow-up check-ups after a year. When more vigilance is required, they are caught unawares in cases of recurrence,” Salil says. Swati also emphasises the need to be mentally strong at every step. “You have to be mentally tough and your family support is very important for you to be mentally tough,” she says. Yet another vital aspect is the support that needs to be given to the caregiver. “Caregivers too need support as they suffer burnout, physically and emotionally,” says Salil. Swati points out that there is a lack of good support groups in India for cancer survivors. “Nobody else can understand what cancer survivors go through other than the survivors themselves,” she says. For the elderly, there are emotional hurdles which stop them from taking treatment at an early stage. "Often elderly patients do not want to tell their children about their symptoms as they worry that they would be a burden on them,'' says a surgical oncologist. “But it’s payback time and they need to support their parents in difficult times,” he adds. On all counts, the cost of cancer treatment is also a huge burden on the patient and family. “Till the age of 57, when I got cancer, I didn’t have medical insurance. I used to think it is a waste of money,” says Salil. “Not many know that cancer treatment is so expensive, which is why medical insurance is a must,” he adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surviving-cancer-and-towards-a-life-less-scarred-851767.html
20-06-2020||National||Indian Railways likely to stop distributing blankets to passengers permanently||Indian Railways is likely to stop distributing blankets and pillows in trains to AC passengers in coming days and it will make arrangements for sale at stalls on platfroms to prevent spreading of COVID-19 pandemic. The railways already stopped distributing blankets and pillows in 15 pair Special Rajdhani trains and 100 pair of fixed timetabled special trains, which is being operted at present. The system of not distributing blanks and pillows may continue in future once train operations normalise, said the official. Passengers are encouraged to bring their own blankets and pillows. However same will be made available for purchase at shops so that if passengers want they can buy it, said an official. The railways also made arrangements to sell sanitisers, masks and gloves at shops. The national transporter also said sale price should not exceed maximum retail price. As per the Railway Board circular to zonal railways, " Amongst the items which fulfill the needs of travelling public and in keeping with the emphasis for providing safe and hygine travel facilities to passengers, it must be ensured that take away bedrolls kits/items other COVID-19 related protective items such as masks, sanitiser, gloves etc are also made available for sale through multi purpose stalls." All items should be in good quality and will be sold only at MRP rate, circular  said. The railways has also permanantly removeed curtains inside the AC coaches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-likely-to-stop-distributing-blankets-to-passengers-permanently-851793.html
20-06-2020||National||Journalist shot dead in UP for complaining against land grabbing||Lodging complaints with the authorities against 'land mafias', who had grabbed large tracts of government land proved fatal for a journalist in Uttar Pradesh. The journalist, identified as Shubham Mani Tripathi, who was associated with a local Hindi newspaper, was shot dead in UP's Unnao district, about 6KM  from Lucknow, on Friday (June 19) evening. According to the police sources, Tripathi was sprayed with bullets by two assailants on Unnao-Shuklaganj Road in the district while he was on the way home with a friend of his on a motorbike. Sources said that Tripathi, who was it in his head, died on the spot while his friend managed to run to safety. Sources said that Tripathi had lodged several complaints against a saffron leader, who was a listed land mafia and had grabbed large tracts of government land. His friend, who was witness to the incident, alleged that the journalist was killed by the goons of the saffron leader. Police said that a case was lodged and the investigation was on.   The incident comes close on the heels of an FIR against a senior journalist of a Delhi based news portal for allegedly 'misrepresenting' facts about the village adopted by prime minister Narendra Modi in the latter's Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi. The police said that the FIR was lodged after a woman from SC community lodged a complaint that the journalist, identified as Supriya Sharma, for 'misquoting' her in her (Supriya) report. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday slammed the UP government for FIR against the journalist. ''You (state govt) can not hide the truth by registering FIR...things can be changed by bringing out the truth but the UP government is getting scribes, former officials and opposition leaders booked, when they do so,'' Priyanka said in a Tweet. Earlier also an FIR had been lodged against a senior Delhi based journalist over his report on chief minister Yogi Adityanath's visit to Ayodhya during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-shot-dead-in-up-for-complaining-against-land-grabbing-851801.html
20-06-2020||National||Criminal appeals become illusory if not decided on time: SC||The Supreme Court has expressed its grave concern over the fact that as many as 14,484 criminal appeals were pending in 10 high courts for over 30 years, saying it is in public interest and that of convicts that these appeals are decided expeditiously. "These facts pose a challenge to the judicial system, in as much as the right to speedy trial would also include the right to speedy disposal of appeals of those convicted. If such appeals are not taken up for hearing within a reasonable time, the right of appeal itself would be illusory," a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said. The court said in such long-pending cases, by the time appeals were heard, the incarcerated convicts, who were denied bail, would have undergone a major part, if not the whole of the period of their sentence. The court identified 10 High Courts where there were a huge piling of cases for a long period of time and sought details from them on various points, including on age, health conditions of convicts, and the period of sentence undergone by them, during the pendency of appeals. The bench, also comprising Justice S Ravindra Bhat, asked High Courts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Patna, Rajasthan, Bombay, and Orissa to file affidavits, giving their plan of action for deciding the criminal appeals that have been pending before the High Courts for a long period of time.  The court passed its order, hearing arguments by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocate Rajesh Inamdar, who sought bail for a life term convict, Khursheed Ahmad, as the Allahabad High Court refused to stay his sentence. The counsel said he had already undergone three years of jail and there was no likelihood of hearing his appeal in near future. After seeking assistance from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, and others, the bench said expeditious hearing cannot be directed only in cases where convicts approached the top court. At the same time, it said, the convicted persons cannot be under incarceration for an indeterminate period of time. Going by the National Judicial Data Grid, the court noted the total number of criminal appeals, pending for 30 years or more in 10 High Courts is 14,484.  Criminal appeals that have been pending for over twenty years- and up-to thirty years are 33,045, and those pending for over ten years, and up to 20 years are 2,35,914.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/criminal-appeals-become-illusory-if-not-decided-on-time-sc-851805.html
20-06-2020||National||Rajnath Singh Singh to pay 3-day visit to Russia from June 22 to attend grand parade||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will pay a three-day visit to Russia beginning Monday to attend a grand military parade in Moscow to mark the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Germany in the Second World War. The defence minister's visit comes in the midst of an escalating border standoff between India and China, particularly after the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on June 15. "Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will pay a visit to Moscow to attend the victory parade on June 24 to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the victory in the Second World War," the defence ministry said in a statement. Officials said Singh is going ahead with the visit, notwithstanding the border row with China, due to India's decades-old military ties with Russia. "I wish a safe journey to Defence Minister of strategic partner India @rajnathsingh who is scheduled to depart to Moscow on Monday to witness the Great Victory Day Military Parade on June 24," Russian Ambassador Nikolay Kudashev tweeted. The parade was originally scheduled on May 9, but was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. A tri-service 75-member Indian military contingent has already reached Moscow to participate in the parade. "The visit of the defence minister will strengthen the longstanding special and privileged strategic partnership between India and Russia," the ministry said. The Indian marching contingent will be led by a major rank officer of the gallant Sikh Light Infantry Regiment. The regiment had fought with valour in the Second World War and has distinction of earning four battle honours and two military cross amongst other gallantry awards. The Indian team will participate in the parade alongside armed forces personnel from at least 11 countries including China. "The Indian participation in the victory day parade will be a mark of tribute to the great sacrifices made by Russia and other nations in the Second World War in which Indian soldiers also participated and made supreme sacrifice," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-singh-to-pay-3-day-visit-to-russia-from-june-22-to-attend-grand-parade-851807.html
20-06-2020||National||Look into issues of fishermen, Bombay HC tells govt||The Bombay High Court has asked the government to look into the fisherfolk, which had suffered severe damages during the Nisarga cyclone that lashed the coastal Konkan earlier this month. A division bench of Justice Dipankar Datta, the Chief Justice and Justice K K Tated asked the Disaster Management Authority and Maharashtra government to look into the representations made by the fishermen community. Akhil Maharashtra Macchimar Kriti Samiti President Damodar Tandel has filed the plea in the Bombay High Court. The bench has asked the authorities to assess the loss and damage suffered by the fishermen within three weeks. The plea was filed through advocate Rakesh Bhatkar,  while advocates Proyabhushan Kakade and Bhupesh Samant appeared on behalf of the state government. The plea, while seeking that a report be filed on the survey undertaken, said that representations have already been made on behalf of the fishing community to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on June 13, which needs to be addressed. Tandel had made representations to Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/look-into-issues-of-fishermen-bombay-hc-tells-govt-851809.html
20-06-2020||National||NGT asks CPCB to explain coercive steps taken against Amazon, Flipkart for non compliance of plastic waste management||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to inform it about coercive steps taken against e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart for non-compliance of plastic waste management rules. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the report filed by the apex pollution monitoring body does not mention the coercive steps taken in accordance with the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the plastic waste management rules. Coercive steps may include prosecution, recovery of compensation on 'Polluter Pays' principle, the NGT said. "Let the CPCB take appropriate action and file a further report in the matter before September 10. Report be sent by e-mail... It is stated that instead of Amazon Retail India Private Limited, liability is of Amazon Seller Service Private Limited which may be looked into by the CPCB," the bench said. The CPCB earlier told the NGT that Amazon has not submitted complete documents regarding the quantity of plastic consumption, while the Flipkart has not responded to the communication of the apex pollution monitoring body. The submission came in response to a plea filed by a 16-year-old boy who has approached the tribunal, through advocate Meenesh Dubey, to stop e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart from excessive plastic use in their packaging. While Amazon has not submitted complete documents regarding their responsibility under the plastic waste management rules and confirmation of quantity of plastic consumption, the Flipkart has not responded to the CPCB's email dated March 4, 2020 and no other correspondence has been received from the firm so far, the apex pollution monitoring body told the NGT. The CPCB informed the tribunal that Amazon Retail India submitted the application for registration under the plastic waste management rules, 2018 to it on December 5, 2019 having Extended Producer Responsibility of collection and channelisation of 0.5 TPA plastic waste. It further told the tribunal that another firm Flipkart Pvt Ltd has not responded to the CPCB's email dated March 4, 2020 and no other correspondence has been received from the firm so far. "However, vide letter dated December 6, 2019 Ms Instakart Services Pvt Ltd informed that Flipkart Pvt Ltd is their holding company registered in Singapore and Ms Instakart is engaged in the business of providing logistics and fulfilment services to group companies,” it said. "Flipkart Pvt Ltd is required to submit an application for registration directly to the CPCB or provide requisite documents supporting its linkage with Instakart Services Pvt Ltd," it said. The petition has contended that excessive use of plastic in packaging has given rise to serious environmental challenges. The CPCB had earlier told the NGT that the e-commerce giants need to fulfil their extended producer responsibility under the plastic waste management rules, 2016 and need to establish a system for collecting back the plastic waste generated due to the packaging of their products. It had informed the green panel that as per provisions 9(2) of the plastic waste management rules, 2016, "Primary responsibility for collection of used multi-layered plastic sachet or pouches or packaging is of producers, importers and brand owners who introduce the products in the market." "Amazon Retail India Private Limited and Flipkart Private limited are involved in packaging and selling of other companies' products and thus introducing plastic packaging in the market. They need to fulfil their extended producer responsibility under PWM Rules and should obtain registration as brand owner after submitting proper documents," the CPCB had said. Aditya Dubey, through his legal guardian, has pleaded the NGT to direct Amazon and Flipkart to stop excessive use of plastic in packaging the goods delivered by the firms. "The e-commerce companies are covered under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. But due to a lack of monitoring and implementation, the respondents continue to use excessive amounts of plastic in wrapping and packaging their sold items," the plea said. Dubey's plea contended that the companies deliver items in cardboard boxes, which are too large when compared to the size of the items being delivered. The plea has also said that though the home-delivery service of e-commerce companies has been very useful for consumers, it has given rise to serious environmental challenges due to excessive use of plastics in packaging. Once goods are delivered, the plastic waste is thrown away in garbage and it ends up at landfill sites, leading to a burden on the earth and damaging the environment, it said. Dubey said the two companies have not made any arrangements for either taking back the plastic material or ensuring that it is recycled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-asks-cpcb-to-explain-coercive-steps-taken-against-amazon-flipkart-for-non-compliance-of-plastic-waste-management-851816.html
20-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM Narendra Modi's denial of Chinese intrusion draws flak||Chairing an all-party meeting on the violent clash in Galwan in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said, “Neither has anybody intruded into our territory, nor is anybody inside our territory, nor any of our posts have been captured,” drawing strong reactions on social media. Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Saturday said it has launched antiviral drug Favipiravir, under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate COVID-19. The BCCI on Friday said it will review IPL's sponsorship deals, including the one with Chinese mobile manufacturing company Vivo, in a meeting next week after 20 Indian soldiers were killed during a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-narendra-modis-denial-of-chinese-intrusion-draws-flak-851833.html
20-06-2020||National||Indian crew stranded on cruise ships in UK appeal for repatriation||Hundreds of Indian crew aboard cruise ships docked on the UK coast have appealed for repatriation to India amid the ongoing coronavirus lockdown. UK port authorities boarded the Astoria cruise ship at Tilbury port in Essex near London along with five others earlier this week amid concerns for the welfare of crew members. The All India Seafarer and General Workers Union claims that around 1,500 crew members from India have been stranded at UK ports across these ships. “This is regarding 164 crew members stranded Indian citizens on the vessel MV Astoria, which is (in) Tilbury Port in United Kingdom,” notes a letter from the union addressed to the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, in reference to one of the vessels. “In this pandemic coronavirus outbreak, our Indian citizens stuck in foreign waters from past 90 days, and need help. The schedule flight was cancelled due to lack of documentation. Many of them start hunger strike on-board vessel,” notes the letter dated June 16. The UK Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) has since detained that particular cruise ship at the port of Tilbury pending an inspection. After boarding, the MCA issued detentions to the Astoria and four other vessels in the operator's fleet – the Astor, Colombus, Vasco da Gama and Marco Polo. “The detention is a preventative measure in line with UK regulations, in order that a full inspection of the ship related to the maritime labour convention can be carried out before its intended departure. It cannot leave the port until the inspection is completed,” the MCA said in a statement. “Five other ships in the same [ship management] company – Global Cruise Lines Ltd – four others based at Tilbury and one at Bristol, are also being inspected. Acting as the port state control authority for the UK, the MCA has taken this action following a number of serious concerns which were raised about the welfare of the crew,” the statement said.  According to reports, MCA surveyors found a number of expired and invalid Seafarers Employment Agreements, late payment of wages and seafarers who had been on board for over 12 months. UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps issued a statement this week to say that the UK government would look into the welfare of seafarers. “The welfare of seafarers is of the utmost importance and we take any reports of safety concerns around crew incredibly seriously," he said. “We will not hesitate to continue to use every power within our control to safeguard the health and happiness of every seafarer currently working in the UK," he said. The ships have been stranded since the start of the coronavirus outbreak and also involved crew from Europe, Indonesia and Myanmar, some of whom have been repatriated or are in the process of being repatriated to their countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-crew-stranded-on-cruise-ships-in-uk-appeal-for-repatriation-851854.html
20-06-2020||National||Chinese social media sites delete PM Modi's speech, MEA spokesman's remarks on border crisis||Indian embassy officials here have said the speech of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to chief ministers on June 18 as well as the comments by the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been deleted from two Chinese social media accounts, including Weibo. The move comes in the backdrop of the violent face-off between the Indian and Chinese armies in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday in which 20 Indian military personnel were killed, significantly escalating the already volatile situation in the region. Indian Embassy officials said the transcript of the remarks of the MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava were found to have been removed from the Embassy's account of Sina Weibo on June 18. After that the Indian officials re-published the screen shots of Srivastava's comments on June 19. Sina Weibo which is similar to Twitter in China has millions of users and all embassies in Beijing besides several world leaders including Prime Minister Modi have opened their accounts to interact with the Chinese people. The MEA spokesperson's remarks have also been removed from the official WeChat account. A note on WeChat says, “unable to view this content because it violates regulations.” In his comments, Srivastava had asked China to confine its activities to its side of the Line of Actual Control and that it must not take any unilateral action to alter it. Prime Minister Modi’s remarks of June 18 about the Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash has also become inaccessible on WeChat. The page says that the “content has been deleted by the author,” whereas the Embassy officials said they have not removed it. Emphasising that the sacrifice of Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash in Ladakh will not go in vain, Modi said that India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply, if instigated. Both the Weibo pages of the Indian embassy and its WeChat group have thousands of followers. While the Weibo page was opened earlier, the WeChat group started in January this year. Modi opened an account in Weibo during his visit here in 2015 and continued to make use of it to interact with the Chinese people. No posts related to the recent military confrontation were posted on his page. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel, were killed in the clashes with the Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. While China has acknowledged casualties on their side, it has not specified the numbers. Beijing has not made any official statement on the casualties suffered by the People's Liberation Army during the face-off with the Indian Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-social-media-sites-delete-pm-modis-speech-mea-spokesmans-remarks-on-border-crisis-851858.html
20-06-2020||National||Tamil Nadu reports 2,396 fresh COVID-19 cases; Testing numbers increased||In the biggest single-day surge in numbers, Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported 2,396 fresh COVID-19 patients, including 1,254 from this metropolis, even as it stepped up its testing numbers by testing a record 33,231 samples in 24 hours. That the virus is fast spreading across the state, in what can be termed as a second wave in districts, is evident from the fact 1,142 persons of the 2,396 that tested positive for the virus belonged to other districts. This includes 64 persons who returned from abroad and other states. With the fresh cases, the state’s tally went up to 56,845, including 31,316 discharges and 704 deaths – 38 of which were reported on Saturday. Of these, five persons did not have any medical condition at the time of admission, while the remaining 33 had one or multiple comorbidities. Northern districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, and Ranipet reported a massive increase in their caseload with 180, 131, 87, 125, 36 and 68, while the southern districts of Madurai, and Thoothukudi also reported a spike with 90 and 46 cases respectively. Except Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kanchipuram, which are geographically close to Chennai and share borders with the metropolis, other districts had been almost free of Coronavirus till the exodus from the state capital began. Officials attributed the surge in the number of cases outside of Chennai to the exodus from the city to villages and towns in the state. The sliver lining was 1,045 discharges reported in a single day on Saturday and testing of 33,231 samples in the past 24 hours. With this, the state’s total number of samples tested has gone up to 8,61,211, the highest in the country.  Of these, over 2 lakh have been tested in Chennai alone. Besides the increasing in number of cases elsewhere in the state, another cause of concern is the spike in the death toll. The state was boasting about keeping the mortality rate under 1 per cent but it has gone beyond that in the past few days. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said “only god knows” when Coronavirus infection will come to an end. He also said the lockdown in Chennai was a “speed breaker” to the spread of the virus in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-reports-2396-fresh-covid-19-cases-testing-numbers-increased-851859.html
20-06-2020||National||Second Madhya Pradesh lawmaker tests COVID-19 positive||One more MLA has tested positive for the coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh, causing panic among lawmakers because he had participated in voting for the Rajya Sabha election in which an already COVID-19 infected MLA had also voted on Friday. BJP MLA, Omprakash Sakhlecha, tested COVID-19 positive on Saturday, just a day after exercising his franchise for the Rajya Sabha polls on the Assembly premises in Bhopal. Congress MLA Kunal Choudhary had also cast vote in the poll wearing PPE kit as he was in quarantine for the last four days following detection of  COVID-19. Sakhlecha represents the Jawad constituency in Neemuch district. His wife has also reportedly tested positive. At least four other MLAs who were with Sakhlecha on the Assembly premises on Friday have undergone tests in Bhopal and their reports are awaited. They are Yashpal Singh Sisodia of Mandsaur, Devilal Dhakad of Garoth, Aniruddh Maroo of Manasa and Dilip Singh Parihar of Neemuch, sources said. Also 15 other persons, including the drivers and gunmen of the MLAs as well as the wife of one of the MLAs, have given their sample for testing, sources said. MLA Yashpal Singh Sosodia said he was with Sakhlecha for the last two days and had lunch with the infected MLA along with 14 other lawmakers on Friday. All of them should be tested for the pandemic, he demanded. Sakhlecha was staying in a farmhouse in Bhopal since June 16 after a woman in his house in Neemuch had tested positive for COVID-19. However, he did not disclose this to the administration. Nether his sample was taken nor was he prevented from entering in containment zone where the farm house is situated. Two days ago, Sakhlecha had attended a meeting of BJP MLAs without wearing a mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-madhya-pradesh-lawmaker-tests-covid-19-positive-851872.html
20-06-2020||National||Boycott may not hurt China's economy, says Congress||Amid a call for boycotting Chinese goods, Congress on Saturday said such a move may not hurt the Chinese economy as its trade with India was a small fraction of its global trade. “If you boycott Chinese goods.. .. what part of China's trade in India is China's world trade. It is a fraction, a small fraction. Boycotting Chinese goods may not hurt Chinese economy,” former finance minister P Chidambaram said at a media interaction. Moreover, Chidambaram said issues such as boycotting Chinese goods should not be brought up when “grave matters” such as the defence of India and its territory were being debated. “I think the defence of India and the defence of the territory of India are very weighty matters. Let us not bring issues like boycotts,” the senior Congress leader said. Chidambaram said India should strive to become self-reliant as much as possible, but at the same time it cannot decouple from the rest of the world. The Congress leaders said he concurred with former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda’s statement to tone down the rhetoric of nationalism. “This is not the time for language of provocation and revenge,” Deve Gowda had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boycott-may-not-hurt-chinas-economy-says-congress-851873.html
20-06-2020||National||Over 96,000 trained as Yoga instructors, trainers under skilling initiatives: Government||On the eve of International Yoga Day, the government on Saturday said about 96,196 candidates have been trained as yoga instructors and trainers through various skilling initiatives like the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana. The government's other programmes on skilling include Recognition of Prior Learning, Short Term Training and Special Projects. The states with the highest number of skilled candidates are Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Kerala, West Bengal, the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship said. “Yoga is an invaluable gift to the world from India that has roots in our ancient Vedic traditions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also stated that yoga has emerged as one of the biggest mass movements in the quest for good health and well-being across the globe in the last few years. Aligned with his vision, we have been working closely with Beauty & Wellness Sector Skill Council to build awareness regarding various career prospects in the field of yoga and encourage youth to embrace yoga for a promising future," Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey said. In the post COVID-19 era, Pandey said he foresees an urgent need of skill sets enhancement of the potential workforce with a surge in demand for certified yoga instructors and trainers. "We are committed towards our vision to make yoga truly global and empower youth across the country to explore lucrative career opportunities in the field of yoga," the minister said. There are three specific courses for yoga - Yoga Instructor (NSQF 4), Yoga Trainer (level 5) and Senior Yoga Trainer (level 6). Beauty & Wellness Sector Skill Council also has vocational education courses in Yoga for CBSE schools. Starting from class XI from academic year 2020-2021, B&WSSC's Yoga job roles will also be available in all the Samagra Shiksha schools across all the states for its Higher Secondary Sections. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Founder, Art of living, said the significance of yoga has become all the more crucial in the current time, as people across the globe are dealing with the various challenges posed by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-96000-trained-as-yoga-instructors-trainers-under-skilling-initiatives-government-851877.html
20-06-2020||National||Army deserter arrested from Ahmednagar||In a major swoop, the Crime Branch of Ahmednagar police and Military Intelligence nabbed an imposter who was posing as an officer of the Indian Army. The officer had deserted the Army a few years ago. The accused was identified as Prashant Bhaurao Patil, a resident of Khanapur in Belagavi district of Karnataka. He was previously working with the Army’s 46 Assam Rifles Regiment, but in 2014 went on leave and never returned. He was declared a deserter. Since then, Patil allegedly got involved in several cases of stealing and forgery for which the Ahmednagar Police was on his lookout, police said. The police have so far recovered multiple fake army identity cards, CSD cards, dependent cards in his father’s and wife’s names, Aadhar and PAN cards and other documents. The police also recovered two Major rank army uniforms and other army-style clothes, a Bolero car with a board proclaiming ‘On Army Duty’ - but bearing a fake registration number as it turned out later - on the basis of which he managed to get entry into military installations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-deserter-arrested-from-ahmednagar-851878.html
20-06-2020||National||Decision on international flights depends on other countries: Hardeep Singh Puri||India may start thinking on resuming international commercial flights only after domestic operations reach 50% of the pre-COVID-19 levels, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Saturday. Puri, addressing a press conference here, also said the decision on international flights also hinged on other countries being open to receive flights from India. He said claims about resumption of international aviation required a reality check as countries across the world were granting conditional access to foreign visitors. The minister said some countries in the Persian Gulf had started accepting foreign visitors and those keen to travel there could opt for Vande Bharat flights operated by Air India to those destinations. Puri said till date 2,75,000 Indians who were stranded abroad have been brought back to country by Vande Bharat flights and private charters. The minister also announced phase four of the Vande Bharat mission to evacuate stranded Indians abroad involving 1,050 flights, 750 of which have been offered to the private airlines. He said resumption of international flights will also have to factor in domestic connectivity, which is still turning the corner. “In pre-COVID-19 days, we had a fairly robust civil aviation sector that ferries 3,00,000-3,50,000 passengers per day,” Puri said. He said since the resumption of domestic flights on May 25, the passenger traffic has increased to 72,000 passengers per day. “At present we have allowed only 33% flights to operate and flights are not operating in full capacity even now. We will open more routes where there is more demand. We are ready to take it to up to even 40-45% capacity,” the minister said. Air India Disinvestment Asked about the disinvestment in Air India, Puri said he believed that the national air carrier was a first class asset. “I have never been as hopeful and confident on Air India disinvestment as I am now,” the minister said. The government had initiated the process for sale of 100% stake in Air India, but the process got delayed due to the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-on-international-flights-depends-on-other-countries-hardeep-singh-puri-851880.html
20-06-2020||National||Over 42 crore poor received financial assistance of Rs 65,454 cr under||More than 42 crore poor people have received Rs 65,454 crore in financial assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) to support people who lost their income due to COVID-19 crisis, the finance ministry said on Saturday. As part of Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package, the government on March 26 announced free foodgrains and cash doles to women, poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate hardship faced due to the lockdown. The ministry said implementation of the package is being continuously monitored by central and state governments. "More than 42 crore poor people received financial assistance of Rs 65,454 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package," it said. Giving details of the progress achieved till June 19, it said Rs 17,891 crore was front-loaded towards payment of the first instalment of PM-KISAN to 8.94 crore beneficiaries, and Rs 30,952 crore credited to women Jan Dhan account holders in three instalments. "Rs 10,325 crore credited to 20.65 crore (100 per cent) women Jan Dhan account holders as first instalment. Rs 10,315 crore credited to 20.62 crore (100 per cent) women Jan Dhan account holders with second instalment. Rs 10,312 crore credited to 20.62 crore (100 per cent) women Jan Dhan account holders with third instalment," it said. Besides, Rs 2,814.5 crore has been disbursed to about 2.81 crore elderly, widows and disabled persons in two instalments. Under PMGKP, 2.3 crore building and construction workers also received financial support amounting to Rs 4,312.82 crore. The ministry further said so far 113 lakh metric tonne (LMT) of foodgrains have been lifted by 36 states/Union Territories for April. "36.42 LMT of food grains have been distributed, covering 72.83 crore beneficiaries by 36 States/UTs for May 2020. 13.59 LMT of foodgrains have been distributed, covering 27.18 crore beneficiaries by 29 States/UTs for June 2020. Out of 5.8 LMT of Pulses allocated for three months, 5.68LMT of Pulses have been dispatched to various states/UTs," it said. Under Atma Nirbhar Bharat mission, the government announced free foodgrain supply to migrants for two months, it said, adding 6.3 LMT foodgrain already lifted by 36 states/UTs, and 34,074 MT of Chana have also been dispatched to them for the scheme as on June 19. Further, 8.52 crore Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) LPG cylinders have been booked and already delivered for April and May 2020 under this scheme so far, and 2.1 crore PMUY cylinders booked for June, and 1.87 crore free cylinders delivered to beneficiaries this month so far. As per the ministry, 20.22 lakh members of EPFO have taken benefit of online withdrawal of non-refundable advance from their account amounting to Rs 5,767 crore. Under District Mineral Fund (DMF), states have been asked to spend 30 per cent of the funds, which amounts to Rs 3,787 crore, and that 183.65 crore has been spent so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-42-crore-poor-received-financial-assistance-of-rs-65454-cr-under-851881.html
20-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi's office now says Chinese sought to build structure "just across" LAC at Galwan Valley||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office on Saturday stated that the violent clash between Indian and Chinese military personnel at Galwan Valley on June 15 had taken place because the soldiers of the communist country were seeking to erect structures “just across” the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A Hindi version of the statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) stated that the clash had happened because the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers had wanted to build structures near the LAC (LAC ke najdik). The statement was issued a day after a comment made by the Prime Minister during a meeting with the leaders of all political parties triggered a controversy. The LAC serves as the de facto border between the two nations. The PMO statement stopped short of clearly saying where the PLA soldiers were trying to build the structures – on India’s or on China’s side of the LAC. It, however, added that the sacrifices of the soldiers of the 16 Bihar Regiment had “foiled the attempt of the Chinese side to erect structures and also cleared the attempted transgression at this point of the LAC on that day (June 15)”. A press-release by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on June 17 had stated that the Chinese PLA personnel had sought to erect the structure by India’s side of the LAC. “While there was some progress (in talks between military officials for de-escalation), the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC. While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties,” the MEA had stated in the press release it had issued after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to his counterpart in Chinese Government, Wang Yi. The MEA, however, issued another statement on Saturday, stating that the Chinese Army personnel had sought to erect structures “just across the LAC”. It was later clarified that the "just across the LAC" in the MEA statement meant on India's side of the LAC.  “However, the Chinese side departed from these understandings (reached at the meeting between Corps Commander of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on June 6) in respect of the LAC in the Galwan Valley area and sought to erect structures just across the LAC. When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on 15 June 2020 that directly resulted in casualties,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said on Saturday. The MEA statement on Saturday appeared aligned with the one issued by the PMO on the issue of the location where the Chinese PLA had sought to build the structure. The Prime Minister on Friday had a meeting with the leaders of a number of political parties on the clash between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. “Nobody is inside our territory, nor are any of our posts in anyone’s possession. Our 20 soldiers were martyred in Ladakh but they died only after teaching a lesson to those who cast their eyes on Mother India,” he told the leaders of the political parties. Some opposition leaders, military veterans and strategic affairs analysts criticized him for stating that no intrusion by the Chinese PLA into the territory of India had taken place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-office-now-says-chinese-sought-to-build-structure-just-across-lac-at-galwan-valley-851885.html
20-06-2020||National||India crosses 4-lakh mark of coronavirus cases||India on Saturday crossed the four-lakh mark of COVID-19 cases, after reporting the sharpest single-day increase in new infections. A DH COVID-19 Tracker puts the total number of confirmed infections at 4,01,758 and the fatalities crossed the 13,000-mark to settle at 13,071 at 8:15 p.m. on Saturday. As many as 2,18,497 patients had recovered from the highly infectious disease, putting the recovery rate at 54.38 per cent. India had 1,83,261 patients of COVID-19 under active medical supervision and experts voiced concern over the increase in the growth rate of active cases which was witnessing a steady decline. According to the Health Ministry, India added a record 14,516 new cases on Saturday morning with Maharashtra, Delhi, and Tamil Nadu reporting the highest increase. Besides, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala also reported their highest number of new cases in a single day. According to the health ministry, Maharashtra reported 3,827 fresh infections on Saturday, Delhi 3,137 new cases and Tamil Nadu 2,115. The Centre had asked state governments to undertake aggressive contact tracing exercise and ramp up testing to detect infections early. India had ramped up its testing capabilities to test three lakh samples per day, the health ministry said. “In the last 24 hours, 1,89,869 samples were tested. The total number of samples tested thus far is 66,16,496,” the ministry said on Saturday morning. According to the DH Tracker, Maharashtra has 1,24,331 confirmed cases of COVID-19, Tamil Nadu (56,849), Delhi (53,116), Gujarat (26,737), Uttar Pradesh (16,594) and West Bengal (13,531). Maharashtra has the highest number of fatalities at 5,893, followed by Delhi (2035), Gujarat (1639), Tamil Nadu (704), West Bengal (540), Uttar Pradesh (507), Madhya Pradesh (501) and Rajasthan (333).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-4-lakh-mark-of-coronavirus-cases-851893.html
20-06-2020||National||New employment scheme to help migrant workers, poor facing challenges due to COVID-19: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the employment scheme, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will help migrant workers and the poor facing challenges due to the coronavirus pandemic. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah also said that the 'Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan' will ensure job opportunities to people near their homes based on their skills. "The #GaribKalyanRojgarAbhiyaan worth Rs 50,000 crore was launched today by the Modi government to help and empower the migrant labourers and the poor facing challenges due to the Corona pandemic. I thank PM @narendramodi ji for this visionary campaign," he said. The home minister said the scheme will be implemented in villages of 116 districts in six states to provide employment and inclusive development opportunities in rural India and 25 such schemes, which are being run by the central government, will be added to it. "Earlier people used to go to the city in search of employment but now through 'Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan', they will be provided employment near their homes based on their skills," he said. Shah said people's talent will be used in the development of the rural sector, which will give more strength to the rural economy. "The Modi government is fully committed to the development of our villages, the livelihood and self-respect of the migrant workers and the poor. "Under the leadership of Prime Minister @NarendraModi ji, the 'Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan' will play an important role in the country's move towards a 'self-reliant India'," he said. Modi on Saturday launched an employment scheme with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore for migrant workers who returned to their home states during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Launching the scheme, Modi said during the nationwide lockdown, the talent from cities returned to villages and it will now give a boost to development of rural areas. The 'Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan' will be implemented on a mission mode in 125 days in 116 districts of six states -- Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha -- that received the maximum numbers of migrant workers back. It will help expedite implementation of 25 public infrastructure works and those related to augmentation of livelihood opportunities. These 25 works are related to rural housing for the poor, plantations, provision of drinking water through the Jal Jeevan Mission, and construction of panchayat bhavans, community toilets, rural mandis, rural roads, cattle sheds and 'anganwadi bhavans', according to the Ministry of Rural Development, which is the nodal ministry for the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-employment-scheme-to-help-migrant-workers-poor-facing-challenges-due-to-covid-19-amit-shah-851899.html
20-06-2020||National||Ready to deal with any situation along Line of Actual Control: IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria||The Indian Air Force is "well prepared" and "suitably deployed" to counter any security challenge along the border with China, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Saturday as a deadly clash between troops of the countries in eastern Ladakh triggered fears of a fresh confrontation. He said the IAF was aware of the Chinese air force's capability, its airfields, operational bases and deployment of its platforms in the region, asserting that his force has taken all necessary steps to handle all contingencies. The Chief of Air Staff was speaking after reviewing the combined passing-out parade of officers at the IAF academy in Dundigal. "We are aware of the full situation, be at LAC (Line of Actual Control), be it deployments beyond LAC," he said. “We are determined that we will not let the sacrifice of the Galwan bravehearts go in vain,” Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said referring to the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel in the Galwan Valley clash on Monday night. At the same time, he said all efforts are being made to resolve the situation peacefully. The Indian Air Force has put all its frontline bases along the 3,500 km de-facto border with China on high-alert and moved in additional assets like fighter jets and attack helicopters as part of heightened state of preparedness following the clashes. The IAF chief was at the Leh IAF base on Wednesday where he reviewed operational preparedness of the force. "It should be very clear that we are well prepared and suitably deployed to respond to any contingency. I assure the nation that we are determined to deliver and will never let the sacrifice of our braves of Galwan go in vain," the IAF chief said. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the IAF has carried out a full analysis of the situation and initiated necessary action accordingly to handle any contingency that may arise with "this kind of deployment".       "We know what their (Chinese) fields are. We know what their air fields are, where they are deployed, what are the operational bases," he said referring to the Chinese air force. On Wednesday, the government put all the frontline bases of the Indian Army and the IAF along the Line of Actual Control with China on high alert in view of the Galwan clashes. Though, every year China makes deployment and conducts air exercises in the region, there was an increase in activities this time, the IAF chief said.       "The security scenario in our region mandates that our armed forces remain prepared and vigilant at all times. The development at LAC is a small snapshot of what we are required to handle at short notice," he added. The Indian and Chinese armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso. Military and diplomatic talks between the two countries are on to resolve the border standoff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-deal-with-any-situation-along-line-of-actual-control-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria-851907.html
20-06-2020||National||India says its stand on Galwan Valley historical, China 'not in sync' with its own position||India on Saturday said that its soldiers had been patrolling the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh for a long time without any incident and that it would not accept the new “exaggerated and untenable claims” made by China. India accused the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel of hindering the “normal, traditional patrolling pattern” of its soldiers in the Galwan Valley since early last month, resulting in a face-off, which had been resolved by the local commanders of the two sides in accordance with the established mechanism. It, however, said that the clash between the soldiers of the two nations in the region on June 15 had taken place because the Chinese PLA personnel had departed from the understanding reached at the June 5 meeting of the Corps Commander of the two sides.   Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), later said that the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had agreed on “a process for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC” involving “reciprocal actions”. “Both sides had agreed to respect and abide by the LAC and not undertake any activity to alter the status quo,” the MEA spokesperson said on Saturday. “However,” the MEA spokesperson added, “the Chinese side departed from these understandings in respect of the LAC in the Galwan Valley area and sought to erect structures just across the LAC. When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on June 15, 2020 that directly resulted in casualties.” Srivastava’s statement was in response to the step-by-step account of the clash released by his counterpart in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, Zhao Lijian, on Friday. “Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC in all sectors of the India-China border areas, including in the Galwan Valley. They abide by it scrupulously here, as they do elsewhere,” he said, adding: “The Indian side has never undertaken any actions across the LAC. In fact, they have been patrolling this area for a long time without any incident. All infrastructure built by the Indian side is naturally on its own side of the LAC.” “We do not accept the contention that India was unilaterally changing the status quo. On the contrary, we were maintaining it,” said Srivastava, dismissing Zhao’s statement that the Indian Army had unilaterally tried to change the status quo along the LAC. The MEA spokesperson also said that the Chinese PLA had in mid-May attempted to transgress the LAC in other areas of the Western Sector of the India-China border areas. “These attempts were invariably met with an appropriate response from us. Thereafter, the two sides were engaged in discussions through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation arising out of Chinese activities on the LAC,” he said, giving New Delhi’s version of the incidents leading to the stand-off on the northern bank of Pangong Tso and other places along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. He referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s phone-call with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Wednesday. “We expect that the Chinese side will sincerely follow the understanding reached between the Foreign Ministers to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas, which is so essential for the overall development of our bilateral relations,” said Srivastava.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-its-stand-on-galwan-valley-historical-china-not-in-sync-with-its-own-position-851910.html
20-06-2020||National||Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan to make poor self-reliant: Pradhan||Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan is a step towards making country's poor population self-reliant, Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the employment scheme for migrant workers, saying that during the lockdown, the talent from cities returned to villages and it will now give a boost to development in rural areas. Launching the ''Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan'', the Prime Minister said there are some people who may not appreciate efforts of villagers in the fight against the novel coronavirus but he applauds them for their efforts. The way villages have fought coronavirus has taught a big lesson to the cities. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is consistently working towards the welfare of our rural poor and labourers. I welcome Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan. It is an important step towards making our poor population self-reliant," Pradhan said in a statement. The objective of this Abhiyaan, Pradhan said, is to generate livelihood opportunities, protect their self-esteem and facilitate rural development. Under the initiative, workers will be provided employment opportunities in their own village in accordance with their interest and skills, he said. Due to COVID-19 outbreak, people working in different parts of the country returned to their home states, leaving their jobs. “The displaced workers of 116 districts of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha and Jharkhand will be provided livelihood opportunities in 25 different types of works related to the basic amenities of the villages at a cost of Rs 50,000 crores to improve their lives during challenging times,” Pradhan said. The minister also thanked the Prime Minister for integrating works related to Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Yojana with Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan which would help development of eastern India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/garib-kalyan-rozgar-abhiyaan-to-make-poor-self-reliant-pradhan-851913.html
20-06-2020||National||COVID-19 poses trying times for diabetics: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said COVID-19 poses trying times for diabetics who are more vulnerable to the contagious disease as they have low resistance to infections. He said the coronavirus death rate in India has been low in comparison to other countries and most of the deaths that occurred here were among those COVID-19 positive patients who were also suffering from co-morbidities or chronic disorders like diabetes. Delivering the inaugural address at the 'World Congress of Indian Academy of Diabetes' online, the minister said those suffering from diabetes have an immuno-comprised status, which tends to reduce their resistance and make them more vulnerable to infections like coronavirus as well as consequent complications. "This leads to an even more vulnerable situation when a patient suffering from diabetes also has kidney involvement or diabtic-nephropathy, chronic kidney disease etc," said Singh, Minister of State for Personnel who is also a renowned diabetologist. In a situation like this, he said the diabetologists owed a special responsibility to their patients in keeping their blood sugar level strictly under control to avoid infection and at the same time educating them about the precautions to be exercised, according to an official statement. Singh said COVID-19 poses trying times for diabetics, it said. "While coronavirus has taught us to live with new norms, it has also given the physicians a cue to emphasize on the non-pharmacological methods of management including hygiene etc. which had somehow lost due importance in recent years," said the minister.  He said even after the COVID pandemic is over, the discipline of social distancing and avoiding droplet infection will act as safeguard against many other infections as well. "Like in many other fields, even in academics COVID has prompted us to discover new norms in adversity, which is visibly evident in the success of an international (online) conference like this of such a big magnitude," Singh said. He complimented renowned endocrinologists Shashank Joshi from Mumbai, Banshi Saboo from Ahmedabad and the entire team of organizers for having brought together the best of faculty from as many as four continents of the world, including eminent world scholars of diabetes like Andrew Boulton, President International Diabetes Federation, Fracese Xavier, Itarnar Raz, Florian Totai as well as leading Indian diabetologists like V Mohan, Arvind Gupta and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-poses-trying-times-for-diabetics-union-minister-jitendra-singh-851922.html
20-06-2020||National||Celebs share messages to encourage people to observe Yoga Day: AYUSH Ministry||Celebrities, including actors Akshay Kumar and Anushka Sharma, have shared motivational messages and thoughts encouraging the people to participate in the sixth International Day of Yoga, the AYUSH Ministry said on Saturday. In their promotional messages shared with the Ministry of AYUSH, they describe Yoga as a "disciplined and patient way of leading our lives", the ministry said in a statement. "They emphasise that Yoga is a practice which unites people across the world for a common cause and conveys the message of peace and harmony," it said. Some of the celebrities include the well-known movie actors like Akshay Kumar, Anushka Sharma, Milind Soman, and Shilpa Shetty Kundra, the statement said. The ministry further said that since mass gatherings are not advised in view of the COVID-19 outbreak, 'Yoga at Home, Yoga with Family' is being encouraged to celebrate the 6th IDY2020 at home with families. This is sought to be achieved by encouraging Yoga performance based on the standardised Common Yoga Protocol from the respective homes of the participants at 7 am on Sunday, it said. Additionally, the Ministry of AYUSH in association with Prasar Bharati has made arrangements for telecasting a trainer-led Yoga session on DD National to facilitate the harmonious Yoga practice, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/celebs-share-messages-to-encourage-people-to-observe-yoga-day-ayush-ministry-851933.html
20-06-2020||National||Punjab to cap COVID treatment charges in private hospitals||The Punjab government will cap the hospitalisation and treatment charges for coronavirus patients in private hospitals and those not adhering to it will be shut down, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday. The fee structure for private hospitals and clinics is expected to be finalised by Monday, he said during his #AskCaptain session on Facebook. Taking a strict view of complaints of exorbitant fee being charged by private hospitals, Singh termed such actions as "anti-people and anti-national”. "If these hospitals do not agree to the government rates, we will close them down," he added. Expressing concern over the spike in coronavirus cases in the state, which he attributed to the large number of people coming from other places, the CM said he had sought permission from the Centre to allow the state to make COVID test certificates mandatory for all those crossing the border. Singh said he had raised the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference. With 87,000 cars having entered Punjab from Delhi alone in recent days and the spike in cases in the past only due to outsiders, the threat of the pandemic spiralling further was acute, an official release quoting the CM said. He said that he had requested the prime minister to allow entry of only those with valid COVID-free certificates. In fact, those leaving Punjab should also carry similar certificates to check the spread of coronavirus into other states, he said. With easing of restrictions and more testing, the numbers would continue to spike, Singh said, adding that timely intervention and adherence to protocols was imperative to save lives. Elaborating on the state's medical preparedness, Singh said 551 ventilators were already available with government and private hospitals and another 93 had been ordered.  The state government had also ordered four lakh more N95 masks to supplement the existing stock of 9.25 lakh. In addition, the state had 79 lakh triple-layered masks, 2.39 lakh PPE kits and 2,200 oxygen cylinders. As far as beds were concerned, more than 6,000 beds had been arranged in government hospitals and another 900 in private hospitals, and currently 2,500 were filled up. In the second stage, the state plans to add 10,000 more beds, to be followed by another 30,000 in the third stage, he added. On a question regarding some industrialists wanting to bring back labourers to the state at their own expense, the CM said they were most welcome to do so but would need to ensure strict home quarantine for 14 days. On the issue of Sikhs in Uttar Pradesh being relocated, Singh said he had spoken to his counterpart Yogi Adityanath and was hopeful that the latter would stop the move. "If that does not happen, I will take up the matter with the prime minister, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-to-cap-covid-treatment-charges-in-private-hospitals-851935.html
20-06-2020||National||Additional 2,000 ITBP troops may be sent to Sino-India border||About 2,000 additional troops of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) may be sent to forward locations along the Sino-India border to strengthen vigil amid the standoff between the Indian Army and Chinese troops in Ladakh. The ITBP personnel, currently engaged in different duties in various parts of the country, is being requisitioned in view of the prevailing situation in Ladakh. About 20 additional companies (2,000 troops) are likely to the deployed in different locations of the Sino-Indian border, a senior government official said. The ITBP guards the 3,488 km long Line of Actual Control between India and China, along with the Indian Army. ITBP personnel are deployed around 180 border guarding posts -- from Karakoram pass to Jachep La -- located in Union Territory of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and and Arunachal Pradesh. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in a clash with Chinese troops on June 15 in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, raising tension in the relations between India and China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/additional-2000-itbp-troops-may-be-sent-to-sino-india-border-851945.html
20-06-2020||National||COVID-19 management in Delhi has been streamlined: Harsh Vardhan||COVID-19 management in Delhi has been streamlined, from health surveys to testing and caps on in-patient private hospital costs, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. His remarks came after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) approved recommendations of a high-level expert committee for fixing rates of hospital beds for treatment of coronavirus patients. Rates for isolation beds, ICUs without and with ventilator in all hospitals have been capped at Rs 8,000-10,000; 13,000-15,000 and 15,000-18,000 respectively. Testing has also been ramped up in the national capital after the Centre purchased six lakh testing kits from South Korea for rapid testing, out of which 50,000 have been made available to Delhi and a target of 15,000 tests per day is being worked on, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy said. Taking to Twitter, Vardhan said, "From health surveys to testing and cap on in-patient private hospital costs, COVID-19 management in Delhi has been streamlined. Charges for isolation beds in Private Hospitals for COVID patients slashed to about one-third. Cheaper and faster Rapid Antigen testing started." For the first time, Delhi recorded 3,137 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday in its highest single-day spike so far, pushing the tally to 53,116 cases. With 66 fatalities in 24 hours, the death toll reached 2,035 in the city. Delhi has the highest number of cases after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. With regards to fatalities, it has the maximum number after Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-management-in-delhi-has-been-streamlined-harsh-vardhan-851953.html
20-06-2020||National||Record surge of 3,630 COVID-19 cases in Delhi take tally to over 56K; death toll 2,112||With the highest single-day spike of 3,630 COVID-19 cases, the total tally in Delhi rose to over 56,000 on Saturday, while the death toll mounted to 2,112, authorities said. This is the second time in Delhi that over 3,000 cases have been reported in a day. The previous highest spike of 3,137 cases were recorded on June 19. Seventy-seven fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department said in a bulletin. It said the death toll due to the coronavirus infection has risen to 2,112, and the total number of cases now stood at 56,746.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-surge-of-3630-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-56k-death-toll-2112-851956.html
20-06-2020||National||International Yoga Day 2020: Simple yet effective Yoga poses that you can do while working from home||Working a desk job can in itself restrict body movements, more so now, that the whole world has taken to working from home. A dose of healthy exercise does not necessarily begin with a brisk walk around the block or with an expensive trip to the gym. There are a plethora of yoga exercises that can be done at home, at our very own workstations amidst this pandemic induced work trend. Therefore, on the occasion of the International Day of Yoga, here is a list of exercises that can be done from the comfort of your home, sitting in your cosy corner workspace. 1 The Seated Arm Raise: With a deep inhale, lift arms above head, interlace fingers, palms facing up. Exhale bringing your arms back to the prayer pose. With a deep inhale, lift arms above head, interlace fingers, palms facing up. Exhale bringing your arms towards the left, inhale, arms back to centre, and finally exhale bringing your arms towards the right. You can repeat this set 10 times every day. This seated arm raise yoga helps boost energy in the body. 2. The Standing Calf Stretch: The Standing Calf Stretch Pose Wall uses props to make the pose accessible. As you hold the wall facing it, inhale and raise the toes from the ground and balance on the heels. Exhale and balance taking the front part of the feet higher up. Hold for three seconds and then lower them slowly. Repeat 30 times or till you feel a burn in the calf muscles. This warm-up yoga pose can help in preventing the swelling of feet due to sitting in one place and can also help tone the calves. 3. The Seated Leg Rotation and Raise: Sitting tall on edge of chair, extend right leg out straight keeping foot on the floor, arms crossed over chest. Inhale, make the abs tight and rotate the torso to the right as the right leg lifts to the left knee, squeezing knees together. Slowly exhale and return to the starting position. You can repeat the same steps 10 times each on both the sides. This will help tone the hamstring muscles. 4. The Neck Rotation: Keep your spinal cord and neck straight. Close your eyes and keep both the palms on your knees. Concentrate on your neck. Now inhale deeply and move your neck backward as much as you can but do not strain. Remain in the same position for 2-3 seconds and feel the tension in the muscle. Next, move the neck downward and try to touch the collarbone with your chin. Exhale completely while bringing the neck downward. Repeat this exercise 10-15 times. This helps in releasing all the tension around the neck region that gets created because of sitting in one position continuously. 5. The Eye Compress or Palming Yoga: Rub your hands together for 10 to 15 seconds until they feel warm and energised. Then gently place your hands over your eyes, with the fingertips resting on the forehead, the palms over the eyes, and the heels of the hands resting on the cheeks. Don’t touch the eyeballs directly. Continue this palming action as long as it feels soothing—for just a few seconds or up to five minutes. When you are ready to emerge, gently remove the hands from the face and slowly open the eyes. This helps in easing tension around the eye that builds up because of looking into screens for a long time. 6. The Eye Rolling Yoga: Sit upright with a long spine and relaxed breath. Soften your gaze by relaxing the muscles in your eyes and face. Without moving your head, direct your gaze up toward the ceiling. Then slowly circle your eyes in a clockwise direction, tracing as large a circle as possible. You can repeat this for about 5 to 10 minutes or just repeat 10 sets. This will help in easing all the strain that goes into your eyes because of focusing on the screen for a long time. 7. Breathing Yoga: Begin by noticing where you already are with your breath. Now, focus your attention on your breath. Inhale through your nose, then open your mouth and exhale slowly, making a “HA” sound. Try this a few times, then close your mouth, keeping the back of your throat in the same shape you used to make the “HA” as you exhale through the nose. Repeat this as long as you want or for 5-10 minutes. This will help in relaxing the brain and the body as a whole. You may also try the alternate breathing Yoga technique. To do this, close your right hand in a gentle fist in front of your nose, then extend your thumb and ring finger. Gently close your right nostril with your thumb. Inhale through your left nostril, then close it with your ring finger. Open your right nostril and exhale slowly through it. Inhale through the right nostril then close it. Open your left nostril and exhale slowly through it. That completes one cycle. Repeat 3–5 times. For people burdened with tight schedules and no time to unwind or recharge their energy, these Yoga poses come as a blessing as they can be done at a desk to promote physical fitness every day. Whichever exercise you opt for, make sure to create a complete routine. If you’re a beginner, start with five or six exercises and gradually add more. Two or three exercises is obviously better than none.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-yoga-day-2020-simple-yet-effective-yoga-poses-that-you-can-do-while-working-from-home-851786.html
20-06-2020||National||WB BJP chief Dilip Ghosh stokes controversy with call for 'revenge' against TMC||The BJP's West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh has called for "revenge" against the Trinamool Congress after his party comes to power in the state, stoking a major political controversy. In a snide reference to Mamata Banerjee's 2011 slogan of 'Bodla Noy, Bodol Chai' (change, not revenge), Ghosh recently shared a poster on his Facebook page that had a picture of him along with a slogan -- 'Bodlao Hobey, Bodolo Hobey', meaning that there will be change as well as revenge. The slogan, with which Mamata Banerjee swept the state in the 2011 Assembly election and ousted the CPI(M)-led government, called for change without revenge as people feared that a change in regime after 34 years may lead to widespread political violence. "The TMC came to power by saying no revenge, but in the last nine years, what they did was only pursuing vendetta politics against the opposition. More than 100 of our party workers were killed in the last few years. When we are voted to power we will take revenge against these anti-socials and corrupt officials, otherwise, people will not forgive us. We believe in paying back in the same coin," Ghosh said justifying his social media post. Hitting out at the BJP, the Trinamool Congress said that such comments prove the "mentality" of the party. "Only goons and BJP speak the language of revenge and violence. It's for the people of West Bengal to judge. The TMC doesn't believe in the politics of violence," the party's Secretary-General Partha Chatterjee said. The BJP's state unit also seemed divided over Ghosh's comments as a section of party leaders feel such remarks would hurt their chances in the 2021 assembly polls. Senior BJP leader Mukul Roy said violence would never be the path for the party as it believes in the politics of peace and development. Ghosh has often courted controversy for his sneering comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wb-bjp-chief-dilip-ghosh-stokes-controversy-with-call-for-revenge-against-tmc-851968.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Are you trying to boost morale of China, BJP hits back at Rahul for his border face-off remarks||Accusing Rahul Gandhi of using the language of "school kid" on the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops on the LAC, the BJP on Friday asked if the Congress leader was trying to boost the morale of China by making such "absurd" statements. In a letter to Gandhi, BJP vice-president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe suggested that the Congress leader should consult seniors in his party and take their advice before making such "absurd" remarks. Gandhi had on Thursday questioned why Indian soldiers were sent "unarmed to martyrdom" in Ladakh and who was responsible for sending them towards danger, after 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in the violent face-off with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley in Ladakh. He had earlier attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking why he was "hiding". Responding to Gandhi's charges, Sahasrabuddhe said the Congress leader was expressing his "personal animosity" towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a time all parties were condemning China in unison. By terming Prime Minister Modi "weak" in this time of crisis and when the entire country is unitedly standing behind soldiers, Gandhi has "insulted" the country and the spirit of unity, the BJP leader said. He told Gandhi that this "language of school kid doesn't suit you and to the dignity of your party". Underlining that responsible politicians first gather information and facts and then make allegations, Sahasrabuddhe said it seems Gandhi "believes in collecting information from Chinese ambassadors and maybe, they only update him" with all details. Wondering why Gandhi is making "absurd" remarks against the prime minister, the BJP leader asked him, "Are you trying to boost the morale of China?" Sahasrabuddhe, however, underlined that the opposition has a right to criticise the government and the BJP will not object to it. "But to express personal animosity towards the prime minister in the time of crisis is not appropriate and an insult to soldiers," he said. In his letter to Gandhi, the BJP vice-president expressed hope that in future the Congress leader would rise above politics and restrain himself from making remarks that are not in the interests of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/are-you-trying-to-boost-morale-of-china-bjp-hits-back-at-rahul-for-his-border-face-off-remarks-851609.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi surrendered before China, alleges Congress; Rejects PMO clarification on 'intrusion' comment||Sharpening its attack, Congress on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of “surrendering” to China and giving it a “clean chit” by asserting that there was no intrusion by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley. Firing a salvo at the government, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Prime Minister had “surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression”. “If the land was Chinese, why were our soldiers killed? Where were they killed,” he asked. Addressing a press conference here, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said Modi’s remarks at the all party meeting that there was no intrusion inside Indian territory in eastern Ladakh had left everyone “baffled and bewildered”. “Has PM given a clean chit to China,” he asked a day after Modi’s ‘no intrusion; remarks triggered a controversy.   Has PM given a clean chit to China? If so, what is there to negotiate with China? Why are the Major Generals negotiating and about what?   A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday said “some quarters” had attempted to give a “mischievous interpretation” to Modi’s remarks. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala also rejected the clarification issued by the Prime Minister’s Office as “clearly a lame attempt to obfuscate the truth.” “Why is Government not coming forward and strongly rebutting the Chinese claim over Galwan Valley? If Chinese troops are present there, does it not amount to intrusion into and occupation of Indian territory,” he asked. Chidambaram said if there was no Chinese intrusion why was there a fight between the troops on June 15 and why did India lose 20 of its soldiers. “… what did the Corps Commanders talk about on June 6? Was it about the weather,” the former union minister said. At the all party meeting on Friday, Congress President Sonia Gandhi had asked some tough questions of the government demanding to know whether an intelligence failure had led to the Chinese intrusion. “When did the government find out the Chinese transgressions into our territory? Was it on May 5, as reported, or earlier? Does the government not receive, on a regular basis, satellite pictures of the borders of our country,” she had asked. However, Congress appeared isolated at the meeting as almost all the other parties, including Trinamool and NCP, backed the government action. On Saturday, Chidambaram rejected suggestions of Congress being isolated at the all party meeting, contending that no political party had objected to the questions put by the Congress President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-surrendered-before-china-alleges-congress-rejects-pmo-clarification-on-intrusion-comment-851663.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his remark that neither is anyone inside India's territory nor has any of its posts been captured, alleging that the PM has "surrendered" Indian territory to Chinese aggression. In a statement on the all-party meeting called by Modi on Friday to discuss the situation at the India-China border, the government said, "At the outset, prime minister clarified that neither is anyone inside our territory nor is any of our post captured." Tagging PM's remarks with his tweet, Gandhi said, "PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression."  "If the land was Chinese: 1. Why were our soldiers killed? 2. Where were they killed?" Gandhi said. The categorical statement by the prime minister came in the wake of reports that the Chinese military has transgressed into the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border, in several areas of eastern Ladakh including Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley. The prime minister's assertion came even as Congress president Sonia Gandhi, at the all-party meet, questioned the government's handling of the situation, asking if there was any intelligence failure, and seeking assurance that China will "revert" to its original position. Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused senior ministers in the government of "lying" to protect the prime minister and that the Centre was "fast asleep" while martyred jawans paid the price in Ladakh. The former Congress chief also tagged a one-minute video of a jawan's father saying the Indian soldiers were unarmed when they were attacked by Chinese troops. He has been questioning the government on the LAC standoff and asking how the Chinese occupied Indian territory and why Indian soldiers were sent "unarmed to martyrdom" in Ladakh.  Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-has-surrendered-indian-territory-to-chinese-aggression-rahul-gandhi-851665.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Don't play petty politics: Amit Shah tells Rahul Gandhi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday hit back at top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's remarks on the India-China border situation, saying he should rise above "petty politics" and stand in solidarity with the interests of the nation. Tagging a video clip of the father of a soldier who was injured in the "violent face-lift" In Galwan valley, Shah said the brave armyman’s father speaks and he has a very clear message for Rahul. A brave armyman’s father speaks and he has a very clear message for Mr. Rahul Gandhi. "At a time when the entire nation is united, Mr. Rahul Gandhi should also rise above petty politics and stand in solidarity with national interest," Shah said. In the video tweeted by ANI, the father of the injured soldier said the Army is a strong army and can defeat China and that Rahul Gandhi should not indulge in politics in this. Shah's comments came as Rahul targeted Modi for his comments during the all-party meeting he convened on Saturday during that were interpreted as giving a lee-way to the Chinese. Rahul tweeted in the morning, "PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. If the land was Chinese: 1. Why were our soldiers killed? 2. Where were they killed?"   PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. "Na wahan koi hamara seema mein ghus aaya hei, na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi doosre ke kabze mein hai (neither has anyone intruded into our territory, nor anyone is present in our territory nor any military post has been captured," Modi had said on Friday. However, this statement is said to be contrary to what External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on June 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-play-petty-politics-amit-shah-tells-rahul-gandhi-851679.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Centre must respond to China's Galwan Valley claim, says Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena deputy leader Priyanka Chaturvedi on Saturday said the Centre must respond to China's claim that the sovereignty over the Galwan Valley area in Ladakh belonged to it. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in the clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. It was the biggest military confrontation between India and China in over five decades. After India trashed the Chinese Army's claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley and asked Beijing to confine its activities to its side of the LAC, China's foreign ministry on Friday claimed that the Galwan Valley was on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Friday asserted that neither is anyone inside India's territory nor has any of its posts been captured. Taking to Twitter, Chaturvedi said, "Yesterday PM Modi assured the nation that no posts/territory have been ceded to China, but here China claims Galwan Valley as theirs." "This is unacceptable and the government needs to clarify or respond to this. Havewe ceded our Galwan valley or ousted the PLA from there? Nation wants to know," the recently elected Rajya Sabha member said in the tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-must-respond-to-chinas-galwan-valley-claim-says-shiv-sena-851702.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Lockdown not akin to Emergency, default bail an indefeasible right: SC||The lockdown announced by the government due to COVID-19 is not akin to the proclamation of Emergency, the Supreme Court has said holding that default bail is an indefeasible right on non-submission of charge sheet within the prescribed time. The apex court made the observation while setting aside a Madras High Court order denying bail to an accused despite non-filing of charge sheet within the stipulated time. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the view of the high court that restrictions imposed during the lockdown should not give the right to an accused for default bail even though the charge sheet has not been filed within the time prescribed under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is "clearly erroneous and not in accordance with law". Terming its judgment in the ADM Jabalpur case during the Emergency as "retrograde", the top court said that right to life and liberty cannot be taken away without a due process of law. In the ADM Jabalpur case of 1976, the five-judge bench by a majority verdict 4:1 had arrived at the conclusion that Article 21 is the sole repository of all rights to life and personal liberty, and, when suspended, takes away those rights altogether.  The bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said that the "retrograde steps taken in respect of right protected under Article 21" in the ADM Jabalpur judgment was remedied by the Parliament through constitutional amendment. It said that any restriction on the rights of an accused as protected by Section 167(2) regarding his indefeasible right to get a default bail on non-submission of charge sheet within the time prescribed which cannot be allowed to be frustrated by the prosecution. "We, thus, are of the clear opinion that the Single Judge (of HC) in the impugned judgment erred in holding that the lockdown announced by the Government of India is akin to the proclamation of Emergency.  "The view of the Single Judge that the restrictions, which have been imposed during period of lockdown by the Government of India should not give right to an accused to pray for grant of default bail even though charge sheet has not been filed within the time prescribed under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure" is clearly erroneous and not in accordance with law, the apex court said. The bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah and V Ramasubramanian, granted bail to the accused on submission of personal bond of Rs 10,000 with two sureties and clarified that its March order on extension of limitation does not apply to the CrPC provisions. The order dated March 23, 2020 (on limitation) cannot be read to mean that it ever intended to extend the period of filing charge sheet by police as contemplated under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the bench said. "The Investigating Officer could have submitted/filed the charge sheet before the (Incharge) Magistrate. Therefore, even during the lockdown and as has been done in so many cases the charge-sheet could have been filed/submitted before the Magistrate (Incharge) and the Investigating Officer was not precluded from filing/submitting the charge-sheet even within the stipulated period before the Magistrate (Incharge)," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lockdown-not-akin-to-emergency-default-bail-an-indefeasible-right-sc-851742.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||NDA widens gap with Opposition in Rajya Sabha||The NDA is now comfortably placed in the Rajya Sabha after the biennial election as the BJP's strong numbers in the assemblies and defection from the Opposition resulted in the saffron party having 86 seats in the House and the Congress merely 41. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance now has nearly 100 members in the 245-member House. If the support of friendly parties like the AIADMK (9), BJD (9), YSR Congress Party (6), and several allied nominated members and smaller parties is counted, then the Modi government is unlikely to face any serious numerical challenge there. The Election Commission had announced biennial polls to 61 seats, including 55 in March, but the process was delayed due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. With 42 members elected unopposed earlier, the Bharatiya Janata Party won eight, Congress and the YSR Congress four each and others three of the 19 seats that went to polls on Friday. The BJP won a couple of more seats than it could have on the strength of its numbers because of defection from several Congress legislators in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. In total, the BJP won 17, Congress nine, BJP ally JDU three, BJD and the TMC four each, AIADMK and DMK three each, NCP, RJD and the TRS two each, and others rest, official sources said. The crumbling strength of the Opposition, whose key pillars include the Congress, TMC and the Left, has been evident since last year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the BJP to its biggest ever victory as it bagged 303 seats in Lok Sabha election. It prompted a host of defections from the Opposition, including Rajya Sabha members of the Congress, TDP and the Samajwadi Party, to the BJP, and many non-NDA regional parties chose to back the government in Parliament on crucial issues. The Congress has accused the BJP of horse-trading, alleging that it had engineered defections from its ranks for political gains. The government managed big support in Parliament to its resolution to nullify Article 370 and key bills like the bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into Union territories and criminal prosecution for instant divorce by Muslim men. The contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Bill was also passed in both the Houses. Out of the 61 new members, 43 are first-timers, which include BJP's Jyotiraditya Scindia and Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress. Both have been members of Lok Sabha, but lost in elections in 2019. Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and former Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambi Durai have also been elected to Rajya Sabha. The legislative agenda of the Modi government in its first term was often hampered in Parliament due to the Opposition's numerical superiority in the Upper House, and the Congress had more numbers than the BJP in first few years. However, the BJP's impressive gains in the assembly elections, coupled with the Congress losing power in several states, resulted in slow but steady rise in the government's numbers in the House. Though the below-par show of the BJP in state selections since 2018 has also meant that its goal of gaining a majority on its own in the Rajya Sabha remains far from being achieved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nda-widens-gap-with-opposition-in-rajya-sabha-851770.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu urges new members to make good use of opportunity||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday urged the newly-elected members of the Upper House to make good use of the opportunity of contributing to the transformation of the country over the next six years. He reminded the new members that it is an honour to be in Rajya Sabha, an institution founded on the principle of federalism that guides lawmaking and governance in the country. In his message of felicitations on Twitter to the 61 members from 20 states, Naidu said, "The 61 members, representing as many as 20 political parties, besides Independents, highlights the diversity of our polity and at the same time our resolute sense of unity of purpose and action." "The elected represent a healthy mix of veterans and first-timers to the House, all bound by solemn commitment to the transformation of our country and make the 21st century as India's. I fondly hope that all the elected make good use of this opportunity over the next 6 years," he said. Extending a warm welcome to them, Naidu hoped to meet all of them at the earliest and wished them success in their endeavours to contribute their bit to the transformation of the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-chairman-venkaiah-naidu-urges-new-members-to-make-good-use-of-opportunity-851785.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||TMC to conduct organisational reshuffle to iron out faction feud||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has decided to conduct a major organisational reshuffle to iron out the faction feud in the party. The ruling party in West Bengal is currently aiming to deal with the internal feud between the old guard and upcoming leaders. TMC sources said that the organisational overhaul will start with the northern districts of Bengal. TMC lost to BJP in all the eight seats in the in North Bengal in them last Lok Sabha elections. “We had to pay heavily in the last Panchayat and Lok Sabha elections due to the faction feud. Ensuing smooth coordination at all level in the party is now our top priority,” a senior TMC leader said. He also said that there is considerable friction in North Bengal between the youth wing of TMC and district leaders which the party leadership is seeking to iron out prior to the 2021 Assembly election. Ahead of the Lok Sabha elections the then TMC youth wing leader Nisith Pramanik joined BJP and defeated his former party. However, the TMC leadership want to tread cautiously with organisational reshuffle as just replacing a section of party leaders with another in key posts may further intensify the faction feud. Sources said they want to ensure that those given key party posts should work smoothly with leaders whom they replaced. The feud between the district leadership and youth wing of the party is also plaguing TMC in the South 24 Paraganas district. As for the districts of Jhargram, West Medinipur and Purulia the relationship between TMC leaders holding key party post and others in the party is considerably sour. TMC leadership is apprehensive that this may have an adverse effect on the party’s performance in the next Assembly elections. “Hopefully we can resolve our internal differences before the Assembly elections and put up a united fight against BJP,” the TMC leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-to-conduct-organisational-reshuffle-to-iron-out-faction-feud-851842.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||JP Nadda hits out at Rahul Gandhi over remarks on Ladakh standoff; accuses him of demoralising forces||BJP chief J P Nadda on Saturday targeted Rahul Gandhi over his remarks on the Sino-India face-off in Ladakh, alleging he was lowering the morale of defence forces through his tweets. Addressing a virtual rally for Rajasthan, he said that "some opposition leaders are demonstrating their limited knowledge" and "asking why did soldiers go unarmed”. "These leaders are lowering the morale of defence forces through their tweets when jawans are fighting in Galwan on India-China border. "Don't you know the international rules and agreements," he said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had raised questions on whether "unarmed soldiers" had to fight the Chinese Army and alleged that the prime minister had surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese aggression. "The language used by an individual reflects the family's culture. Indian families do not have the culture of using such language as done by you,” Nadda said. "Forget about honouring Prime Minister Narendra Modi, you did not honour your PM. You tore his ordinance. People of the country and the world know this,” the BJP chief said attacking Gandhi. The BJP president said there should be constructive opposition. "Sadly, we are facing an opposition, which has no substance or direction,” he said. Nadda also referred to Friday's all-party meeting with the prime minister saying that everyone resolved to stand together but Congress kept asking questions. He noted that the PM has said in his statement that "neither they have intruded into our border nor has any post been taken over by them". Indian defence forces are fully capable of securing borders of the country in water, land or air and they have been given a free hand, the BJP chief said in the Jan samvad rally for party workers in Bikaner and Jodhpur division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jp-nadda-hits-out-at-rahul-gandhi-over-remarks-on-ladakh-standoff-accuses-him-of-demoralising-forces-851855.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Congress facing embarrassment for remark against Kerala Health Minister for second time||The Opposition Congress in Kerala is facing a major embarrassment over one of its leaders' adverse remarks against Health Minister K K Shailaja for the second time over COVID-19. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday strongly flayed Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran for his 'COVID Queen' and 'Nipah Princess' remark against the health minister. He said that such statements were reflecting the degradation of the Congress party. An earlier remark of Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala against health minster that she was becoming a media maniac by constantly briefing the media had also invited severe criticism. While Ramachandram remained firm on his statement against the health minister despite the mounting criticism, Congress workers on Saturday staged a protest march against the husband of Malayali nurse Lini, who died during nipah, after he flayed Ramachandran's statement against the health minister. This also invited further criticism against the Congress. Meanwhile, many Congress leaders were also learnt to be unhappy with Ramachandran's statement as they feel that the ruling CPI(M) could use it to divert attention from the protest being scaled up against the government over various issues like insisting on COVID-19 test for all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-facing-embarrassment-for-remark-against-kerala-health-minister-for-second-time-851860.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Follow 'raj dharma', tell China Galwan will always be India's integral part: Congress to PM Narendra Modi||The Congress on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to follow 'raj dharma' and rise to the challenge of protecting the territorial integrity of the country, and clarify to China that Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh "is, was and will always be" an integral part of India. The opposition party also accused the prime minister's office (PMO) of making a "lame attempt to obfuscate the truth" and belittling the gravity of the situation along the LAC after it issued a clarification on PM Modi's comments that no one entered Indian territory. "After the prime minister's statement yesterday, China has dared to claim the entire Galwan Valley as its own. Galwan valley is Indian territory and it will remain an integral part of Mother India. We urge the PM not to fear and give China a befitting reply by clarifying to it once and for all that Galwan Valley is and will always be an inseparable part of India," the Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a video message. Earlier in the day, he said the Prime Minister's Office and the government need to clearly state their position after the PMO described as "mischievous interpretation" the criticism of the prime minister's remarks at the all-party meeting that no one has entered Indian territory or captured any military post while referring to the Galwan Valley clash in eastern Ladakh. "If Chinese troops are present in Galwan valley, does it not amount to intrusion into and occupation of Indian territory? Also, why is the government silent on intrusions in the Pangong Tso area," Surjewala asked in a statement. He said the PMO's statement "belittles the gravity of the situation" along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Congress spokesperson said security experts and satellite imagery have confirmed not only one intrusion on June 15, but several intrusions into and occupation of Indian territory in the Ladakh area. "We sincerely urge upon the prime minister to follow 'Raj Dharma' and rise to the challenge of protecting national security and territorial integrity," he said. In a statement, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) earlier said the focus of Modi's remarks at the meeting on Friday was the events of June 15 at Galwan that led to the loss of lives of 20 Indian military personnel. "The prime minister's observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces," it said. "The words of the prime minister 'those who tried to transgress our land were taught a befitting lesson by our brave sons of the soil', succinctly summed up the ethos and the values of our armed forces," the PMO said. Surjewala also asked if there was no other intrusion into Indian territory, how were the Chinese present "in large numbers" or why was the restoration of "status quo ante" being demanded or "disengagement" and "early resolution" being sought by India. "If Chinese troops are not present in Indian territory, why is the MEA harping on disengagement and de-escalation as late as on June 17, 2020," he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/follow-raj-dharma-tell-china-galwan-will-always-be-indias-integral-part-congress-to-pm-narendra-modi-851946.html
20-06-2020||National Politics||Modi govt brought in 'golden era' of internal, external security: Nitin Gadkari||The Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre has brought in a "golden era" of internal and external security, senior BJP leader and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Saturday. He was addressing BJP workers here during a `Jan Samwad Rally' through video conference from Nagpur. The minister did not refer to the ongoing tensions with China in eastern Ladakh, but while saying that the BJP- led Union government has successfully handled the Naxal menace, he accused China of supporting the naxals. "While on one hand, Modi-led government has eliminated Naxalism, the areas which were affected by naxals have witnessed development," he said. "So, we can say that the Modi-led government has ushered in a golden era of internal and external security of the country," Gadkari added. Stating that Pakistan was promoting terrorism to divide India, the minister said that Modi-led government took firm stand against militancy. "Now terrorists are being finished. Pakistan has realized that whatever attempts they may make, India will not surrender to its designs," Gadkari said. "The Modi government took a bold step of taking stringent action against terrorism. This was one of the biggest step in terms of (enhancing) internal and external security of the country," he said. "The BJP-led government brought the naxal movements in Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh under control," he said, while claiming that these movements were supported by China. "Separatist groups in north-eastern states were also made to join the mainstream," he said. Nationalism was the soul of the BJPs ideology, he said, claiming that the party was wrongly being portrayed as anti-minorities. "Show me one instance in last six years where the government has acted against the minorities," he said, alleging that the Congress was playing politics of fear to secure its vote bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-brought-in-golden-era-of-internal-external-security-nitin-gadkari-851972.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||BSF personnel shoots down Pakistani spy drone in Jammu and Kashmir||A Pakistani drone, loaded with a sophisticated rifle and seven grenades, was shot down by the Border Security Force along the International Border in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials said. This is the first such incident in Jammu region when a drone carrying arms and explosives was shot down by the BSF, frustrating Pakistan's attempt to smuggle weapons into the Union Territory using the hexacopter, they said. The China-made hexacopter, weighing about 17.5 kgs and having a payload of 5.5 kg including a sophisticated US-Made M4 semi-automatic carbine and seven Chinese grenades, was spotted hovering in the skies by a BSF patrol party at Rathua village in the vicinity of Border Out Post (BOP) Pansar around 5.10 AM and was shot down by the guards who fired at least nine rounds, the officials said. They said it entered into this side from Pakistan and such attempts have been made in various sectors over the past one year. There were intelligence inputs about the possible use of drones for smuggling arms and ammunition from Pakistan.        “This is the biggest achievement and averted a major incident… We are alert to the situation and keeping an eye on 'aakash' (sky), 'zameen' (land) and 'paataal' (subterranean) activities,” Inspector General of BSF, Jammu frontier, N S Jamwal who rushed to the Hiranagar sector, told reporters there.         He said the 8 ft × 6.2 ft drone came from Thakurpora post in Narowal–Shakargarh sector in Pakistan and was carrying the M4 semi-automatic carbine machine, its two magazines, seven Chinese grenades and some other items. Four batteries, a radio signal receiver and two Global Positioning System (GPS) were also seized, the officials said.     “It was 150 to 200 ft above the surface and had entered 250 to 300 metres into this side. Most of its parts are Chinese made and connected with the Winch system which is used to drop the payload at the receiver's end and accordingly disconnect it so that it can return to Pakistan,” the IG said.       He said the police have started an investigation and “we are hopeful of getting further leads” to identify the person who was supposed to receive the arms consignment.   “Had the weapons fallen into the hands of a terrorist, he could have launched an attack within a shortest possible time. We do not rule out an attempt to carry out an immediate attack using the weapons,” the officer said in response to a question.    He said dropping weapons by drones is a "new dimension" and “we are working to strengthen our system to counter the challenge”.            “Intelligence inputs are continuously pouring about Pakistan's attempt to smuggle weapons through drones and we were alert to the threat. Many incidents of drones delivering a consignment of arms in Punjab have come to light over the past one year and accordingly, measures have been taken,” he said. Referring to the seizure of M4 rifle, he said it is a matter of investigation how the weapon reached Pakistan and subsequently to terrorists. “It is a very serious issue and needs further investigation”.  Officials said weapons of the same make including an M4 rifle were recovered from Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists who were killed in an encounter with security forces at Nagrota in Jammu while they were travelling in a truck to Kashmir in January after infiltrating into this side from Pakistan. “This is part of the ploy by Pakistan agencies at arming JeM terrorists in Kashmir to carry out acts of violence and disrupt peace and order. Similar attempts to smuggle have been foiled earlier in other areas bordering Pakistan, especially in Kupwara, Rajouri and Jammu sectors,” a security official said. In a press release, the BSF said the intelligence branch of the force was receiving inputs about the possible use of drones for smuggling arms and ammunition from Pakistan into the Indian side.     “Accordingly the troops were put on high alert and the border domination was exponentially increased, leading to the successful downing of the hexacopter,” it said.           Meanwhile, the officials said Pakistani Rangers fired a few rounds on Babiya post in Hiranagar sector around 8.50 AM. There was no retaliation by the BSF guarding the IB, they said, adding the situation is being monitored closely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-personnel-shoots-down-pakistani-spy-drone-in-jammu-and-kashmir-851660.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Police seize 200 kg cannabis in Delhi-NCR, 2 arrested||Greater Noida police said they have arrested two drug traffickers with 200 kg cannabis that was procured from Andhra Pradesh and was primarily intended to be sold to college students in the National Capital Region. It is estimated to be worth Rs 25 lakh and was procured from Visakhapatnam. Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh Kumar Singh said on Friday the accused Praveen Kumar and Sateesh Kumar were intercepted in Dadri during a police checking. "As much as 200 kg of cannabis packed in sacks were seized from their vehicle. The consignment is worth Rs 25 lakh. Both the accused have been arrested," Singh said. He said the accused told investigators they have earlier too smuggled cannabis from Andhra Pradesh to Delhi through the railway parcel service. Singh said the 200-kg consignment first arrived at a dhaba in Etawah district in Uttar Pradesh on a truck and from there it was brought to Gautam Buddh Nagar, where police seized it before it could be distributed locally. The traffickers intended to sell the cannabis in Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad and primarily to college students, police said. They have revealed the names of their accomplices after their arrest and action would soon be taken against them, DCP Singh said. An FIR has been lodged at Dadri police station under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the car has been impounded, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-seize-200-kg-cannabis-in-delhi-ncr-2-arrested-851668.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh constable shoots wife dead before killing self||A police constable allegedly killed his wife before shooting himself with his service weapon in Rajnandgaon district of Chhattisgarh, an official said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday night, he said. Constable Mukesh Manhar lived with his family in his residential quarter on the premises of Manpur police station, located in a Naxal-affected area, Rajnandgaon Additional Superintendent of Police Gorakhnath Baghel said. As per the preliminary information, the couple had an argument over some issue on Friday night, following which the constable shot at his wife, Babita, before shooting himself dead with his SLR rifle, he said. On hearing the gunshots, his colleagues rushed to the spot and found the couple lying in a pool of blood, he said. They had died on the spot. Their bodies were sent for post-mortem and the rifle, which was lying beside the constable's body, was seized, he said. Their four-year-old daughter was also there in the house at the time of the incident, he said. A case has been registered in this connection and further investigation is underway, he said, adding that no suicide note was found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-constable-shoots-wife-dead-before-killing-self-851692.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Rain brings relief from stifling heat in Delhi, monsoon around the corner||A spell of early-morning rain brought respite from sweltering weather in the national capital and neighbouring areas on Saturday with the weatherman predicting intermittent showers till the onset of the monsoon in the city. These rains are a result of a trough extending from Pakistan to Assam, crossing over north Rajasthan and southern Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department. A western disturbance is also active over north Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir, he said. The precipitation will bring the mercury down in the region. The maximum temperature will hover around 35 degrees Celsius for the next four-five days, he said. Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting service, said the rains will continue on and off till the onset of the monsoon around June 24-25. This means the national capital is likely to witness light showers in the morning and towards evening for a few days, he said. According to weather experts, the monsoon is likely to arrive two-three days earlier than its usual date of June 27 in Delhi because of a cyclonic circulation over West Bengal and the neighbourhood which moved towards southwest Uttar Pradesh on June 19 and June 20. "It helped in further advancement of the monsoon, which has reached eastern Uttar Pradesh and central Madhya Pradesh. It is expected to reach west Uttar Pradesh, and some parts of Uttarakhand by June 22," Srivastava said. Thereafter, it will make an onset in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab within the next two-three days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rain-brings-relief-from-stifling-heat-in-delhi-monsoon-around-the-corner-851697.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Indore records 42 new infections; tally at 4,288||With 42 persons testing positive for coronavirus, the case count in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district has reached 4,288 on Saturday, a health official said. At least 1,768 swab samples were tested in the district, of which reports of 42 patients have come out positive in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 4,288, the official said. The district also recorded four deaths that have taken the toll to 193, he said.  The latest casualties included two patients in their 60s, the official said, without disclosing the exact dates of the deaths. As per the latest data, the district has recorded a recovery rate of 74 per cent as on Saturday morning and 3,168 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far. Indore's COVID-19 mortality rate was at 4.5 per cent, which continues to be higher than the national death rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-indore-records-42-new-infections-tally-at-4288-851719.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt to oppose LG order to scrap home isolation in DDMA meet, says Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government will oppose the Lt Governor's order to "scrap" home isolation, in DDMA meeting, minutes before the meeting was scheduled to begin at 12 noon on Saturday. He said the order is against the guidelines of ICMR and will create "chaos" in Delhi. "Today, the Delhi State Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting is at 12 noon. We will oppose LG's order to scrap home isolation, and demand changing it. This order to terminate home isolation is against ICMR guidelines and it will create chaos in Delhi," Sisodia said in a tweet.  Lt Governor Anil Baijal, who is also the chairman of DDMA, on Friday ordered a five-day institutional quarantine for all asymptomatic COVID-19 patients or those with mild symptoms in place of home isolation. He also ordered that after the five-day institutional-quarantine asymptomatic patients will be sent for home isolation. The Delhi government opposed the order, saying it was "arbitrary" and will burden its already stretched healthcare system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-to-oppose-lg-order-to-scrap-home-isolation-in-ddma-meet-says-manish-sisodia-851721.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||In Rajya Sabha, 43 of 61 newly-elected MPs are first-timers||Three-fourth or 43 of the 61 leaders elected in the latest edition of elections to the Rajya Sabha are first-timers in the Upper House, including Congress' Mallikarjun Kharge, BJP's Jyotiraditya Scindia and AIADMK's Thambi Durai. Only 12 retiring members were re-elected while six MPs with past experience of the Upper House returned to Rajya Sabha after a gap. Almost 72% of the MPs newly elected are first-timers, an analysis by a senior official in the Research Division of Rajya Sabha Secretariat showed. Welcoming the new MPs, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said on Saturday that the 61 newly-elected MPs representing as many as 20 political parties besides independents highlight the diversity of our polity and at the same time our resolute sense of unity of purpose and action. "The elected represent a healthy mix of veterans and first-timers to the House, all bound by a solemn commitment to the transformation of our country and make the 21st century as India’s. I hope that all the elected make good use of this opportunity over the next six years," Naidu added. There were 61 vacancies in 20 states and out of this, 42 were elected unopposed. Among the unopposed, the number of newcomers was 28. Of the remaining 19 seats for which elections were held on Friday, 15 who are elected are first-timers. There were 28 candidates for these 19 seats of which 24 were never members of Rajya Sabha. "While the 61 retiring members have a total experience of 95 terms ranging from one to four terms in the Rajya Sabha, the winners come with a total experience of only 32 terms resulting in a decline in the total experience of 63 terms," the analysis showed. Besides Kharge, Scindia and Thambi Durai, prominent leaders to enter Rajya Sabha for the first time also included Congress General Secretary K C Venugopal and former Andhra Pradesh Speaker K R Suresh Reddy (TRS). Former prime minister Deve Gowda, JMM patriarch Shibu Soren and Trinamool Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi are among half-a-dozen leaders who are re-entering Rajya Sabha after a gap. All these three leaders had lost the last Lok Sabha elections. Among the 12 sitting MPs who were re-elected include Deputy Chairman Harivansh, NCP chief Sharad Yadav, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale, Congress' Digvijay Singh, TRS' Dr K Keshav Rao and DMK's Tiruchi Siva. The state-wise analysis showed that four members who retired from Karnataka had a total experience of nine terms in Rajya Sabha, while the new incumbents have a total experience of only one term. Gowda had earlier represented Rajya Sabha when he was the prime minister. In case of Maharashtra, while seven members with a collective experience of 10 terms retired, the new incumbents account for an experience of only two terms in the re-election of Pawar and Athawale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-rajya-sabha-43-of-61-newly-elected-mps-are-first-timers-851727.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports 158 fresh coronavirus cases, infection tally rises to 14,314||Rajasthan reported 158 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the state's infection tally to 14,314, officials said. The state has so far reported 333 deaths due to the virus. Of the fresh cases, 40 were from Dholpur, followed by 36 from Jaipur, and 34 from Bharatpur. Jhalawar reported 12 cases, while 11 cases were reported from Sirohi. Karauli reported 10 coronavirus infections, Rajsamand eight, and Bikaner three. Swai Madhopur, Jhunjhunu and Bhilwara reported one case each, while one patient was from outside the state, according to an official report here. A total of 10,863 COVID-19 patients have been discharged, and the state now has 2,860 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-158-fresh-coronavirus-cases-infection-tally-rises-to-14314-851728.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||MNS stages protest over Chinese signboard in Thane||Workers of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena staged a protest at a construction site in Thane city, over a signboard put up in Chinese. The death of 20 Indian Army soldiers during a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh earlier this week has triggered demands for a boycott of all things Chinese in the country. Over 20 MNS workers gathered at a construction site in Balkum area in Thane city on Friday evening. The protest was against a China-based company, which had put up a signboard in Chinese at the site, said Avinash Jadhav, president of MNS' Thane and Palghar district units. Protesters were seen carrying flags and shouting anti-China slogans at the site. Till the entire border issue is resolved, the Chinese company should not conduct any business here and the signboard should be removed at the earliest, Jadhav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mns-stages-protest-over-chinese-signboard-in-thane-851730.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus death toll in Jammu and Kashmir rises to 78 with 3 more fatalities||The deaths were reported from SKIMS Hospital, Chest Diseases Hospital and SMHS Hospital, the officials said. A 55-year-old coronavirus patient from Tujan in south Kashmir's Pulwama district died at SKIMS Hospital at 6:45 am on Saturday, they said. The woman was referred from SMHS Hospital as a case of meningioma with obstructive sleep apnea on Tuesday, the officials said. They said the cause of the death was cardiopulmonary arrest.  In another case, a 40-year-old woman from the Safa Kadal area of the city died at Chest Diseases Hospital, the officials said. The woman with an underlying heart ailment and diabetes was referred to the hospital from SMHS Hospital on June 14 after testing positive for the coronavirus, they said. An 80-year-old man from Shopian, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at SMHS Hospital on late Friday night, the officials said. With these, the number of COVID-19 related fatalities in the union territory has risen to 78.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-death-toll-in-jammu-and-kashmir-rises-to-78-with-3-more-fatalities-851738.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi launches employment scheme for migrant workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched an employment scheme for migrant workers, saying that during the coronavirus-induced lockdown the talent from cities returned to villages and it will now give a boost to development in rural areas. Launching the 'Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan', Modi said there are some people who may not appreciate efforts of villagers in the fight against the novel coronavirus but he applauds them for their efforts. The way villages have fought coronavirus has taught a big lesson to the cities, he added. Talent has returned from cities during the lockdown, those whose labour and skills were behind the rapid growth of cities will now boost the development of villages with the help of this scheme, he said. Underlining that migrant workers were always in the Centre's thoughts during the lockdown, the prime minister said it is an endeavour of his government that workers get jobs near their home and help in the development of villages. Talking about infrastructure development of villages with the help of this scheme, Modi said that for the first time the Internet was being used more in villages than in cities and now work to increase the speed of the Internet was being undertaken.  This scheme will focus on durable rural infrastructure and providing modern facilities like the Internet in the villages, he said. The Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan was launched by PM Modi via video conference in a village in Katihar district of Bihar in the presence of chief ministers of five states -- Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand -- and a minister from Odisha. The scheme with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore will be implemented on mission mode in 125 days in 116 districts of the six states to which the maximum number of the migrant workers have returned. The mission will be a convergent effort between 12 different ministries/ departments such as Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Road Transport and Highways, Mines, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Environment, Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, New and Renewable Energy, Border Roads, Telecom, and Agriculture. It will help expedite the implementation of 25 public infrastructure works and those related to augmentation of livelihood opportunities. These 25 works are related to rural housing for the poor, plantations, provision of drinking water through Jal Jeevan Mission, and construction of panchayat bhavans, community toilets, rural mandis, rural roads, cattle sheds and anganwadi bhavans, according to the Ministry of Rural Development, which is the nodal ministry for the project. The basket of a wide variety of works will ensure that each migrant worker is able to get an opportunity of employment according to his skill in the coming 125 days, it said, adding that the programme will also prepare for expansion and development of livelihoods over a longer-term. Before launching the scheme, Modi spoke to several migrants and enquired their current state of employment and also whether the various welfare schemes launched during the lockdown period were available to them. Modi expressed satisfaction and said that earlier, money used to be given in the name of beneficiaries but it never reached them but now things have changed. In the beginning of his speech, Modi paid homage to the soldiers of the Bihar Regiment who lost their lives in a violent clash with Chinese troops at LAC in eastern Ladakh. Officials said Garib Kalyan Rozgyar Abhiyan is separate from the MGNREGS. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) ensures 100 days of employment per household in a year. MGNREGS is applicable across the country and a large number of works are allowed under the scheme even working on own farms by small Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe farmers are allowed and government pay wages to them. Whereas the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana is a one-time scheme for providing employment to migrant workers who returned during the lockdown near their villages. This scheme is only applicable to 116 districts with a selected list of works initially for 125 days. Later it could be extended, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-launches-employment-scheme-for-migrant-workers-851740.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Two 'royals' in Madhya Pradesh gain RS entry after defeat in Lok Sabha polls||Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh and his once arch rival and BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, both belonging to two erstwhile royal families in Madhya Pradesh, have made their way to the Rajya Sabha after tasting defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh is a descendant of the royal family of Raghogarh, while Scindia, who was once among Rahul Gandhi's closest of aides, is a scion of the erstwhile princely state of Gwalior. Singh and Scindia are known as 'Raja' and 'Maharaja', respectively, for their royal lineage. Singh, who had contested the last Lok Sabha polls from Bhopal, had lost to BJP candidate Pragya Singh Thakur, while Scindia had unsuccessfully contested the polls to the Lower House of the Parliament from Guna constituency, considered the pocketborough of his family. The entry into the Rajya Sabha of these two influential leaders from the state comes three months after the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led Congress government. Till early this year, Singh and Scindia were being seen as Congress's candidates for the Rajya Sabha polls from the state. Considering Congress's strength in the House when the the party was in power in the state (during the previous Kamal Nath government), both of them could have won the seats easily. Congress insiders say that both the leaders wanted their names on top in the pecking order of their party's nominee list.  Scindia was averse to the idea of playing second fiddle to Digvijaya Singh as fearing that the latter's camp could rock his boat, the party sources said. Scindia wanted to be the first preference candidate of the Congress, they said. The BJP sensed an opportunity there and decided to exploit the rift between the two leaders. Following their differences, the Congress's central leadership intervened and tried to broker peace between them, but in vain, a top party leader said on condition of anonymity. Reportedly, Scindia had long been upset with the Congress, as he believed that former chief minister Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh were working in tandem to sideline him. Senior Congress leader Dipak Babaria said that when he was party general secretary in-charge of MP, both Singh and Scindia were assured nominations for the Rajya Sabha seats. "At that time, we had numbers on our side. And both of them could have sailed through. The reservations that Scindia had in his mind had also been cleared," he said. However, Scindia finally left the Congress in March and joined the saffron party. Soon after, 22 Congress MLAs, many of whom loyal to him, resigned, which reduced the Congress to a minority in the state. Their move cleared the way for BJP to come to power in MP. Kamal Nath resigned as chief minister on March 20 and BJP installed Shivraj Singh Chouhan as the CM once again. Political observers say that the tussle between Digvijaya Singh and Scindia was one of the reasons behind the fall of the 15-month-old Congress government in the state. Scindia had later said in Bhopal that he left the Congress as he was slighted there. After his entry into BJP, which could have otherwise won only one Rajya Sabha seat from the state in th polls held on Friday, ended up winning two. Speculation is rife that the BJP might reward Scindia with a cabinet berth in the Union ministry. Digvijaya Singh, too, has made it to the Upper House despite rumblings in sections of the party, especially the young turks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-royals-in-madhya-pradesh-gain-rs-entry-after-defeat-in-lok-sabha-polls-851743.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Fighting the elements, not the enemy, on India's China border||Death is a real and constant danger for the soldiers serving on India's Himalayan border with China, but until a deadly brawl on June 15 the only killers since 1975 have been the topography and the elements. "We get more than 100 casualties every year just due to terrain, weather conditions, avalanches... There is a constant danger," said retired Lt General DS Hooda, who until 2016 headed India's Northern Command. "You're talking about 14-15,000 feet (4,300-4,600 metres). It takes a huge toll on your physical and mental condition," Hooda told AFP after Monday's brutal hand-to-hand battle with fists, rocks and clubs which saw the first Indian combat deaths with China in over four decades. In the "cold desert" of the Galwan river valley in the Ladakh region where the fighting took place, winter temperatures can plunge below minus 30 Celsius (minus 22 Fahrenheit), cracking gun barrels and seizing up machinery. There are few roads so troops -- who are fed a special high-protein diet -- must slog through the thin air themselves, carrying their own equipment as they navigate treacherous terrain. For those who get injured or fall sick "evacuation becomes an enormous challenge," Hooda said. Getting them to a helipad "can take hours", and as soon as night falls, it's too dangerous for helicopters to fly. This may be why the initial death toll of three-shot up to 20 late on Tuesday. Seventeen other troops critically injured in the clashes, which lasted until after midnight, were "exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain" and succumbed to their injuries, the army said. The terrain is so high that soldiers need time to acclimatise to their new posting or they run the risk of serious altitude sickness that can kill even a healthy young person in hours. "For an average human being who is not a resident of that place, survival in itself is a huge challenge," said Colonel S Dinny, who until 2017 commanded an Indian battalion in the region, told AFP. "It is one of the toughest places to serve as a soldier," he said. Normally soldiers do a two-year posting there, broken up by periods of leave. Those who smoke quickly kick the habit. "With such low oxygen plus the weather plus the smoking, the chances of getting a heart attack shoot up," Dinny added. The cold and the high altitude affects eyesight, adding to troops' disorientation. Weather, which can change quickly with little warning, and the hilly terrain can impair radio communication. Adding to the confusion is the fact that the "Line of Actual Control" (LAC) isn't properly demarcated, meaning that Indian and Chinese troops can bump into each other and believe the other side has trespassed. "The maps have not even been exchanged so that the other person knows what someone is claiming. There are no boundary markers," said Dinny. To avoid escalations, both sides have over the years developed detailed protocols on the procedures to follow -- while also agreeing that neither side shall open fire. If rival patrols bump into each other, they keep their distance and unfurl banners warning each other they have left their territory and should turn back. Apart from occasional flare-ups, when they meet, the troops conduct themselves like "professional soldiers serving their respective countries, they treat each other with that courtesy," Dinny said. But in recent months confrontations have increased with both sides building up troops and infrastructure. China appears to have been particularly irked by India building a new road. China, according to New Delhi, is encroaching further into new areas, including some of the northern shore of the Pangong Tso lake and the Galwan valley which China now lays claim to in its entirety. In May there were two punch-ups before the deadly clash in June which reportedly saw Chinese troops attack the Indians with nail-studded batons, rocks and fists. "It is time we revisit our protocol and our rules of engagement so that any disagreements can be handled in a more military fashion rather than fighting it out like goons on the street," Hooda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fighting-the-elements-not-the-enemy-on-indias-china-border-851744.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Home isolation back in Delhi: LG relents as AAP govt puts pressure||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday withdrew the orders to make five-day institutional quarantine for all COVID-19 patients, which would have  practically ended the provision for home isolation, within 24 hours after issuing it, following intense pressure from the AAP-led government. The decision to withdraw the orders, which was taken following instructions from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), came after two rounds of meetings of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) during the day with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal making it clear they would oppose it as it would squeeze the capital's healthcare infrastructure. "Regarding institutional isolation, only those COVID-19 positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation," Baijal tweeted after the second round of meeting in the evening. The first meeting at 12 noon had remained inconclusive with the AAP government stepping up pressure, asking why different yardstick is applied in Delhi when guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed home isolation for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic cases across the country. Sources said Kejriwal highlighted the shortage of healthcare staff while asking how it will be possible to arrange doctors and nurses for thousands of patients at healthcare centres. "Railways have provided isolation coaches but given the hot weather, how will someone stay in them," he asked. The Delhi government had on Friday night itself objected to the order making the five-day institutional quarantine for all COVID-19 patients through a statement. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also handles Health Department after Health Minister Satyendar Jain tested COVID-19 positive, and AAP MLA Atishi, who was also tested positive, made statements against the move. "The Chief Minister said if home isolation ends in Delhi there will be chaos. Currently, there are more than 10,000 people under home isolation and there are only 6,000 beds at quarantine centres, where will we accommodate all the people?" Sisodia said earlier in the day. In his order on Friday, Baijal said that the MHA is reviewing the situation in the capital regularly and it was observed that 'home isolation' without physical contact to monitor patients could be the reason for increase in COVID-19's spread in the capital. "To limit the spread of COVID-19, in a view of the surge in cases, it is felt that mandatory physical verification of each case under home isolation needs to be carried out by the surveillance teams...," the order said. Baijal had earlier this month reversed Delhi government's two decisions -- reserving hospital beds for Delhi residents and changing the COVID-19 testing criteria -- but Kejriwal chose not to pick up a fight on these two issues and said would implement it to the best of their ability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-isolation-back-in-delhi-lg-relents-as-aap-govt-puts-pressure-851748.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Manoj Tiwari offers to help children of soldier killed in clash in Ladakh in receiving education||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Saturday said he has offered to help the children of Indian Army Havaldar Sunil Kumar, who died in Ladakh in a violent clash with Chinese soldiers, in getting an education. The former Delhi BJP president also extended immediate help of Rs one lakh to Kumar's family. "It is a small homage to the braveheart who laid down his life for the country. I will ensure his three children receive the best education and hope this will inspires others to come forward and take care of families of the martyrs who died fighting the Chinese," Tiwari said. The North East Delhi Lok Sabha MP said he will visit Bihar on June 22 and meet Kumar's family. He said he decided to shoulder the responsibility after learning that Kumar wanted a "good education" for his children. Kumar was among the 20 Indian Army personnel who died in the violent clash along Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh's Galwan valley, earlier this week. He was cremated in Patna on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manoj-tiwari-offers-to-help-children-of-soldier-killed-in-clash-in-ladakh-in-receiving-education-851751.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||PMO issues clarification over PM Modi's comments that no one entered Indian territory||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks on Friday that no one has intruded into Indian territory kicked up a political storm with Congress accusing him of “surrender”, the PMO issued a statement claiming attempts being made in some quarters to “give a mischievous interpretation” to remarks by him at the All-Party Meeting (APM). The statement said that the Prime Minister was clear that India would respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the Line of Actual Control (LAC). In fact, he specifically emphasised that in contrast to the past neglect of such challenges, Indian forces now decisively counter any violations of LAC (“unhe rokte hain, unhe tokte hain”). The statement, which sought to assert that at the APM it was also made clear that this Government will not allow any unilateral change of the LAC, however, also sought to explain the Prime Minister’s remarks on Thursday in which he had said “neither anyone has entered our territory, nor anybody is inside our territory,  nor is any of our post captured” (na hi koi hamari seema me ghus aaya hai, na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post doosre ke kabje me hai). The statement on Saturday said, “The Prime Minister’s observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces. The sacrifices of the soldiers of the 16 Bihar Regiment foiled the attempt of the Chinese side to erect structures and also cleared the attempted transgression at this point of the LAC on that day.” The PMO's statement said that the words of Prime Minister “those who tried to transgress our land were taught a befitting lesson by our brave sons of soil”, succinctly summed up the ethos and the values of our armed forces. The Prime Minister further emphasised, “I want to assure you, that our armed forces will leave no stone unturned to protect our borders”, the statement said. The statement by the PMO came today after Opposition parties launched a massive attack with former Congress President Rahul Gandhi alleging that the “PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression” and asking “If the land was that of Chinese, why were our soldiers killed? Where were they killed?”, while senior Congress leader P Chidambaram demanded to know whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a clean chit to China by his remarks that there was no intrusion into Indian territory in Ladakh. The clarification on Saturday failed to scotch the political row. CPI-M general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, “Mr Modi should first make up his mind and then speak, unless his attempt was to mislead all the political parties and weaken our position in diplomatic talks”. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Modi has through his statement confirmed the stand of China that it did enter the Indian territory   “Even the PMO isn't confident about what the PM says - hence, the contradiction in the statements,” the Congress said. “The Chinese have staked claim to Galwan Valley, does PM Modi's assertion that Chinese troops never entered Indian territory substantiate China's claim? If not the BJP govt must clarify immediately,” it asked. The PMO in the detailed statement, however, said the All Party Meeting was also informed that this time, Chinese forces have come in much larger strength to the LAC and that the Indian response is commensurate. “As regards transgression of LAC, it was clearly stated that the violence in Galwan on June 15 arose because Chinese side was seeking to erect structures just across the LAC and refused to desist from such actions,” It said. The statement argued that the focus of the PM’s remarks in the APM discussions were the events of June 15 at Galwan that led to the loss of lives of 20 Indian military personnel. The statement said that what is Indian territory is clear from the map of India and this Government is strongly and resolutely committed to that. “In so far as there is some illegal occupation, the APM was briefed in great detail how over the last 60 years, more than 43,000 sq.km has been yielded under circumstances with which this country is well aware,” the PMO statement said in the backdrop of Congress mounting a  massive offensive on the government on the issue of the Chinese occupation of the Indian territory. The PMO statement said that at the APM it was also made clear that this Government will not allow any unilateral change of the LAC. “At a time when our brave soldiers are defending our borders, it is unfortunate that an unnecessary controversy is being created to lower their morale,” the PMO rued in the statement but welcomed that it called the “predominant sentiment at the All Party Meeting”, which it said, was of “unequivocal support to the Government” and the armed forces at a time of national crisis. “We are confident that the unity of the Indian people will not be undermined by motivated propaganda,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pmo-issues-clarification-over-pm-modis-comments-that-no-one-entered-indian-territory-851761.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh pays tribute to Sepoy Ankush Thakur by naming school after him||A government school in Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur district will be named after Sepoy Ankush Thakur who laid down his life in a face-off with China in Ladakh's Galwan valley, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Saturday. The chief minister made the announcement after visiting the soldier's home in Karohta village. He also said that the financial help of Rs 20 lakh will be provided to the family of the sepoy. The chief minister said the country is proud of its army and brave jawans that are manning its borders. He was accompanied by Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Virendra Kanwar. Local MLAs also announced to install the jawan's statue in his village.  Thakur said adequate funds will be provided for repairing the path leading to the village crematorium, which is in a bad condition and assured people of upgrading health care centres in the area with modern facilities.  The chief minister came to RCH Bhota complex here in a chopper from Shimla and then took a car to Karohta village. It was his first visit to the district since the coronavirus outbreak in March. The chief minister and others accompanying him wore face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-pays-tribute-to-sepoy-ankush-thakur-by-naming-school-after-him-851766.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||'Cow, Ganga, Gita’ made India world leader: UP Cabinet Minister||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary on Saturday asserted that ‘the cow, Ganga and Gita’ are the identity of India and it is because of these three entities that the country became a world leader. He also accused the previous governments of not making any efforts to stop cow slaughter in the state. "The cow, Ganga and Gita are the identity of India. It is because of them that India became a Vishwa guru (world leader),” Chaudhary, who is the state’s dairy development, animal husbandry and fisheries minister, told PTI. “When there were no buffaloes in our country, there were only cows. Even doctors say that after mother's milk, it is the milk of an Indian cow which is the best for a newborn baby," he added. On the need for a stringent law to protect cows and prevent their slaughter, Chaudhary, while referring to draft of the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet Cow Slaughter Prevention (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 said, "There were a large number of cases of cow slaughter during the tenure of previous governments. But they did little to curb the crime." "Earlier, it was a bailable offence and barely within a couple of days, the accused persons could get bail," he said. The minister, however, stressed that the ordinance was not targeted towards any particular religion. "This step of the UP government cannot be linked to any particular religion. This is a matter of cow protection, belief and health. I had once seen 30 cows loaded in a truck and by the time they were rescued, three had died. Cow slaughter is a heinous crime. We had to bring this ordinance, so that cow slaughter comes to an end," he said. On June 9, the Uttar Pradesh government approved the draft ordinance, providing maximum rigorous imprisonment of 10 years and a fine up to Rs 5 lakh to protect cows and prevent their slaughter. For the first offence, a person can be given a rigorous punishment of one to seven years with a fine ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh. For the second offence, the person can be awarded 10-year rigorous imprisonment with a fine up to Rs 5 lakh, the state government said. The state cabinet had cleared the draft of the ordinance at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The ordinance aims at making the existing law (Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955) more robust and effective and to completely stop the incidents pertaining to cow slaughter, the UP government statement had said. In case of the illegal transportation of cows and other bovines, the driver, operator and the owner of the vehicle shall be charged under the new Act, unless proven that the transportation was done without the owner's knowledge by someone else for committing the crime. The Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955 was implemented in the state on January 6, 1956. The Act was amended in 1958, 1961, 1979 and 2002. The rules were amended in 1964 and 1979. "However, certain loopholes continued to remain due to which the Act could not be effectively implemented as per the public sentiment and complaints of illegal cow slaughter and transportation of cattle were received," the statement said. "In the 1955 Act, there is a provision of maximum seven years of punishment in incidents of cow slaughter. People getting bail in such incidents were also increasing. Incidents of people involving in the incident after getting bail from the court were coming to the fore," it said. "Keeping these reasons in mind, and respecting the public sentiment, it became necessary that the Act be strengthened, and made more robust and effective,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cow-ganga-gita-made-india-world-leader-up-cabinet-minister-851774.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||6 people working in UP-112 helpline test positive of coronavirus||Six people working in the Uttar Pradesh Helpline 112 have tested positive for COVID-19, following which the office has been closed for sanitisation till Monday, a police officer said. They are of the technical team and work in the server area, he said, adding that all of them are asymptomatic. "After one of the personnel working in UP-112 tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, samples of 30 people were taken. Five of them have tested positive for COVID-19," ADG, UP-112, Asim Kumar Arun said in a statement. The ADG said the building has been closed for the next 48 hours for sanitisation. All employees will work from home and the Prayagraj centre will take calls till the office here is closed, he said. "The contact tracing of these people is going on," Arun said, adding that the Lucknow Municipal Corporation is fumigating and sanitising the building. "People have been informed that if their calls to 112 do not get connected then complaints can be registered through the social media handle and 1073 number, which will connect with the control room of the respective district," the officer said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-people-working-in-up-112-helpline-test-positive-of-coronavirus-851777.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Four injured in ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Rampur sector in Jammu and Kashmir||Four civilians were on Saturday injured when Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rampur sector of Jammu and Kashmir, according to an Army spokesperson. "On 20 June 2020, in the morning hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Rampur sector by firing mortars and other weapons," the spokesman said. He said four civilians were injured in the Pakistani firing. The Army has given a befitting response to the Pakistani aggression, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-injured-in-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-in-rampur-sector-in-jammu-and-kashmir-851783.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh BJP MLA tests COVID-19 positive hours after Rajya Sabha polls voting||A senior BJP MLA in Madhya Pradesh tested COVID-19 positive hours after he cast his vote for the Rajya Sabha polls in the state and attended party meetings, an official said on Saturday. The legislator's wife has also tested positive for the infection, he said. Voting for three Rajya Sabha seats in the state took place on Friday. The couple's test reports came on Friday night and the news of the MLA's infection triggered panic among other MLAs with some of them reaching hospitals to get themselves tested. "The MLA and his wife were found infected with COVID- 19 in the tests conducted by a private laboratory. We are examining their condition and making a decision whether they need to be hospitalised or home quarantined," a health department official told PTI. He said that the MLA's contact tracing has been initiated. "Further tests are also being conducted," he said. He is the second legislator in Madhya Pradesh, who was tested coronavirus positive. Earlier, a Congress MLA was found infected. He had voted for the Rajya Sabha polls on Friday after reaching the state assembly complex wearing a PPE suit. Talking to PTI, a member of the BJP MLA's family said that the medical team was called on Friday afternoon for the COVID-19 test after the legislator's wife complained of uneasiness. "The MLA and his wife gave the samples to the medical team for the COVID-19 tests on Friday afternoon and they were told at night that both of them have tested positive for the infection," he said. After the news of BJP MLA testing positive spread, a senior BJP MLA from Mandsaur, Yashpal Singh Sisodiya, reached government-run J P Hospital here along with two other party MLAs. Talking to reporters, Sisodiya said, "I came here along with two other MLAs from our division- Dilip Makwana (Ratlam Rural) and Devilal Dhakad (Garoth)- after we came to know through media and social media that one of the MLAs from our division has tested positive for COVID-19." "We don't have any symptoms, but came to test for COVID-19 as a precautionary measure," he said. Dhakad said that he came for testing as he had dined with the MLA two days back. Talking to PTI, Madhya Pradesh State Assembly's Principal Secretary A P Singh said that all the precautionary measures were taken during the Rajya Sabha polling. "All employees were in safety gears during the Rajya Sabha election process. The assembly campus was being sanitised every 15-20 minutes during the polling process...We are now going through the CCTV footage to trace those who had come in his contact," he said. Congress MLA and former minister P C Sharma said that those who came in contact with the BJP legislator should be traced and quarantined. "The employees and MLAs who came in contact with him during the voting process should be tested," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-mla-tests-covid-19-positive-hours-after-rajya-sabha-polls-voting-851787.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||FIR against journalist in Uttar Pradesh: Media Foundation calls it 'act of intimidation'||A media body on Saturday described as "an act of intimidation" the filing of an FIR in Uttar Pradesh against a journalist over a report on the impact of the lockdown on a village, saying it was part of an "established pattern" of harassment of independent scribes. In a statement, the Media Foundation put on record its strong protest over the FIR filed by the Uttar Pradesh government against Supriya Sharma, executive editor of news portal Scroll.in. The case was filed against Sharma for allegedly misrepresenting facts in a report on the impact of the lockdown in a village adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, police sources had said on Thursday. The FIR against Sharma and the Scroll editor-in-chief is an "an act of intimidation and a case of abuse of process", intended to discourage honest and critical reporting, the Media Foundation said. The Media Foundation was started in 1979 with the aim of upholding freedom of speech, expression and information. The FIR against Sharma is only the latest instance of similar coercive actions against professional journalists, part of "an established pattern of harassment and humiliation of independent journalists", it said, "It is an unacceptable encroachment on press freedom," said the foundation, whose chairperson is veteran journalist Harish Khare. The Media Foundation called upon the judiciary, and central and state governments to uphold the spirit of freedom of speech and expression as guaranteed in the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-journalist-in-uttar-pradesh-media-foundation-calls-it-act-of-intimidation-851812.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's coronavirus tally reaches 17,135; toll rises to 529||Twenty-two people have succumbed to COVID-19 and 541 more people tested positive in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours, officials said on Saturday. The death toll in the state now is 529 with the coronavirus tally reaching 17,135. Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said 10,369 of the total infected have recovered. The state has 6,237 active COVID-19 patients now. On Friday, 14,048 samples were tested, he said, adding that ASHA workers have tracked over 17 thousand people. Samples of 1,567 of them have been sent for testing, he said. Prasad said that random testing was being carried out in old age homes, orphanages and juvenile homes on the directions of the chief minister. COVID-19 cases have been found in old age homes in Sultanpur, Kushinagar and Jalaun districts and in orphanages and juvenile homes in Meerut and Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-coronavirus-tally-reaches-17135-toll-rises-to-529-851813.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces and militants in J&K's Kulgam||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said.  The security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Likhdipora area of Kulgam in South Kashmir following specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting the searches of the area, the hiding militants fired at them. The forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter, the official said. The gunfight is going on and further details are awaited, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-jks-kulgam-851814.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Bedi tells people to strictly adhere to COVID-19 norms||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Saturday said Puducherry has been reporting not less than 30 new cases of COVID-19 every day and the day is not far when the number touches thousands. Therefore, she said, the people should adhere to norms of lockdown such as wearing of masks, social distancing and sanitation to prevent the spread of the virus. The Lieutenant Governor asked the media to spread the message to the people as to how they should protect themselves against the disease. She said 52 fresh cases were reported during the last 24 hours and it's time for the people to be on guard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bedi-tells-people-to-strictly-adhere-to-covid-19-norms-851836.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC allows public viewing of video conference hearings||The Delhi High Court on Saturday allowed public viewing of hearings conducted through video conferencing due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A circular issued by high court Registrar Manoj Jain said links will be offered for public viewing so long as the stability of the system is not disturbed, that is, consistent with the available bandwidth. "Therefore, all those who are interested in obtaining links for viewing court hearings can contact the concerned court master/court official on their mobile phone numbers published in the cause list...," the circular said. Those who are given a link for viewing the court proceedings will ensure that their mic is kept on mute and the video on switch-off mode, it said. The high court has restricted physical court functioning since March 25 and has been conducting proceedings through video conferencing due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The High Court of Delhi Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts 2020 permit public viewing of court proceedings. "In order to observe the requirement of an open court proceeding, members of the public will be allowed to view court hearings conducted through video conferencing, except proceedings ordered for reasons recorded in writing to be conducted in-camera. "The court shall endeavour to make available sufficient links (consistent with available bandwidth) for accessing the proceedings," the rules said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-allows-public-viewing-of-video-conference-hearings-851841.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||149 fresh COVID-19 cases in Ladakh in past two days; tally reaches 836||The Union Territory of Ladakh recorded 149 fresh COVID-19 cases in the past two days, taking the tally in the region to 836, health department officials said on Saturday. While 92 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, 57 more surfaced on Friday, the officials said. With the fresh count of 149, including 101 from Kargil, the total number of cases in the union territory has risen to 836, of which 623 are from Kargil district and 213 from Leh district. One person had died of the infection in the region and 117, including 66, in Leh have been cured and subsequently discharged from hospitals, the officials said. Of the total 718 active cases, they said 572 are residents of Kargil and 146 from Leh and their condition is stated to be stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/149-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ladakh-in-past-two-days-tally-reaches-836-851862.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||India rejects China's claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley||India on Saturday strongly rejected China's claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, asserting that attempts by the Chinese side to "advance exaggerated and untenable" claims are not at all acceptable. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said China's claim over Galwan Valley was not in accordance with its own position in the past, noting that attempts of transgression by Chinese side were invariably met with appropriate response from the Indian troops. "The position with regard to the Galwan Valley area has been historically clear. Attempts by the Chinese side to now advance exaggerated and untenable claims with regard to Line of Actual Control (LAC) there are not acceptable. They are not in accordance with China's own position in the past," he said. The MEA spokesperson was responding to a question on the issue. The Galwan Valley was the site of the violent clash between the two militaries on Monday evening in which a Colonel and 19 other Indian Army personnel were killed. China's People’s Liberation Army has not yet talked about the number of casualties it suffered during the cross border clash, the worst in 45 years. Srivastava said Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC in all sectors of the India-China border areas, including in the Galwan Valley. "They abide by it scrupulously here, as they do elsewhere. The Indian side has never undertaken any actions across the LAC. In fact, they have been patrolling this area for a long time without any incident," he said. Srivastava said the Chinese side attempted to transgress the LAC in other areas of the western sector of the India-China border areas since mid-May. "These attempts were invariably met with an appropriate response from us," he said. Srivastava said India expects that Chinese side will sincerely follow the understanding reached between the foreign ministers of two countries recently to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-rejects-chinas-claim-of-sovereignty-over-galwan-valley-851874.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 patients who don't require hospitalisation will go for institutional isolation: Delhi's LG Anil Baijal||Only those COVID positive patients who don't require hospitalisation on clinical assessment and don't have adequate facilities for home isolation will need to undergo institutional isolation, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal said on Saturday. His statement came following protests by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government against his order mandating five-day quarantine for all COVID-19 patients. The order had been opposed by the chief minister and his deputy Manish Sisodia at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday. "Regarding institutional isolation, only those COVID positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment & do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation," the LG said on Twitter after the meeting. In another tweet, he said the DDMA approved recommendations of high level expert committee for fixing subsidised rates for COVID-19 treatment in Delhi's private hospitals||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patients-who-dont-require-hospitalisation-will-go-for-institutional-isolation-delhis-lg-anil-baijal-851875.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 treatment charges capped in all private hospitals in Delhi||The cap on COVID-19 treatment charges will be applicable to all beds in private hospitals in Delhi and not just 60 per cent as suggested by a committee appointed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). This was decided in a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday. "The central panel had recommended that 60 per cent COVID-19 beds in private hospitals should be capped. In such a scenario, only fewer beds would be available at affordable rates. Now, it has been decided that 100 per cent beds will be available at a lower price," Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tweeted. Baijal tweeted after the meeting, "with the guidance of Home Minister Amit Shah, COVID-19 treatment made affordable in Delhi." The decision on capping charges came after two rounds of meetings of the DDMA during the day. Before the second meeting, Sisodia claimed that the Centre had proposed to bring down the rates of beds of private hospitals. "According to the Centre, non-COVID-19 private hospitals should give 24 per cent beds at lower cost and rest at the same rate. But we said that at least 60 per cent beds should be made available at lower cost in non-COVID-19 private hospitals,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-treatment-charges-capped-in-all-private-hospitals-in-delhi-851876.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam||A militant was killed on Saturday in an encounter with security forces in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said.  As the forces were searching the area, the hiding militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter, in which a militant was killed, the official said. He said the identity and group affiliation of the militant is being ascertained. The operation is going on, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kulgam-851886.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Fearing lack of care, hygiene at quarantine centres, COVID-19 patients prefer home isolation||Personal care, better hygiene and lesser chances of aggravation of infection are some of the issues that weigh on the minds of asymptomatic coronavirus patients many of whom prefer home quarantine over institutional isolation. Many COVID-19 patients who have recovered by exercising home quarantine said most of the time the fear of the disease disturbs the patients mentally and this is when the family's support comes into the picture.  On Friday, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal made a five-day institutional quarantine mandatory for every COVID-19 patient under home quarantine in Delhi, a move that the Delhi government said will put considerable pressure on the city's already stressed health infrastructure.  It said the decision was ''arbitrary" and will "seriously harm" the national capital. The AAP government’s thrust has been on home isolation for asymptomatic patients. As on Friday, 10,490 coronavirus patients were under home quarantine.  A Laxmi Nagar based media professional who has recovered from coronavirus said home isolation is a safer solution if one is asymptomatic. "I sent my wife and children to stay with her brother, who stays in the same building as me, as soon as I developed fever. After I got tested and my report came positive, I stayed in home isolation. I would eat in disposable plates and practice hygiene," he said. The family would give him meals at regular intervals while taking care of his food preferences.  He had also feared that staying at a quarantine centre would aggravate his condition.  "Many of my acquaintances had fever only for a day but their reports came positive. They stayed in home isolation and recovered. At a quarantine centre, you won't have access to a separate toilet and the kind of care and attention that you would get from your own family members," he told PTI. The Laxmi Nagar resident also had a set of complains.  He said the government officials who would regularly oversee him treated him like an "untouchable". They would ask him to climb down two floors just to take his temperature. "Even the helpline number I used to call would ask me the same questions every day. Even on the last day of my recovery, their questions remained the same. There should be people who are aware about your symptoms and what were the initial issues that you faced. But their policy is 'one size fits all'," he said, adding that he preferred home isolation to institutional quarantine.   A senior police officer, who recovered in home isolation, said if a COVID-19 patient has the capability to isolate himself or herself from family members and practice hygiene, there is no better solution than home quarantine. "I had mild symptoms, which included fever and throat infection. I ate a healthy diet and immunity boosting foods. Instead of allopathic medicines, I relied on Ayurvedic remedies for recovery. The results were visible," he said. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi, who is herself recovering from the viral disease in home isolation, said she was "appalled" by the LG's order and said it would further lead to the spread of coronavirus. "Ending the option of home isolation will lead to further spread of Corona, as many people will be scared of institutional quarantine and will not get themselves tested. They will continue to function as normal and spread the COVID-19 virus," she said on Twitter.  "There are a limited number of healthcare workers in Delhi. This means that instead of utilising them for severe patients who need medical support, they will be used for supporting asymptomatic/mild patients who don’t actually need this support," she said in a series of tweets. Most importantly, 80 per cent patients who are COVID-19 positive have very mild symptoms, she said, adding that they don’t need medical facilities to recover but need the comfort of their own homes and love and support of their families.  A resident of Uttam Nagar, who is in his late 30s and was detected with coronavirus on Friday, echoed similar views. "I asked my medical officer on whether I will be sent to institutional quarantine. He said there is still no clarity on how the order would be implemented. I am taking my medicines and checking my oxygen levels at regular intervals and feel that being at home is a better option considering that I have fever and slight breathing difficulty," he said. On Saturday, after a meeting of the Delhi State Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the Lt Governor said the five-day mandatory institutional quarantine would be required for only those who do not need hospitalisation and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation.  Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the LG's reservations over home isolation were resolved in the SDMA meeting and the home quarantine system will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fearing-lack-of-care-hygiene-at-quarantine-centres-covid-19-patients-prefer-home-isolation-851887.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 death toll touches 80 in J&K with 5 more fatalities||Five more COVID-19 patients died in Jammu and Kashmir, taking the number of fatalities due to the virus in the Union Territory to 80, officials said on Saturday. A 55-year-old coronavirus positive woman from Tujan area of south Kashmir's Pulwama district died at SKIMS hospital at 6:45 am on Saturday, the officials said. The patient was referred from SMHS as a case of meningioma with obstructive sleep apnea on Tuesday, they said. They said the cause of the death was cardiopulmonary arrest. A 40-year-old woman from Safa Kadal area of the city here passed away at Chest Diseases hospital on Saturday, the officials said. The woman with underlying heart ailment and diabetes was referred to the facility from SMHS hospital on June 14 after testing positive for the coronavirus, they said. An 80-year-old man from Shopian who had tested positive for COVID-19 died at SMHS hospital on late Friday night, the officials said. The fourth fatality was of a 65-year-old man from Budgam who passed away at SKIMS, they said. The patient was admitted to the hospital on Friday with bilateral community-acquired pneumonia, the officials added. The patient's sample was taken on Friday and it returned as positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the officials said, adding, he died of cardiopulmonary arrest in the afternoon.  An 80-year-old woman from Kulgam died at SMHS hospital on Saturday, they said. The officials said the woman was admitted to the hospital on June 18 with chest and kidney-related ailments and tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-touches-80-in-jk-with-5-more-fatalities-851890.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus outbreak: Delhi government cancels leaves of all staff of hospitals, medical institutions||The Delhi government has ordered to cancel leaves of all the staff working in its hospitals and medical institutions with immediate effect. The order issued on June 19 also said leave of any kind will be granted to anyone under "most compelling circumstances". "All MSs/MDs/Deans/Directors of the hospitals/medical institutions under Health and Family Welfare Department are hereby advised to issue directions to all the staff working under their control, who are on leave of any kind to immediately report to their duties in their concerned hospital/medical institution without fail," the order said. Further, leave of any kind to staff may only be granted under the "most compelling circumstances", it added. The move comes amid spiralling cases of COVID-19 in the national capital. Delhi recorded 3,137 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest single-day spike here, taking the tally in the city to over 53,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 2,035, authorities said. This is the first time in Delhi that over 3,000 cases were reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-outbreak-delhi-government-cancels-leaves-of-all-staff-of-hospitals-medical-institutions-851891.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Ladakh councillor held for 'highly objectionable' audio clip on India-China standoff||A councillor of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Kargil was arrested early on Saturday after his “highly objectionable” audio clip mocking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Army in the wake of the recent face-off between India and China went viral on social media, officials said. The action against Zakir Hussain, a councillor from Shakar constituency in Kargil district, followed registration of an FIR against him by police on Friday even as the councillor submitted a public apology over his remarks, the officials said. Hussain, a long time Congress activist, was expelled by the party on the issue, while both LAHDC Leh and Kargil said the entire population of Ladakh has been patriotic and always fully behind the Army in protecting the country's sovereignty. In the audio clip, the councillor is heard using highly derogatory language against the Prime Minister and mocking the Army over the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh which left 20 soldiers including an colonel-rank officer dead. Tendering his apology for hurting the sentiments of the people by his words, Hussain said, “As a Ladakhi and as an Indian, I have always been proud of my country and our people and I can assure that I will never do such a thing that would bring harm to the motherland.” Accusing his friend of back-stabbing him, he said, “As a human being, all of us have private casual conversations between friends where we swear, abuse, and say all kinds of things without meaning them literally.” The councillor was arrested from a house in Kargil town during an early morning raid and is being questioned while efforts are on to get hold of his friend with whom he was heard holding the conversation over the phone, a police official said. A police spokesman said an FIR was registered against him after receiving reliable information that an audio clip was going viral, containing incriminating content, on various social media platforms. “The conversation is between a sitting LAHDC-Kargil councillor with one of his known persons with content prejudicial to the regional or religious peace and tranquility, spreading rumours and also seditious in nature,” the spokesman said. After conducting a preliminary probe, he said Kargil police station registered the case following an inquiry under relevant provisions of penal law. Taking serious note of the conversation between Hussain and his friend, Ladakh Congress president Rigzin Jora expelled the councillor from the party without waiting for the reply of the show-cause notice served to him by the Kargil district unit of the party two days ago. Condemning the telephonic conversation between Hussain and his friend, LAHDC-Kargil said, "People of Kargil have a long history of standing behind to defend the nation and stand with the Indian Army during toughest of times. We reiterate our unflinching loyalty to our nation". “The content of the conversation is highly objectionable and condemnable. LAHDC-Kargil deplores the content of this conversation in the strongest possible terms and also disassociates itself from it,” a statement issued by the office of the chairman and chief executive councillor LAHDC-Kargil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-councillor-held-for-highly-objectionable-audio-clip-on-india-china-standoff-851892.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Protest held against Chinese products outside OPPO factory in Greater Noida||Scores of people burnt the Chinese flag and an effigy of the country's president Xi Jinping as they protested outside the factory of Chinese phone maker Oppo in Greater Noida on Saturday. The protest was held to raise a call for boycotting Chinese products due to the Sino-India face-off in Galwan Valley in Ladakh earlier this week in which at least 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives, the protesters said.   Members of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu)  were also part of the protest, which took place despite CrPC Section 144 (that bars assembly of more than four people) in place and a ban on such gatherings in Gautam Buddh Nagar.   “It was an act of cowardice by China against our soldiers. 20 of our soldiers got martyred and others were injured. Hence, to oppose Chinese products, we have burnt effigies of Chinese products and China's president Xi Jinping. We also set on fire a flag of China,” one of the protesters from the farmers' group said.   “All members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union are ready to fight and oppose it… There is anger across the country and also among people in Noida. We will burn effigies like this in protest,” the protester said.   Videos of the protest purportedly showed the demonstrators wearing face masks and covers but social distancing went for a toss amid the COVID-19 outbreak.   There was no immediate response from OPPO.   The Chinese phone maker had resumed operations in its Greater Noida facility earlier this month after staying shut during the initial phases of the COVID-19 lockdown. The factory had briefly resumed operations in May but had to shut down after six workers had tested positive for coronavirus. The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police had on June 1 extended till June 30 the curbs imposed across Noida and Greater Noida under CrPC section 144 in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Political, social, sports or religious congregations, protest rallies or processions will remain banned across Noida and Greater Noida during the lockdown period, the police had said in an order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protest-held-against-chinese-products-outside-oppo-factory-in-greater-noida-851896.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||LG's reservations over home isolation resolved, home quarantine system to continue in Delhi: Manish Sisodia||Amid objections by the Kejriwal government to his order for mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for COVID-19 patients, Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday said it would be required for only those who do not need hospitalisation and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation.  The order of five-day mandatory institutional quarantine was opposed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Deputy Manish Sisodia in a meeting of Delhi State Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday.  The Lt Governor after the meeting said in a tweet, "Regarding institutional isolation, only those COVID positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment & do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation." In another tweet, he said the DDMA approved recommendations of a high-level expert committee for fixing subsidised rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals of Delhi. Sisodia said after the meeting that the LG's reservations over home isolation were resolved in the SDMA meeting and the home quarantine system will continue. "The reservations of LG over home isolation were resolved in the SDMA meeting and the home isolation system will continue. We thank LG for this. Under the leadership of our Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, we will not let Delhi people have any inconvenience," he tweeted. Earlier, opposing the Lt Governor's order issued on Friday for mandatory five-day institutional quarantine, Sisodia had said, “Every day more than 3,000 patients are coming for COVID-19 treatment. According to the figures by the Health Department, by  June 30 we will have one lakh patients, by July 15 , we will have 1.25 lakh patients,  and by July 31 we will have almost 5.25 lakh patients. This will be the scenario if we continue with the home isolation system." Sisodia said the meeting also decided that 100 per cent COVID beds in private hospitals will be subsidised up to an upper limit of 60 per cent of total hospital capacity. "The Central government committee had recommended reducing rates of 60 per cent COVID beds in private hospitals, so less number of beds were available at lower rates. Now, 100 per cent beds will be available at lower rates," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lgs-reservations-over-home-isolation-resolved-home-quarantine-system-to-continue-in-delhi-manish-sisodia-851900.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt caps COVID-19 screening test at Rs 2,200 per person||The Rajasthan government has set a price cap on coronavirus screening tests in private hospitals and laboratories in the state at Rs 2,200, an order issued on Saturday stated. Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said the state government has set the maximum rate of RT-PCR screening of infections at Rs 2,200 (inclusive of GST and all other taxes) in NABL recognised and ICMR approved coronavirus infection testing centres in private screening laboratories. Instructions have been given to ensure that all the necessary protocols are checked by accredited and approved private laboratories from ICMR for coronavirus testing. Singh said coronavirus screening is being done free of cost in 20 government medical institutions in the state and coronavirus infection is being tested in four private laboratories, NABL accredited and ICMR approved labs. The additional chief secretary said that upon the instructions of ICMR, the ceiling for screening of COVID-19 in private testing laboratories was fixed at Rs 4,500 per test. But, the state government has set this rate at Rs 2,200 through the powers vested under Section 4 of the Rajasthan Pandemic Ordinance, 2020, with a view to providing easy and accessible screening facility to the public at low prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-caps-covid-19-screening-test-at-rs-2200-per-person-851911.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district||Pakistani troops on Saturday shelled mortars along the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, drawing a strong retaliation by the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. There was no immediate report of any casualty, he said. "At about 6.45 PM, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along LoC in Nowshera sector. The Army is retaliating befittingly," the spokesperson said. The cross-border shelling was going on when last reports were received, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-district-851926.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus tally in Haryana surpasses 10,000-mark||Five coronavirus deaths were reported from Haryana on Saturday, all from the worst-affected Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, while the virus count rose to 10,223 with 480 fresh cases, according to a state government bulletin. Gurgaon reported four deaths and Faridabad district one, according to the state health department's bulletin. Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), now have 59 and 52 COVID-19 fatalities, respectively, according to it. The total fatalities in the state rose to 149. The state has 4,946 active novel coronavirus cases after 5,128 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals. Among the fresh cases, Gurgaon reported 171; Faridabad 97; Sonipat 71; Jhajjar and Ambala six each; Nuh four; Palwal 10; Panchkula and Yamunanagar 13 each; Karnal 21; Bhiwani 20; Rohtak 23; Hisar 15; Jind, Kaithal and Kurukshetra three each; and Fatehabad one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-tally-in-haryana-surpasses-10000-mark-851929.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||LAHDC-Kargil suspends councillor for remarks against PM Modi, Army||Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Kargil on Saturday suspended one of its members who was arrested after his “highly objectionable” audio clip mocking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Army in the wake of the recent face-off between India and China went viral on social media, an official said. Zakir Hussain, a councillor from Shakar constituency, was placed under suspension with immediate effect, the officials said after an executive council meeting chaired by chairman-cum-chief executive councillor, Feroz Ahmad Khan at Council Secretariat in Kargil, the official said. Deliberating upon the situation which has evolved in the district in the aftermath of the viral audio conversation of Hussain, he said the Executive Council in one voice condemned the views expressed by him in the strongest possible terms. “The Executive Council was of the view that it was an act of one individual who is being dealt as per the law of the land,” the official said. With regard to the councillor being a member of LAHDC-Kargil, the Executive Council discussed the course of action to be initiated in his case by LAHDC-Kargil as per the LAHDC Act. “Keeping in view the information received from the Kargil District Magistrate, the Executive Council decided that the councillor shall stand suspended from the LAHDC-Kargil with immediate effect. It was further decided that formal orders in this regard shall be issued by the Deputy Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer, LAHDC, Kargil,” the official said. He said the power to remove a member also came up for discussion during the meeting and it was given out such powers vest with the government under Section 19 of the LAHDC Act, 1997. Meanwhile, the Executive Council said it was extremely unfortunate that some people on social media are generalising the views expressed by Hussain, thereby, maligning the image of the entire Kargil district. “The Executive Council reiterated the unflinching loyalty of the people of Kargil towards the nation and also emphasised the fact that the people of Kargil need no certificate from any section of media to prove their patriotism,” the official said. The Executive Council said the people of Kargil have stood steadfastly with the Army ever since 1948, 1965, 1971 and 1999 and have shouldered the responsibility of safeguarding the borders of the country with equal zeal and patriotism and it will continue to do so in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lahdc-kargil-suspends-councillor-for-remarks-against-pm-modi-army-851931.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Staffer in Delhi minister's office dies of coronavirus||A stenographer in Delhi cabinet minister Rajendra Pal Gautam's office died due to coronavirus, an official said on Saturday.     Ashok Kumar (48), a resident of Ashok Vihar breathed his last at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital on Friday afternoon, the official said.   Kumar had a fever and was put on a ventilator two days ago.   His younger brother had died of the deadly infection on June 7, the official said. Kumar's wife and son have also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/staffer-in-delhi-ministers-office-dies-of-coronavirus-851932.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Arrange for video conferencing to record statements of 9 Babri accused: CBI court tells National Informatics Centre||A Special CBI court hearing the Babri mosque demolition case on Saturday directed the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to make arrangements for video conferencing to record statements of nine accused, including former deputy prime minister L K Advani. "The NIC should be written to ensure the video conferencing facility at the residence of the accused whose list is enclosed along with this order," special judge S K Yadav said. The office of the court, in compliance with the order, will send a communication to the NIC that comes under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The list comprises the names of BJP veterans Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh; Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Acharya Dharmendra Dev, R N Srivastava, Jai Bhagwan Goel, Amar Nath Goel and Sudhir Kakkad. These accused have to depose under section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The court prepared a list of about 1,000 questions to be asked from almost all the accused. The trial court framed the questions on the basis of evidence produced by the prosecution agency CBI regarding the complicity of the accused. "The special court informs an accused about the particular fact and evidence which came during the trial against him and then asks him to speak as to what does he want to tell about this," CBI counsel Lalit Singh said. "In this way, the court asked about 1,000 questions from the 13 accused who have deposed so far and the court may follow similar  proceedings with the rest of accused," Singh added. In the list, Advani is suggested to depose before the special court on June 30; Joshi on July 1; Kalyan on July 2; RN Srivastava on June 22; Mahant Nritya Gopal Das on June 23; Jai Bhagwan Das on June 24; Amar Nath Goel on June 25; Sudhir Kakkad on June on 26; and Acharya Dharmendra Dev on June 29. The details of their addresses were furnished before the court which had asked for the same so that it could forward the NIC asking it to ensure facility of video conferencing at the residence of these accused. Earlier, accused Ram Chandra Khatri was produced before the special judge through video conferencing from  District Jail, Sonipat, Haryana where Khatri is lodged in connection with another case. However, his statement could not be recorded because of poor connectivity from Sonipat Jail. Hence, the court fixed July 7 for recording of his evidence from Sonipat jail. The special judge asked the NIC to provide better connectivity. The court has been conducting day to day proceedings in order to conclude the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrange-for-video-conferencing-to-record-statements-of-9-babri-accused-cbi-court-tells-national-informatics-centre-851944.html
20-06-2020||North and Central||Allow soldiers to open fire at borders: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh urges Centre to change policy||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday appealed to the Centre to change its policy to allow soldiers at the borders to open fire in their defence and for protecting the nation's territorial integrity. His remarks comes against the backdrop of killings of 20 Indian Army personnel in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region. Singh, who himself is an Army veteran, said in his Facebook Live edition of 'AskCaptain' that the Government of India's policy should be that "if they kill one of ours, we should kill 5 of theirs." It was absolutely wrong to send soldiers unarmed or not to allow them to defend themselves, he said, adding that when he and his Army colleagues used to go on patrols during his posting along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for two years, they carried all kinds of weapons. "We are in the nuclear era and we are carrying and being beaten by dandas!" quipped the chief minister, expressing shock at the fact that 20 Indian soldiers, including four from Punjab, had lost their lives in an attack by 'lathi' wielding and stone throwing Chinese, who he asserted simply could not be trusted. Lamenting the death of four Punjabi soldiers in the Galwan Valley clash, the chief minister said it was extremely unfortunate, even though "as army men we are always prepared to take the bullet." Besides increasing the compensation for their next of kin from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, his government has decided to name schools after the martyrs, said Singh, adding that he had spoken to two of the families so far. On the issue of pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) lawyer Gurpatwant Singh Pannu extending support to China, the chief minister in an official release here said he was not only propagating but actively involved in promoting separatism and terrorism in India. Asserting that he would not allow Pannu to succeed in his divisive agenda and disturb the state's peace at any cost, Singh dared the ""pro-Khalistani propagandist to come to Punjab instead of hiding out in other countries to spread his vicious campaign". Declaring his commitment to sustaining Punjab's peace "at all costs", the chief minister said, "In the absence of peace, no industry will come to the state, and there will be no jobs for our children." The state's economy will be in shambles if forces inimical to peace are allowed to spread their fangs, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allow-soldiers-to-open-fire-at-borders-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-urges-centre-to-change-policy-851947.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||COVID-19 brings out worst monetary plans from Left, Right||By Andy Mukherjee A rare meeting of minds between India’s Left and Right on a point of economics should alarm those who belong to neither. The two sides are tossing out similar — and similarly absurd — ideas.  Before they make Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government do something silly and harmful (such as the overnight ban on 86% of currency notes in 2016), both camps should acquaint themselves with rudiments of Modern Monetary Theory.  It postulates that inflation — and not debts or deficits — is the only real constraint on what a modern government not yoked to the gold standard can afford. Even for those who aren’t MMT cheerleaders, its basic contention is worth remembering: A money-printing sovereign that issues debt in its own currency can’t run out of funds the same way as a household or a firm.  Pro-labour academics, activists and social workers who think it’s morally justified to expropriate private property to support India’s pandemic-flattened economy should know that such extreme measures are unwarranted. The proposal from the fiscally conservative, pro-business side to use people’s gold as collateral to raise emergency public resources is also indefensible.  An extended lockdown, still-rising infections and an underwhelming fiscal response are causing the nation of 1.3 billion people to lurch toward self-defeating economic nationalism. In other ways, too, the crisis of lives and livelihoods is clouding rational thought. An otherwise well-meaning memorandum by a group of economists and trade unionists asked the government to treat all cash, property, bonds and real estate held by Indian citizens or in the country as national resources during the Covid-19 crisis. Amid trenchant criticism, the idea was quickly dropped.  But an equally bizarre proposal from the other end of the political spectrum, more closely aligned with the Modi government, is far from dead. An article in the Business Standard last month said that to print money to revive the economy, authorities are contemplating using gold held by citizens or a part of the official $500 billion in foreign-exchange reserves. When Soumya Kanti Ghosh, the chief economist at the State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender, sought to deflate the trial balloon this week in an op-ed, it became clear that the idea was gaining traction. Indians own 25,000 tons of gold, roughly one-eighth of the metal ever mined.  Households usually keep gold in the form of jewellery, not bars, and can pledge it against loans. Why would they sell family heirlooms and wedding gifts to the central bank to watch them melt in a government furnace? The idea of using foreign reserves as collateral is more perplexing. Those are already the Reserve Bank of India’s assets, matched by liabilities — money — on the other side of its balance sheet. To create more rupees via this route, the RBI will have to buy more dollars from banks and give them newly minted currency.  The only point of all this rigmarole is to refrain from issuing government debt and save India’s credit rating, hovering one misstep away from junk. However, investors aren’t naive. Swapping people’s gold for cash that buys them a few warm meals and a month or two of rent isn’t going to make bondholders optimistic about a revival of growth. And if, say,  $100 billion of reserves are somehow sequestered to raise more funds, they’ll be unavailable to settle foreigners’ claims. This could be problematic, given India’s history of current-account shortfalls. Why not drop the subterfuge, openly run large government deficits, and monetize them? Untimely fiscal prudence would cause the debt-to-gross domestic product ratio to jump to 83% in the fiscal year through March 2021, from an estimated 70.9% in fiscal 2020, Bloomberg Economics’ Abhishek Gupta projected last month. This week, he slashed his growth estimate to a 10.6% drop, from 4.5% previously, and raised his forecast of debt-to-GDP to 91%. The more this extra debt gets parked with the RBI, the less the pressure on the bond market to finance it. Public borrowing doesn’t cause a crunch when there’s little private credit demand. Difficulties arise because in a developing country, people’s expectations of future inflation aren’t anchored to a central bank target. Labour and capital don’t always move efficiently to where they’ll be productive. Also, while advanced nations can withstand large swings in exchange rates, emerging economies rightly worry about a dollar shortage. Since investors know all this, they want to leave before others do. If the central bank boldly supports fiscal expansion, the 250 basis point excess yield investors are demanding for preferring 10-year Indian government bonds to three-month Treasury bills — triple the spread from a year ago — could decline. Lower long-term borrowing costs could even encourage issues of perpetual sovereign debt, an option SBI economists are recommending. Incomes and consumption are cratering, but as long as the state’s power to tax them isn’t durably impaired, it doesn’t require collateral to borrow. Even if they don’t buy the whole MMT package, skeptics can safely take this one lesson home. Much better than plotting to beg, borrow or steal private property or double-dip into foreign reserves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-brings-out-worst-monetary-plans-from-left-right-851636.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||The problem with the ‘be-positive’ mindset in the time of pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic has unsettled the world in many ways. Mentally too. People are worried about family and personal well-being and income losses. And with conversations, media coverage, and social media chatter incessantly confirming how dire things are and may remain, anxiety levels are only mounting. Unsurprisingly, we are being asked to be positive. Doing the urging is a difficult-to-ignore chorus of political leaders, celebrities, mental health experts, and WhatsApp group luminaries. Despite the group’s diversity, there is some consensus on how pandemic-time positivity could be achieved. Here’s the commonly recommended recipe: Structured days, quality time with family, physical exercise, hobbies, breathing exercises, meditation, distancing from media and the negative-minded. (Note that I do not talk of mental health conditions here. Those need more serious attention and engagement.) So far, so good. We are, after all, in unprecedentedly testing times; understand that stressed minds will struggle to plot a bounce back and know how helpful stable body rhythms and becalming company can be for finding equanimity. What could be the problem then with the ‘be positive’ exhortation? There are two. One: The privileged could ensconce further into their bubbles – at a time when they have just begun registering they inhabit one! Emerging tales of destitution and overwhelmed health systems, together with the specter of unavailable hospital beds for themselves and labor for their homes and workplaces, have triggered some level of introspection among the privileged. Possibly for the first time, many privileged folk are acknowledging their fortunate, insulated positions, reflecting on whether they have been fair employers and engaged citizens, wondering if their enthusiastic championing of centralised governance and social expenditure cuts over the years was misplaced. These are difficult thoughts to deal with, and calls for positivity at this juncture may just serve as the cue to ditch those thoughts and revert to default settings. Of denial, of indifference. It will be an opportunity lost for adding more and influential voices to demands for a much-needed reordering of public policy, business, and individual priorities. Two: The establishment and its sympathisers can use it as a cover to duck inconvenient questions. Individuals and groups pointing to shortcomings in the official response to the pandemic are already being accused of bringing down national morale, scare-mongering, and spreading negative energies. The expectation, nay demand, is that everyone should accept if not laud whatever is being done – and, certainly, should not be making acquaintances and the public-at-large more uncomfortable than they already are with their laments however genuine. In essence, it is a call to defer to the official position, in the name of sensitivity to co-citizens’ despondent moods. Lest all this be misconstrued, let me explicitly recognise that self-care and displays of understanding, solidarity, and generosity are critical at this point. They are necessary to bring sunshine amidst the prevailing gloom, and that sunshine will propel us farther and to better places than seem plausible presently. But. But there is another, rather salient dimension of positivity we need to remain cognizant of: That it must aspire for a better today and an even better tomorrow. What really is the point of nourishing ourselves if the dividend isn’t a less tortured, more just world for ourselves and our children? If this positivity dividend is to be realised, our understandings of positivity must change. Avoiding the distress around and blindly accepting the status quo, the direction we are being nudged into, is not positivity. In fact, it will only entrench the malaise bothering us. True positivity lies not in denials and abdications but in acknowledging what is unfolding, healing and equipping ourselves to deal with it, imbuing ourselves and those around us with the hope and confidence that things will improve. So, roll out the yoga mat, go for a digital detox, connect with friends, enroll for that photography course you’ve been long planning to, guiltlessly consume some comfort food. Remember to return though. The world needs those refreshed minds and bodies. (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-problem-with-the-be-positive-mindset-in-the-time-of-pandemic-851763.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||Is PM Narendra Modi ceding Indian territory to China?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement to opposition leaders regarding the crisis in eastern Ladakh has confounded the already existing confusion. His declaration, without mentioning China, that “No one has forcibly entered into Indian territory, there is no intruder inside our border, nor has any Indian post been captured by anyone” is contradicted by commercially obtained satellite imagery featured in television news reports. These clearly show the accelerated Chinese military build-up between the hill features Finger 4 and Finger 8 on the northern shore of the Pangong Lake, and in the Galwan Valley – areas considered well within the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Military-grade imagery from Indian satellites with sub-metre-resolution cameras and contact reports from the field indicating Chinese penetration in strength were available to the government from the beginning but apparently went unheeded. The Prime Minister’s denial about the Chinese occupying Indian territory minimises political troubles for himself and suggests he is reconciled to India losing these areas. This may be for two reasons. One, the army’s assessment that evicting the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) from these areas would be an impossibly difficult task, could escalate to serious hostilities, and rupture his relationship with Xi Jinping that he has personally invested in. And two, the profound blunder committed by the Ministry of External Affairs in 2008 by accepting Beijing’s condition that “clarification of the LAC” be no part of bilateral documents (as revealed in an article by Sun Lun, a Chinese-origin scholar at the Stimson Center in Washington, DC). It legitimates China’s expansionist activity in Ladakh and elsewhere on the indistinct LAC.  Sun Lun’s stunning revelation is a severe indictment of the MEA and its seemingly la-di-dah attitude to Chinese takeover of Indian territory which, by some authoritative accounts, amounts to 60 sq kms in the present crisis and some 1,300 sq kms in the new millennium. It fuels Beijing’s policy of creeping annexation predicated on the border dispute remaining unresolved and the LAC undefined. The oft-repeated Chinese promise to negotiate a final solution at the Special Representatives level that successive Indian governments have been fobbed off with, in the event, is only a diplomatic ruse to buy time for the PLA to realise China’s territorial claims by incrementally pushing the LAC India-wards, and presenting Delhi every now and then with new territorial faits accomplis. The capture by China of Galwan is a strategic stranglehold because now PLA can interdict at will the traffic on the newly built Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldi/Karakorum Pass highway sustaining the Indian army presence on the Siachen Glacier. The army fouled up by not pre-emptively securing the valleys and the heights on the Shyok, Cheng-chenmo and Galwan rivers fronting on this highway when its alignment was firmed up over ten years ago. It has left India with no alternative than forcibly evicting the Chinese from the Galwan, whatever the cost, as the army did Pakistani troops in 1999 from the Kargil ridge because they imperilled the lifeline to Leh. However, Modi appears disinclined to risk it. (Bharat Karnad is Emeritus Professor in National Security Studies at the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi, author, most recently, of Staggering Forward: Narendra Modi and India’s Global Ambition) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-pm-narendra-modi-ceding-indian-territory-to-china-851889.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||Using time under the COVID-19 cloud to build a silver lining||In six torrid months, the virus that looks like a wreath has killed hundreds of thousands, sickened millions and disemboweled the world economy. Could it also have done some good? In India, don’t ask that question yet of those whose relatives drop lifeless in affluent Delhi, or of those in a Mumbai hospital who lie next to dead bodies in black plastic bags. Don’t dare pose the query to migrants who rest their blistered feet after walking for weeks to a future even bleaker than their recent past. And don’t breathe a word to the kid who tried to awaken a dead mother as she lay on a railway platform in Muzaffarpur. Yes, an incredibly nasty microbe has brought horrors into many lives. As we Unlock, cases seem to be exploding, and a paralysing fear may regain its grip. But for the past fortnight, an inherently optimistic country has been finding its feet. The famed Indian enterprise is open for business. There is some self-congratulation, community spread flatly denied. So it’s time to ask the question: Can something be salvaged out of the debris? And is there a chance, that in so doing, we could build better structures for the future? If there is one clear outcome of the virus, it is diminution. The diminution of ambition, the diminution of expectation, of businesses and individuals, is very real and here to stay. In excess, it could sap the animal spirits of a dynamic country; in moderation, it begins to look like a dose of realism. So you will find auto drivers who were in the past seldom guilty of using their meters switch the thing on the moment they get a ride. Landlords are happy to discuss a cut in rent, fearful of losing their tenants. Technology vendors are open to discussing tariff cuts. Newspapers are tightly edited to fewer pages because there is little ad revenue. Exporters of exotic vegetables sell locally at reasonable prices because they can’t ship their product. Salary cuts have become the norm in several sectors, never pleasant, but forcing a recalibration of lifestyles. In short, everything is becoming a little less. A friend has even lost eight kilos in the lockdown by eating healthier. It was apparent even before Covid-19 that one had to plan for two or three careers in a lifetime; now, for those who have lost their jobs, a second career may have become a necessity. The diminution of expectation is probably a saving grace: It makes life easier because ambitions can be pegged lower in a tighter, less expansive world. For hard-driving alpha-type managers, all this is going to take a bit of getting used to. They can bang their fists on the table, but the external dependencies of their businesses make sales graphs hostage to factors they may not even have considered in better days. A worthwhile metamorphosis would be from the merely hard-driving to the more rounded, and no less successful, leader who can ride out the tough times intelligently, and capitalise later when things are better. This would involve taking out costs and removing inefficiencies, while nurturing employees even though there is precious little materially to give them, perhaps through personal coaching. It also means ensuring that the company’s products do not suffer because of a focus on costs: Some firms will actually come out with improved products in straitened times. Can a biscuit maker introduce a healthy new variant that is also cheaper to make? Working from home will have spin-off effects well into the current decade. Tata Consultancy Services, India’s biggest software company, will have its workforce working for 75% of its time from home by 2025. Assuming all other IT companies do similar, it will result in more affordable commercial real estate for others, less traffic on the roads — with less pollution — and per force, better broadband connectivity to cater to a demanding clientele. Diminution in investor overgenerosity will mean that the fluffier start-ups will fall by the side as shareholders seek realistic business plans and a route to real profits. This can only be a good thing. Ingenuity is the offspring of diminution and necessity, and it is seldom in short supply in India. Watch carefully and you will see how Indians make more out of less in the lean months to come. Then there is the pious triplet of tolerance, appreciation and empathy: Being cooped up together for months has built a level of patience with each other that family members would not have thought possible. A spell of mopping floors and washing dishes holds a salutary lesson in appreciation for those who do the job day in and day out. And your kids understand the value of empathy when you pay salaries out for house help despite their having been unable to come to work. To complete the picture, what about diminutising our political leaders? This pandemic has brought a little humility to a highly centralised government, forcing it to be more consultative with the states than it might have liked to be. Incidentally, and unrelated to the pandemic, statues are being toppled worldwide, a marker of the hollowness of hagiographies, and a reminder to today’s strongmen to be inclusive and fair. So, take heart. As the world around us shrinks, chances are that an improved You will be waving a relieved goodbye to the killer as it makes its exit, whenever it does: Slimmer, more grounded, and fighting fit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/using-time-under-the-covid-19-cloud-to-build-a-silver-lining-851959.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||The colours of colourism||Way back in 1993 when the English cricket team toured India, something strange took place in the fifth one-day international played in Jamshedpur. England had, at the time, Devon Malcolm, one of the quickest though erratic bowlers in world cricket. He was Jamaica-born and black. (By the late 1980s, English cricket had begun mirroring the diversity of the country.) In the match, Malcolm fielded on the boundary and received coloured jibes and a missile from the crowd. During the innings break, the English commentator Charles Colville showed viewers the object and the camera then swung to the stands. Jamshedpur’s spectators looked not so different from the man they tormented for his country and skin: A sea of black and brown against a sole black man in cricketing whites across the fence. My teenaged cricket crazy self was taken aback then, as it does now. How do people of almost similar skin tones discriminate against each other due to their colour? One could picture white vs black/brown/yellow/mixed/mestizo. But black vs black, or brown vs black, or brown vs brown? In recent weeks, some cricketers have spoken about the colourism they faced. Former India players Abhinav Mukund and Dodda Ganesh recalled people’s fixation with their complexions. Darren Sammy, a two-time ICC T20 World Cup winning West Indies captain, discovered the meaning of kalu – the nickname he got from some of his Sunrisers Hyderabad teammates like Ishant Sharma – only now. Sharma said later it was all in jest; Sammy accepted the apology. Last year, the Pakistan captain Sarfraz Ahmed got fined for uttering, “Abey kale…” to South African player Andile Phehlukwayo. Sharma or Ahmed are not fair skinned. But it looks like it matters in relation to those darker than them. Famous Pakistani television presenter Moin Akhtar once did a skit on his show Loose Talk which poked fun at the visiting Bangladesh cricket team. Akhtar wore the Bangladesh cricket jersey, mimicked their accent – and blackened his face. Dark skinned actors making fun of others like them was a popular shtick in mainstream Tamil cinema once. In popular South Indian cinema, male leads often get paired with lighter skinned female leads, from other parts of the country. In boxing, Muhammad Ali called his fiercest rival and equal, Joe Frazier a “gorilla”, an “Uncle Tom”, a man who “worked for the enemy.” Frazier’s retorts weren’t as ugly as Ali’s. What’s one to make of all their exchanges? Just entertainment? No, they weren’t. Are these dregs from colonialism? Yes, but they have continued apace on their own accord as well. Although they deepened white cultural superiority and demonised non-whites, blaming British rule in India or white supremacism in America alone, will be wrong. Why so? For they don’t explain skin-tone bias within and among non-whites in the West or castes here. The instances of colourism in our part of the world swing on axes of caste and region. But again, to cite casteism alone, won’t be fully right, since not all upper castes are light skinned, nor all lower castes dark. Ergo: Colourism doesn’t lend itself to easy evaluation. Still binaries surrounding it exist as they provide a fuss-free handle on social reality. They are misleading. A complex experience and world behove a multi-layered mode of viewing. In Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayana and B R Chopra’s Mahabharata, the light skin of the cast sticks out. Strong influences of North Indian culture animate both. Nearly no main character is other than light brown. The kshatriyas and brahmins all seem brown or wheat coloured. As we know, these regions have upper castes who can be dark skinned, and lower castes, who may be light. Indeed, from a casting viewpoint, how are we to see the politics of skin colour in these TV version epics? Yet, the question of colourism in team sport boggles the mind. Big-team sports may have disagreeing members, but if they are any good, they will rest on the foundation of respect, leadership, teamwork. To do well, there cannot be any room for individual imponderables like skin colour. It’s impossible to click as a unit without a certain level of individual bonding. Which is why, individual sportsmen facing colourism with their rivals can be fathomed, but colourism within one’s own cricket team, just cannot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-colours-of-colourism-851960.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||This is the difference between India and America||Cities and citizens, Black and White, across America, its politicians – from congressmen and senators in Washington DC to mayors and governors in America’s cities and states – and even its police forces, all woke up to the reality of police brutality and anti-Black bias. All because one White policeman killed one Black man in Minneapolis. Police forces in the cities and counties kneeled, apologised to the Black Lives Matter protesters, and in some cases joined them. All despite President Donald Trump and his White Supremacist support base raging against the protesters and calling them some of the same epithets that protesters and dissenters against Narendra Modi are called in India – Left extremists, anti-nationals, terrorists, etc. In India, police atrocities are par for the course, especially during communal riots, but Indians are happy when the police, instead of maintaining the rule of law, side with ‘them’ against the ‘other’ – as they did during the anti-Sikh pogrom of 1984, the Gujarat pogrom of 2002, and the most recent Delhi pogrom. In the Modi-era, they have become the ‘new normal’ during peaceful protests, too. Such is the India, such is the policing we desire for ourselves today. In Minneapolis, where George Floyd was killed by the White policeman, the City Council voted to disband the police force itself. In New York, Los Angeles, etc., mayors have decided to ‘defund’ police forces and instead channel money to youth and other social programmes. In Seattle, people, Black and White, laid siege to a police station and the police had to yield and vacate the station and streets in the city’s Capitol Hill area. The protesters called it the ‘Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone” and declared that “This area is now the property of the people.” The area has been converted into a Shaheen Bagh-type place of protest and celebration, with speeches, music and readings of poetry on racial justice – because one White policeman killed one Black man. Americans know their rights. Americans know and respect their Constitution. In India, the Shaheen Bagh protesters were called anti-nationals and terrorists, a Union minister wanted to “goli maro gaddaron ko.” Another BJP leader started off a pogrom against the anti-CAA/NRC protesters, and our middle class cheered on. On Twitter and WhatsApp, messages with pictures of burning houses were “Burn some more of them, teach them a lesson.” What kind of nation and society and individuals have we become? What then is the meaning and value of our freedom struggle and our Constitution and their ideals? In America, there was one powerful voice against the Seattle protesters, that of President Trump himself, who called them “domestic terrorists”. Not even the Seattle police agreed with him. When Trump ordered Mayor Jenny Durkan to “take back your city. If you don’t do it, I will”, she replied to the President, “Make us all safe. Go back to your bunker”. The Seattle fire chief, instead, came out to chat with the protesters and set up portable toilets for them. One city police chief elsewhere told the President of the United States on television to “keep your mouth shut.” Here in India, would one dare to say that to even Anurag Thakur, let alone to the Great Leader and his deputy, when they spew and spread falsity and hatred? When Americans saw in the initial days of the Black Lives Matter protests that the police were reacting brutally against the protesters, they came out and joined the protests in greater numbers, braving the coronavirus pandemic, and they turned the tide. Indians, on the other hand, watched the plight of the migrant workers walking and dying along the highways, and the Indian rich and middle classes hid in the safety of their homes, exchanging recipes and dutifully banging plates and lighting diyas when their god commanded, and left the migrant workers to their fate. This, then, is the difference between India and America: The latter is the world’s greatest democracy, because the people of America keep it that way – for the most part. India, for its part, is now effectively a one-man rule, with the institutions of democracy bent to his will, because the people of India don’t know what a democracy is, or its value to their own lives. In India, police brutality is a daily constant – from the forcible collection of hafta from poor street vendors to beating up or harassment of the minorities and the poor to staging fake encounter killings and murdering the father of a rape victim inside a police station in UP. The Delhi police have used the lockdown period to make arrests to suit the government’s convenience, including that of a seven-month pregnant lady, but our middle class – the most influential electoral constituency – has nothing to say about any of it. Most Indians are just not bothered about what’s happening to the idea of rule of law, the very basis of democracy. But then, they don’t even care anymore for democracy. Modi-cracy is enough for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/this-is-the-difference-between-india-and-america-851963.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||With apologies to puppies||I apologise. A lot. In real life, and even more in the chatterbox that is my mind. This surfeit of ‘sorrys’ would be alright except that, all too often, these apologies aren’t mine to make – but to take. I apologise so much that I’ve had a much younger, much more ‘millennial’ co-worker once hold me by my only-metaphorically small midlife shoulders and command me to stop. I cannot say I have stopped, but it’s now more and more a thought. And as my midlife goes on, I try and ‘pay it forward’. And so I did recently. I gently but firmly held the slim shoulders of a young woman, gratefully for her over a Zoom call, and asked her to turn the apology dial down, with equal part affection, amusement, embarrassment, and frustration. This sorry state of affairs has, of course, been widely researched, probably mostly by men, as one of the many issues women at home, at work, and everywhere in-between, power dressing aside, grapple with. In some measure, big or small, the ‘see what you made me do’ syndrome, that marks much of domestic violence, scars us all and is at the bottom of the bottomless pit of this epidemic of apology. On that subject, because nothing is ever complete anymore without a reference to pandemic-induced pandemonium, and Rapunzel-like let-downs of lockdowns, the National Commission for Women, which registers complaints of domestic violence from across the country, has recorded more than a two-fold rise in gender-based violence in the national coronavirus lockdown period between March 25 and May 31. And for that, we must all be very sad, very angry, and very sorry. And, at the absolute least, before even the filing of an elaborate, evidenced charge sheet, we must demand from the perpetrators, a well-deserved, no ‘ifs’, no ‘buts’, grovelling public apology. But instead, we women will proffer the anticipatory bail of advance apologies that most men struggle with saying sorry, as much or maybe even more as they struggle with violence, and with women, women they ostensibly love. I suspect that, for some of us, the germ of this disease lies in the various vitiated interpretations of one of the most memorable movie lines of all-time. From an iconic film of the 70s, one that we all took too much to heart in the 80s, Love Story. Based on Erich Segal’s slim, simply-named book by the same name, the line goes, “Love means never having to say you’re sorry.” Within the soppy storyline, the line may still be alright as a form of creative freedom, but we have stretched it too far and too wide and too high, and made the absence of apology, particularly from the leading lights and leaders in our lives, a way of life. As usual, Bollywood has done an unapologetically lazy job in challenging one more lousy myth, by perpetuating it. In fact, not only do we make excuses for these excuses of ‘ghar main ghusenge bhi aur marenge bhi’ men, (loosely translated as ‘we will enter your home and we will beat you in your home’), we have allowed the highest and the mightiest of men in our mighty land to get away with derelictions of duty, and worse, without an apology. Instead, we have become a giant assembly line of noisy apologies for them, banging cutlery to utensils, for being epitomes of apologies themselves. Our WhatsApps are ample proof of the misuse of these ‘creative freedoms’, both from fact and from feeling—freedoms for national domestic violence. What, after all, was demonetisation but that, or what are the communal riots that regularly rock our communities, or the botched-up Lockdown 1.0, or this ‘unlock’ that is an invitation to inevitable infection without healthcare systems, but domestic violence? A good apology must stand alone, unsupported by victimhood, and must expect nothing in return, not even acceptance. It is not a clarification in disguise. Oh, and to be sure, tears are disqualified. And it must be ‘Make In India’, the China-made ones don’t last, like a puppy that comes under a car. There are so many apologies overdue, we are spoiled for choice, and we must prioritise, backwards. Speaking of which, twenty brave men, not some puppies, have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/with-apologies-to-puppies-851964.html
20-06-2020||Opinion||No getting used to death that comes unannounced||All I remember from that day in February is Thankamma aunty’s deep sighs. It was a few days after her husband’s death. Martin uncle was 93. He lived a long and healthy life. I’d see him sitting out on the verandah day after day, watching the world go by. I’d laugh when I saw him getting his hair coloured jet black. His greys would never shine through. Never. He hated that. Even when he was 93. One day, just like that, Martin uncle died. Just like that. He’d had lunch, lay down for a nap and never got up. A peaceful way to die. But that was the reason for Thankamma aunty’s deep sighs. She wasn’t expecting it. A long healthy life is given to few. So it was fine, she said. But it was the unexpectedness of death that shocked her. It had come so quietly, without an announcement. Every time I see Thankamma aunty, I think of those sighs. Earlier this month when Kannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja passed away of a heart attack, I wondered what his family were going through. He was 39, young, at the peak of his career, not long married, he had the world at his feet. But he too was gone — one fine day, just like that. That day in June, I saw many posts on Instagram expressing shock and disbelief at Chiranjeevi Sarja’s passing. One of those was a reader of this column. I reacted to his post and sent an emoji expressing sadness. He replied back. The actor’s death had reminded him of his father’s demise in 2011. The family had returned from an outing and dinner and then past midnight, his father was no more. He was a child, 11 at the time. But Chiranjeevi Sarja’s death and that of his father had made him think of the unfairness of life. “We spend a lifetime making sure our lives are secure. But you don’t know when it can all be snatched from you,” his message read. His memory of his father is vivid yet foggy. What he remembers of that night is his mother crying and wanting to do something, anything to make it better for some. But an 11-year-old’s vocabulary can only comfort so much. Then his life changed — unexpectedly, just like the unexpected death. He wonders now if that moment was the end of his childhood. There was neither time nor place to express tenderness. It was time to grow up. He’s 20 now, mature for his years. He missed out on values that only our dads can give us, he told me during our exchange. I read a memoir titled, Wave, about how the tsunami in Sri Lanka changed the writer’s life beyond all imagination. The morning of December 26, 2004, Sonali Deraniyagala, her husband, parents and two boys were on a family at the Yala national park. She saw the sea rising, grabbed her children and ran with her husband into a waiting jeep. They were driving away when the wave hit. She was the only survivor of her entire family. This is perhaps the most moving book about the unexpectedness of tragedy, of irreplaceable loss, of deep and dark pain I have read. But it is also a story about acceptance even when there is no resolution to grief. We all have stories where our loved ones have left us when we didn’t think they would. I do. You do too. Truth is, a life that ends unexpectedly leaves a void, a gap, a hole that you’re constantly trying to make sense of. But life also has unexpected moments of optimism and that no matter what, it must go on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/no-getting-used-to-death-that-comes-unannounced-851966.html
20-06-2020||South||52 COVID-19 cases reported in Puducherry; tally mounts to 338||Puducherry recorded 52 fresh cases of COVID-19, its highest single day spike so far, taking the tally of infections in the Union Territory to 338. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan told reporters on Saturday that after shifting one patient taking treatment in Maharashtra from the portal of Puducherry and with the outbreak of 52 fresh cases, the aggregate stood at 338 during last 24 hours. While the number of active cases stood at 200, the total patients treated and discharged were 131 and the fatalities remained seven, he said. Of the new cases, 38 patients were admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital in neighbouring Kadirkamam, and 12 were admitted to JIPMER. The remaining two patients were admitted to the government general hospital in Karaikal. Mahe and Yanam regions enclaves of Puducherry in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh respectively had currently no COVID-19 patients, the Director said. The Director said the new patients were found to be COVID-19 positive after examination of374 people during the last 24 hours in Puducherry and Karaikal regions. After easing of curbs a couple of weeks agorelating to the lockdown, the COVID-19 cases had been increasing in Puducherry. The official pointed to the congestion at markets on weekends for the rise in incidence of the infection. Kumar appealed to the people to adhere to the norms of social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitation which would be largely of help to protect them against the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/52-covid-19-cases-reported-in-puducherry-tally-mounts-to-338-851755.html
20-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami calls COVID-19 lockdown a 'speed breaker'||As lockdown without relaxations continued for day two here, Chief Minister K Palaniswami described it as a 'speed breaker', saying the curbs were being used to further augment detection of COVID-19 cases in Chennai by conducting more door to door surveys and fever camps. All measures are in place for both early identification and treatment of people who test positive, he told reporters after inspecting quarantine amenities at Guru Nanak School in Velachery here. The 12-day lockdown, which came into effect on Friday, is being implemented here and in parts of neighbouring Chengelpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. Only essential services are allowed and vegetable shops and groceries can function only from 6 am to 2 pm. Ahead of the curbs, relaxations were in place for most segments with the exception of only schools and other educational institutions. While roads were deserted, the corporation's health personnel could be seen going on with their routine exercise of finding out people with symptoms. Police said action against violators of the lockdown continued and their vehicles were being seized. Palaniswami said "The lockdown is like a speed breaker," adding the curbs were to ensure that people stayed indoors and supported efforts aimed at detecting symptoms and providing treatment if needed. The government was using the lockdown period to further augment testing and treatment, he said. "This lockdown is not to trouble anyone, but to stop the spread of the virus. If those with symptoms step out, then it will spread to others as well. If people stay indoors during the lockdown, there won't be spread of the virus," he said. The Chief Minister appealed to people to extend their full cooperation to the government's efforts in combating the virus by wearing masks and maintaining social distance. He said the government has effectively utilised both the current and previous spells of lockdown to augment the detection and treatment of positive virus cases. The fever camps in Chennai have been increased to 527 on Friday from about 350 in the recent past and those having COVID-19 symptoms were being treated, the Chief Minister said. "Only God knows when the COVID-19 pandemic will come to an end," he said when reporters sought to know when the spread would end. "Neither I nor you know. I am not a doctor. Medical experts, even WHO, and the union health ministry said the pandemic will gradually decline and can't be eradicated. The only way out now for us is to exercise self discipline and take precautions," he said. About 8.27 lakh samples for COVID-19 have been tested, which was the highest in India, Palaniswami said. Also, Tamil Nadu has 83 testing centres, the highest in the country, with 45 in government and 38 in private sectors. Asked whether higher education minister K P Anbazhagan was infected with the virus, he shot back asking, "has he not said in an interview that he does not have it? What more can I add to that?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswami-calls-covid-19-lockdown-a-speed-breaker-851821.html
20-06-2020||South||Political quarrels complicate COVID-19 situation as Kerala reports spike in cases||With key opposition party in Kerala, Congress-led United Democratic Front, launching a series of stirs against the sate and centre over issues ranging from mandatory COVID-19 test for NRIs to fuel price hike, the ruling CPI(M) is accusing the opposition of flouting social distance norms and enhancing risk of COVID-19 spread. The state capital Thiruvanthapuram has been witnessing a series of stirs over the last few days, including a day long fasting by Opposition leader. Incidentally a good chuck of the senior leaders who took part in such events are aged above 65. Even as political party leaders used to call for maintaining social distancing norms during stirs, it was hardly observed. Already the state capital had witnessed many un-linked COVID-19 cases and some areas were made hotpots. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Congress was sending a wrong message to the society by conducting stirs by blatantly flouting social distancing norms.  Kerala Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that strict action would be taken against stirs flouting social distancing norms. Already cases were registered against many politicians, including MPs. There were also allegations that the opposition parties were deliberately trying to spread COVID-19 scare. Meanwhile, 127 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Saturday, which was the highest singe day spike. As many as 57 recovered from the infection. The total number of infected persons now is 1,450.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-quarrels-complicate-covid-19-situation-as-kerala-reports-spike-in-cases-851843.html
20-06-2020||South||Chennai steps-up efforts to contain COVID-19 spread||As the ‘strict’ lockdown entered its second day, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Saturday intensified its efforts to contain further spread of the coronavirus by screening all residents of the metropolis for any COVID-19 symptoms. Armed with Infra-Red Thermal Scanners and pulse oximeters that helps check the oxygen levels of a person, over 12,000 field workers will fan out across the city for the next two weeks to identify people with COVID-19 symptoms like fever, sore throat and cough. The lockdown that began on June 19 will be in force till June 30. While 10,000 Infra-Red Thermal Scanners have been given to field workers, the pulse oximeters have been given in the first phase only to those carrying out the screening process in three zones of the GCC – Royapuram, Tondiarpet, and Thiru Vi. Ka. Nagar – which alone accounted for 14,206 of the total 38,327 cases in the city as on Friday. “The field workers will visit every household in the city and enquire with people about their health status and whether they have any symptoms. Checking of body temperature has been made mandatory by the field workers who will use the thermal scanners for the purpose,” a senior GCC official told DH. If the field workers identify people with influenza like illness (ILI) or suspect that they have COVID-19 symptoms, they will be referred to a health care professional who will examine them further and send them for testing, the official said. Additionally, the GCC is also conducting 600 fever camps across the city to identify people with ILI and those possessing COVID-19 symptoms. “Over 30,000 to 40,000 people are screened everyday at these fever centers as people come in large numbers to get themselves checked. We hope these measures will help us contain the spread of the virus,” the official said. Welcoming the move to intensify the screening process, experts said the government should utilise the “strict” lockdown period to ramp up testing by identifying symptomatic people and testing them. “It is easy to identify symptomatic people and those vulnerable to the virus and test them. The government should use the lockdown to test more people and regulate the people on barrier methods like wearing of masks and washing hands,” P Kuganantham, senior epidemiologist and former Chennai City Health Officer, told DH. He added that maximising tests during the period would help contain the spread of the virus. “We need to see how the lockdown helps in the containment efforts,” Dr. Kuganantham added. Another expert, who did not wish to be named, said the government should test more than 10,000 people in Chennai everyday to identify more COVID-19 cases and isolate them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-steps-up-efforts-to-contain-covid-19-spread-851846.html
20-06-2020||South||No question of apologising; Stand by my remarks: Congress Kerala chief||Congress Kerala chief Mullapally Ramachandran, who sparked a row over his remarks against state Health minister K K Shailaja,on Saturday said he stood by his words and there was no question of apologising. He had on Friday alleged that Shailaja was trying to get the label of "COVID Rani" (COVID Queen). The KPCC president had also said that during the Nipah outbreak, Shailaja camped in Kozhikode as a 'guest artist' and tried to become the 'Nipah Rajakumari' (Nipah princess). The CPI(M) had slammed the remarks as sexist and demanded an unconditional apology from him. "What I have said is right. I stand by my words and have not insulted anyone", Ramachandran told reporters, a day after his words kicked up a storm. "I am not going to apologise. Nothing doing", he said. The former union minister said some words from his speech had been 'cherry-picked' by the media and a campaign was going on against him and asked what was wrong with his remarks. The credit for successfully tackling the Nipah virus, which claimed 17 lives in2018, should go to doctors, nurses, Asha and Anganwadi workers, he said, adding the minister had only held review meetings at the guest house and had not done anything appreciable. The Congress veteran also referred to articles in various foreign media, describing Shailaja as "Rock Star" and "Corona slayer" and asked what was wrong with words like "Rani" and "Rajakumari" and said he stood by his remarks. As he faced widespread criticism over the remarks, Ramachandran said he was not a person to make statements against women and had always stood in the forefront for their welfare and respected them. Meanwhile, asked for his reaction, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan, said in Delhi that he was not aware of what the KPCC President had said as he had returned to Delhi early on Saturday. State Women's Commission Chairperson M C Josephine also criticised the KPCC president for his 'anti-women' remarks against the health minister and demanded his apology. The Democratic Women's Association took out a march to Ramachandran's house at Vatakara and burnt his effigy, protesting against the remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-question-of-apologising-stand-by-my-remarks-congress-kerala-chief-851861.html
20-06-2020||South||Coronavirus tally in Kerala breaches 3000-mark with 127 new cases||Kerala's COVID-19 tally breached the 3,000-mark on Saturday with 127 people testing positive for the virus, the highest single-day surge. The infection count in the state has touched 3,039, while 1,450 people are presently under treatment and 1.39 lakh people under observation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here. 57 people have recovered today and were discharged from hospitals, he said. This is the second consecutive day the state is reporting more than 100 cases. On Thursday, it had reported 118 COVID-19 cases. It was on May 8 that the state had declared that it had flattened the COVID-19 curve after reporting a solitary case and just 16 people being under treatment. However, with Non-Resident Keralites returning to the state in large numbers, the positive cases have been on the rise. Of the positive cases today, 87 had come from abroad and 36 from other states, and three were infected through contact. The other infected was a health worker. Giving the break-up of the total cases, Vijayan said Kollam reported the highest 24 cases today, followed by Palakkad 23, Pathanamthitta 17, Kozhikode 12, Ernakulam three, Kottayam 11, Kasaragod seven, Thrissur six, Malappuram, Wayanad and Thiruvananthapuram five each, Kannur and Alappuzha four each and Idukki one.  There are 111 hotspots in the state. In Thiruvananthapuram city, coronavirus cases were increasing and there was a need for a heightened vigil, Vijayan said, adding at bus stops and markets people should strictly follow social distancing. Three police patrol vehicles will monitor the movement of people in these areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tally-in-kerala-breaches-3000-mark-with-127-new-cases-851865.html
20-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Now, Andhra Pradesh too cancels 10th board exams||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to cancel the SSC examinations this year, as the state sees a rising number of COVID-19 cases. On Saturday, state Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh announced the decision to promote all the 6.3 lakh students without exams. In a revised schedule, the Jaganmohan Reddy government had planned to conduct the exams from July 10 to 15, by limiting 11 exam papers to six. Though arrangements like doubling the exam centres, sanitisers, thermal scanners etc. were made, the growth of COVID-19 cases in an uncontrolled manner led to the decision. Earlier this month, the Telangana government had decided to cancel the 10th examinations and promote all 5.35 lakh students based on the internal assessment marks. Tamil Nadu also took a similar decision, cancelling the board exams. On Saturday, AP recorded 491 new cases surpassing the 465 cases on Friday. The state has, till now, a total of 8,452 cases, out of which 4,240 are active cases. Five new COVID-19 related deaths were registered on Saturday, taking the overall toll to 101.   “Since the positive cases are growing, our chief minister Reddy took the decision for the sake of the worried students and their parents,” the minister said. The intermediate supplementary examinations are also cancelled, with all applied students deemed to have passed. Their exam fees will also be returned. The Opposition TDP and the BJP have been demanding that the exams be cancelled to keep students away from the possibility of contracting the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-now-andhra-pradesh-too-cancels-10th-board-exams-851866.html
20-06-2020||South||Ramco Systems taking 'multiple steps' to mitigate impact caused by COVID-19||Enterprise software player Ramco Systems was taking 'multiple' steps to overcome the significant impact caused on the business and economy by the COVID-19 pandemic, a company official has said. According to the city-based company, COVID-19 has resulted in a significant drop in order booking during the fourth quarter. "Traditionally, Q4 has always been a good quarter for us. We were cruising towards a great finish but circumstances due to the pandemic outbreak delayed multiple projects," Ramco Systems CEO Virender Aggarwal said in a statement. He said the company was taking 'multiple' steps to mitigate the impact by offering the 'OpEx' model of payment terms. "We have also been able to optimise our spends and have a positive cash flow and are seizing this opportunity to learn and adapt to the new normal", he said. The city-based company declared financial results for the quarter ending March 31, 2020. Net loss for the quarter under review stood at Rs 135.95 million as against net profit at Rs 91.37 million registered in the same period last fiscal. For the year ending March 31, 2020 net profits stood at Rs 248.91 million as against Rs 518.86 million registered last year. Total income during the January-March 2020 quarter slipped to Rs 757.80 million from Rs 820.06 million registered in the same quarter last year. For the year ending March 31, 2020 total income stood at Rs 3,197.56 million as against Rs 3,245.01 million registered year ago. Company chairman P R Venketrama Raja said the world was battling a major global health pandemic that is having a significant impact on people, businesses and economy. "There has been a strong sense of disruption in work and social lives. However, this disruption in driving forward-looking companies to scale their initiatives and drive transformation in business operations," he said. Ramco Systems in FY20 signed 22 'million dollar plus' deals while the revenue from overseas stood at 75 per cent in FY20. The company said the focus was on driving digital transformation which was leading to an increase in large opportunities getting added to the pipeline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ramco-systems-taking-multiple-steps-to-mitigate-impact-caused-by-covid-19-851871.html
20-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 491 new COVID-19 cases, five deaths||Coronavirus cases went past the 8,000-mark in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday as 491 were added anew, taking the total to 8,452, even as the death toll rose to 101 with five fresh casualties. The latest Covid-19 bulletin said 4,111 patients were discharged in the state so far, leaving 4,240 active cases. In the last 24 hours, 390 AP locals tested positive in the 22,371 tests conducted in the state, the bulletin said. Another 83 people who came from other states and 18 from abroad also tested positive. Kurnool and Krishna, the two prime hotbeds of Covid-19 in AP, reported two fresh deaths each in the last 24 hours, while Guntur had one. The Covid-19 toll thus touched 101, with Kurnool and Krishna accounting for 33 each, the worst in the state, followed by Guntur with 11. A senior bureaucrat, when asked about the quantum jump in coronavirus cases in the state in the last few days, said it was basically due to change in confirmation guidelines. "Previously the presumptive cases in TruNat machine tests were retested with RT-PCR. But now all such cases are directly treated as positive," he pointed out. Earlier, of the every 20 presumptive positive cases, only two-third used to turn positive in RT-PCR tests. Now, however, all 20 were being confirmed as positive. Besides, the state has also been going aggressive in testing 60+-year-old people and those with comorbidities. "We are targeting the right areas like containment zones, old towns, vegetable markets and also the right categories, including primary contacts and migrants. All this is reflecting in the growing number of Covid-19 positive cases," the bureaucrat added. A sentinel surveillance for coronavirus is also being undertaken with 330 people chosen randomly per day in each district and tested. Under this, people are randomly chosen in malls, religious places, construction sites, market yards and tested for the virus. The Aarogya Setu App is also being extensively used to trace and test people in close proximity of Covid-19 positives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-491-new-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-851928.html
20-06-2020||State||EXCLUSIVE | Risky terrain: Karnataka cabinet rides through caution over land reforms||The government’s decision to open up agricultural land holdings was taken despite alarm bells being sounded within the administration on the potential dangers of this move, an internal document has revealed. On June 11, the Cabinet decided to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, allowing even non-agriculturists to purchase and own farm lands by repealing Sections 79 A and B.  The sections will be repealed with retrospective effect, which will have a bearing on over 12,000 cases of violations in purchasing farm lands that are pending before various courts.  A day before the Cabinet, on June 10, an alarm was sounded at a meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee, whose proceedings have been recorded in a note that DH has accessed. Retrospective amendment of the law can be legally challenged, the Parliamentary Affairs secretary warned, adding that the original owners of lands confiscated by the government could move court. This was brushed aside by Law Minister J C Madhuswamy. “Even the courts have favoured repealing 79 A and B,” he said, adding that the amendment will not apply to adjudicated cases.  The note also mentions a writ petition in the High Court in connection with proceedings under Sections 79 A and B. The HC, according to portions of its orders reproduced in the note, did not ask the government to repeal the two sections.  “An examination of the orders passed by the High Court...indicates that the court was concerned about how the orders passed under Section 79 A and B were being implemented on the ground,” Advocate-General Prabhuling K Navadgi stated in his opinion to the government dated June 3. He goes on to opine that it was up to the government to delete the two sections from the statute book. “According to me, there is no necessity of bringing the same to the High Court (sic). It is open for the government to proceed in accordance with law.”  The proposed land reforms have raised concerns that farm lands will be misused. That is why, on May 30, the agriculture department told the government that the move should help the growth of the agri sector, and that only those lands that are unfit or unused for agriculture can be purchased. “If the land is not used for agriculture or other activities within three years, then such land should be recovered by the government,” it said. The note also reveals that the Department of Parliamentary Affairs & Legislation had opined, in March, that it was “necessary” to retain some of the restrictions under Section 79 B.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/exclusive-risky-terrain-karnataka-cabinet-rides-through-caution-over-land-reforms-851613.html
20-06-2020||State||Karnataka govt authorises local bodies to fix timings to open parks||Continuing with the easing of restrictions under 'Unlock 1.0', the Karnataka government on Saturday authorised local bodies to fix timing for opening of public parks other than those in the containment zones between 5 am to 9 pm. It has also mandated adhering to all the national directives issued to contain the spread of COVID-19 and the guidelines issued by the state government in this connection. Noting that the government has been relaxing conditions under unlock 1.0, Principal Secretary Revenue N Manjunath Prasad, who is also the member secretary of the state disaster management authority in an order said, local bodies have been asked to set the timing between 5 am to 9 pm to open all parks that come under them and the government. It said this would be applicable to only those parks that come outside the containment zones. Earlier in May, while relaxing the lockdown norms, the government had set 7 am to 9 am and from 5 pm to 7 pm for the opening of parks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-authorises-local-bodies-to-fix-timings-to-open-parks-851746.html
20-06-2020||State||12 police personnel test positive for coronavirus in Mysuru||As many as 12 police personnel tested positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru, on Saturday. However, all of them were under isolation and thus the chances of the infection spreading were less. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta confirmed that 12 KSRP personnel tested positive and that as many as 13 personnel attached to KSRP were deployed on duty in Bengaluru between June 6 and 17. On their arrival, all 13 were subjected to quarantine and samples were sent for test. Now, 12 of them are tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/12-police-personnel-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-mysuru-851759.html
20-06-2020||State||HDMP health officer arrested for sexually harassing woman||Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) health officer P N Biradar is arrested by the Sub-urban police in Hubballi, on charges of torturing and trying to sexually harass a woman who is a pharmaceutical distributor. A 35-year-old woman of Ashok Nagar alleged that  Dr. Biradar used to be in contact with her over the phone, as the settlement of bills for pharmaceutical items supplied to Chitaguppi Hospital was not sorted. "On Friday evening, he called me to come to a hotel, to get the bills settled. I went to his home, near where he sexually harassed me by touching my body, gave life threat, and he had harassed me earlier also," the woman said. After a verbal clash, relatives and friends of the woman also reportedly manhandled him. The Police arrested Dr. Biradar and is producing him before the court, following due procedures. ProtestMeanwhile, Chitaguppi Hospital staff, pourakarmikas, SC/ST organisations members and HDMP employees staged a protest, saying that it was a trap against Dr. Biradar, and allegations were baseless. Submitting a memorandum to HDMP, police, and taluk administration authorities to take action against those manhandled Dr. Biradar, they sought impartial inquiry and justice to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hdmp-health-officer-arrested-for-sexually-harassing-woman-851760.html
20-06-2020||State||Karnataka govt contemplating to offer permanent financial help to Asha workers||Karnataka Co-operation Minister S T Somashekhar on Saturday stated that the government is contemplating to offer permanent financial help for Asha workers by forming co-operative society, self-help groups for them or through other options, so that they can get loan at lower interest rate from 0 per cent to 4 per cent. "For the hard work of Asha workers during COVID-19 situation, Co-operaton Department is collecting money from profitable co-operative institutes, and distributing Rs 12.07 crore as incentive to 42,000 Asha workers in the State. The Department has also provided Rs 52 crore to Chief minister's relief Fund (COVID-19)," he said. Somashekhar also distributed Rs 3,000 incentive cheque to each Asha worker symbolically. Large & Medium Scale Minister Jagadish Shettar, MLCs Basavaraj Horatti, S V Sankanur, and others were present at the event. S T Somashekhar, who had shifted to BJP along with A H Vishwanath and others, stated that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has already urged to give a suitable position to Vishwanath in coming days, or make him an MLC when a seat falls vacant next time. "We were all in favour of him, and I have no information about Congress leader Siddaramaiah conspired against him. Nobody is responsible for Vishwanath not becoming BJP nominee for upper house. We are confident that Yediyurappa would fulfill his promise of giving due position to Vishwanath in coming days, and Vishwanath has also said the same thing," Somashekhar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-contemplating-to-offer-permanent-financial-help-to-asha-workers-851819.html
20-06-2020||State||Did weather change also lead to COVID-19 spike?||Though a lot of research is yet to be undertaken about the behaviour of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), and epidemiologists have different views, a few epidemiologists in Hubballi, who are into community medicine, have somewhat a similar opinion that with lockdown and other precautionary measures, along with summer season also, might have contained COVID-19 spread to some extent initially. However, it boosted the spike later probably due to cold weather and humidity with the onset of monsoon preceded by 'Nisarga' cyclone effect, mainly along with huge influx of migrants from other States, they feel. "Due to high temperature in summer, the life of virus in air is less, when it is released from the human body. During more cold and humidity, it stays longer in air and hereby gets more chance to get transmitted to another living body. Now, the weather has changed, and lockdown is relaxed," observed Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Community Medicine Department head D D Bant. However, another community medicine expert Manjunath Nekar says that there is still confusion on whether the virus spread may be more with more humidity, but this is a speculative possibility. During the peak summer on May 1, the number of total COVID-19 cases in the State stood at 589, with 99 cases in previous one week. After 'Nisarga' cyclone effects started in May last week, total cases were 3,408 on June 1, and fresh cases on that day was 187. After monsoon began, there seems to be been a spike in the cases, and fresh cases were 416 on June 20, and total number of cases was 3,691. But, discharged cases in the State are more than active cases. But, several doctors say that more research about the effect of cold weather on the virus spread has to be conducted. 'Cold affects' Noted physician G B Sattur is firm that cold weather definitely increases the spread of COVID-19, as it is just like any another flu virus, while more coughing, less social distancing, and less ventilation in houses take place during the rainy season. "Extreme heat does not kill COVID-19 virus, but cold weather may make it spread more, while common flu may also be mistaken. It seems to have reached community spread level, and its spread will come down when herd immunity level is developed," Dr Sattur said. When peak? Several epidemiologists and medical practitioners predict that the peak of COVID-19 spread may reach in two-and-a-half months, and will come down later. "Virus has a natural cycle, and after reaching its peak of spread, it has to flatten. People also have more responsibility now," Sattur said, adding that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should also approve more private laboratories and hospitals for testing and antibody treatment. 'Poor planning' A epidemiologist was of clear opinion that planning to manage the pandemic in India was poor at the initial stage. "Only politicians and bureaucrats took major decisions, instead of brainstorming with major epidemiologists and taking their suggestions, as done in countries like Sweden. Firstly, all international passengers should have been tested with rapid kits at arrival, and should have been quarantined," he said. An epidemiologist who was trained by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and also worked at Dharavi in Maharashtra, opines that Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets should have been given to many people in Maharashtra, to reduce Cocid-19 load in Karnataka from those who came from Maharashtra. Careless migration, some confusions in management, and climate change also resulted in the spike in cases here, he opined. A short-term lockdown, and containing virus spread by the active cases which have become less now can bring the situation down in two months, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/did-weather-change-also-lead-to-covid-19-spike-851903.html
20-06-2020||State||518 private hospitals, two stadiums, one ashram allowed to treat COVID-19 patients||The state on Saturday authorised 518 private hospitals and medical colleges in Karnataka empanelled under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) to treat COVID-19 patients henceforth. 44 of these facilities are in Bengaluru. The list of hospitals are on the website of Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust. The circular comes after the state saw a surge in cases and reducing beds in ICUs, especially those with oxygen and ventilators. There have also been complaints from patients about the facilities and infrastructure in government COVID-19 designated hospitals.  On Saturday the state also authorised two stadiums and one ashram in Bengaluru to function as COVID Care Centres to treat asymptomatic patients: Sri Sri Sri Ravishankar Ashram on Kanakapura Road, Kanteerava Indoor Stadium in SR Nagar, and Koramangala Indoor Stadium.  The state also released a notification stating 16 government hospitals in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts will function as Dedicated COVID Health Centres that will treat mild to moderately symptomatic patients. The beds reserved in these hospitals are 1,330. Out of which 527 are oxygenated beds, 167 are ICU beds for COVID and 92 are beds with ventilators reserved for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/518-private-hospitals-two-stadiums-one-ashram-allowed-to-treat-covid-19-patients-851912.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Head constable under treatment for COVID-19 passes away||A 56-year-old head constable who was attached with the Kalasipalya police station passed away on Saturday (June 20) morning. The deceased was tested positive two days back and was admitted in the COVID ward in Victoria Hospital. He passed away while undergoing treatment. According to Kalasipalya police, the head constable was among nine others who have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. A woman constable first tested positive and later eight other policemen in her contact were subjected for COVID-19 test and their reports came positive. The station has been sealed down from Friday and only two to four staff have been deployed to attend the emergency cases. The deceased head constable did patrolling duty on a Cheetah bike and was staying in Cottonpet along with his family members. His primary and secondary contacts have been collected and they are already under quarantine.  The death of the head constable is the second case in the police department and it has created fear among other policemen. Last week, an Assistant Sub-inspector of Police (ASI) from VV Puram traffic police station who had suffered cardiac arrest tested COVID positive and had passed away while undergoing treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/head-constable-under-treatment-for-covid-19-passes-away-851756.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||People hold protest against China made products in Hubballi||Protest against China-made products continued in Hubballi on Saturday (June 20) also, as Shree Gajanan Mahamandal members staged a protest on Coen Road, and burnt the banner having the portrait of Chinese president Xi Jinping. "In the wake of serious Indo-China clash at Eastern Ladakh, the Union Government should ban the import of Chinese goods. Condemning the Chinese move, all Indians should support the Indian government and should boycott all Chinese products," said Mahamandal president D Govindrao. Protesters also raised slogans and displayed tricolour. Ningappa Morabad, Venkatesh Katavate, Vinayak Shirkol, and others took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/people-hold-protest-against-china-made-products-in-hubballi-851764.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers block national highway protesting Karnataka's Land Reforms Act||Farmers blocked the Pune-Bengaluru national highway near Dastikoppa village in Kittur taluk on Saturday in protest against the Land Reforms Act that facilitates the purchase of agriculture lands by non-farmers. Farmers under the banner of Rait Sangha and Hasiru Sene blocked the national highway and raised slogans against the government for compromising the interests of farmers.They expressed fear that the new law will facilitate realtors purchase agricultural lands and farmers will become landless. Farmers demanded the Land Reforms Act be withdrawn in the interest of farmers and to ensure food security. The protest was led by Jayashree Gurannavar, Ashok Yamakanamaradi and other leaders.Verbal exchanges were also witnessed between farmers and motorists using the service road with the national highway being blocked during the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-block-national-highway-protesting-karnatakas-land-reforms-act-851776.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Head to Chamundi Hills for best view of Solar eclipse||The best view of the solar eclipse, on Sunday, in Mysuru will be from Chamundi Hill, said S A Mohan Krishna, an amateur astronomer. Besides, June 21 is the summer solstice, which marks the longest day and shortest night of the year. He said large telescopes or high magnifications are of little use for observing a lunar eclipse. “Binoculars or a small low-power telescope is recommended since they both allow the entire Moon to be viewed. Next solar eclipse will be on December 14, but not visible in India,” he said. Precaution “Observing the photosphere of the Sun (the bright disk of the Sun) directly, even for a few seconds, can cause permanent damage to the retina of the eye. Thus, viewing the Sun during partial and annular eclipse requires special eye protection or indirect viewing methods. Sunglasses are not safe. Only properly designed and certified solar filters should be used. Self-made filters using objects such as a floppy disk removed from its case, a compact disc, a black colour slide film, smoked glass, etc must be avoided. Tested solar goggles are available for Rs 30 to Rs 50. A pinhole camera is the simplest way to view an eclipse, but the solar image will be inverted,” Mohan Krishna said. “The ‘Annular/Partial Solar Eclipse’ or 'ring of fire’ on June 21 is visible from most parts of India. Though solar eclipse happens in regular intervals, the annular/partial solar eclipse is a sporadic phenomenon, and occurs when the moon's apparent diameter is smaller than the sun's, thus obscuring most of the Sun's light and make it appear like an annulus (ring),” he said. Partial in Mysuru “The annular phase is not visible in Mysuru, but it can be observed as a partial solar eclipse. The Moon covers a large portion of the Sun. The percentage of the obscurity of Moon at Mysuru is about 35%,” Mohan Krishna said. The eclipse in Mysuru will commence at 10.10 am and terminates by 1.26 pm. The greatest or maximum phase of the eclipse will eventuate at 11.43 am. The pathwidth of the eclipse’s shadow is 110 km and will travel at a speed of 1.1 km per second. During its over three-hour trajectory, the annular eclipse covers approximately 12,900 km, which is 0.34% of the surface area of Earth,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/head-to-chamundi-hills-for-best-view-of-solar-eclipse-851782.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cop undergoing treatment for COVID-19 dies||A 56-year-old head constable, who had tested positive for the coronavirus infection a couple of days ago and was undergoing treatment, died on Saturday, police said. The deceased, attached to the Kalasipalya police station, was being treated at Victoria Hospital here, they said. This the second death of a policeman in the state due to COVID-19. The first one was an assistant sub-inspector attached to the V V Puram traffic police station. Officials said the deceased constable was among nine others who had tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, an ASI with the Wilson Garden traffic police station here has also reportedly tested positive. According to sources, the ASI is undergoing treatment at a designated hospital and the station has been sanitised. His contacts are being quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cop-undergoing-treatment-for-covid-19-dies-851826.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 416 new coronavirus cases, 9 deaths||Karnataka reported 416 fresh COVID-19 cases, it’s second biggest single-day spike, on Saturday. The state’s tally, as on June 20, stands at 8,697 cases. Of which, 3,170 are active. On Saturday, Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 94 fresh infections. Nine new deaths were reported in the state on Saturday as the toll jumped to 132.  Bengaluru Urban reported three deaths, Bidar saw two fatalities while Davangere, Chikkamagaluru and Udupi recorded one death each. While the three from Bengaluru are men between the ages of 39 to 56 years, it was a 51-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man from Bidar. For the first time, the Health department in its daily media bulletin has withheld information about deaths like a patient’s comorbidities or what he or she was suffering from before being brought to the hospital. According to the health department bulletin, as of June 20 evening, out of 3,170 active cases, 3,096 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 74 are in Intensive Care Units. Of the 416 new cases, 116 are returnees from other states, a majority of them from neighbouring Maharashtra, while 22 are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with a history of SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infections) and ILI (Influenza-like Illness), among others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru accounted for 94, followed by Bidar 73, 38 each from Ballari and Ramanagara, Kalaburagi 34, Mysuru 22, Hassan 16, Raichur 15, Udupi 13, Haveri 12, Vijayapura 9, Chikkamagaluru 8, five each from Dharwad and Chikkaballapura.  Also, four each from Dakshina Kannada, Mandya, Uttara Kannada, Kolar and Bengaluru rural, Davangere 3, two each from Bagalkote, Shivamogga, Gadag and Tumakuru, and one each from Belagavi, Chamarajanagara and other states. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,076 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,160 and Udupi 1,063. Among discharges Udupi topped the list with 953 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 688 and Yadgir 497. A total of 4,93,893 samples were tested so far, out of which 9,833 were tested on Saturday alone, the bulletin said. So far 4,73,357 samples have been reported as negative, of which 9,019 reported negative today. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-416-new-coronavirus-cases-9-deaths-851888.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Karnataka will extend complete cooperation to industry in doubling GSDP'||The Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday assured the industry of the government's complete cooperation in its aim of doubling the Gross State Domestic Product in the next six years. He said there is a need to rebuild Karnataka by strengthening the economy and industry and with this in mind, a conducive atmosphere would be created to ensure overall growth. "The state government will extend complete cooperation for industry, which is aiming to double GSDP in the next six years, from USD 230 billion to USD 500 billion, ushering in a new Karnataka," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. "There is an open atmosphere for investment in Karnataka. We are also fine if someone informs the government after making an investment here. We are here to provide all the infrastructure required to rebuild the State," he said. COVID-19 has adversely affected the State and it has brought several changes - be it social, industrial or economical, he noted and sought cooperation from industry to overcome the crisis. The DCM was addressing Industry leaders on a webinar on "Nava Karnataka: Post Covid-19 Economy Rebuild - framework and strategies to strengthen the economy", organised by the Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) on Saturday. Narayan said that the state government, true to the aspirations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also believed in "minimum governance and maximum administration". He said the government's aim was to give an impetus to agriculture, manufacturing and service sectors. Keeping this in mind, they were open to investments by swiftly clearing proposals and giving clearances," he said. Stating that the government headed by B S Yediyurappa is according priority on creating an industry-friendly administration by making amendments to the APMC Act by ending the government monopoly, he said the corporate sector can now directly purchase produce from farmers. The government was providing all the help for farmers, including the supply of seeds, fertilisers, creating awareness on crops and bringing scientific techniques to the agriculture sector, he said. "There is no other state like Karnataka in the country. Whether it is investments in IT or any other sector, the government is making an all-out effort to ensure ease of business," he added. The government is laying stress on the garment sector which generates a large number of jobs, Narayan said, adding that additional incentives would be extended if garment units are established in rural areas of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-will-extend-complete-cooperation-to-industry-in-doubling-gsdp-851917.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||On COVID-19, there’s nothing to learn from Karnataka: D K Shivakumar||KPCC president D K Shivakumar is convinced that the ‘Karnataka model’ of COVID-19 management is a myth. Shivakumar also tells Bharath Joshi about how he wants to revamp a faction-ridden party. Excerpts:  The COVID-19 pandemic seems to have given the Congress a much-needed revival.  I was advised to shut office and stay home, but I’m a street fighter. If I hadn’t stood by people during a crisis, then when? Farmers were willing to sell vegetables for Rs 2-3. Congress party workers purchased farm produce worth Rs 100 crore and helped stabilise prices. And then, migrants. They are nation-builders. For them to travel, it’d have cost Rs 500 or Rs 1,000. Was that too much for this government? This government lacked basic common sense.  The Centre has asked other states to emulate Karnataka’s best practices in handling the COVID-19 pandemic.  There’s nothing to learn from Karnataka. What have they handled? What did they do in Ramanagara? And why didn’t they stop people coming from outside at the borders? Why were they sent to their homes in the first place? We won’t accept a certificate from the Centre. We know the reality here. But you seem to have a soft corner for CM B S Yediyurappa and vice-versa.  I want to respect someone’s age, struggle and persistence. Ideologically, I’ve a lot of differences with him. I don’t have any soft corner. The way he came to power, it didn’t send a proper message to the state.      Why is making Congress a cadre-based unit so significant? In every household, the decision makers are youngsters. If we don’t tap them when they’re young, on Congress ideology, we can’t do it later. Congress was built on the power of masses. People voted for Indira Gandhi and the Hand. That’s not the case now. From the bottom-up, we need to ready and strengthen an army of party workers who can be our voice.  But then, the same leaders keep getting opportunities, like we saw in the selection of RS and MLC candidates recently.  These are the Upper Houses, which are the Houses of Elders that need seniority and maturity. We sent Mallikarjun Kharge to Rajya Sabha because we feel that experience is needed. Even in the Legislative Council, B K Hariprasad and Naseer Ahmed have the experience. Also, this is war time, not peace time. There’s a mighty government at the national level and coalition government here that has a mix of ideologies of all three parties - JD(S), Congress and BJP. With Siddaramaiah as the CLP leader, are there two power centres? There’s only one power centre and that’s the Congress centre. I’m the party president and he’s legislature party leader. I fully respect his seniority, experience and knowledge. I don’t want to compete with Siddaramaiah. He’s my colleague. He’s also a leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/on-covid-19-there-s-nothing-to-learn-from-karnataka-d-k-shivakumar-851937.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||75-member Karnataka Legislative Council has just 2 women||Women constitute barely 2.6% of the total members in the Legislative Council. On Thursday, the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress and JD(S) announced seven candidates for the June 29 MLC elections: All men. With this, the number of women in the 75-member Upper House will soon reduce to two. Until this month, there were four women MLCs, including three Congress MLCs Jayamala (Governor-nominated), Jayamma and Veena Achaiah (both elected by MLAs) apart from BJP’s Tejaswini Gowda (also elected by MLAs). The terms of both Jayamma and Jayamala will end this month, leaving the Council with only two women. Soon, there will be five vacancies under the Governor-nominated category. Even if all these five will be women, their number in the Council will still not cross the single-digit mark.  This skewed gender representation has come as a dampener for several aspirants. “The party has given an opportunity to B K Hariprasad who was already an MP for four times. When will the leaders ever make way for women,” one Congress leader asked.  Senior Congress leader Motamma also said this was a huge disappointment. “When it comes to women, somehow party loyalty does not seem to count. This is highly unfortunate and is discouraging for women in political parties,” she said.  Veena Devi, professor, political science at Bangalore University, opined this was the “unfortunate outcome” of political parties being preoccupied with caste and religious parameters. “They have to consciously keep aside a section of seats for women. Across the globe, we’re talking about how women-led countries have fared better in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. It’s unfortunate that our leaders do not have the political will to ensure equitable representation,” she said.  Activist Cynthia Stephen also added that unless there was institutional reservation, political establishment would not be motivated for ensuring gender parity. “The government should reserve for women either all of the 25 MLC seats elected from Local Authorities or at least 50% of them,” she said. “Usually women leaders are not allowed to grow beyond zilla panchayat and their political experience tends to get wasted,” added Stephen, who was part of the KR Ramesh Kumar committee that redrafted the Panchayat Raj Act and is also a member of the Shakti group to promote political empowerment of women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/75-member-karnataka-legislative-council-has-just-2-women-851938.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka records 416 new cases, 9 deaths||Karnataka reported 416 fresh Covid-19 cases, it’s second biggest single-day spike, on Saturday. The state’s tally, as on June 20, stands at 8,697 cases. Of which, 3,170 are active. On Saturday, Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 94 fresh infections. Nine new deaths were reported in the state on Saturday as the toll jumped to 132.  Bengaluru Urban reported three deaths, Bidar saw two fatalities while Davangere, Chikkamagaluru and Udupi recorded one death each.  For the first time, the Health department in its daily media bulletin has withheld information about deaths like a patient’s comorbidities or what he or she was suffering from before being brought to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-records-416-new-cases-9-deaths-851939.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||24 policemen test positive for COVID-19 in a single day||As many as 24 cops tested positive for novel coronavirus in the state in a single day. Mysuru alone saw 14 Karnataka State Reserve Police cops contract the virus. All 14 were deployed for COVID duty in Bengaluru between June 6 and 17. Six cops from various police stations in Bengaluru contracted virus on Saturday. Among the infected are: A woman ASI attached with CCB, another ASI from Wilson Garden Traffic police station, two KSRP constables and one constable each from CCB and City Market police stations. Cubbon Park police station has been sealed after a head constable tested positive for the virus. The BBMP workers have initiated the process to disinfect and fumigate the respective police stations. Tarikere in Chikkamagaluru witnessed four cops contract COVID-19 The office of Deputy Superintendent of Police in Tarikere was sealed after three staffers tested positive for the virus. DySP Renukaprasad and three staff have been sent for a home quarantine. Tarikere Town police station ASI also tested positive for COVID-19. 16 Vijayapura cops quarantined As many as 16 cops, including two sub-inspectors in Vijayapura district, have been quarantined, after two of the three persons arrested in connection with a robbery case, tested positive for COVID-19. Throat swab samples of 39 cops involved in the operation have been drawn and sent for testing, Vijayapura SP Anupam Agarwal told reporters. Meanwhile, a 31-year-old man from the Tibetan settlement in Bylakuppe, Periyapatna taluk, has tested positive for the virus on Saturday.He had returned from Delhi on June 16. His swab sample has returned positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Chamarajanagar district, which had maintained a clean slate with no infections till June 9, saw its second COVID-19 case. A 39-year-old man, a lorry driver from Mahadevaprasad Nagar in Gundlupet with a travel history to the virus hotspot Tamil Nadu, tested positive for virus on Friday.  Ramanagara district saw eight fresh infections on Saturday. The district’s COVID-19 tally jumped to 93. Meanwhile, the doctor couple from Kanakpur, who tested positive for the virus a few days back, have released a video on social media platform requesting those who visited their clinic since June 11 to undergo tests for COVID-19. Virus hotspots in Kalyana Karnataka - Bidar, Kalaburagi and Raichur - continued to see a surge in infections in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Saturday). Bidar district reported 73 fresh cases and two deaths while Kalaburagi saw 34 new cases since Friday afternoon. Raichur recorded 15 cases on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/24-policemen-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-a-single-day-851940.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 518 private hospitals allowed to treat Covid-19 patients||The state government on Saturday authorised 518 private hospitals and medical colleges in Karnataka empanelled under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) to treat Covid-19 patients henceforth. Of these, 44 facilities are in Bengaluru. The list of hospitals has been published in the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust portal. The circular comes after the state saw a surge in cases and low number of beds in ICUs, especially those with oxygen and ventilators. There have also been complaints about lack of facilities and infrastructure in government Covid-19-designated hospitals. The government also authorised two stadiums and one ashram in Bengaluru to function as Covid Care Centres to treat asymptomatic patients: Sri Sri Sri Ravishankar Ashram on Kanakapura Road, Kanteerava Indoor Stadium in SR Nagar, and Koramangala Indoor Stadium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-518-private-hospitals-allowed-to-treat-covid-19-patients-851941.html
20-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka traces 47 contacts per coronavirus patient, highest in the country||"The technology-backed system involving multi-sectoral government teams for contact tracing of COVID-19 cases has helped the state to effectively trace and track each case therebysuccessfully containing the spread of the epidemic. Practices followed in Karnataka are worth replicating."These are the words of Rajesh Bhushan, officer-on-special-duty from the union health ministry, whose letter to all states lauding Karnataka's contact tracing model has gone viral on social media. According to the state COVID-19 war room, Karnataka traces 47 contacts per patient on an average which is the highest in the country.The state has involved more than 10,000 government field staff for the job. A contact tracing mobile app and web application helps the officers if the patient forgets to reveal or tries to hide where they have been or whom they have met.How? The job of retracing the steps of a patient is divided among two teams. Team 1 talks to the patients as soon as he or she tests positive and uploads the contacts of all the people the patient recollects about in the contact tracing app. The police also obtains call data records of these patients and passes it on to team one.Now all contacts and their addresses are available for everyone to see on the contact tracing app. Team 2 visits the homes of these contacts, enters relevant information in the app."So if a new contact is entered in Bengaluru but with the address of Bidar district, then it will immediately flow to a field team 2 member of Bidar for home visit at Bidar," said Munish Moudgil, head of the state COVID-19 war room.As on Friday, 1,628 patients in the state were either primary or secondary contacts of previously diagnosed patients in the state."About 10 per cent primary contacts have turned positive in Karnataka. Manual follow up is impossibly difficult beyond the initial stages. The patient can name only those known to them. But many times in public places, they would meet strangers and infect them. All such contacts cannot be traced with information obtained from COVID-19 patients," he said."The manual press goes on for many days and is incomplete. This defeats the very purpose of contact tracing which is to identify likely infected persons and quarantine them for 14 days to stop likely spread. The process of identifying all contacts, hand-stamping and quarantining them is completed within 24 to 36 hours of a patient testing positive," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-traces-47-contacts-per-coronavirus-patient-highest-in-the-country-851943.html
20-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM's son Tejas, team discover new lizard species||Tejas Thackeray, younger son of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, and his team have discovered a new lizard species from Sakleshwar in central-western ghats of neighbouring Karnataka. As per a statement issued here, the large-bodied cnemaspis (a genus of diurnal geckos) they have discovered is a 'dwarf gecko', adding the new species is alliedto cnemaspis heteropholis bauer and differs in bodysize. Akshay Khandekar, lead author of a paper prepared by the four member team, said the new gecko species was discovered from the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot. The paper was published in renowned peer-reviewed international scientific journal Zootaxa, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cms-son-tejas-team-discover-new-lizard-species-851611.html
20-06-2020||West||150-odd forts of Maharashtra documented with maps||In a new, major initiative, maps and details of about 150 forts in Maharashtra have been prepared and compiled. The western state of Maharashtra is home to over 400 forts majority of which are located in the picturesque Sahyadri ranges of Western Ghats. Many of these forts are associated with Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the legendary Maratha warrior and strategist. These are also hotspots of trekking activities. If one goes with a trekking group it is easier to navigate but amateurs who go on these treks find it difficult. Taking into consideration their needs, the Trekshitij Sanstha, based in Dombivli in Thane district, a suburb in Mumbai, has come up with a comprehensive guide, the first-of-its-kind. Titled 'Forts through Maps,' in English, it is a kind of revised edition of 'Nakashatun Durgbhramanti,' which was in Marathi. The maps in the book give a better perspective on the fort. "With these maps, the information about these forts like doors, secret routes, escape doors, monuments, water tanks, temples, routes and many other features have been highlighted. These maps may not be formal but do not fail to disseminate information in an effective manner," says Mahendra Govekar,  the author. Shreekrishna Joshi translated the book to English. If new information on forts comes in, the maps are open to updation, said Govekar, who received help form veteran trekkers like Rahul Meshram, Amit Samant, Chaitanya Sabnis,  Amit Borole, Jitendra Khare, Harshal Mahajan. The guide describes the different types of forts, their elevation, mountain range, district, access levels, routes to reach the fort, staying options,  source of food and water,  nearest villages,  latitude and longitude."It's a guide book. I can just refer to the book and start trekking...years of efforts have gone into the making of the book," says Samant, who is also a contributor to the book. The foreward has been written by PK Ghanekar,  a source of inspiration for the trekking community. "Visiting forts for picnics is not the right way to go about exploring them. Forts in the Sahyadri range have a lot of potential. One can develop an interest in a particular field while trekking. There is also a wide range of subjects to study, explore from geology to nature, birds, butterflies, plants, flowers, insects, animals, forts, history, caves and temples," said Samant. "Since the objective is to reach a large population who may not be accustomed to trekking as an activity, a guideline for trekkers has been included," said Joshi. The book is published by Snehal Publications. One of the interesting facets of the book is that the fort architecture too has been explained briefly so that a layman can understand and appreciate these forts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/150-odd-forts-of-maharashtra-documented-with-maps-851677.html
20-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Body of elderly man found by roadside, murder suspected||A 70-year-old man's body was found lying on a roadside on the outskirts of Ulhasnagar township in Thane district of Maharashtra, police said on Saturday. The body was recovered on Friday evening, they said. "Police had received information that the body was lying along a road leading to a brick kiln on the outskirts of Ulhasnagar," an official of Hill Line Police Station said. The victim was later idenfitied as Sejumal Ramnanai and it came to light that the septuagenarian was a resident of Ulhasnagar, he said.  Police suspect it to be a case of murder as strangulation marks were found on the neck. "Somebody might have strangulated the elderly man using a wire," the official said. The body was sent to a government hospital for post- mortem and an offence under IPC section 302 (murder) was registered, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-body-of-elderly-man-found-by-roadside-murder-suspected-851691.html
20-06-2020||West||COVID-19: Lockdown imposed in 5 parts of Maharashtra's Vasai-Virar||At a time when the process of restarting the economy is underway, a lockdown was imposed in some parts of the Vasai-Virar township near Mumbai. "In view of rising cases of novel coronavirus outbreak, five regions of the Vasai-Virar city will be under lockdown. Should the experiment be successful and the cases decline, similar lockdown would be called on other areas where cases are on the rise. The decision is taken considering public safety and security in the city," said Pravin Shetty, mayor, VVCMC. The 14-day-lockdown came into force on June 18 - and a strong posse of Palghar police has been deployed to ensure the strict adherence to the lockdown. Only essential services will run - as it did during the initial three-phased lockdown. Spread over 311 sq km, along the Western Railways of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it has a population of nearly 20 lakh. In the Palghar district, till Friday, as many as 2,508 positive cases were reported, of which 83 patients have died. Of these VVCMC, accounts for 1,938 cases and 74 deaths. "People need to cooperate,  that is the one and only solution. We are trying to educate the citizens," said Susheel Dwivedi, one of the founders of Evershine City Citizens Welfare Forum. A large working population of Mumbai stay in the Vasai tehsil, he said, adding that the safety precautions and SOPs need to be followed. The Nalasopara town in Vasai-Virar belt seems to be the worst-affected. Nalasopara East's localities like Santosh Bhuwan, Bilalpada, Dhanivbaug, Shriram Nagar, which are home to over five lakh people, are often referred to as Mini Dharavi because of mushrooming slums, narrow bylanes and small industries. Here people use common toilet facilities - and this has compounded the problem like Dharavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-imposed-in-5-parts-of-maharashtras-vasai-virar-851699.html
20-06-2020||West||Pune district's count of COVID-19 cases crosses 14,000-mark||The number of coronavirus positive cases in the Pune district of Maharashtra crossed the 14,000-mark after 542 people were found infected in the last 24 hours, a health official said on Saturday. The COVID-19 case count of the district now stands at 14,292, the official said. As the virus claimed eight more lives in the district, its death toll has reached 560, he said. "Of the 542 cases, at least 359 were reported from the areas controlled by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), where the count has reached 11,554. However, 157 patients were also discharged from hospitals, the official added. With the rise of 32 cases in neighboring Pimpri Chinchwad, the COVID-19 tally there has grown to 1,381, he said. The number of positive cases in rural parts of the district, areas under the Pune Cantonment Board and the civil hospital has increased to 1,246, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-districts-count-of-covid-19-cases-crosses-14000-mark-851731.html
20-06-2020||West||Daman seals its border with Gujarat as COVID-19 cases rise||Most of the 27 COVID-19 patients in Daman are factory workers who cross the border to work in industrial units at Vapi in neighbouring Gujarat and vice versa, the officials said. The eight fresh cases were reported on Friday. "The district administration has closed all border check-posts with Gujarat for a few days due to clustering of cases near the border areas, and has declared several parts of Dabhel village, an industrial hub, as containment zones in an effort to control the spread of coronavirus," an official said. Vehicles holding valid e-passes are also not being allowed to enter Daman, he said. Daman had reported its first two COVID-19 cases on June 9, a few days after the Union Territory said the district was coronavirus-free due to the strict implementation of lockdown measures.  "Out of the 27 cases in Daman, around 20 patients are factory workers who travel frequently through border check- posts. Due to the clustering of cases near the areas bordering Gujarat, the district administration has temporarily closed the border for a few days," programme officer for communicable diseases, Meghal Shah said. Several workers travel to neighbouring Vapi in south Gujarat to work in factories there, while a number of them travel from Vapi to Daman for work in industrial units. Diu district of the UT had also reported its first two cases on June 12. The number of cases here has now risen to 10, with five new cases reported on Saturday alone, collector Saloni Rai said. In a tweet, Rai said, "Five more cases tested positive today. All of them had travelled via flight to Diu and were under facility quarantine. Total active cases in Diu district: ten." The number of cases in Dadra and Nagar Haveli also grew to 49. With this, the UT of DNH, Daman and Diu has so far reported 85 cases, out of which 70 cases are active. According to the health department of the UT administration, a total of 27,239 samples have been collected for COVID-19 tests. Results of 701 are awaited, it said. As many as 16,986 samples have been collected in DNH, 8,430 in Daman and 1,843 in Diu. A total 2,696 persons are under surveillance, including 1,597 in DNH, 615 in Daman and 484 in Diu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daman-seals-its-border-with-gujarat-as-covid-19-cases-rise-851733.html
20-06-2020||West||Jalgaon expert brings people closer to the museum during the lockdown||At a time when the lockdown has affected visits to tourism and education institutions,  a Jalgaon-based expert is ensuring people come closer to museums. "The pandemic has thrown a big challenge to the museums. Digitizing and harnessing the potential of online platforms is key to taking museums to people," said Bhujang Bobade, the curator of the Jalgaon-based Gandhi Research Foundation.   Bobade organized a short-term online course on Museums Heritage which academicians, teachers,  students and experts from across the country attended.  Some of the participants were from foreign countries. "Museums is a vast subject.... it's just an overview," he said,  adding that issues like museums and museology,  history, types, museum objects, cataloguing, digitisation,  digital networking, training, conservation, preservation and restoration were discussed. Museums of India and Maharashtra were discussed in detail and so were foreign museums. "We have to keep pace with international trends and think in terms of 7D technology," said Bobade,  who has presented several papers and written books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jalgaon-expert-brings-people-closer-to-the-museum-during-the-lockdown-851773.html
20-06-2020||West||Yash Raj Films submits copies of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's contract to cops||Yash Raj Films (YRF) on Saturday submitted copies of the contract signed by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput for their upcoming projects to the Mumbai Police. Rajput, 34, known for films like "Kai Po Che!", "MS Dhoni: The Untold Story", "Chhichhore", was found hanging in his Bandra apartment on Sunday. No suicide not was found at the spot, police had said. The Bandra Police had sent a letter to Yash Raj Films seeking details of the contract on June 18, a police official said. "Accordingly, the Investigation Officer (IO) has received a contract copy from the YRF which was signed by Sushant Singh Rajput," said Abhishek Trimukhe, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone-IX. So far police have recorded statements of 15 persons, including family members of the actor, his staff, his close friend actor Rhea Chakraborty and of casting director Mukesh Chhabra, he said. "Based on the information given by them, the police are verifying the facts," the DCP said. Chakraborty had told the investigators that the actor had ended his contract with Yash Raj Films and also asked her to stop working with the banner, police had said. Rajput had worked in two Yash Raj Films movies - "Shuddh Desi Romance" (2013) directed by Maneesh Sharma and in director Dibakar Banerjee directed "Detective Byomkesh Bakshy!" (2015). His third film with the banner was supposed to be "Paani", directed by Shekhar Kapur. However, YRF had reportedly backed out of the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yash-raj-films-submits-copies-of-late-actor-sushant-singh-rajputs-contract-to-cops-851840.html
20-06-2020||West||94-yr-old woman returns home forty years after disappearing||Thanks to the Internet, a 94- year-old woman from Maharashtra who had gone missing four decades ago has been reunited with her family. Unfortunately, when Panchubai, the woman, reached her grandson's house in Nagpur three days ago, she could not meet her son. He had died three years ago. Sometime in 1979-80, a truck driver spotted a woman, clueless and in a pitiable condition, walking along a road in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district. "She had been stung by honeybees and could not speak coherently," Israr Khan, the truck driver's son, told PTI. Khan's father took the woman home and she began to live with his family. Israr himself was a baby then. "We called her Achchhan Mausi. She was mentally unstable and used to mutter in Marathi which we could not understand," he said. "I sometimes asked her about her family, but she could not tell anything," he said. Khan also wrote about her on Facebook, but it did not lead to anywhere. "She used to talk about a place called `Khanjma Nagar'. Google search of the name yielded no result. Then on May 4 this year, as we were at home amid lockdown, I again asked her about her hometown," he said. "This time she spoke about a place called Parsapur. We googled it and found that there is one Paraspur in Maharashtra," Khan said. On May 7, he contacted a man called Abhishek who runs a shop in Paraspur and told him about the woman. Abhishek, who belongs to the Kirar community, told him that there is a village called Khanjma Nagar near the town. "I sent him Mausi's video at 8:30 pm on May 7, which he shared on a WhatsApp group of the Kirar community. I received a phone call from Abhishek around midnight, saying the woman had been identified and her relatives traced," Khan said. A video of the old woman was sent to Prithvi Bhaiyalal Shingane, Panchubais grandson who lives in Nagpur. The Shingane family was astounded. They were eager to bring her home, but the wait was not yet over as lockdown was in force. Finally, on June 17, Shingane took his grandmother -- whose full name is Panchfulabai Tejpalsingh Shingane -- home. "We are natives of Khanjma Nagar in Achalpur tehsil in Amravati district of Maharashtra, but the family shifted to Nagpur about five decades ago," he told PTI. "In 1979, my father brought my grandmother to Nagpur for treatment of her mental ailment from Khanjma Nagar. The doctors were optimistic about curing her. But one day she left home in the evening, telling neighbours that she was going to her father's place, and disappeared for ever," he said. "My father searched for her for years without success. He died in 2017. It would have been so much better if I had found her three years ago," Shingane added. "At the age of 94, my grandmother is still in good health thanks to the Khan family who looked after her for such a long time," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/94-yr-old-woman-returns-home-forty-years-after-disappearing-851870.html
20-06-2020||West||Gujarat's coronavirus case count up by 539 to 26,737; 20 more die||Gujarat on Saturday reported 539 new coronavirus cases and 20 deaths, taking the count to 26,737 and fatalities to 1,639, the state health department said. With 535 patients getting discharged in the day, the number of recovered cases rose to 18,702. Gujarat now has 6,396 cases including 66 critical patients, it said. A total of 3,19,414 samples have been tested so far in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-coronavirus-case-count-up-by-539-to-26737-20-more-die-851895.html
20-06-2020||West||Gujarat High Court stays Ahmedabad's rath yatra on coronavirus concerns||The Gujarat High Court on Saturday ordered stay on holding of annual Rath Yatra procession here in the name of Lord Jagannath on coronavirus concerns. A division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice JB Pardiwala stayed all secular and religious activities related to the Rath Yatra, after taking into consideration submissions made by a petitioner and respondents as well as the recent Supreme Court's order staying the Puri's Rath Yatra. The HC stayed the procession in view of the prevailing situation arising out of the coronavirus after the state government informed that the yatra covers the route of around 18 km and approximately 7-8 lakh people will participate in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-high-court-stays-ahmedabads-rath-yatra-on-coronavirus-concerns-851898.html
20-06-2020||West||At 7 new COVID-19 cases, Dharavi reports lowest rise||In a significant development, Dharavi slum in Mumbai, which was once a COVID-19 hotspot, on Saturday recorded only seven new cases, which is the lowest such rise in a single day, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Dharavi's case count now stands at 2,158. The number of fatalities stands at 80 after one more person succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. Of the total 2,158 COVID-19 cases, 1,057 patients have already recovered and discharged from hospitals. There has been a steady decline in the number of COVID-19 cases in Dharavi since the last four weeks, officials said, adding that the lowest tally of 10 was recorded on June 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-7-new-covid-19-cases-dharavi-reports-lowest-rise-851918.html
20-06-2020||West||COVID-19 situation a blessing in disguise, says Union minister Nitin Gadkari||The unprecedented situation caused by the coronavirus pandemic should be viewed as a blessing in disguise, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Saturday. Addressing virtual 'Jan Samwad' rally of BJP workers from Nagpur in Maharashtra, Gadkari said the challenge posed by COVID-19 is nothing compared to the challenges faced and overcame by India before and after Independence. "It is not only India that is facing COVID-19 crisis but the whole world is impacted by it, but we should consider it as a blessing in disguise," the Nagpur BJP MP said. He said people should rise above fear and don't get disappointed due to the situation. "We had faced and fought back several challenges before and after Independence. Compared to them this (COVID- 19) is not a big challenge. We should remain optimistic and not lose confidence. There should not be any scope for negativity," he said. Gadkari exuded confidence that India will overcome the economic challenges and become super power. He said scientists across the world have been trying to develop a vaccine against coronavirus, and they will succeed soon.  "We should fight COVID-19 by maintaining social distancing, wearing mask and sanitising our hands," he said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, state BJP unit president Sadanand Shet Tanavade delivered their online speeches from the party's office in Panaji.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-situation-a-blessing-in-disguise-says-union-minister-nitin-gadkari-851925.html
20-06-2020||West||Dharavi reports lowest seven new COVID-19 cases||In a significant development, Dharavi slum in Mumbai, which was once a COVID-19 hotspot, on Saturday recorded only seven new cases, which is the lowest such rise in a single day, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Dharavi's case count now stands at 2,158. The number of fatalities stands at 80 after one more person succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. Of the total 2,158 COVID-19 cases, 1,057 patients have already recovered and discharged from hospitals. There has been a steady decline in the number of COVID-19 cases in Dharavi since the last four weeks, officials said, adding that the lowest tally of 10 was recorded on June 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-reports-lowest-seven-new-covid-19-cases-851934.html
20-06-2020||West||1,197 new coronavirus cases in Mumbai, 136 deaths||1,197 new coronavirus patients were reported in Mumbai on Saturday, taking the total cases in the city to 65,265. In grim news, the financial capital of the country also recorded 136 deaths due to the pandemic, which is the highest single-day figure, said a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) release. The death toll in the city thus rose to 3,559, it said. Out of 136 deaths, 75 deaths had occurred between June 16-19 and rest 61 before June 16, it said. 610 COVID-19 patients were discharged from city hospitals, taking the number of recovered patients to 32,867. Mumbai now has 28,839 active COVID-19 cases. 801 new suspected patients were admitted in the hospitals in the past 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1197-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-136-deaths-851948.html
20-06-2020||West||389 new coronavirus patients found in Pune city||Pune city reported 389 new coronavirus cases since previous evening, which took the total number of cases to 11,854, a health official said on Saturday. The death toll due to the pandemic in the city reached 504 with 11 patients succumbing to the infection since Friday evening, he said. 183 patients were discharged from hospitals upon recovery, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/389-new-coronavirus-patients-found-in-pune-city-851949.html
