21-06-2020||First Edit||PM’s Narendra Modi's remark on LAC intrusions raises more questions||The Narendra Modi government did well to hold an all-party meeting on Friday on the crisis on the India-China border in the Ladakh sector arising from the violation of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by Chinese soldiers and the brutal killing of 20 Indian soldiers, including an officer. It was the worst violence on the border in the last 45 years and the nation had to be taken into confidence on the situation, which continues to be grave and is even now building up. It concerned not just the government but the country as such. Most political parties were represented at the meeting and they extended full support to the government in handling the situation. There were questions about when and how the crisis developed, and some criticism of the government. But the parties refrained from taking partisan political positions on the matter. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s concluding remarks at the meeting created avoidable confusion and raised questions about what actually happened at the LAC. These have not been clearly answered even now. The prime minister said that "no one has intruded, nor is anyone intruding, nor has any post been captured by someone”. This did not serve as words of assurance to the nation, if they were meant to be so, because they contradicted the facts in the public domain and the government's own claims and statements about the situation. If there was no intrusion what was the escalating situation about, and why and where were the soldiers killed? What were the talks of the senior army officers of the two sides about in the past few weeks? The External Affairs Ministry had said last week that the Chinese side "tried to erect a structure in the Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC’’. The prime minister’s statement apparently contradicted this.  The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) issued a clarification on Saturday which did not clear the confusion. It said the focus of the prime minister's remarks was about the incidents on June 15 which led to the loss of lives of soldiers, but this has not shed any new light on the matter. The PMO also said that a "mischievous interpretation’’ has been given to the Prime Minister’s remarks. But did all the retired senior army officers who commented on the situation misread it? It needs to be noted that confusing and contradictory statements from responsible authorities on the Indian side would undermine the country’s position and help to strengthen China’s claims. It is unfortunate that the prime minister’s statement has created such a situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-s-narendra-modis-remark-on-lac-intrusions-raises-more-questions-852219.html
21-06-2020||In Perspective||Grassroot democracy in crisis||While the entire country is facing a severe health and financial crisis, Karnataka is on the verge of fostering another. The state government is considering dilution of the principles and purpose of the Panchayat Raj system. With the gram panchayat (GP) members’ term ending in June-August, the BJP government is keen on postponing the elections to 6,025 GPs keeping the health issue as an excuse. It is favouring nominating members to the GPs. Extending the term of the present members would be an appropriate ad hoc measure at this juncture. But if the government is not in favour of it for any reason, then a pragmatic approach would be entrusting more authority to the executive at the panchayat level. COVID-19 must teach us quarantine policy and not democracy. Nominating members amounts to a gross dereliction of democratic principles at the grassroot level. Mahatma Gandhi had said, “a good government is no substitute for self-government.” In the words of famed historian and author John Motley, “Local self-government…is the life-blood of liberty.” These wise words today are more apposite than ever. With the coronavirus crisis and re-centralisation of power in order to facilitate swift decision making, it is easy for one to forget and undermine the legitimacy and importance accorded to local self-governments. This is especially so in rural areas with Panchayat Raj institutions (PRIs). At this juncture, let me reiterate the history of and the rationale behind PRIs in Karnataka which is a model to the entire country.  The first prominent legislation was enacted in 1959 providing for a three-tier structure. These institutions had limited and sometimes no independent power. In the 1960s, then Panchayat Raj Minister Ramakrishna Hegde favoured an overhaul of PRIs in order to give them more power and autonomy. At that time, every bill used to be placed before the Congress Legislature Party meeting prior to be tabled in the Legislative Assembly. The bill was not approved by the CLP, due to shortage of a solitary vote. Hegde’s commitment to decentralisation was so strong that he resigned from the ministry. In 1967, my father P M Nadagouda became rural development and panchayat raj minister. After having studied the nuances of the system, he tabled the bill in the House in 1970. Unfortunately, the government collapsed before the bill could be passed. Through the years, the efforts of these political heavyweights kept the issue of PRIs in the forefront of Karnataka politics. Hegde’s dream was realised only after more than two decades when he became the chief minister. The concerted efforts of Hegde along with then panchayat raj minister Abdul Nazir Saab fructified in the enactment of a new legislation in 1983 which received presidential assent in 1985. Thus, the humble beginning of grassroot level democracy in 1959 was given a renewed thrust with the new Act which was passed 1983. The Act provided for 25% reservation for women, reservation for the backward classes, SCs/STs among others. The Karnataka model was replicated across country by Rajiv Gandhi when he was the prime minister. The three-tier system was given constitutional status with the advent of the 73rd amendment to the Constitution. The system of local self- governance in Karnataka has emerged as a means by which participative decision-making takes place. Though this system of local self-governance in the state is seen to be a success story, the panchayat system in Karnataka has its fair share of fallacies. Power groups Studies by George Mathew from the Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi, has shown that the power in the districts is enjoyed mainly by dominant castes belonging to the top power groups, and the interests of the poor are sacrificed for strengthening the vested interests of the district leadership. In spite of these pitfalls, the necessity and contribution of the local governance in the state cannot be ignored. These institutions take care of the day to day administration of the local areas by mobilising local resources and by managing the administration of local facilities like drinking water, other sources of water, primary school, cleanliness, primary health etc. The local bodies in the state have also contributed to planning and implementation of programmes in sectors like agriculture, minor irrigation, animal husbandry, household industries, public works, input supply and their distribution etc. As a legislator, on many occasions, I have had discussions with Hegde and Abdul Nazir Saab regarding the strengthening of these institutions. The tenets of Gramaswarajya, socialism, social justice, secularism and adequate opportunity for women who form the backbone of the rural household, should be the hallmark of the PR system. Thus, local bodies have ensured equality of opportunity and bestowed upon our people access to the corridors of power as active stakeholders in decision-making. It is extremely necessary to ensure that this system of local self-governance thrives as they not only strengthen the rural voice but also the rural economy. Accountability of such governments may be increased by introducing Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan’s novel idea of “right to recall” at least at the gram panchayat level to begin with. Though the tenure of the GPs is getting completed in Karnataka, in the interest of health and safety of our people during the pandemic, elections have to be deferred. The decision of the government to ‘nominate’ members is not only illegal but also serves as a precedent to more such condemnable decisions in the days to come.   (The writer is a former member, Karnataka Legislative Council)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/grassroot-democracy-in-crisis-852220.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada celebrates Yoga Day||With the shadow of COVID-19 pandemic looming large, the sixth edition of International Day of Yoga was observed on digital media platforms with Yoga experts guiding their students and citizens on various asanas as per the protocol issued by the Ministry of AYUSH, in Dakshina Kannada, on Sunday.   Yoga expert Gopalakrishna Delampady demonstrated Yoga at his residence in Yeyyadi in Mangaluru and was joined by the students and faculty of St Aloysius College, SDM College among others via Google Meet and Facebook Live. Speaking to DH, he said the AYUSH ministry has launched the campaign with the theme “Yoga at home, Yoga with Family.” The common yoga protocol of the ministry can be practiced daily at home. As per the protocol, Yoga practice strated with prayer, followed by neck bending, trunk movement, knee movement, yogasanas with standing, sitting, prone posture and supine posture, kapalabharti, pranayama, meditation and peace mantra. “We had been practicing the protocol for the past two months,” he said. Meanwhile Sharada Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy Hospital celebrated the day by conducting a live yoga session from 7 am to 8 am. In addition, the hospital has also organised a Yoga Challenge for the participants.  The SDM College of Yoga and Naturopathy in Ujire too organised Yoga at home for healthy living in Ujire and surrounding areas. Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) in association with Avishkar Yoga had organised a 12-hour virtual live lecture series on 10 yoga topics by yoga experts on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-celebrates-yoga-day-852016.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yoga hub Mysuru celebrates International Yoga Day through digital platforms||Amidst the fear of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Yoga hub of Mysuru celebrated the sixth international Yoga Day in a significant manner using digital media. The district administration made arrangements for the telecast of Yoga professionals performing asanas in front of the Mysuru Palace. A team, led by Srihari of GSS Yoga Institute, performed various asanas in front of Mysuru Palace for 45 minutes. The performance was live-streamed via Facebook. According to officials, thousands of people performed yoga on their terraces. Following the outbreak of COVID-19, the district administration had initiated the 'Virtual terrace yoga' concept, wherein yoga enthusiasts performed Yoga by following the instructions of professionals who performed in front of Mysuru Palace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yoga-hub-mysuru-celebrates-international-yoga-day-through-digital-platforms-852036.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Serial killer Cyanide Mohan convicted in 20th case||The sixth additional and sessions court judge Sayeedunnisa held serial killer Cyanide Mohan guilty in the murder of a woman from Kasargod, on Saturday. This is the 20th and last case to be tried in the court. The court will pronounce judgement on the sentence on June 24. The hearing of all the 19 cases against him had been completed. In the four cases, the court had sentenced him to death and in 15 cases, he was sentenced to life imprisonment. The 25-year-old victim from Kasargod was working as a cook in a hostel and got in touch with Mohan, a teacher in 2009. He had visited her thrice and promised to marry her. On July 8, 2009, on the pretext of visiting a temple in Sullia, she had left home and did not return back. Mohan had taken her to Bengaluru and three days later, when her family tried to reach her on phone, he reportedly told them that she had gone for a bath and they were married and would be returning home shortly. The duo had stayed in a lodge where they had physical contact. Mohan took her to the nearest bus stand on July 15, 2009.   Mohan asked her to swallow a tablet in the bus stand toilet to prevent pregnancy. After she consumed the tablet presuming it to be a contraceptive pill, she collapsed. Upparapete police had registered an unnatural death report, said the charge sheet filed by the police. The police had arrested Mohan in October 2019.  As his photos were published in newspaper following his arrest, the family of the victim recognised him and the victim’s younger sister filed a missing complaint. The police had also recovered the victim's jewellery from the house of Mohan's second wife. Mohan is currently lodged in Hindalga central jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/serial-killer-cyanide-mohan-convicted-in-20th-case-852087.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Traditional methods in Kalaburagi this solar eclipse||People in Kalaburagi's rural areas will follow a traditional method to measure the solar eclipse. They will make a pestle (a pounding stick) stand in a water-filled copper or bronze plate during the solar eclipse. "They know if the eclipse has started if the pestle stands in the water- filled plate", said Veeresh Belakeri and Malappa Appoji, residents of Gadikeshwara village in Chincholi taluk. The residents of several villages confirmed the solar eclipse began by making the pounding stick stand vertically in water-filled plates on Sunday at around 10 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/traditional-methods-in-kalaburagi-this-solar-eclipse-852097.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 deaths rise to 15 in Bidar||The Bidar district in Karnataka saw two more people losing battle against COVID-19 on Sunday. Total fatalities rose to 15  in the district. The district is witnessing a sharp rise in deaths for past six days. As many as eight people died of infection within a week in the district.  Meanwhile, a total 13 fresh cases were reported from the district on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-deaths-rise-to-15-in-bidar-852133.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man killed, one injured as car falls into lake||A 40-year-old man was killed and another passenger was seriously injured after the car in which they were travelling by fell into Chowlikere near Barkur. The deceased was identified as Santhosh Shetty (40), owner of a plywood shop in Beejadi. The injured passenger is identified as Shwetha (23), who works in the shop of Santhosh Shetty. Shetty was travelling in the car from Barkur to Saibrakatte when he lost control over the car and the vehicle plunged into the lake. Though locals rescued them, Shetty died on the way to a hospital. The curve on the way to Saibrakatte from Brahmavar had witnessed many fatal accidents in the past. Local residents had urged authorities to prevent accidents by erecting a railing around the lake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-killed-one-injured-as-car-falls-into-lake-852193.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Clouds eclipse celestial phenomenon in Kodagu||The first 'ring of fire' annular solar eclipse of the year 2020 could not be witnessed in Kodagu, as the sky remained overcast disappointing a majority of eclipse watchers. In Madikeri, the eclipse was witnessed between 11 am and 12 noon, amidst clouds. People preferred to remain inside their houses. The astronomical incident had its impact on commercial activities too. The previous solar eclipse to be seen in Kodagu was on December 26. Talacauvery, Bhagamandala, Omkareshwara and Igguthappa temples remained closed after offering prayers in the morning. Entry of devotees to the temples were restricted during the solar eclipse. The temples were reopened after 5 pm for cleansing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/clouds-eclipse-celestial-phenomenon-in-kodagu-852201.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||People perform Yoga at their homes||On the occasion of International Day of Yoga on Sunday, people performed Yoga at their homes owing to COVID-19 pandemic. No public programmes were held on the Yoga day so as to adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines. During the previous years, the Yoga day celebrations were held in playgrounds or auditoriums. This year, preference was given to Digital Yoga day. Many yoga instructors went live on Facebook. Virajpet MLA K G Bopaiah and Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan performed Yoga at their homes. Many others uploaded the videos of them performing yogasanas on social networking sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-perform-yoga-at-their-homes-852205.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more SSLC students contract coronavirus||With two days left for the SSLC examination, two students - one each from Bagalkot and Haveri districts - have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday. A 15-year-old girl from Shiggaon town in Haveri district contracted the virus. According to Tahsildar Prakash Kuduri, "The girl was a contact of a 46-year-old man (Patient 6832), her next-door neighbour. Her sample was collected by the health workers during the door-to-door surveillance. Her parents and a brother also have contracted virus." The tahsildar said, she won't be allowed to write SSLC final exam starting June 25. However, she can take supplementary exam as fresher. A 16-year-old boy from Mudhol town was among the 14 people who tested positive for COVID-19 in Bagalkot district in the last 24 hours. The day's tally also includes a five-month-old baby. On Saturday, an SSLC student from Kittur taluk in Belagavi, with a travel history to the virus-hit Tamil Nadu capital Chennai, was infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-sslc-students-contract-coronavirus-852232.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 fatalities mount to 15 in Bidar district||Two more COVID-19 patients in Bidar district with comorbidities, including a 46-year-old man (Patient 9150), died on Sunday as the fatalities in the district rose to 15. The district had witnessed as many as eight deaths due to COVID-19 in the last six days. Patient 9150, aged 46, is the youngest COVID-19 fatality reported on Sunday. He was admitted to the COVID hospital (BRIMS) on June 17 with the complaints of fever and convulsions. A known case of hypertension, the man died on June 18. Another man (9149), aged 70, also with hypertension comorbidity, lost his battle against the virus on June 18. Both the deaths were reported on Sunday. The district saw 13 fresh infections since Saturday evening. On a positive note, a total of 58 patients walked out of the BRIMS post-recovery on Sunday. Maharashtra returnees continued to swell infections in Kalaburagi. The district witnessed 39 fresh infections. Of which, Maharashtra returnees alone accounted for 29 cases.  Another virus-hit district Vijayapura recorded a spike of 39 COVID cases on Sunday. The district, however, has seen a good recovery rate with 217 recoveries so far. As on June 21, Vijayapura has only 62 active cases. Ballari district, which is grappling with the mounting cases linked to Jindal (Jindal Steel Works) cluster, recorded 26 fresh cases, including a 31-year-old JSW employee at Vidyanagar Township, on Sunday. The Toranagallu-based JSW plant alone has accounted 252 cases out of the district’s tally of 328. Meanwhile, three more KSRP constables tested positive for the virus in Mysuru on Sunday. In the last two days, 17 cops, with a travel history to Bengaluru, have contracted COVID-19 in the City of Palaces. A total of 18 new cases surfaced in the last 24 hours in Gadag district. Of which, four are ILI cases and the remaining contacts of the previously diagnosed patients. Davangere reported 8 new infections on Sunday. All but one are contacts of Patient 7573.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-fatalities-mount-to-15-in-bidar-district-852233.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fearing infection, Basavakalyan youth ends life||A 26-year-old man from Basavakalyan in Bidar district reportedly ended his life on Friday fearing that he would contract the coronavirus. Two days later, his throat swab sample returned negative, said sources in Health department. The youth in question was placed under home quarantine after his friend, a Maharashtra returnee, had tested positive for novel coronavirus. Identifying him as primary contact of the infected, the Health department workers had drawn his throat swab sample for testing. Fearing that he would contract COVID-19, the youth hanged himself from a ceiling of his house. The Town police have registered a case of unnatural death and investigations are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fearing-infection-basavakalyan-youth-ends-life-852235.html
21-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 tally in Karnataka breaches 9,000-mark; Bengaluru reports 196 new infections||As many as 453 new coronavirus cases were confirmed on Sunday including 196 in Bengaluru alone, taking the total number of infections in Karnataka to 9,150, the Health Department said. Five more deaths took the toll due to COVID-19 in the state to 137, a bulletin issued by the department said. An assistant sub-inspector posted in a traffic police station died due to coronavirus on Saturday night taking the number of policemen succumbing to the contagion to three, police said. The entire police station has been sealed for sanitisation and 25 people including five primary contacts of the deceased have been quarantined at the designated hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases include 5,618 discharges, 3,391 active cases, 137 deaths, four deaths due to non-COVID causes and 77 patients admitted in Intensive Care Units. The 196 cases confirmed in Bengaluru today is the highest single-day spike ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. With 64 deaths so far, the city's share in the total fatalities in the state due to COVID is 47 per cent. The five deaths reported on Sunday included three in Bengaluru. "Yes. It is a major single day spike in Bengaluru," a health department official told P T I. Of the total cases reported in Bengaluru, 101 are Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 68 are those whose contact tracing is underway. Apart from 196 in Bengaluru, 40 cases were reported in Ballari, 39 cases each in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura, 18 each in Mysuru and Gadag, 15 in Dharwad, 14 in Bagalkote, 13 in Bidar, eight each in Davangere, Uttara Kannada and Kolar. The five deaths reported on Sunday consisted of four men and a woman. In view of the rising cases in Bengaluru, the Chief Secretary on Saturday formed three teams. According to an order, Principal Secretary in Cooperative department Tushar Girinath will head the team that will ensure shifting the patients from their houses or the institutional quarantine facilities to the designated hospital. The second team headed by the Karnataka Public Service Commission secretary G Sathyavathi will monitor the containment zone and carry out extensive surveys of people with COVID-19. The third team is headed by Karnataka State Mineral Development Corporation managing director Naveen Raj Singh and Additional Commissioner of police Hemant Nimbalkar who will ensure social distancing at public places. These three teams will have senior bureaucrats and top police officers as members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-tally-in-karnataka-breaches-9000-mark-bengaluru-reports-196-new-infections-852244.html
21-06-2020||Main Article||COVID-19: Holes in discharge policy||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) wrote on Friday to state governments asking them to make sure ‘mild, very mild, pre-symptomatic’ COVID-19 patients had proper home isolation facilities before letting them go into home isolation. On the same day, Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Anil Baijal mandated five days of government quarantine for COVID-19 patients in Delhi. Though this has not pleased the Delhi government, it seemed to be a small step in the right direction (since withdrawn). When the COVID-19 pandemic started sweeping India in March, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) framed the discharge policy based on the existing understanding of the COVID-19. The patients who were tested positive in RT-PCR tests needed to be cleared by a chest radiograph and declared negative in two consecutive RT-PCR tests, before getting discharged. This also resulted in many positive patients remaining in hospitals for a longer time, as some of them with high viral loads would not get tested negative even after half a dozen tests and 21 days. While the COVID cases kept increasing, the ministry issued a new discharge policy on May 8. The new policy classified COVID cases into three categories: 1) Mild, very mild/pre-symptomatic 2) Moderate 3) Severe. Patients with mild, very mild, pre-symptomatic and moderate cases were to be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. More importantly, the MoHFW said there was “no need for testing prior to discharge”. The patient was to be under home isolation and self-monitor his/her health for seven more days. The patient needed to be recovered clinically and tested negative once by RT-PCR, after symptoms went away, only for severe cases. About 80% of positive cases being asymptomatic meant they would be home-isolated. The local administrations needed to ensure they stayed home. The ministry said that many countries have changed the criteria for discharge from ‘test-based strategy’ to ‘symptom-based strategy’ or ‘time-based ‘strategy. It cited an ICMR review of laboratory data which showed negative results for COVID-19 after an average duration of 10 days of the first RT-PCR test, and reduction in viral load after a week of symptoms, which means the patient becomes less infectious after 10 days. An FAQ by the ministry says: Unless there is a fear of resurgence of infection and subsequent transmissibility of an infection, resolution of clinical manifestation is usually taken as an evidence for cure. It rules out the risk of an increase in transmission from patients thus discharged. To complement this, on May 10, the ministry issued a revised guide for home isolation, for very mild/ pre-symptomatic patients. This said: 1) The case should be diagnosed as ‘very mild/ pre-symptomatic’ by an authorised physician; 2) The person “should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts”; 3) Caregivers should be available at home and they should take preventive medication; 4) The patient must self-monitor his/her health and self-report it. It also gave a strict set of do’s-and-don’ts for the patients, caregivers and the family. For asymptomatic patients being home-isolated, the new policy meant they had to continue home isolation for 17 days after getting tested positive and no less than 10 continuous days. They did not have to be tested negative before they went out. What’s the catch? The new policy seems to have improved India’s recovery rate. However, when we say India’s recovery rate exceeds 54%, it includes 1) all asymptomatic cases tested positive but are not in hospitals, and 2) all mild and very mild cases, which are not tested negative for COVID-19, who have completed the mandatory quarantine period. The problem is, nobody knows for sure whether they are now negative or positive. The policy assumes that they will be cured after 10 days. There is no foolproof mechanism to enforce quarantine norms on such people. The negative implications of this policy can be far more serious. Remember a senior citizen COVID-19 patient who was found dead in a bus stop in Ahmedabad, after the hospital authorities dropped him where he “requested” himself to be dropped? The hospital said he was a ‘mild’ case, so got discharged in two days as per the ‘policy’. This is just an example of the mess that can happen. There are far more serious implications of just letting positive people stay home. There cannot be a better example than Delhi that pushed people into home isolation but could not enforce quarantine norms. The result: In June second week, Delhi saw nearly ⅓ of daily tests turning positive! Survival of the fittest? Being the second most populated country in the world, there are crores of people in India who are vulnerable to COVID-19. Sample these to imagine the scale of the vulnerable population: A survey by the Karnataka government shows that about 36% of the surveyed houses have senior citizens, numbering about 60 lakh, out of which 15.9 lakh houses have elders with comorbidities. That’s a minimum of 15.9 lakh extremely vulnerable senior citizens in Karnataka alone! The same survey classifies 63.7 lakh houses in Karnataka under the risk category. India has 6% of its population aged 65 and above (senior citizens) according to the World Population 2019 report, which is about 8.2 crore going by conservative estimates. There were 6.5 crore diabetics in India, according to the National Health and Family Survey—2016. There were 199 cases of HIV and Tuberculosis per one lakh people (about 26 lakh people) in India in 2018. COVID-19 has proved fatal for senior citizens and people with comorbid conditions across the globe. If asymptomatic cases are allowed to go out without being tested negative, it will end up being a game of ‘survival of the fittest’ for the rest. Now, the good news: Not all states are enforcing this policy. Kerala treats its positive cases in hospitals and sends them home only when they turn negative clinically. Tamil Nadu keeps people in home isolation but tests them for negative results before declaring them as recovered. The states with poor health infrastructure and saturated health systems are following it. The Centre has finally realised the perils of the flawed implementation of its quarantine policy and has written to states asking that its May 10 policy be followed to the T. This is just a small step in controlling the contagion. In an ideal world, every asymptomatic patient would be tested negative before being declared ‘recovered’, to ensure the vulnerable are safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/covid-19-holes-in-discharge-policy-852221.html
21-06-2020||National||Kanwar yatra suspended in view of COVID-19||Kanwar yatra during the auspicious month of 'Shravan' will remain suspended this year in view of the coronavirus pandemic, according to an official release issued on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a video conference with his counterparts of Haryana and Uttarakhand, M L Khattar and Trivendra Singh Rawat , respectively, and discussed the issue of annual Kanwar yatra in Shravan, an official release issued here said. The chief ministers said religious gurus and kanwar sanghs in their respective states have proposed suspending the yatra in view of COVID-19 and after deliberating over it they took the decision in the public interest, the release said. Adityanath also held video conferencing with all police IGs and commissioners and asked them to hold a dialogue with religious leaders, kanwar sanghs, peace committees in this regard and publicize their appeals among the people. He also directed them to ensure compliance of COVID-19 protocol and ensure that not more than 5 people go for 'jalabhishek' at the local temples and make all arrangements for the safety and security of the devotees, the release said. The chief minister has also directed the officials to ensure there is no crowding on the occasion of Bakrid. He has directed them to contact religious leaders in all the districts to ensure that not more than 5 people gather at any religious place on Bakrid, the release said, adding people of all communities should be made aware of the precautions that need to be taken during the festivals amid the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanwar-yatra-suspended-in-view-of-covid-19-851981.html
21-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 21, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-21-2020-edition-851988.html
21-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 21||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of COVID-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 4 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  While COVID-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. COVID-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of COVID-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths) - 4,19,910 as of June 21  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 13,365  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged:  2,30,357 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the COVID-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-21-851989.html
21-06-2020||National||One terrorist eliminated in a joint operation in Shopian, operation still underway: Report||One terrorist has been eliminated in a joint operation in Shopian, Jammu and Kashmir. Weapons were recovered and the operation in progress, News Agency ANI quoted Northern Command, Indian Army as saying. This is a breaking news story. More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-terrorist-eliminated-in-a-joint-operation-in-shopian-operation-still-underway-report-851990.html
21-06-2020||National||Delhi govt procuring oxygen cylinders, hospitals need not do it themselves: govt order||Delhi government on Saturday said it is in the process of procuring oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders and directed hospitals under it to not procure them for COVID-19 patients, according to an official order issued on Saturday. In an order issued on June 9, the government had directed medical directors of all the designated COVID hospitals under the Delhi government to arrange oxygen supply for all the hospital beds. However, the government, in supersession of its earlier order, said hospitals may now not procure oxygen concentrators or oxygen cylinders. "The Health Department is already in the process of procurement of 18,000 D-type cylinders, 3,000 B-type cylinders and around 3,000 oxygen concentrators centrally," the order said. "The cylinders and concentrators will be procured shortly and will be allocated to the respective hospitals in a staggered manner as per their requirement and as per the receipt from the suppliers," it said. It is also directed that consumables and ancillary devices such as regulators, breathing circuits, masks, nasal prongs, cannulas, filters, flow metres, trolley stand etc. to make the oxygen cylinders operational may be procured by the hospitals as per their need and stock position, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-procuring-oxygen-cylinders-hospitals-need-not-do-it-themselves-govt-order-851994.html
21-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Hetero, Cipla get nod to manufacture, market antiviral drug remdesivir||India's Drug Regulator on Saturday gave permission to Hetero and Cipla to manufacture and market antiviral drug remdesivir for "restricted emergency use" on hospitalised COVID-19 patients, official sources said. This comes a day after the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), considering the emergency and unmet need for medicines in light of the coronavirus outbreak, granted domestic firm Glenmark Pharmaceuticals the permission to manufacture and market favipiravir for "restricted emergency use" in mild to moderate cases. "The approval to Hetero and Cipla was given on Saturday," a source said. Written informed consent of each patient is required before the use of remdesivir and results of additional clinical trials, active post-marketing surveillance data and reporting of serious adverse events have to be submitted. The Union health ministry, in its 'Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19', recommended the use of the remdesivir on patients in moderate stage of the disease that is, those on oxygen. The drug has been included as an "investigational therapy" only for restricted emergency use purposes.   It is not recommended for those with severe renal impairment and high level of liver enzymes, pregnant and lactating women, and those below 12 years, the document on 'Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19' stated.   The drug, administered in the form of injection, should be given at a dose of 200 mg on day one followed by 100 mg daily for five days.       Cipla and Hetero Labs have already entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with US pharma giant Gilead Sciences, which is the patent holder of the drug remdesivir.   Gilead Sciences had applied to the Indian Drug Regulatory Agency, CDSCO, for import and marketing of Remdesivir on May 29. After due deliberations, permission under emergency use authorization was granted by DCGI on June 1 in the interest of patient safety and obtaining further data. Besides Hetero and Cipla, three other firms BDR, Jubilant, Mylan and DR Reddy's Labs have also applied to CDSCO for permission to manufacture and market the drug in India and are still awaiting permission. These applications are being processed by the CDSCO in accordance with the laid down procedures. The companies are at various intermediate stages of inspection of manufacturing facilities, verification of data, stability testing, emergency laboratory testing as per protocol etc, the health ministry had earlier said. Being an injectable formulation, testing for assay, identity, impurities, bacterial endotoxin test and sterility become very critical for patient safety and this data need to be provided by the companies, the ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hetero-cipla-get-nod-to-manufacture-market-antiviral-drug-remdesivir-851997.html
21-06-2020||National||Yoga has emerged as force for unity, does not discriminate: PM Modi||Amid a stand-off with China over the boundary issue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said practicing yoga helped achieve emotional stability to confidently negotiate challenges. “Yoga gives us not only physical strength but also mental balance and emotional stability to confidently negotiate challenges before us,” Modi said in his address on the occasion of International Yoga Day. To negotiate the challenge posed by the COVID-19 outbreak, the prime minister prescribed practicing different versions of the breathing exercise ‘pranayama’ to strengthen the respiratory system. “The various techniques of Pranayam help strengthen our respiratory system as well as the immune system. I exhort you to include Pranayam in your daily exercises. COVID-19 patients across the world are benefiting from yoga, which is helping them fight the disease,” Modi said. He said yoga enhanced the quest for a healthier planet and has emerged as a force for unity and deepened the bonds of humanity.“It does not discriminate. It goes beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations. Anybody can embrace Yoga,” the prime minister said. “If we can fine-tune our chords of health and hope, the day is not far away when the world will witness the success of a healthy and happy humanity. Yoga can definitely help us make this happen,” Modi said. With the outbreak if the COVID-19 pandemic, International Day of Yoga is being marked on digital media platforms instead of mass gatherings. On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly had declared June 21 as ‘International Day of Yoga', months after the Prime Minister had mooted the proposal. President Ram Nath Kovind said yoga was India’s great gift to the world and shared pictures of himself practicing yoga. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said yoga helped in improving physical and mental well-being of an individual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-has-emerged-as-force-for-unity-does-not-discriminate-pm-modi-852001.html
21-06-2020||National||Yoga is unifying force true to its meaning, says Indian Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu||Yoga is a unifying force, true to its literal meaning, India’s top envoy to the US said Saturday, kicking off the celebration of the 6th International Day of Yoga here. “Yoga is a unifying force, true to its literal meaning. People all around the world, transcending nationalities and cultures, have recognized the immense benefits of Yoga. They have made it a part of their everyday lives,” India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu said. In his remarks at India House, during the virtual celebration of the 6th International Day of Yoga, Sandhu said the world is passing through one of the biggest health and economic crises of the modern times. “This has affected our daily lives. The world needs yoga and meditation practices more than ever. Yoga has given us an opportunity to bring together people separated across geographies,” Sandhu said. This year’s theme for the event is “Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family”. “We are not able to celebrate with a larger number of yoga enthusiasts due to the prevailing situation. Thanks to the technology, we are connected with thousands of people online from across the United States,” Sandhu said in his remarks. Organized in partnership with Friends of Yoga and several organizations supporting Yoga in the US, the virtual yoga session was led by Teacher of Indian Culture at the Embassy Moxraj. Several Hollywood stars attended the yoga day celebrations virtually. In the runup to the IDY celebrations, the embassy had conducted a series of virtual curtain raisers with various organizations. “Yoga from Home,” tweeted Sandhu. “A wonderful session today, Ambassador!” tweeted Mary Millben, a popular American actress and singer. Sandhu along with Embassy officials followed the session in person while a large number of participants across US joined it through Embassy's social media channels on Facebook and YouTube. The virtual IYD programme started with playing of the video message from Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. In his message, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said, "World is fighting a pandemic of monumental scale but yoga provides multi-dimensional solutions to the multiple challenges COVID-19 has brought". "Yoga offers something for everyone. It enables strong mind and health body," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-is-unifying-force-true-to-its-meaning-says-indian-ambassador-taranjit-singh-sandhu-852014.html
21-06-2020||National||Amid COVID-19, Yoga can help keep body fit and mind serene, says President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said practicing yoga can help keep the body fit and mind serene amid the coronavirus pandemic. Extending greetings on the International Day of Yoga, he said the ancient science of yoga is India’s great gift to the world. “Glad to see more and more people adopting it,” he tweeted and shared some of his pictures in which he is seen performing yoga. “Amid stress and strife, especially with #Covid19, practicing Yoga can help keep the body fit and mind serene,” the president said in another tweet. President Kovind practices yoga daily, a Rashtrapati Bhavan official said. With the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic looming large, the International Day of Yoga is being marked on digital media platforms sans mass gatherings. This year's theme is 'Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family'. On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly had declared June 21 as ‘International Day of Yoga’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-yoga-can-help-keep-body-fit-and-mind-serene-says-president-ram-nath-kovind-852015.html
21-06-2020||National||Hospital staff get clean chit in patient death case after kin accidentally unplugged ventilator||A three-member probe committee, formed to look into the death of a 40-year-old patient after his family members disconnected the ventilator to plug in cooler cable at a hospital here, has given a clean chit to the medical staff. He was suspected to be suffering from COVID-19 and admitted to the ICU in the Maharao Bhim Singh (MBS) Hospital on June 13. His test report, however, came negative later. The committee submitted its report to the superintendent of the hospital on Saturday, saying the family members of the patient did not turn up before tit to record their statements.  The man was shifted to an isolation ward on June 15 as a safety measure after another patient in the ICU tested positive for the disease. Since it was very hot in the isolation ward, his family members bought an air cooler the same day. On finding no socket for the cooler, they allegedly unplugged the ventilator but almost half-an-hour later, the ventilator ran out of power. The immediately informed doctors and medical staff, who administered CPR upon the patient, but he died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospital-staff-get-clean-chit-in-patient-death-case-after-kin-accidentally-unplugged-ventilator-852020.html
21-06-2020||National||Diesel prices at record high after petrol and diesel prices were upped for the 15th straight day||Diesel prices rise to record high after 60 paise hike in rates, petrol up 35 paise; rates up by Rs 8.88 and Rs 7.97 in 15 days. Diesel prices rise to record high after 60 paise hike in rates, petrol up 35 paise; rates up by Rs 8.88 and Rs 7.97 in 15 days Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 79.23 per litre from Rs 78.88, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 78.27 a litre from Rs 77.67, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies.  In Bengaluru, petrol will be costlier by 37 paise at Rs 81.81 per litre, while diesel will cost 57 paise more per litre at Rs 74.43. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. The 15th daily increase in rates since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus in rate revision, has taken diesel prices to a new high. The petrol price too is at a two-year high. Over 63 per cent of the retail selling price of diesel is taxes. Out of the total tax incidence of Rs 49.43 per litre, Rs 31.83 is by way of central excise and Rs 17.60 is VAT.  Petrol in Mumbai costs Rs 86.04 per litre and diesel is priced at Rs 76.69. Prior to the current rally, the peak diesel rates had touched was on October 16, 2018 when prices had climbed to Rs 75.69 per litre in Delhi. The highest-ever petrol price was on October 4, 2018 when rates soared to Rs 84 a litre in Delhi. When rates had peaked in October 2018, the government had cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 1.50 per litre each. State-owned oil companies were asked to absorb another Re 1 a litre to help cut retail rates by Rs 2.50 a litre. Oil companies had quickly recouped the Re 1 and the government in July 2019 raised excise duty by Rs 2 a litre. The government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each and then again on May 5 by a record Rs 10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. The two hikes gave the government Rs 2 lakh crore in additional tax revenues. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers, adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of a decline in international oil prices to two-decade lows. International oil prices have since rebounded and oil firms are now adjusting retail rates in line with them. In 15 days of hike, petrol price has gone up by Rs 7.97 per litre and diesel by Rs 8.88 a litre. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diesel-prices-at-record-high-after-petrol-and-diesel-prices-were-upped-for-the-15th-straight-day-852025.html
21-06-2020||National||MP residents perform yoga at home amid COVID-19 pandemic||A number of Madhya Pradesh residents rolled out yoga mats at their homes on Sunday morning and performed exercises on the occasion of the International Day of Yoga, which is being observed this year in the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also performed 'pranayam' and other exercises at his home, an aide said. In his message, Chouhan urged people to stay indoors and practice yoga for a healthy body and mind. "Yoga is like a 'ram-baan aushadhi'. Everyone must remain healthy, happy and perform yoga by staying at home, the chief minister said. He said yoga is all the more important nowadays as it strengthens the body, which is required in these turbulent times. At a few places in Bhopal, morning-walkers wearing masks were seen doing yoga on road sidewalks while maintaining a physical distance. Prakash Bachani, a 62-year-old yoga enthusiast from Bhopal's Chunabhattiarea, said he does exercises daily to stay fit and healthy. "I performed different yoga asanas for over 40minutes today," he said. Till 2018, the then BJP government headed by Chouhan used to hold a mega event at the Lal Parade ground here to mark the International Day of Yoga. Though the BJP is back in power in the state since March, this time it asked people to practice yoga indoors in view of the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-residents-perform-yoga-at-home-amid-covid-19-pandemic-852026.html
21-06-2020||National||Yoga helping COVID-19 patients defeat disease: PM Narendra Modi||As COVID-19 cases continue to surge, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made a strong pitch for practicing breath control techniques of pranayama to strengthen the respiratory system to build up immunity against the infectious disease. “Yoga gives us not only physical strength, but also mental balance and emotional stability to confidently negotiate challenges before us,” Modi said in his address on the occasion of International Yoga Day. The International Yoga Day, which is observed across the world on June 21 with people turning up in huge numbers outdoors to perform yogasanas, was forced to shift to digital media platforms. This year’s theme is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’. “The various techniques of pranayama help strengthen our respiratory system as well as immune system. I exhort you to include pranayama in your daily exercises. COVID-19 patients across the world are benefiting from yoga, which is helping them fight the disease,” Modi said. He said yoga enhanced the quest for a healthier planet and has emerged as a force for unity and deepened the bonds of humanity. “It does not discriminate. It goes beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations. Anybody can embrace Yoga,” the Prime Minister said. “If we can fine-tune our chords of health and hope, the day is not far away when the world will witness the success of a healthy and happy humanity. Yoga can definitely help us make this happen,” Modi said. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, International Day of Yoga is being marked on digital media platforms instead of mass gatherings. On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly had declared June 21 as ‘International Day of Yoga', months after the Prime Minister had mooted the proposal. President Ram Nath Kovind said yoga is India’s great gift to the world and shared pictures of himself practicing yoga. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said yoga helped in improving physical and mental well-being of an individual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-helping-covid-19-patients-defeat-disease-pm-narendra-modi-852027.html
21-06-2020||National||Four militants, including a Pakistani, killed by security forces in Srinagar, Kulgam||Four militants, including a Pakistani national, were killed in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar and Kulgam districts during the past 24 hours, a senior police official said on Sunday. Among the slain militants was Shakoor Farooq Langoo who, according to police records, was involved in the killing of two BSF personnel in Soura area on May 20 this year. An AK rifle snatched from one of the BSF jawans was recovered from the site of the encounter. Acting on a specific input regarding the presence of militants in Zoonimar area of district Srinagar, a cordon and search operation was launched jointly by police and CRPF, the official said. "During the search operation, repeated appeals to surrender were made to the hiding terrorists through their families and community members of the area, but they started firing indiscriminately upon the search party, which retaliated leading to an encounter," he said. The official said in the ensuing gunfight, three militants were killed and their bodies retrieved from the site of the encounter.  "Two of the slain terrorists have been identified as Shakoor Farooq Langoo from Barthana in Srinagar and Shahid Ahmad Bhat of Semthan in Bijbehara. The identification of the other slain terrorist is yet to be ascertained," he said. Mobile internet services have been suspended in view of the operation. The official said the three slain militants were affiliated to proscribed terror outfits Hizbul Mujahideen and Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir.  Security force have eliminated 31 militants in June while 105 ultras have been been killed this year so far. The official said the Srinagar operation came within 24 hours of the killing of a Jaish-e-Mohammad militant in Kulgam district on Saturday. "The killed terrorist was identified as Tayab Waleed @ Imran Bhai @ Gazi Baba, a Pakistani national affiliated with proscribed terror outfit JeM," he added.  According to police records, the slain ultra was an "operational commander" of the JeM and an expert in making IEDs besides being a sharpshooter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-militants-including-a-pakistani-killed-by-security-forces-in-srinagar-kulgam-852030.html
21-06-2020||National||Many students with disabilities struggling with e-education||Neha Sharma (name changed), who suffers from cerebral palsy, has been unable to interact with her teachers online for some time now. She says there are days that she doesn't understand much of what goes on in her e-classroom and has to mostly rely on her classmates' notes for studying. “I personally am able to access all my classes and assignments but it is not the same. I am still able to manage somehow but what about those who don't seek help?" the 30-year-old MA student said. The lockdown induced by the COVID-19 pandemic in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. However, many experts say the digital divide in the country may turn online classes into an operational nightmare. As per official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country. However, it is not clear as to how many of them have access to digital devices and Internet. Saundarya Rathi (name changed), a deaf student, stressed on improvement of facilities. “A sign language interpreter should be provided if there is a deaf student who is a sign language user. Please ask the deaf student of his/her preference of interpreter. Check ISLRTC (Indian Sign Language Research And Training Centre) or Interpreting associations for requesting interpreting services. As well, ask the deaf student to see what other facilities he/she may need (like a note-taker),” the 42-year-old LLB student said. Ravi Kumar (name changed), a student with multiple disabilities studying in Bangalore, raised the issue of people who wear prosthetic limbs and cannot type or use the laptop as effectively as others. The 19-year-old pointed out that the shift to the online mode of education has been very tough to adapt to for most students with disabilities. "Since there are no specific guidelines in this regard, it is even harder to advocate for the same with universities," he said. NGOs working with people with disabilities have also expressed concern over the issues faced by students in online education. Akhila Sivadas, executive director at the Centre for Advocacy and Research, a non-profit organisation, said the government needs to provide education that is accessible to students with disabilities. "Clearly we are living in times when the government has to walk and talk. This implies that in accordance with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act,   provide online education that is accessible to students with disabilities and shaped in consultation and delivered in collaboration with disabled people's organizations and networks," said Sivadas. Shameer Rishad, convenor of the Javed Abidi Foundation, said the government needs to understand the diversity in disability. "There are 21 different disabilities each with their specific needs which need to be allocated the due reasonable accommodation. Secondly, I feel that whenever any decision is being taken, consulting the disabled community is an absolute must," he said.  In the case of education, he said students with different disabilities need to be consulted before making any decision or drafting any policy which will inherently effect their future. Also, one must remember that online education is for here to stay, so there shouldn't be any "shortcuts". "If we are doing something from start, we'd better do it right," he said. Arman Ali, executive director of National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP), said there is a huge digital divide that exists in India from the perspective of students with disabilities in particular students with visual impairment. "If you look in the context of semi-urban and rural areas. Sixty-nine per cent of the disabled population lives in rural areas. What is the infrastructure available? Digital or e-education doesn't give a level playing ground to the persons with disabilities. E-education is limited to metro cities and urban areas. How many institutions have a fully functional computer lab? And even if they have one they don't have teachers," he asked. Elaborating further, Ali said disabled people are also economically disadvantaged and cannot afford to buy computers, smartphones, tablets etc. "Those who have smartphones with internet availability are not aware of the various resources available online for them. Even if they are aware, parents are not well trained or equipped to teach their disabled children," he said. He said implementation of e-education requires a more comprehensive approach and very carefully orchestrated planning for the children with disabilities not a "band-aid solution". "Students with disabilities must be made aware of all the options and the range of choices of e-education available to them in an accessible manner. From the use of community radio to assistive technology, accessible digital technology, sign language interpretation, video conferencing facility, and so on and so forth," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-students-with-disabilities-struggling-with-e-education-852033.html
21-06-2020||National||Concerned over how quickly COVID-19 cases are rising in India: Indian-origin expert||Harvard Global Health Institute Director Dr. Ashish Jha has expressed concern over how quickly the new coronavirus cases are rising in India and said when populous states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh get hit hard, the country could see a "large increase” in virus infections and deaths. India on Sunday saw a record single-day spike of 15,413 new COVID-19 cases, taking the country's infection tally over the 4 lakh-mark, while the death toll rose to 13,254 with 306 new fatalities. “Right now I'm concerned by how quickly the number of new cases is rising. India's density may be contributing to this and we've seen high rates of spread in some of the larger metro areas like Mumbai, Delhi and also Chennai,” Jha told PTI. "But what concerns me most is major population areas - such as in Bihar and UP - that have not yet gotten hit very hard. When they do get hit we will likely see a large increase in the numbers of cases and deaths, which we need to prepare for,” he said. Jha stressed that the “trajectory” of cases is “very concerning” in India, which jumped into the top five countries in the world in terms of numbers of new cases. “For six days in a row, India has seen over 10,000 new cases, and given the lag between infection, the onset of symptoms and death, I expect numbers to continue to rise in the coming weeks and months,” he said in an email interview. The renowned health expert noted that the number of cases in India may be higher than what the data suggests because while testing has been improving, it has not been rolled out in a way that will capture all low-symptomatic patients. Jha said since several factors come into play, it is hard to predict how COVID-19 will pan out across India. Jha referred to the ‘Youyang Gu COVID-19’ model, which forecasts infections and deaths from the virus around the world, for an estimate of a probable COVID-19 death toll in India. The Gu model suggests that there could be 136,056 projected total deaths and 27,333,589 total infected people in India by October 1, 2020. Noting that while the number is only an estimate, Jha stressed, “What we do know is that we are not as far along in the trajectory of the disease as we hoped; this may be a 12 month fight or more.” Responding to a question on India's response in dealing with the outbreak so far, Jha said he has supported the national lockdown implemented in March and thinks “it was the right thing to do” but may not be sustainable. “I also recognise the cost of this measure for people across the country. While it may have been the right approach, it's not sustainable. Lockdowns are meant to buy time, so the real question is - How did we use the time that the lockdown gave us?  "What is not clear to me is if this period was adequately leveraged to set a strong foundation for getting the disease under control. It is imperative that when lockdowns are employed, they are used well,” he said. Jha noted that in line with leveraging the lockdown, testing capacity has increased somewhat over the past two months but said that it is “still far too low.” India is testing approximately 4.2 people per 1,000, which he said is “one of the lowest testing rates” in the world. It is the lowest of highly-infected countries, compared to the US (72/1000), UK (59/1000), Russia (106/1000). Jha pointed out that while the development of the contact tracing app ‘Aarogya Setu’ was a "step in the right direction”, widespread privacy concerns may plague its effectiveness. On what should be done by India to control the infection rate, Jha said a lockdown is never a long-term strategy. “If COVID-19 is going to be the reality for the next 12 months, India requires a detailed plan for how to control this virus moving forward,” he said. He stressed that testing needs to be ramped up significantly and broadened to include more people who are not acutely ill. Further, this testing strategy needs to be paired with comprehensive tracing and isolation efforts, particularly given what is now known about the potential for asymptomatic, or pre-symptomatic spread. There is also a need for real support for states that do not currently have the infrastructure required to meet an increase in cases. “What it comes down to is India's response needs to be driven by science and data as much as possible; keeping an eye on the number of cases, number of deaths and overall mortality due to the disease. Without the data that widespread testing and contact tracing provides, the government cannot make informed, evidence-based decisions to guide an effective COVID response,” he said. Further, with the majority of India's workforce in the informal sector with limited or no basic labour assurances, Jha said workers are “highly susceptible to stresses in the system such as a lockdown, which is particularly painful, and in some cases, deadly.” He asserted that he disagrees with the view that there are only two options - lockdown completely or engage in high-risk work. “There's a third option: with widespread testing, tracing and isolating, we carefully reopen, in a way that's responsive to risk, making sure that people who do need to work are as safe as possible - taking time off if they contract the disease. "But this requires sustained and country-wide commitment to testing workers regularly, tracing their contacts and safe and supportive isolation for the infected,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/concerned-over-how-quickly-covid-19-cases-are-rising-in-india-indian-origin-expert-852040.html
21-06-2020||National||Clear all pending applications for pension by June end: Delhi govt to officials||The Delhi government has ordered officials concerned to clear pending applications for pension by senior citizens, widows and differently-abled persons by June end. The order comes after Delhi Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam conducted surprise inspections across Delhi "to check the status of pension cases" and found that a large number of online applications for financial assistance were pending. "Applications continue to remain pending for months despite several directions from time to time. The minister has now directed that all pendency be cleared by June end," an official order said. "All district officers are directed to resolve pendencies in all three financial assistance schemes, including all cases pending at the operator level and applications under objection," it said. The officers have been directed to submit a compliance report, stating that applications pending up to June 15 have been disposed of, on July 1. Gautam had earlier ordered an immediate audit of district offices to remove pendency in disbursal of pension to specially-abled persons, widows and the elderly. During a high-level meeting, the minister had also asked officials to issue a login ID and password to him “so that he can himself monitor the status of pension and any pendency in each district”. "The pendency in pension cases is disappointing. I have ordered an immediate audit of all district offices under the Social Welfare and Women and Child Development departments. I have also issued directions to fill all vacancies to ensure smooth functioning of offices,” Gautam had said. The minister had also ordered the formation of district monitoring committees for both departments which will look after, resolve, and monitor all pension cases. With the COVID-19 pandemic affecting the livelihood of people, the Delhi government had in March doubled the pension amount for five lakh senior citizens, 2.5 lakh widows, and 1 lakh differently-abled persons.  The pension amount for widows and differently-abled persons was increased from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,000. For senior citizens, it was increased from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clear-all-pending-applications-for-pension-by-june-end-delhi-govt-to-officials-852041.html
21-06-2020||National||Rajnath Singh reviews Ladakh situation; commanders given freedom to deal with any Chinese misadventure||With the armed forces on high alert along the entire 3,488 km long disputed boundary between India and China, the government has given “full freedom” to the local commanders to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure. This was decided at a high level meeting on Sunday chaired by the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. The top brass took stock of the situation in eastern Ladakh and discussed the possibility of holding yet another Lt Gen rank officers’ meeting in near future to find out a peaceful way to end the face-off. Ever since the bloody and brutal battle at the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday, India has mobilised more forces and brought in additional fighter jets, attack helicopters and tanks to defend the Line of Actual Control, the de-facto boundary between India and China. Three divisions of the Indian Army comprising nearly 45,000 men are in Ladakh to deal with any contingency. While 3rd Division of the Indian Army is in Ladakh under normal circumstances, two more divisions have been acclimatised and brought in May and June to take up any new challenge that may emerge because of excess presence of China’s People Liberation Army troops in eastern Ladakh. The clash in Galwan Valley, the worst cross-border violence in 45 years, significantly frayed ties between the two countries, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi sending a strong message to China that “India wants peace but if provoked, India is capable of giving a befitting reply”. The battle resulted in killing of 20 Indian soldiers including an officer and injuring 76 others. Ten others including four officers were in Chinese captivity and were released after three days. According to the Union Minister and former Army Chief Gen V K Singh, 43 PLA soldiers were also killed in the clash making it the bloodiest confrontation on the LAC since the 1962 war. In the Sunday meeting, Singh told the top military officers to maintain a strict vigil on Chinese activities around the land border, the airspace and in strategic sea lanes. Even though the troops are on high alert, efforts are being made by both sides to arrange another round of talks between senior military leaders next week to resolve the crisis. Following the Galwan incident, military sources said Indian troops would no longer be bound by the long-held practice of not using firearms in face-offs as “rules of engagement” have been modified. Earlier, the two armies had mutually decided not to resort to use firearms during face-offs in sync with provisions of two agreements on border management. The agreements were signed in 1996 and 2005. It has been decided to change that approach. The IAF has moved its front line Sukhoi-30 MKI, Jaguar and MiG-29 fighter jets and Apache attack helicopters to forward bases including Leh and Srinagar in the last five days. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria on Saturday hinted that his force has flown combat air patrols in the Ladakh region as part of heightened preparedness. Under combat air patrols, fully armed fighter jets can be scrambled at short notice for specific missions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-reviews-ladakh-situation-commanders-given-freedom-to-deal-with-any-chinese-misadventure-852050.html
21-06-2020||National||Yoga practitioners have less chances of getting COVID-19: Naik||Yoga practitioners have fewer chances of getting infected by a coronavirus, Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik said on Sunday. Talking to PTI on the occasion of the International Day of Yoga, Naik also said the propagation of yoga across the country and the world during the Narendra Modi-led regime has helped in the fight against COVID-19. "I am sure that the propagation of yoga across the country and the world during the Modi-led government's tenure has helped in a big way to fight back COVID-19. Those who are practicing yoga have less chances of getting infected with COVID-19, the minister claimed. The BJP leader, who performed yoga at his home at Ribandar village near Panaji in North Goa district, said yoga boosts immunity and strengthens the respiratory system, which helps build resistance against diseases like COVID-19. Naik said the International Yoga Day function, which was scheduled to be held in Leh on Sunday, was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has made social distancing a necessity. People were advised to practice yoga while staying at home, the Lok Sabha member from North Goa said. "We got a tremendous response. People participated by practicing yoga at home. We recommended that there should not be more than 20 people if they are performing yoga in a public place, he said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who participated in a function held in his constituency Sankhalim in North Goa district, said yoga helps a person perceive things around him in a positive way. "Yoga cannot control what goes on outside. But it can control what goes on inside, transforming how a person perceives things around him in a positive way. Lets adopt a healthy way of living, Sawant tweeted. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said yoga has been known for enhancing mental and physical health. "This years focus is to practice yoga at home to inculcate healthier habits. This #InternationalYogaDay take a pledge to take out at least an hour for yoga every day," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-practitioners-have-less-chances-of-getting-covid-19-naik-852051.html
21-06-2020||National||Team of doctors from different hospitals on standby for Delhi Health Minister Jain||A team of senior doctors from a few government and private hospitals has been kept on standby to ensure the best medical care for Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain who is admitted to the ICU of a private COVID-19 facility here, sources said on Sunday. The condition of the 55-year-old minister is improving and he is being monitored by doctors, officials said. Jain was on Saturday administered plasma therapy at the Max Hospital in Saket and his condition is stable now, they said. A team of doctors from a few government and private hospitals has been kept on standby to assist the doctors attending to him, if needed, sources told PTI. The additional team includes doctors from Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), Maulana Azad Medical College, and another leading private hospital, they said.  Jain was shifted to the ICU of the Max Hospital from the RGSSH, a city government facility after his condition had deteriorated. RGSSH is a dedicated COVID-19 facility but does not have permission to conduct plasma therapy. "We had done all the formalities for it before sending him to Max Hospital for the plasma therapy, as his condition was deteriorating," a source at the city government hospital said. Doctors at the RGSSH on Thursday said the minister had been diagnosed with pneumonia and his oxygen saturation level had also dipped, prompting hospital authorities to shift him to an intensive care unit. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on June 17, a day after he was admitted to RGSSH, after running a high-grade fever and suffering a sudden drop in oxygen levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/team-of-doctors-from-different-hospitals-on-standby-for-delhi-health-minister-jain-852052.html
21-06-2020||National||CISF jawan succumbs to COVID-19; 18th death among paramilitary forces||A 41-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel died of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities in the force from the pandemic to six, officials said. This is the 18th death from the pandemic among the five central paramilitary forces of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). Officials said constable Jitender Kumar died at the RML Hospital here after he was admitted with fever and difficulty in breathing on June 10. The jawan had contracted the coronavirus infection and was deployed for law and order duties in Delhi, a senior CISF officer said. He hailed from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh and was posted with the 8th reserve battalion of the force in Jaipur, he said. "The Director-General CISF and all ranks are deeply saddened on the tragic loss of our corona warrior constable Jitender Kumar of CISF who laid his life at the altar of duty battling COVID-19 infection. "We express heartfelt condolences to the grief-stricken family members," the force said in a message. This is the sixth death from coronavirus in the about 1.62 lakh personnel strong force, the national civil aviation security force guarding over 60 airports apart from other vital infrastructure. Twenty-four fresh cases were reported in the CISF since Saturday, which has a total of 255 active COVID-19 cases while 347 personnel have recovered till now. The maximum cases in the force have been reported from a unit that guards the Madras High Court (39), Delhi airport (28), Ghaziabad-based reserve battalion (25),  Mumbai airport and Delhi Metro (17 each), Kolkata Port Trust (16) and Reliance Corporate Park, Navi Mumbai (7) among others. The CRPF has suffered six casualties, BSF three, SSB two, and one death have taken place in the ITBP till now.  These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations, and disaster rescue and relief under the command of the Union home ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisf-jawan-succumbs-to-covid-19-18th-death-among-paramilitary-forces-852054.html
21-06-2020||National||Life through a COVID prism: Nurses, docs walk tightrope between work and home||Being trapped inside PPE suits for six hours is tough, battling the fear of contracting COVID-19 tougher and not meeting children, spouses, or parents for weeks the toughest. But that is what they signed up for and that is what they do, say the doughty doctors and nurses at the AIIMS Trauma Centre.   Their days revolve around their COVID-19 patients and their lives around their families and the twain can never meet. That is the maxim for the band of frontline warriors in the battle against the pandemic who go to extraordinary lengths to isolate themselves from their loved ones and ensure the two halves that make up their world stay completely separate.   Like Vikas and Jyoti Yadav, both nursing officers, who live with their children, an 11-year-old daughter, and a nine-year-old son, in suburban Gurgaon but haven’t met them for days.   The couple, both posted in the COVID-19 ward of the Trauma Centre, make it a point to return to their apartment complex about 40 km from their place of work. But make sure they isolate themselves from their children. They haven’t been within touching distance of their children since their COVID-19 duties began.   “Isolating ourselves from the children is the most difficult part,” Jyoti told PTI.   The children have their own room and have been very understanding. Since the lockdown began on March 25, Vikas and Jyoti spend most of their time at home in the garden close to the children’s room, watch them go about their daily work, and talk to them from there.   It is tough but it is a commitment they made.   "Vikas proposed to me inside the trauma center in 2007 and since then we have been working and living together," Jyoti said.   Kanishk Yadav, their colleague at the Trauma Centre, part of the premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences dedicated to COVID-19 treatment, echoes them.   He stays in a separate room in his home in Sultanpuri and hasn't touched his four-year-old son for three months.   His routine is down pat.   It’s 6 am and he has just reached home after his shift. He keeps his scrubs for washing, takes a shower, and makes morning tea for himself.  It’s the end of just another day but he won’t have it any other way.   “When the coronavirus outbreak happened, I wrote a letter to the AIIMS administration requesting them to post me in COVID-19 duty," the nursing officer said.    He added that COVID-19 duty was perceived as something fearful, and he wanted to motivate others.   Yadav also spells out in detail what it is to wear a Personal Protective Equipment suit for six straight hours to ward off the dangers of being in an environment where the risk of infection is ever-present.    It is a daily hazard for the staff involved in COVID-19 duties. The routine of getting into a suit and getting out of one is a complicated, meticulous process and extreme care is needed to avoid any exposure. They have to consume their meals at least an hour before donning the suit and avoid even drinking water.   Once the PPE is worn, it is six hours of no food, no going to the toilet, excessive perspiration, nausea and even blurred vision.   Ashish Jhakal, also a nursing officer, said, “With the goggles and fogging, sometimes its even difficult to read the name of medicines. We have to double check with others.”   Jhakal has marks on his face due to wearing of the mask and goggles inside the PPE suit.   With the surge in cases, health workers around the country walk the tightrope between work and home. On Sunday, the number of cases crossed the four lakh mark with the biggest single-day spike of 15,413 new infections.   More than 195 healthcare workers have tested positive in AIIMS so far. But even in the face of such adversity, the workers are undeterred in their determination to do their best. “As doctors, this isn’t something new for us. We are always at a risk of infection,” said Irfan V, an AIIMS resident doctor. He and nursing officer Monika Sharma are among those who have been at the vanguard since the crisis began and remain steadfast in their commitment towards their work and its many challenges.      Monika said the days are a test of her patience and will power. While Irfan misses watching Lionel Messi’s forward play, Monika has not jammed with her AIIMS staff band since the outbreak of the disease. But their spirit of helping their patients keeps them motivated. Letting down their guard can expose their families to all kinds of risks.    Minarey and Ranjuna Milind, another couple working at AIIMS realised they may have been careful. While Minarey works in the anesthesia department, Ranjuna is in the gynecology section.   A few days ago, their 10 month-old baby and their parents, tested positive for the novel coronavirus.   “When our baby tested positive, I felt like we made our baby suffer because of our profession,” Minarey said.   For patients undergoing COVID-19 treatment, the hospital stay can be lonely and traumatic. Over a period of time, they develop a bond.   That is perhaps the dream that Pritam Yadav, another young AIIMS resident doctor saw when he opted for the medical profession.   The 25-year-old said his father, a farmer by profession, wanted him to become a doctor. He did and in doing so became the first from his village in Kothputli in Rajasthan.    “Clearing MBBS was one of his happiest moments,” he said.   Even now, he said, his father boosts his morale when he feels low. "I feel sad sometimes. There is an infant child in the ward, who along with his parents came out positive. Although his parents are safe and recovering, the baby is still under oxygen support.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/life-through-a-covid-prism-nurses-docs-walk-tightrope-between-work-and-home-852056.html
21-06-2020||National||Indore COVID-19 tally rises to 4,329, death toll reaches 197||The number of COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district rose to 4,329 on Sunday after 41 more people tested positive for the disease, a health official said. As many as 1,788 swab samples were tested in the district in the last 24 hours and out of these, 41 came out positive for coronavirus, Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer M P Sharma said. Four more deaths due to the disease were also reported in the district, taking the toll to 197, he said. The latest victims included a 65-year old woman, the official said, without disclosing the exact dates of deaths of the four patients. So far, 3,185 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, he added.  As per the latest data, the COVID-19 recovery rate in the district was 73.5 per cent as on Sunday morning. Besides, the death rate was 4.55 per cent, higher than the national average. The COVID-19 outbreak was first reported in Indore on March 24, when four cases of the disease were found here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indore-covid-19-tally-rises-to-4329-death-toll-reaches-197-852058.html
21-06-2020||National||NGT imposes Rs 25 lakh fine on two units in Noida||In view of depleting groundwater, there is a threat of irreversible damage to the environment leading to scarcity of drinking water, the National Green Tribunal has said while slapping Rs 25 lakh on two units in Noida for unauthorised extraction of water. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that there is no operative nonobjection certificate (NOC) as far as Noida Golf Course and Advant Navis Business Park are concerned. Noida Golf Course and Advant Navis Business Park have to pay an interim compensation of Rs 25 lakh, which may be deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) within one month, the tribunal said. The green panel was perusing a report filed by a committee of the CPCB and Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board, which said that groundwater is being illegally drawn and the allegation that misuse of groundwater for horticulture purpose is taking place is not disputed. It is not clear whether conditions of NOC are being complied with, the NGT said. The tribunal referred to its previous directions that groundwater cannot be used for a playground like a cricket ground, particularly in over-exploited, critical and semi-critical area, which also applies to Golf Course. "In view of depleting groundwater, there is a threat of irreversible damage to the aquifers and salinity of the water. Moreover, it is leading to scarcity of drinking water, thereby depriving a section of the society of access to potable water which is already scarce. The rainwater harvesting systems have to be regularly maintained as per norms," the bench said. The NGT said that the state pollution control board has failed to assess and recover compensation for illegal drawal of groundwater. "The assessment of the quantity of water drawn needs to be made realistically and adverse inference has to be drawn for the absence of water meter... "Water audit may be conducted to ascertain the extent of use and replenishment of groundwater in the last three years by the same Committee with an additional representative of CPCB and Indian Institute of Technology- Delhi," the bench said. The Committee may also assess compensation to be paid and may also look into the water quality aspects of the rainwater harvesting systems and suggest remedial measures as may be found necessary, the tribunal said. The NGT had earlier directed a committee to submit a report on a plea alleging illegal extraction of groundwater by the Noida Golf Course without requisite permission from the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA). The tribunal's order came on a plea filed by environment activist Vikrant Tongad alleging illegal extraction of groundwater without requisite permission by the Noida Golf Course in Sector 43 in Gautam Buddh Nagar. Despite the availability of treated STP water, Golf Course at Noida continues to extract groundwater without a valid no objection certificate from the CGWA, the plea had stated, seeking action against the violator||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-imposes-rs-25-lakh-fine-on-two-units-in-noida-852060.html
21-06-2020||National||Create isolation wards, conduct rapid tests to curb spread of COVID-19 in jails: committee||With several inmates and staff at prisons in the city testing positive for COVID-19, a high-powered committee headed by a Delhi High Court judge has issued several directions, like creating isolation wards and carrying out rapid tests, to prevent further spread of the virus among prisoners. The high powered committee (HPC), headed by Justice Hima Kohli, also directed prison authorities to take extra precautions with regard to inmates over 55 years of age after a 62-year-old prisoner, who died in his sleep, was later found to be COVID positive. The committee further said that new prisoners between ages 18 and 21 be kept in isolation wards and also asked the DG Prisons and Special Secretary (Home) of the Delhi government to make efforts to get the 360 vacant police quarters adjacent to Mandoli jail here for use as a temporary jail to create isolation ward for new prisoners and COVID positive cases. To prevent new prisoners from spreading the virus among the inmates, the HPC was of the opinion that rapid tests needed to be conducted on every new entrant and it directed accordingly. The committee, in its meeting held on June 20, further resolved that all jail hospitals must be equipped with 'oxygen concentration machines' and two such machines for each of the two jail hospitals must be procured at the earliest.  To prevent spread of COVID-19 among inmates through jail staff, the committee resolved that rapid testing of the staff be carried out as per guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "This is to ensure that the suspected cases of corona positive jail staff could be prevented from getting in touch with jail inmates," according to the minutes of the meeting. With regard to decongesting jails by granting interim bails and parole, the committee was informed that total 4,129 undertrials and convicted prisoners have been released till June 20. After taking note of the figures, the committee said since there was no certainty when the threat of pandemic shall be over and requirement of social distancing no longer necessary, the interim bail of under-trial prisoners (UTPs) needs to be extended for a further period of 45 days from their respective date of expiry of the relief. The committee said a judicial order from Delhi HC was required in this regard and recommended accordingly. It directed the Delhi State Legal Services Authority to place the recommendation before the Delhi HC for necessary action. With regard to extension of eight weeks emergency parole granted to prisoners, the Delhi government informed the committee that a decision has been taken on May 22 to further extend it by another eight weeks. The committee expressed satisfaction with the step taken and further resolved to modify its criteria for release of UTPs by including the category of accused spouse and in-laws in dowry death cases as eligible for grant of interim bail. The criteria was modified after noting that despite taking effective steps to decongest jails here, Delhi still has a prison population of 13,677 as on June 19 as against the combined holding capacity of 10,026 of the 16 jails in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/create-isolation-wards-conduct-rapid-tests-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-in-jails-committee-852071.html
21-06-2020||National||'Effect of environmental factors on coronavirus stability decoded'||Environmental conditions affect the stability of the novel coronavirus in human nasal mucus and sputum, according to a study which suggests there might be seasonal outbreaks of COVID-19 in the post-pandemic period if the weather favours the spread of the disease. Researchers, including Jeremiah Matson from Marshall University in the US, noted that the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 is less stable at higher humidity and warmer temperatures. In the study, published in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases, SARS-CoV-2 was mixed with human nasal mucus and sputum specimens, which were then exposed to three different sets of temperature and humidity for up to seven days. The scientists said samples were collected throughout the study and analysed for the presence of infectious virus as well as the viral genetic material RNA alone, which is not infectious. They said viral RNA was consistently detectable throughout the seven-day study, while the infectious virus was detectable for up to nearly 12-48 hours, depending on the environmental conditions. "The virus is more stable at low-temperature and low-humidity conditions, whereas warmer temperature and higher humidity shortened half-life," the scientists noted in the study. Due to the reduced surface stability of SARS-CoV-2 in human nasal mucus and sputum in warmer and more humid conditions, the scientists believe there may be decreased virus transmission in these environmental scenarios. "Climatic influence on SARS-CoV-2 transmission rates might eventually drive seasonal outbreak dynamics in a post-pandemic period," the researchers noted. In another study, published this month in Emerging Infectious Diseases, a team of researchers including Matson evaluated the effectiveness of N95 respirator decontamination and reuse against SARS-CoV-2. They found that vaporised hydrogen peroxide and ultraviolet light were the most effective in decontaminating the masks if proper fit and seal were maintained. "The COVID-19 pandemic has been a sobering reminder that infectious diseases continue to be a major public health threat and require sustained research commitment," Matson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/effect-of-environmental-factors-on-coronavirus-stability-decoded-852072.html
21-06-2020||National||Ratan Tata calls for stopping online hate, bullying||Veteran industrialist Ratan Tata on Sunday called for stopping online hatred and bullying and instead supporting each other in what has been a "year full of challenges" for everyone. In a post on social media platform Instagram, Tata said the online community is being hurtful to each other and bringing each other down. "This year has been full of challenges for everyone, on some level or the other. I see online community being hurtful to each other, bringing each other down, harshly and with quick judgements," the Chairman Emeritus of the Tata group said. "I believe this year specially calls for all of us to be unified and helpful and is not the time to pull each other down," he added. Urging for more sensitivity towards each other, he reiterated the need for "more of kindness and more of understanding and patience than what one sees today." Tata said while his "presence online is limited, but I truly hope it will evolve into a place of empathy and support for everyone, no matter what your cause, rather than hate and bullying."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ratan-tata-calls-for-stopping-online-hate-bullying-852081.html
21-06-2020||National||Yoga can play vital role in building immunity: Pradhan||Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday stressed on the need for practising yoga, saying the ancient practice can play a vital role in bolstering physical and mental wellbeing and building immunity. The comments came as part of his remarks on the sixth International Day of Yoga. The theme of this year's International Day of Yoga is 'ghar ghar me yog', which signifies the importance of staying at home and practising yoga with family while observing social distancing. "As you know, we are in midst of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we collectively fight this virus by wearing masks, ensuring social distancing, maintaining hand hygiene, spreading right information, it is time to also take other measures to strengthen our battle strategies," the Steel Minister said. "One of the ways we can ensure this is by bolstering our physical and mental wellbeing and building immunity in which yoga can play a pivotal role," he added. Pradhan, who is also the Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas said, the pandemic has changed the entire world. It has thrown several grave challenges in everyone's life.         He appealed countrymen to make yoga an integral part of their life. The minister said, "We are determined to fight this battle together and emerge victorious. After all, which challenge in the world has proved bigger than the human will?" "Having said that, this battle requires a multi-pronged approach. I also appeal to you to help your near and dear ones adopt the practice of yoga and also follow the guidelines issued by Ministry of AYUSH to build immunity and ensure wellbeing for you and your dear ones." These are times when everyone has to take care of their families and society more than ever, he said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has rightly said that yoga is for community, immunity and unity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-can-play-vital-role-in-building-immunity-pradhan-852091.html
21-06-2020||National||Yoga is technology for self-transformation: Sadhguru's message on International Yoga Day||In a message to mark the International Day of Yoga, Sadhguru, Founder of Isha Foundation, called on humanity to embrace Yoga, "the technology of self-transformation" and "become joyful, wonderful and impactful human beings in this world." Isha usually observes International Day of Yoga with worldwide day-long programs. This year, however, with the global run of the COVID-19 pandemic, no programs with gatherings have been scheduled anywhere. Instead, Isha has been releasing several videos online since the lockdown that offer simple yogic practices that are said to have a profound impact on the human system. “Right now, a whole lot of studies are saying that during this moment of pandemic and post this pandemic situation, one of the biggest challenges will be the psychological crisis that human beings will face. Well, when a problem is thrown at us, we should not become a problem. This is very very important. The simple yogic processes that we are offering you for this International Yoga Day has the power to liberate you from this and also enhance your immune system in a significant way. There are enough studies to show this,” said Sadhguru. He called on people to not only adopt the practices but to teach the practices to others around them as well. “I would like every one of you to experience this - not only experience this, be instruments of offering this to a large number of people.” Since the nationwide lockdown was announced, Sadhguru has been urging people to use the time to enhance their physical fitness, mental health, emotional balance and professional competence by 10 per cent to adapt to an as yet unknown post-pandemic world.  “Whenever there is an external crisis in their lives whether on the personal sphere or in the society in the nation or in the world, most human beings create an emotional and a psychological crisis within themselves.  When life around us goes into a crisis mode, it is most important that we as human beings function at our best – our physical self, our intellect, our emotional balance – everything should be at its best. Our innate wisdom must function now because now there is a crisis outside, you cannot afford to create a crisis within you,” he said asserting that Yoga offers the technology to achieve such stability. “It is beyond religion, it is beyond your philosophies and ideologies. It is the technology for self-transformation," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-is-technology-for-self-transformation-sadhgurus-message-on-international-yoga-day-852095.html
21-06-2020||National||Condition of COVID-19 infected Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain improves||Condition of COVID-19 infected Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has improved after he was administered plasma therapy, officials said on Sunday. Jain (55) was tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, two days after he was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, after developing symptoms for the virus infection. Officials said his fever has subsided and oxygen level has improved. He is likely to be shifted out of Intensive Care Unit of the Max Hospital in the next 24 hours where he was shifted for plasma therapy. The 55-year-old politician, a close aide of Kejriwal, has been in the forefront of the Delhi government's activities against the spread of the pandemic. He had been holding regular media briefings every morning. He also attended the meeting called by Amit Shah on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/condition-of-covid-19-infected-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-improves-852099.html
21-06-2020||National||Bio-toilets and oxygen cylinders for COVID coaches, but Railways wonders how to beat the heat||Equipped with handheld showers, mosquito nets, bio-toilets, power sockets, oxygen cylinders and more, the Railways’ COVID-care coaches have it all to keep patients comfortable – but only if they can withstand the summer heat trapped inside the metal ‘boxes’. In an effort to augment the government’s efforts to build infrastructure to deal with the spread of COVID-19, the Railways has converted 5,321 non-AC sleeper class ICF (older design) coaches and developed them into COVID Care Level 1 centres for patients with mild symptoms or those suspected to have the infection. Suspected and confirmed cases will be kept in separate coaches, officials said, adding that 960 coaches in five states have already been deployed. These include 503 coaches in Delhi and 372 in Uttar Pradesh. The coaches are “ready to move in’ but there are no takers yet. Two or more air-conditioned coaches will also be provided for the medical staff to rest in. June is a hot month, the hottest in many parts of the country, and the biggest challenge is how to make sure the patients are comfortable. Officials are hoping the monsoon sets in to bring some relief from the infamous Indian summer and some said in hushed tones that the coaches might well be useless otherwise. Using non-air-conditioned coaches was mandated by the Health Ministry, they said, adding that temperatures inside the coaches could reach 43 degrees Celsius, making it unbearable inside. The Railways is now experimenting with a variety of options to bring down the temperature inside the coaches. These include bamboo blinds on windows and bubble-wrap on the roof as well as heat-resistant coating and portable coolers. It has also used cover-sheets over the coaches to keep the heat out and the interiors cool. These measures will, however, bring the inside temperature down by up 1 degree Celsius only, an official said. The Northern Railways has also coated the roof of isolation coaches with heat-reflective paint as a trial and found that the temperature inside can be reduced up to 2.2 degrees Celsius using this method. Trials are being planned for another coating developed in association with IIT-Bombay.   A trial has been carried out by placing portable coolers inside the coaches as well, the Railways said, adding that temperature reduction of up to 3 degrees Celsius was achieved using them. While efforts are underway to cool things down, officials said they are praying for rain. Giving details of the measures taken to adapt the coaches for COVID patients, they said the middle berths have been removed. Each sleeper coach is divided into eight bays or “cabins” with each having the capacity for 16 beds. Each coach will have three toilets - one western and two Indian style and one bathroom, complete with handshowers, bucket, mug and bathroom stool. The Railways is working to neutralise the risk of infection being spread, officials said. Chlorine tablets have been placed in the chambers of the bio-toilets, which also have bio-enzymes in their tanks to take care of human waste. The Railways has got clearance from the Environment Ministry for a one-time exemption for disposal of biodegradable material generated during patient stay. Space has been created in the coaches to hold IV fluid bottles, extra bottle holders and clamps have been provided to hang them. Two oxygen cylinders with clamping arrangement have also been provided. For segregation of medical waste, there are three different colour-coded dustbins. Mosquito nets have been installed on windows. Bright LED lights and low noise fans have been installed with 18 mobile charging points per coach. Railways will maintain the coaches, provide linen and maybe food as well, depending on feasibility, if requested by states. It will also provide security and wifi connection. According to guidelines from the Health Ministry, coaches will be decontaminated daily with disinfectant -- freshly prepared with 1 per cent hypochlorite -- and detergent solution. Surface mopping of floors and cleaning of bathrooms, underside of beds and other related items placed in the coaches will be carried out scrupulously, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bio-toilets-and-oxygen-cylinders-for-covid-coaches-but-railways-wonders-how-to-beat-the-heat-852103.html
21-06-2020||National||Indian Railways to convert passenger trains into express trains||The Indian Railways has decided to convert 502 passengers trains, that run beyond 200 km, into express trains by speeding them up and reducing number of halts. The Railway Board in its circular to Zonal Railways sent a list of trains that needs to be sped up and curtail halts if required. The action taken should be advised by 4 pm on Friday, the Board said. Earlier, the railways advised  the zones to introduce 'Zero Timetable’ from July 1 wherein trains with poor occupancy will be cancelled and scrap commercially unviable halts. However, there is apprehension among passengers that this would hit large number of poor and marginal class as they depend on passengers trains for daily commute. The railway official said the decision to increase the speed of  the trains by curtailing stops is mainly due to low passenger occupancy and commercially unviable halts. They also said even after converting passenger trains that runs more than 200 km as express trains, passengers still give less money for travel in trains compared to other modes of transport. This year the railways earning took a severe hit due to halting of train services for nationwide lockdown since March 23. Though freight trains operated during lockdown for movement of essential commodities, its earning witnessed huge decline due to economic slowdown. At present only 100 pair regular trains and 15 pair of special Rajdhani trains are being operated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-convert-passenger-trains-into-express-trains-852107.html
21-06-2020||National||Twitter, Snapchat celebrate International day of Yoga with emojis||Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-has-emerged-as-force-for-unity-does-not-discriminate-pm-modi-852001.html Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a keen yoga practitioner himself, advocated in his International Yoga Day address that Yoga enhances our quest for a healthier planet and that it has also emerged as a force of unity that deepens the bonds of humanity. He added that it is an activity that does not discriminate between human beings and goes beyond race, gender, colour, caste, and faith. While the popularity of Yoga across the world is uncontested, Twitterverse was abuzz with hashtags, videos and pictures of people practising their favourite asanas. To add to this, Twitter introduced new emojis for the special event both for English and Hindi hashtags. Twitter’s custom emoji for International Yoga Day 2020 will pop up with certain hashtags. These hashtags include #InternationalYogaDay2020, #InternationalYogaDay, #YogaDay2020, #YogaDay, #MyLifeMyYoga, #योगदिवस and #अंतर्राष्ट्रीययोगदिवस.     Snapchat has also introduced a new kind of Bitmoji as a recognition of International Yoga Day that basically teaches yoga poses. Snapchat users can now learn different yoga poses from their Bitmojis. Some of the asanas include Vrikshasana, Samasthithi and Sukhasana. Users can also share their Yoga Bitmojis.  PM Modi had initially proposed the International Day of Yoga to the United Nations, and won approval in the same year. On June 21, 2015, the first International Yoga Day was observed across the world. For the last five years, the Centre and state governments have celebrated Yoga Day with events which saw mass participation every year. However this year, those events have been pushed indoors due to the pandemic and social distancing measures. PM Modi had set up a ministry to promote yoga, Ayurveda and other traditional Indian treatments when he came to power in 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-snapchat-celebrate-international-day-of-yoga-with-emojis-852110.html
21-06-2020||National||Officer, who went to Delhi with fruits for President & PM, found COVID-19 positive||An Agriculture Department officer, who earlier this month went to New Delhi with a consignment of fruits, mainly the luscious litchi of Muzaffarpur, to be gifted to the President, Vice-President, Prime Minister and other Union ministers, has tested COVID-19 positive after his return to Bihar. This officer, who returned from the national capital on June 11, was found positive on June 20 after the mandatory tests. He has been admitted to the Covid Care Centre. However, the Muzaffarpur district administration has clarified that the officer was primarily assigned the task to ensure that the fruit baskets, containing famous Shahi litchis of Muzaffarpur, reached Bihar Bhavan in New Delhi safely and timely. “He played no role in the distribution of fruits to the VVIPs in Delhi. It is the Bihar Bhavan officers in New Delhi who ensured distribution of fruits to the VVIPs concerned,” the Muzaffarpur District Magistrate, Chandrashekhar Prasad Singh said. The Public Relations Department too reiterated that the officer had gone to New Delhi on June 9 with fruit baskets for VVIPs but had no role in its distribution. “He returned to Patna on June 11, but after nine days (of his return) was found unwell. After sample test on June 20, he was found COVID-19 positive,” said another official, adding that “the officer has been sent to the Covid Care Centre.” Meanwhile, with fresh 99 COVID-19 cases reported in Bihar on Sunday, the number of those who tested positive in the state has gone up to 7602.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/officer-who-went-to-delhi-with-fruits-for-president-pm-found-covid-19-positive-852112.html
21-06-2020||National||Two coronavirus infected minors from Uttar Pradesh shelter home found pregnant||Two inmates, both minors, who had tested positive for coronavirus and have been living at a government shelter home in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur town, were found to be pregnant. According to the sources both the minors, who hailed from Bihar and Jharkhand, were around eight months pregnant. One of them was also infected with HIV. Sources said that as many as 33 inmates of the shelter home had tested positive for coronavirus. The two were found pregnant during their medical examination at a private medical college hospital in Kanpur on Saturday. The officials said that they are trying to ascertain the facts about the matter. The shelter home employees are being quizzed by the officials, they added. The entire building, that housed the shelter home, had been sealed and all the other inmates had been quarantined, said an official in Kanpur on Sunday. The revelation has set off alarm bells in the official circles and brought back the memories of exploitation of inmates of a women's shelter home in the state's Deoria town, around two years back. A 10-year-old minor, who had then managed to escape from the shelter home, had alleged that girls aged between 15-18 were used to be taken out in luxury vehicles at nights to other nearby cities. Two persons, including the manager of the shelter home, had been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-coronavirus-infected-minors-from-uttar-pradesh-shelter-home-found-pregnant-852126.html
21-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at Narendra Modi; Celebration of World Yoga Day||In today's From the Newsroom, A day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of having "surrendered" Indian territory to Chinese aggression, Rahul took a swipe at the prime minister by tweeting: "Narendra Modi is actually Surender Modi". A 59-year-old assistant sub-inspector of police, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection in Victoria hospital, passed away. The Institute of Medical Biology at the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences has said that the Chinese researchers have started a second phase human trial of a possible coronavirus vaccine in efforts to further assess effectiveness and safety. The world celebrates The sixth International Day of Yoga and solar eclipse on the longest day of the year.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-narendra-modi-celebration-of-world-yoga-day-852139.html
21-06-2020||National||Rajasthan govt moves SC against circular excluding CMRF from CSR||The Rajasthan government has approached the Supreme Court, challenging validity of a circular by the Centre, excluding a special fund, created under the CM Relief Fund from receiving donations as corporate social responsibility, for the purpose of mitigating effects of COVID-19 pandemic.  The State claimed the April 10 circular, allowing 'PM Cares Fund' and disallowing 'CM's Relief Fund' to receive such contribution, was unconstitutional and went against the principle of cooperative federalism.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna issued notice to the Union government, seeking its response on the original suit filed under Article 131 of the Constitution, related to a dispute among the states and between the State and the Centre. The state government was led by senior advocate Manish Singhvi and the Centre by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. In its plea, the Ashok Gehlot government submitted that it has created a special 'Rajasthan CMRF COVID-19 Mitigation Fund' on March 29 for countering the effects of the pandemic. However, on April 10, a circular issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs caused an apprehension that the said CMRF won’t qualify as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure. "In order to allay such an apprehension and to declare and hold that CMRF shall fall within the CSR Funds, the present suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, is being preferred," it said. The 'Rajasthan CMRF COVID-19 Mitigation Fund' was created with the aim and objective to make available funds at grassroot levels for meeting the emergency situation to provide for laboratory testing, ventilators, protective equipment, masks, sanitisers, medical and non-medical essential equipment and medicines. Besides, it was to provide for rations, food packets, transportations, medicines and maintenance of person effected by the pandemic in Rajasthan. However, the April 10 circular by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs stated that contribution made to ‘PM CARES Fund’ would qualify as the CSR expenditure while the donations received to ‘Chief Minister’s Relief Fund’ or ‘State Relief Fund for COVID-19’ would not qualify as such, it said. "This is manifestly irrational and frustrates the main objective i.e. alleviation of COVID-19. It would not only be violative of equal protection of laws enshrined under Article 14 of the Constitution but also unjust and palpably arbitrary," the petition filed by advocate Sandeep Kumar Jha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-moves-sc-against-circular-excluding-cmrf-from-csr-852149.html
21-06-2020||National||Supreme Court to hear plea to allow Jagannath Rath Yatra on Monday||The Supreme Court is likely to consider on Monday multiple applications for modifying the June 18 order staying the world famous Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra in Odisha's Puri on June 23, saying it had an unbroken practice and formed a part of essential religious practice. BJP leader Sambit Patra, who unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha polls from Puri in 2019, also filed a plea for permission of the Yatra with the help of about 800 'sevaits', already tested COVID-19 negative, without presence of devotees. About a dozen pleas are scheduled to come up for consideration before a single judge bench of Justice S Ravindra Bhat in chamber.  On June 18, a three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde stayed the Rath Yatra on the ground of threat to public health and safety in view of COVID-19 pandemic. "Lord Jagannath will not forgive us, if we allow this to continue. Activities related to Rath Yatra is injuncted," the bench had said. Within days of the order, a number of pleas, including by hereditary chief servitor of Lord Jagannath, Daitapati Nijog and a social worker Aftab Hussein, asked the court to recall or modify the order, restraining any secular or religious activity related to Rath Yatra. The Rath Yatra -- where devotees pull the chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balbhadra and Devi Subhadra--- is an annual event participated by millions of people across the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-to-allow-jagannath-rath-yatra-on-monday-852150.html
21-06-2020||National||Take back draft Electricity Amendment Bill, engineers' body urges PM||An Uttar Pradesh power engineers’ association has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take back the draft Electricity Amendment Bill, terming it anti-consumer. UP Rajya Vidyut Parishad Abhiyanta Sangh chief V P Singh told reporters that the proposed legislation has been opposed by several states as it is anti-consumer, especially against farmers and the industry. Singh said the All-India Power Engineers’ Federation (AIPEF) has urged the prime minister to put the legislation on hold till a conducive environment exists for discussion on it in Parliament. He said the Bill must be referred to the standing committee on energy so that all stakeholders, including consumer organisations, may submit their objections. Considering above facts, the AIPEF has appealed to chief ministers of states to tell the PM that the proposed amendments must be dropped or put on hold as these are against the federal structure, Singh concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-back-draft-electricity-amendment-bill-engineers-body-urges-pm-852153.html
21-06-2020||National||Kerala records highest single-day COVID-19 spike with 133 cases; Opposition alleges poor test rate to keep figures low||While Kerala recorded the highest single-day rise in COVID-19 with 133 cases on Sunday, the Opposition Congress alleged that the state was trying to keep the numbers low by reducing the number of COVID-19 tests. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the number of tests being done in Kerala was very low compared to other states. While Kerala was still doing only less than 5,000 tests, in neighbouring Karnataka and Taml Nadu it was 10,000 and 30,000 respectively. Among the states with over one crore population Kerala was in the 12th position with regard to number of tests. Delhi so far did 3.5 lakh tests and Maharashtra 6.6 lakh tests, he added. Despite the increasing trend of fresh cases over the last few days, the state could heave a sigh of relief as the number of persons getting recovered was also quite high, with 93 on Sunday. Of the total 3,172 persons infected in the state so far, 1,659 so far recovered. As many as 1,490 persons are under treatment now. Meanwhile, the opposition leader alleged that the Chief Minister was accusing the opposition for its stirs against government as he was upset over the opposition exposing the flaws of the government. The opposition would continue its protest over various issues, including mandating COVID-19 tests for NRIs to return, said Chennithala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-with-133-cases-opposition-alleges-poor-test-rate-to-keep-figures-low-852154.html
21-06-2020||National||Meghalaya extends night curfew, ban on inter-state movement of people till June 30||The Meghalaya government has extended the night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am till June 30, officials said on Sunday. The night curfew was to be in force till Monday. The state government has also extended the ban on inter-state movement of people till June 30, they said. "District deputy commissioners have been asked to issue extension of night curfew orders and directives to extend ban on inter-state movement of people," a senior government official told PTI. The official orders, however, will not apply to security forces, medical teams on duty, wholesale and retail pharmacies and other essential services, he said. As part of measures to ease the lockdown norms, the Meghalaya government has allowed operationalisation of over 400 shops out of th e 1,222 shops identified at the IewDuh market, from Monday. It has also allowed operations of beauty parlours, salons and barber shops but in strict adherence to social distancing norms and stipulated time limits, the official said. Weekly markets across the state, except the ones in areas along the India-Bangladesh border and the inter-state border with Assam, have got the nod to open, too.  Educational institutions will continue to remain closed along with religious places, he said, adding, large public gatherings are also not allowed. Meanwhile, the state's COVID-19 recovery rate rose to 84 per cent after five more patients were cured on Saturday, a health official said. Meghalaya has reported a total of 44 coronavirus cases, making it the state with the "least number of infections", the official said. "Meghalaya - 5 more persons have recovered and test negative for COVID19. Total cases: 44. Total active cases: 6. Recovered: 37," Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-extends-night-curfew-ban-on-inter-state-movement-of-people-till-june-30-852158.html
21-06-2020||National||As India sees highest single-day spike of 15,413 coronavirus cases, nearly 14k recover on Sunday||India’s COVID-19 tally witnessed the sharpest hike of 15,413 new infections on Sunday with Haryana becoming the ninth state to cross 10,000 confirmed cases of the disease. While cases continued to surge, the number of persons recovering from the disease also recorded its steepest increase as 13,925 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total recoveries past 2.27 lakh which pegged the recovery rate at 55.48 per cent. According to a the DH COVID-19 Tracker, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 4,18,849, while the fatalities due to the infectious disease touched 13,409 at 8:15 p.m. on Sunday. The prevalence rate of COVID-19 across the country is 300 cases per million, but the disease is more prevalent in the national capital where there are 3,033 cases per million population. While India has a death rate of 9.68 per million, Delhi reports 112.88 deaths per million population which is 11.7 times the national average, according to economist Shamika Ravi. COVID-19 cases have been reporting an exponential increase in Delhi which reported 3,000 new patients on Sunday evening, taking the total confirmed cases to 59,746. As much as 67 per cent cases or 40,082 new infections were reported in the month of June itself. Haryana reported 480 new infections on Sunday, taking its tally past the 10,000 mark to 10,223, making it the ninth state to cross the grim landmark after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. India is also inching towards testing two lakh samples every day for COVID-19 through its network of 981 laboratories. “In the last 24 hours, 1,90,730 samples were tested. The total number of samples tested so far is 68,07,226,” a Health Ministry statement said Sunday morning. Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continue to account for 60 per cent of the total cases in the country. Andhra Pradesh (491), Telangana (546), Kerala (127) and Rajasthan (380) reported their highest number of cases in a single day on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-india-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-15413-coronavirus-cases-nearly-14k-recover-on-sunday-852170.html
21-06-2020||National||Tamil Nadu reports 2,532 fresh COVID-19 cases; Chennai observes intensified lockdown||Tamil Nadu’s single-day COVID-19 numbers hit another high with swab samples of 2,532 persons, including 1,493 from this metropolis, rendering positive on Sunday taking the state’s tally to 59,377. The day also saw the state government reporting maximum number of deaths in a single day – 53, pushing the death toll to 757. The only sliver lining was the number of discharges which stood at 32,754 of which 1,438 left home from hospitals across the state on Sunday alone. The active cases stood at 25,863, even as the total number of samples touched 8,92,612. The prevalence of the virus is no more confined to the capital city of Chennai, which remains the biggest hotspot with 41,172 cases, as 1,039 people from outside this metropolis tested positive for the virus on Sunday alone. Besides the northern districts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, and Villupuram, districts like Madurai, Dindigul, Thoothukudi, and Tirunelveli in southern Tamil Nadu also reported sizeable numbers on Sunday. Most of the southern districts had brought the spread of the virus under control, but they have begun reporting cases in huge numbers for the past few days. One reason that officials with the Health Department attribute this trend to the exodus of people from Chennai to their native places. Thousands of people had left Chennai last week before the 12-day ‘strict’ lockdown began on June 19 for their native places fearing infection. “In districts like Madurai, Vellore and Tiruvannamalai, people who returned from Chennai have tested positive in good numbers. This is a challenge and we will overcome it,” a senior government official told DH. The numbers of deaths being reported is also a cause of concern for the state with 53 mortalities being recorded in one day. Of the 53 deaths recorded on Sunday, only 3 patients had no medical condition at the time of admission into hospitals, while the remaining 50 had one or multiple comorbid conditions. Even as the cases showed an increase, the city of Chennai went for a “lockdown within lockdown” on Sunday with only emergency services like hospitals and chemist shops functioning. Shops that sell vegetables and provisions were not allowed to open on Sunday but will function from 6 am to 2 pm from Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-reports-2532-fresh-covid-19-cases-chennai-observes-intensified-lockdown-852177.html
21-06-2020||National||History and significance of International Yoga Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the nation on Thursday, ahead of International Yoga Day, had urged everyone to not let the COVID-19 pandemic affect their enthusiasm. Today while India celebrates the sixth International Day of Yoga indoors, we take a look at its significance and history. During his speech at the United Nations General Assembly in September 2014, PM Modi had proposed to adopt an International Yoga Day to celebrate the “invaluable gift of India’s ancient tradition,” Yoga. “It embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action, restraint and fulfilment, harmony between man and nature, a holistic approach to health and well-being... By changing our lifestyle and creating consciousness, it can help in well being. Let us work towards adopting an International Yoga Day,” the Prime Minister had said in his UN General Assembly speech. Later a draft resolution proposing June 21 as the date of celebration was passed and after receiving broad support from a record 177 member States, it was adopted in the later months of 2014. PM Modi pointed out that June 21 was chosen as the date because it is the longest day of the year, the summer solstice, which is celebrated in several cultures and has special significance in many parts of the world. Owing to the global outbreak of coronavirus and necessary restrictions on mass gatherings and public celebrations, this year the International Yoga Day was celebrated on digital platforms. The theme for the year is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/history-and-significance-of-international-yoga-day-852178.html
21-06-2020||National||Govt seeks product-wise details from industry to curb cheap, low quality imports from China: Sources||The government has sought product-wise details of cheap imports, comparison with domestic prices and tax disadvantage, if any, from industry to curb low-quality inbound shipments especially from China and boost domestic manufacturing, sources said. They said a high-level meeting to discuss ways to promote Atma Nirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India), including the cut in import dependence from China, also took place recently in the Prime Minister's office. The industry was asked to send comments and suggestions on certain number of goods and raw materials imported from China, which include wristwatches, wall clocks, ampoules, glass rods and tubes, hair cream, hair shampoos, face powder, eye and lip make up preparations, printing ink, paints and varnishes, and some tobacco items, one of the sources said. The other details sought include import surge data between 2014-15 and 2018-19; domestic prices of similar goods that are made here, domestic capacity, imports under free trade agreements, and inverted duty issue, if any. An industry source said that they are preparing their views on all those products and would soon send to the commerce and industry ministry. The exercise to reduce and curb imports from China assumes significance in the wake of border tensions between the two countries. China accounts for about 14 per cent of India's imports and is a major supplier for sectors like cell phones, telecom, power, plastic toys and critical pharma ingredients. The government has recently put import restrictions on tyres, while also making its prior approval mandatory for foreign investments from countries that share land border with India to curb "opportunistic takeovers" of domestic firms, following COVID-19 pandemic, a move which will restrict FDI from China. During April 2019-February 2020, India imported goods worth USD 62.4 billion, while exports to the neighbouring country stood at USD 15.5 billion in the same period. The main goods imported from China include clocks and watches, musical instruments, toys, sports goods, furniture, mattresses, plastics, electrical machinery, electronic equipment, chemicals, iron and steel items, fertilisers, mineral fuel and metals. India has time and again raised concerns over widening trade deficit with China which stood at about USD 47 billion during April-February 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seeks-product-wise-details-from-industry-to-curb-cheap-low-quality-imports-from-china-sources-852179.html
21-06-2020||National||Supreme Court to go on curtailed summer break from Monday; Two division benches to hear urgent matters||The Supreme Court is set to go on curtailed summer vacations from Monday with only two division benches sitting to take up urgent matters to "meet demands of justice". In May, the top court decided to partially cancel summer vacations between May 18 and June 19, 2020, to allow some courts to take up urgent matters through video conferencing. From Monday, two division benches, one Court of Judges-in-Chamber and one Registrar court will conduct hearings through video conferencing or tele conferencing mode, a circular issued by the Supreme Court registry stated. Between June 29 to May 3, 2020, two benches in the whole week i.e., one on June 30, Tuesday and second on July 3, 2020 Friday would assemble, it said. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the top court has a limited number of benches taking up urgent matters only since March through video conferencing. During this period of 57 days of virtual hearings, as many as 7144 cases were heard by the top court. It also passed judgements in 672 cases. As per the previous schedule, the Supreme Court was to go for summer break between May 18 and July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-go-on-curtailed-summer-break-from-monday-two-division-benches-to-hear-urgent-matters-852180.html
21-06-2020||National||Amid Galwan Valley situation, India-China stand-off on Pangong Tso continues||Even as all eyes are on Galwan Valley after the June 15 violent clash, the six-week-long stand-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso continues unresolved. The talks between diplomats and officials of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) so far did not result in any headway towards resolving the stand-off on the bank of the Pangong Tso. The Chinese PLA rather built more defence structures in the ‘Finger 4’ area in addition to the bunker they constructed soon after a scuffle with the soldiers of the two nations early last month. The senior diplomats of the two sides are likely to hold a video-conference within the next few days under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs. Sources told DH in New Delhi that the diplomats would discuss de-escalation and disengagement both in Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso. The senior officials of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are also expected to hold a series of meetings, including one at the level of the Corps Commanders. China has been steadfastly refusing to yield to India’s demand for withdrawal of the PLA troops from “Finger 4” on the bank of the Pangong Tso and for demolition of the bunker and the moat-like structure they built to deny Indian Army soldiers access to an area they regularly patrolled before the stand-off started. They rather built more defence structures in and around the area. The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso jut towards the lake like a palm with the protrusions looking like fingers. They are in fact demarcated on the maps as ‘Fingers’, with the “Finger 1” at western end and the “Finger 8”. China claims that the LAC, after cutting through the Pangong Tso, goes through the “Finger 4”. India, on the other hand, claims that the line goes through the “Finger 8”. The soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a scuffle on Finger 4 on May 5. The PLA later built the bunker and deployed additional troops in the area. The Indian Army also responded with deployment in adequate numbers, resulting in a stand-off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-galwan-valley-situation-india-china-stand-off-on-pangong-tso-continues-852189.html
21-06-2020||National||Pleas in SC against blacklisting of over 3,500 foreigners for alleged Tablighi activities||Multiple pleas have been filed in the Supreme Court by foreign nationals, who are presently in India, challenging the Centre's decisions of blacklisting over 3,500 citizens of 35 countries for their alleged involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities. Four writ petitions, including one by a Thai national who is seven months pregnant, have challenged the Centre's decision of April 2 by which 960 foreigners were blacklisted and another subsequent decision on June 4 by which over 2,500 foreign nationals were blacklisted for 10 years from travelling to India. "The impugned decision, by its very unilateral nature, infringes the principle of natural justice, particularly ‘audi alteram partem’ by blacklisting the said foreigners present in India without first granting an opportunity of being heard or notice of any form, and resultantly depriving the aggrieved foreign nationals of their right of locomotion and travelling back to the country of their citizenship,” the plea filed by the Thai woman said. The petitions, filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi and drafted by advocates Ibad Mushtaq and Ashima Mandla, contended that the en masse blacklisting of over 3,500 foreigners from 35 nations, who are currently in India without affording any opportunity to prima facie defend themselves, is an egregious and blatant violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. It said that the sudden blacklisting, apart from registration of FIRs against such foreigners, led to the forfeiture of their passports by state authorities, thereby resulting in a complete deprivation of their personal liberty sans procedure established by law. “The impugned decision, therefore, has been passed arbitrarily against the aggrieved foreign nationals, being devoid of any documentary proof or evidence to substantiate the allegations of alleged Tablighi activities, and in the absence of any opportunity being afforded to defend or to explain, is an affront to not only the right to life and personal liberty, guaranteed under Article 21 but also to the rudimental principles of natural justice”, the plea said. The Thai woman said that she is in seven months pregnant and having been quarantined in March, like the other petitioners, she was released from quarantine only in late May. She said she is still at a facility under restricted movements, without the avenue to go back to her home nation and experience the birth of her child with security and dignity, with her loved ones. “In barely 50 words, the impugned decision as reflected in the press release dated April 2, 2020 has arbitrarily first forfeited the personal liberty of more than 960 foreign nationals, belonging to 35 countries, presently in India, having entered on valid tourist visas, by merely alleging their involvement in ‘Tablighi Jamaat Activities”’ despite the guidelines of the Respondent No.1 (MHA (the Ministry of Home Affairs)) placing no bar on attending religious congregations or visiting religious places,” it said. The plea said that the figure was recently been revised on June 4 and now more than 3,500 foreigners stand blacklisted. “The Respondent No.1 (MHA) baselessly and arbitrarily passed a blanket ban on the aggrieved foreign nationals under the garb of alleged visa violations pursuant to alleged Tablighi activities, forcing such persons to remain in India under restricted movements,” it said. The plea added that the decisions are based on an erroneous presumption and have equated the mere act of attending a religious congregation or a religious place of worship on the same footing as with Tablighi work such as preaching religious ideologies, making speeches in religious places and proselytization, negating any intelligible differentiation between the two separate and distinct activities. The plea sought direction of the courts calling for record and thereby declaring the impugned decision of arbitrary and unilateral blacklisting of 960 foreigners by the MHA and the subsequent blacklisting of around 2,500 foreigners to be in violation of Article 21 and therefore void and unconstitutional. It also sought direction to MHA and Ministry of External Affairs to remove the said foreigners from the blacklist and reinstate their visas and to facilitate them to return to their respective countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pleas-in-sc-against-blacklisting-of-over-3500-foreigners-for-alleged-tablighi-activities-852204.html
21-06-2020||National||With 21 fatalities, UP's COVID-19 death toll climbs to 550||As many as 21 COVID-19 fatalities were reported from Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, taking the death toll due to the disease to 550 in the state, a senior state government official said. Principal Secretary, Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here that 21 COVID-19 deaths were reported from the state in the last 24 hours. As many as 10,995 or 62.01 COVID-19 patients have completely recovered from the illness in the state, he said. Over 5.60 lakh samples have so far been tested for the disease in the state, including 16,125 on Saturday, Prasad said, adding that testing is continuously being expanded. Prasad said soon antigen testing will also be started in select cities of the state. It will be started in the National Capital Region (NCR), Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi and Gorakhpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-21-fatalities-ups-covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-550-852206.html
21-06-2020||National||Sambit Patra moves SC seeking permission to hold Jagannath Yatra||BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra has moved the Supreme Court to seek a review of its order that barred Lord Jagannath's Rath Yatra in Odisha due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “Today I filled an application for clarification/ modification of earlier order of Supreme Court and sought permission for the Holy Rath Yatra of Shri Jagannath Mahaprabhu in Puri scheduled for 23rd June," Patra tweeted. The BJP leader had lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Puri to his BJD rival Pinaki Misra. The nine-day rath yatra festival in the seaside pilgrim town is scheduled on June 23. A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde on June 18 said that in the interest of public health and safety of citizens, this year's Rath Yatra in the Odisha pilgrim town cannot be allowed. “Hope all our prayers are answered by the Lord of the Universe,” Patra said. Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) general secretary Milind Parande on Sunday said that the Jagannath Rath Yatra should be allowed and as it can be held with all COVID-19 protocols. VHP spokesperson Vinod Bansal said it is the responsibility of the Odisha government to take proper steps to ensure the continuity of this yatra, which is the tradition of Odisha and the entire country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sambit-patra-moves-sc-seeking-permission-to-hold-jagannath-yatra-852207.html
21-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley clash: Govt grants emergency financial powers to three services||The government has granted the three services emergency financial powers of up to Rs 500 crore per procurement project to buy ammunition and weapons in view of the escalating border standoff with China, government sources said Sunday. The special financial powers have been given to the forces to procure weapons and military hardware at short notice to enhance their operational preparedness along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), they said. The government has also relaxed certain rules to cut delays in military purchase like allowing the three services to procure required weapons and equipment from a single vendor, the sources said. Twenty Indian Army soldiers were killed in a violent clash in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on June 15, triggering a massive escalation in tension between the two countries. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has already directed the Army, the Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force to enhance their operational readiness along the LAC, the 3,500 km de-facto border between India and China, amid fears of fresh confrontation. Military sources said the Army is going to use the emergency financial powers to expand its stock of ammunition as there is little possibility of any resolution of the standoff soon. "The three services have been given emergency financial powers of up to Rs 500 crore per procurement project," said a source. The clash in Galwan Valley was the worst cross border confrontation between the two sides in 45 years. China’s People’s Liberation Army has not yet talked about the number of casualties it suffered. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control in Galwan. The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of eastern Ladakh since May 5 when their troops clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. Prior to the clashes, both sides had been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it was necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-clash-govt-grants-emergency-financial-powers-to-three-services-852209.html
21-06-2020||National||Off the record: June 22||Explain inaction It seems that the Gujarat government, instead of taking a decision on its own with regard to cancellation of this year’s Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath, left it to the High Court to decide. The court finally cancelled the event following an urgent hearing on Saturday evening. The court did not dispose of the matter and sought an explanation from the home department, Ahmedabad police commissioner and municipal commissioner that why did they not take the decision earlier. The Rath Yatra was to be held on June 23. The “astonished” court asked the government to explain its inaction “as to why no decision was taken and communicated to the organizer well within time, rather than keeping the matter pending till the last date when the Rath Yatra is to be carried.” Satish Jha, Ahmedabad  Checkmate  Congress high command sprang a surprise by announcing four-time Rajya Sabha member B K Hariprasad as the party candidate for Karnataka Legislative Council elections scheduled on June 29. Insiders of the party say newly appointed Karnataka Pradesh Congress (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar backed Hariprasad. Shivakumar, who always sees Siddaramaiah as a competitor is of the opinion that Hariprasad, a backward class leader, can check the former Chief Minister. Now, there is talk in political circles that Hariprasad may be made as Opposition Leader in Legislative Council to balance Siddaramaiah, who is Opposition Leader in Assembly. Ajith Athrady, New Delhi Mullapally MIA?  Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran recently alleged that Health Minister K K Shailaja was trying to take credit over the fight against NIPAH outbreak of 2018 and the present fight against Covid-19 by just being a guest actor while health workers did the actual fight. Subsequently, many accused Ramachandran of not even being a guest actor during the time of NIPAH in North Kerala in 2018 even as he was the then MP of the area. Immediately Mullappally posted a series of paper clippings of him attending meetings along with the health minister during NIPAH outbreak in 2018. Arjun Raghunath,Thiruvananthapuram  Greater good Tamil Nadu’s Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan tested positive for Coronavirus last week. But there is no record to prove that he is infected with Covid-19 because none was created. Though officials and the private hospital where he is under treatment were proactive in the beginning to confirm his positive status to the media off record, later they went silent. The order seemed to have come from the top that the minister’s health status should be kept a secret as it would spoil the image of the government and invite criticism. No wonder, that the minister himself told journalists who called him that he was not Covid-19 positive and was doing well. E T B Sivapriyan, Chennai  Moscow bound Amidst the high tension face-off between India and China, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is set to fly to Moscow to participate in a great military parade at the Red Square on June 24, to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of Victory of the Soviet People in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945. The British Indian Armed Forces during World War-II were one of the largest Allied Forces contingents which took part in the North and East African Campaign, Western Desert Campaign and the European Theatre against the Axis powers. Nearly 87 thousands Indian servicemen were killed in the war. The recognition for the valour of the Indian soldiers came not only from a 1944 decree from the Soviet but also from awarding of the prestigious Orders of the Red Star to Subedar Narayan Rao Nikkam and Havildar Gajendra Singh Chand of Royal Indian Army Service Corps. The Defence Minister’s visit will rekindle such memories that may go a long way to further consolidate the India-Russia relations. India has also sent a marching contingent from the Sikh Light Infantry regiment that took part in the WW-II whereas three lady officers from the Army, Navy and Air Force will be the flag bearers. Kalyan Ray, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/off-the-record-june-22-852225.html
21-06-2020||National||GoAir brings back about 5,000 Indian nationals from Gulf countries||Budget carrier GoAir on Sunday said it brought home around 5,000 Indian nationals, who were stuck in some of the Gulf countries amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, through 28 chartered flights operated between June 9 and June 20. These Indian passengers were flown from Kuwait, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Muscat, Doha and Dammam to the Indian cities of Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Kochi and Kannur, GoAir said in a statement. "GoAir has operated 28 international private charter flights between June 9 and June 20 and helped 4,964 Indians unite with their loved ones back home," the statement said. "A total of 2,451 Indian citizens flew back from Kuwait to Ahmedabad, Kannur, Kochi and Lucknow; 549 from Dubai to Kannur and Kochi; 544 from Abu Dhabi to Ahmedabad, Kannur and Kochi; 541 from Muscat to Kannur and Lucknow, 528 from Doha to Kannur and Bengaluru and 351 from Dammam to Kannur and Lucknow," it added. Besides, GoAir concluded phase 3 of 'Vande Bharat Mission' to repatriate stranded India citizens with a total of three flights -- Kuwait to Ahmedabad, Dammam to Lucknow and Abu Dhabi to Ahmedabad, it said, adding that as many as 530 people were flown by the airline as part of this mission. "GoAir expresses its deep gratitude to the governments of Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait as well as the Indian government besides other stakeholders who provided all the necessary support for the operations of these flights," a GoAir spokesperson said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goair-brings-back-about-5000-indian-nationals-from-gulf-countries-852234.html
21-06-2020||National||13-year-old girl kidnapped, gangraped; 3 minors among 6 held||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by five persons in Dewas city of Madhya Pradesh before being kidnapped to Rajasthan, a police official said on Sunday. The girl has been rescued from Jaipur and six persons, including her female friend and two other minors, have been arrested in connection with the crime, the official said. The victim's father, who hails from Ratlam district of Madhya Pradesh, had lodged a complaint with the police on June 16, saying that his daughter who lived with her aunt in Dewas and went to a school, had gone missing, police said. "Police have arrested six persons, including a minor girl, and efforts are on to nab three other accused involved in the kidnapping and gangrape case," District Superintendent of Police (SP) Krishnaveni Desavatu said. "The accused girl helped others involved in the crime to kidnap the victim from Dewas railway station on June 15," she added. According to the SP, the accused girl took the victim on her two-wheeler to a hotel in the city, where Rohit Khatik (23), Ajay Khatik (20), Vishal Goswami raped her. Two other accused- Aman Khatik (18) and Netash Tiwari (19)- also raped her later and took her to Rajasthan, Desavatu said. The crime branch of Jaipur police later tracked down the victim and two accused there, she added. "Aman, Netash and three minors- the accused girl- and two staffers of the hotel, have been arrested along with the manager of the hotel, Lokesh Lal (35), for their involvement in the crime," she said. Three other accused Rohit, Ajay and Vishal are absconding, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-year-old-girl-kidnapped-gangraped-3-minors-among-6-held-852249.html
21-06-2020||National||Maharashtra COVID-19 cases spike by 3,870 to over 1.32 lakh; 101 die||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 3,870 new COVID-19 cases and 101 deaths, including 41 from Mumbai, taking the total tally to 1,32,075 and fatalities to 6,170, a health official said. This is the second highest spike in the number of cases in a single day after 3,874 new cases were recorded on Saturday. Though the total of 170 deaths were added on Sunday as per the data reconciliation process, 69 of them had occurred May 7 onwards and not added earlier in the data, the official explained. A total of 1,591 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the number of the recovered cases to 65,744, the official said. The number of active cases under treatment now stands at 60,147. Mumbai has so far recorded 66,488 COVID-19 cases, of which 33,491 patients have been discharged after recovery, the official said. The death toll stood at 3,671 while eight fatalities were reported as non-COVID-19. The number of active cases in Mumbai now stands at 29,318, he said. "Due to the ongoing data reconciliation process as per the ICMR norms, the state recorded deaths of 170 patients on Sunday. However, 69 deaths had occurred after May 7 but they were not reflected in the data earlier," the official said. Of the 101 deaths, 41 occurred in Mumbai city, 29 in Thane, 14 in Pune, seven in Nashik, four in Akola. One death each was reported from Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Latur, Amravati, Buldana and Washim, he said. The average mortality rate for COVID-19 cases now stands at 4.67 per cent in Maharashtra, he said. Of 7,73,765 samples tested so far, 1,32,075 have returned a positive result, the official said. The number of people placed under home quarantine in the state stands at 6,00,066 while 26,287 others are placed under institutional quarantine, he added. After Mumbai, maximum caseload is reported from Thane and Pune. Thane division has so far reported 96,859 COVID-19 cases and 4,568 deaths while Pune has contributed 18,926 cases and reported 811 fatalities, he said. Pune city alone has reported 13,267 cases and 517 deaths, he said. Nashik division that covers North Maharashtra has reported 5,883 cases and 397 deaths while south Maharashtra and coastal region covering Kolhapur division has reported 1,698 cases and 36 deaths, the official said. The number of cases and fatalities in Aurangabad stands at 4,102 and 190, respectively, in Aurangabad while Latur has reported 768 cases and 33 deaths, he said. Akola division has reported 2,093 COVID-19 cases and 101 fatalities and Nagpur division 1,632 cases and 15 deaths so far. A total of 114 people from other states and countries are under treatment for the infection in Maharashtra while 20 have died so far, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-spike-by-3870-to-over-132-lakh-101-die-852255.html
21-06-2020||National||Army given full freedom to deal with China: MoS G Kishan Reddy||The Army has been given "full freedom" in dealing with China and protecting India's territory and its men in the backdrop of the border faceoff in Ladakh, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said on Sunday. Speaking after meeting family members of slain Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu, who along with 19 other soldiers were killed in the recent fierce clash in Galwan Valley, he also said a deep anti-China sentiment was on the rise in the country and there was a need to voluntarily boycott Chinese products to the extent possible. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had already held an all-party meeting on the issue and efforts were on to find a solution to the issue, he told reporters after the visit to the house of Col. Santosh Babu in Suryapet district where he consoled the bereaved family members. "Taking into consideration the local situation, the government has given full freedom to the Indian Army on how to deal with China while protecting the Indian territory and the lives of the army personnel," he told reporters. "There is a deep anti-China sentiment on the rise in the country. The Public are expressing anti-China opinion all over the country by holding protests and also paying homage to the martyrs. There is a need to voluntarily boycott Chinese products to the extent possible. Public in the country wants that," the Minister said. The government and the Indian Army will support the families of the martyrs and the purpose of him meeting Col Santosh's relatives was to convey the message, he said. Indian and Chinese armies have been on a six-week-long standoff in the eastern Ladakh and a violent clash left 20 Indian Army personnel and injured around 76 in Galwan Valley on June 15||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-given-full-freedom-to-deal-with-china-mos-g-kishan-reddy-852256.html
21-06-2020||National||Content on streaming platforms giving rise to crimes, censorship required: Nitish Kumar tells PM Modi||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, making a case for imposing censorship on content available on streaming platforms, insisting that criminal activities are on the rise due to obscene and violent depictions in shows. Kumar said incidents of crime are increasing against women and children because of the "negative impact" on the minds of people due to their exposure to such programmes. There is no clarity in the rules regarding streaming services, an official release quoted the chief minister as saying in the letter. The availability of "inappropriate" content without any censorship is "unacceptable", Kumar said, urging the PM to take necessary steps to bring programmes broadcast through streaming platforms within the ambit of certification under the Cinematograph Act, 1952. Besides, the production and broadcast of such programmes having obscene and violent content should be brought under the purview of crime so that people concerned can be punished, Kumar said. He said that several streaming service players are "uninterruptedly broadcasting shows having violence and sex" in the absence of censorship. In December last year, Kumar had written to Modi, demanding a ban on pornographic sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/content-on-streaming-platforms-giving-rise-to-crimes-censorship-required-nitish-kumar-tells-pm-modi-852260.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||Congress keeps up heat on PM over LAC face-off; Rahul Gandhi says Narendra Modi is 'Surrender Modi'||Keeping up the heat on the Modi government over the killing of Indian troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, Congress on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of surrendering before the Chinese and speaking their language on the violent face off. “Narendra Modi is actually Surender Modi,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter tagging an article suggesting that India has been following an appeasement policy towards China. Rahul has been attacking Modi over the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China in Ladakh. Earlier, the former Congress president had accused the Prime Minister of “hiding” and remaining “silent” on the developments at the Sino-Indian border. He also countered Modi’s ‘no intrusion’ remarks by pointing out that satellite pictures clearly showed China occupying the “holy land of mother India” near the Pangong Lake. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal accused the prime minister of speaking the language of China and asked him to take lessons from the Congress which had a track record of handling strategic matters. “What is the difference between the statement of the Prime Minister and that of the Chinese government. China is also saying that its troops did not cross the LAC,” Sibal, a former Union Minister told reporters via a video link. There has been no let up in the Congress attack on the Modi government on the Sino-India border tension while Andhra Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressing concern over the “manufactured controversy” over the Prime Minister’s remarks at the all party meeting on Friday. Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma said the Prime Minister’s remarks at the all party meeting clearly reflected India’s strong stand when it came to safeguarding sovereignty. “All other ‘commentary’ may best be ignored. It is not factual or desired,” Sangma said. Congress has rejected suggestions that it was isolated politically on the China issue as all political parties, including Trinamool and NCP, were supporting the government on the issue. Sibal said the Congress stood firmly with the Armed Forces and the government, but wanted the prime minister to clarify his remarks on the situation at the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-keeps-up-heat-on-pm-over-lac-face-off-rahul-gandhi-says-narendra-modi-is-surrender-modi-852064.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||Four more deaths, 154 fresh COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Rajasthan rose to 341 on Sunday with four more fatalities, while the cases climbed to 14,691 after 154 people tested positive, officials said. Of the fresh cases, 59 were from Dholpur, followed by 31 from Jaipur, 22 from Jhunjhunu, 12 from Alwar, nine from Sikar, five each from Dungarpur and Bhilwara, three from Rajsamand, two each Nagaur and Udaipur, one from Churu besides a patient from another state, according to an official report here. A total of 11,158 COVID-19 patients have been discharged, and the state now has 2,955 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/four-more-deaths-154-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-852065.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||How long will Governor take to dismiss BJP-led 'minority government'? asks Manipur Congress||Congress in Manipur on Sunday urged Governor Najma Heptulla to convene a special session of the state Assembly on Monday for a floor test by BJP-led coalition government even as BJP leaders stepped up attacks on the newly formed front of the oppostion parties. "In a democracy, majority is always proved on the floor of the House. I strongly urge the Governor to convene a special session of the Assembly on Monday. How can BJP-led minority government remain in power with 23 MLAs in the House of 52? How long will the Governor take to dismiss the minority government and ensure a floor test?" asked Congress spokesperson, Ningombam Bupenda Meitei. On Thursday, Congress stitched a new front, Secular Progressive Front with four MLAs of NPP, one Trinamool and one Independent and met Heptulla with a demand for the floor test. The six MLAs had resigned and withdrawn support from N. Biren Singh government on Wednesday, creating a political crisis in the state. BJP, on the other hand, dismissed Congress' demand saying victory of their candidate in the Rajya Sabha election held on Friday nullified the opposition's unity against N. Biren Singh government. BJP candidate, Leishema Sanajaoba, Manipur's titular king was elected to the Rajya Sabha with 28 votes against 24 votes cast in favour of the Congress candidate T. Mangibabu.  Congress leaders were angry with Speaker Yumnam Khemchand's decision to allow three of the seven MLAs, who defected from Congress to BJP earlier, to vote in the Rajya Sabha poll on Friday.  Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav, in a war of words with Congress leader Gaurav Gogoi on Twitter claimed that five Congress MLAs had voted for the BJP candidate in the Rajya Sabha poll.  When asked about Madhav's claim, Meitei said neither the Election Commission nor Assembly secretariat confirmed about it. "Winning one Rajya Sabha seat cannot replace the Constitutional demand for having a floor test in the Assembly. How can the minority government remain in power with 23 MLAs? This is destruction of the Constitution," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/how-long-will-governor-take-to-dismiss-bjp-led-minority-government-asks-manipur-congress-852173.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||Modi's LAC comments 'endorsed Chinese position': Congress||Stepping up the offensive against the government on the Ladakh standoff, the Congress on Sunday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had "endorsed the Chinese position" by saying that there was no intrusion into Indian territory. Congress leader and former Union minister Kapil Sibal said the government should not remain in denial. It should not back down till the Chinese retreat and status quo ante is restored at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de-facto border between India and China. At an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation along the India-China border, Modi had said: "Na wahan koi hamari seema mein ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabze mein hain (Neither is anyone inside our territory nor is any of our post captured)." The prime minister's remarks triggered massive criticism, with the Congress accusing him of surrendering Indian territory to China. It asked where the 20 Indian soldiers were killed if the Chinese military did not come to the Indian side of the LAC. "When China violated the LAC and staked claim on the Galwan Valley and you (PM Modi) said no one intruded into Indian territory, you are yourself saying what China is," Sibal said at a virtual press conference. "Has not the PM in a way endorsed the Chinese position that they never intruded into our territories. The PM must explain," he said. "Let no one in the central government remain in denial. Until the Chinese retreat and status quo ante is restored, our government should not let up or appear to cede any part of these territories to the Chinese," he added. Sibal asked if the PM's statement wasn't an affront to the valour and supreme sacrifice of the soldiers who sought to evict the Chinese from Indian territory in the Galwan Valley. In more questions directed at the government, he asked, "Does the government mean that their sacrifice was in vain. Is it not correct that China has never claimed Galwan Valley as its territory? Is it also not correct that China has now committed brazen transgressions into Galwan Valley?" Sibal said the prime minister's remarks contradict statements made by the defence minister, the external affairs minister and the Army chief. He asked, "Why is the PM refuting the statement of defence minister on 'Chinese presence in large numbers' and EAM's statement that we seek to restore 'status quo ante'? Didn't the Army chief clearly state that 'disengagement' is underway?" The Congress leader, however, said the entire country stands behind the government in every step they will take to defend India's territorial integrity. "India's armed forces and the people of India will protect our territorial integrity with all our might. We will never compromise on issues of national security," Sibal said. "China's brazen transgressions into India's territory in the Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso Lake area and Hot Springs cannot be accepted. Our territorial integrity will not be compromised under any circumstances," he said. After Modi's statement triggered a political firestorm, the Prime Minister's Officer (PMO) issued a statement on Saturday clarifying that his "observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces, who foiled an attempt by Chinese troops to transgress into the Galwan Valley". Attempts are being made to give a "mischievous interpretation" to the prime minister's remarks, it said. Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in the violent face-off with Chinese troops on the night of June 15/16 in Ladakh's Galwan Valley. This is the biggest confrontation between the militaries of India and China after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-lac-comments-endorsed-chinese-position-congress-852182.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||Opposition MPs demand briefing on Galwan incident, Parliamentary panel meeting; BJP members oppose||A meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on external affairs should be called at the earliest and briefed by the foreign secretary, defence secretary and other top officials on the violent faceoff with China in which 20 Indian soldiers died, several panel members from the opposition parties said on Sunday. However, panel members from the ruling party termed the demand an act of politics and said it wouldn't be feasible to call the meeting when the country is grappling with the coronavirus crisis. The committee is chaired by former Union Minister and BJP MP PP Chaudhary. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in a brutal attack by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on June 15. This was the worst cross-border violence between the two armies in 45 years and it has frayed ties between India and China. Following the incident, members from various opposition parties demanded that a meeting of the standing committee on external affairs be called to discuss the matter. RSP MP NK Premchandran, a member of the panel, said a meeting has to be called on the standoff between India and China. "A meeting has to be called at the earliest as it is an issue of national importance. Foreign secretary and defense secretary should be invited to brief the panel on the violence faceoff," Premchandran told PTI. Former Home Minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said all top officials who can throw light on the incident should be called to brief the members. "A meeting must be called and the foreign secretary should brief on the violent stand-off between forces of India and China in Galwan Valley and members must be allowed to call other top officials of the government who can throw more light on this,” Chidambaram said. But BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said political leaders from across parties should stand united with the government in a time of crisis. She also said there's politics behind this demand at such a moment. "To fight the Chinese wall, political leaders should stand united with the government as a firewall and avoid propaganda and politics," Lekhi said. Wondering why MPs from opposition parties didn't demand a meeting of the standing committee amid the coronavirus pandemic, she asserted that "there is definitely politics behind this meeting (call).” Her party colleague and member in the committee Poonam Mahajan said the meeting wouldn't be feasible as it could be risky for members of the Lok Sabha Secretariat due to the pandemic. The members have a right to demand meetings of the parliamentary standing committees but these panels are not a platform to do politics on issues of national interest, she said. Meanwhile, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu have asked the secretary generals to explore the possibility of arranging a meeting via video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-demand-briefing-on-galwan-incident-parliamentary-panel-meeting-bjp-members-oppose-852190.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||Bhima Koregaon case: Brinda Karat writes to Amit Shah over 'inhuman treatment' being meted out to activisits||CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah highlighting the "inhuman treatment" being meted out to 11 activists arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. In her letter, she said that many of those incarcerated are in fragile health and the delay in investigation is taking a toll on them. "I write to draw your attention to the inhuman treatment meted out to those political and human rights activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. I am writing to you because the investigation is under the NIA which is under your command," Karat said in the letter. "Even though nine of the eleven arrested have been incarcerated for two years which is more than enough time for investigation, the NIA has been consistently opposing bail applications. Several of the accused are in fragile health," she said. The CPI(M) politburo member said at this time of the COVID-19 pandemic, they are in real danger of contracting the virus and many of them suffer from co- morbidities which makes them very vulnerable. The arrested accused in this case are Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde. Describing the condition of those incarcerated, Karat gave the example of Gautam Navlakha and said that even while his bail application was pending before a Delhi Court, he was whisked away by the NIA team and taken to Mumbai. She said Navlakha was referred to a quarantine facility which is jam-packed and extremely unhygienic. "He is also vulnerable to the virus with serious digestive problems, blood pressure and hypertension. His quarantine period is over and yet he is being kept in that centre as a measure to punish him,” Karat said. "It is shocking and deplorable that a political detenu should be treated in this fashion. I urge you to look into the conditions in which he is being held and ensure that he is moved to a more hygienic facility pending his bail," she said. The CPI(M) leader also cited the example of 81-year-old Varavara Rao who she said was denied bail and discharged just after three days from the well-equipped JJ hospital. She said Rao was brought back to the jail in spite of his alarmingly deteriorating health condition. "Vindictive political actions against those who have served the poor and marginalised bring no credit to any Government. This is even more alarming in view of the rising numbers of prison inmates and police personnel testing COVID positive in Mumbai prisons. I hope you will consider the issues raised here and take appropriate action," Karat added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhima-koregaon-case-brinda-karat-writes-to-amit-shah-over-inhuman-treatment-being-meted-out-to-activisits-852202.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||BJP dusts off the past to counter Congress||BJP has dusted off the past to corner Congress, which has gone aggressive in last one week against the government on the LAC skirmish in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives on June 15 night. When addressing the virtual Telangana Jansamvad Rally on Saturday, BJP chief J P Nadda reminded Congress of 1962 Indo-China war asking “who had knelt down before the China”, the party was following a pattern of taking a peak in Congress' past to browbeat it in the face of mounting criticism. Nadda also reminded the Congress about how BJP’s earlier avatar Bhartiya Jana Sangh had backed the Congress government in 1948 (Indo-Pakistan war over the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir), 1965 (first full scale Indo-Pak war( and 1971 indo-Pak war leading to liberation of Bangladesh). The BJP is aware of the soft underbelly of the Congress due to these past events and has used it to the hilt to counter Congress' criticism from time to time. BJP has repeatedly raked up the 1962 Indo-China war that happened during the tenure of Jawaharlal Nehru, the imposition of Emergency in 1975 by Indira Gandhi and the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 during Rajiv Gandhi’s Prime Ministership as well as the 1985 Shah Bano case also during the latter’s tenure to take the wind out of the Congress campaign against its governments on issues like national security, suppression of dissent, communal riots and communalisation of politics. BJP has on many occasions also taken up with gusto how Congress “allowed” the division of the nation in 1947. The latest was December last year, Home Minister Amit Shah while introducing CAA, held Congress responsible for partition on religious lines, a charge he repeated even in pro-CAA rallies in January 2020. This was after Congress leaders raised questions about the intent of the bill.  In March 2014, when UPA was still in power, a section of the confidential Henderson Brooks Report on the 1962 Indo-China war became public. BJP had mounted a massive offensive questioning India’s defence preparedness during Nehru’s time and pressed for making the classified document public. This was just two months before the nation was going for a general election. On the 44th anniversary of Emergency in June 2018, less than a year before 2019 Lok Sabha plans, the BJP lined up a plan to observe it in a big way attacking Congress for the episode and honouring those who valiantly fought against Emergency. . The same strategy, the BJP had applied to silence the Congress whenever it tried to put the BJP on mat on 2002 post-Godhra riots in Gujarat, rushing its leaders to highlight the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the infamous statement of the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi “when a big tree falls, the earth shakes a bit” made in the aftermath of the riots. In the middle of 2019 Lok Sabha poll campaign, BJP has taken strong objection to ‘hua to hua’ remark of Congress’ Sam Pitroda on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and made it a campaign issue. In 2015 Bihar polls, Modi reminded the Congress of ‘lakhs of Sikhs massacred in Delhi on November 2 in 1984 and slammed it with  “door maro doob maro” remarks for “giving a lecture on the issue of intolerance.” 1984 riots also came into political discourse five months back in assembly elections from Delhi as well. Hitting back at Congress over its 'opposition' to the triple talaq bill, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in Rajya Sabha asked Congress to introspect why it was on a decline after winning 400 plus seats post bringing the law to overturn the Supreme Court judgement on maintenance in the Shah Bano's case in 1986.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-dusts-off-the-past-to-counter-congress-852203.html
21-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi made Modi 'Lord of Gods': BJP president J P Nadda||Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi, BJP on Sunday said the former Congress President through his ‘Surender’ jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called him ‘lord of the Gods’. “You say – Narendra Modi is Surender Modi – that means you are saying that Modi is not only the leader of humans but also of Gods,” BJP President J P Nadda said addressing the digital rally. “In Hinduism, ‘Surender’ or Surendra is ‘Lord of the Gods,” Karnataka Minister C T Ravi said responding to Rahul “surrender” jibe at Modi. Rahul’s play of words was countered by Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma as well. “Mr Rahul Gandhi you are so exasperated you cannot even spell correctly… and surrendering has been hallmark of Gandhi-Nehru family. In 1962, Assam was almost given away by Pt Nehru. When Chinese Army had captured Bomdila, Nehru said, ‘My heart goes out to the people of Assam.’ Shame,” Sarma, a Congressman-turned-BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-made-modi-lord-of-gods-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-852208.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Annular solar eclipse underway, cloudy skies may play spoilsport for sky gazers in Delhi||An annular solar eclipse, wherein the Sun appears like a ring of fire, is currently underway but cloudy skies are likely to play a spoilsport for sky gazers in the nationa The annular phase began at 10.19 am and will end at 2.02 pm. The annular phase was visible on Sunday morning from some places within a narrow corridor of northern part of the country (parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand). Few prominent places within this narrow annularity path are Dehradun, Kurukshetra, Chamoli, Joshimath, Sirsa, Suratgarh. It will be seen as a partial solar eclipse from the rest part of the country. The annular path also passes through Congo, Sudan, Ethiopia, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Pakistan, and China. Obscuration of the Sun by the Moon at the time of greatest phase of partial eclipse will be around 94 per cent in Delhi. N Rathnashree, Director of Nehru Planetarium, said visibility of the eclipse is being hampered due to solar eclipse.  The next annular eclipse will be seen from South America in December 2020. Another annular eclipse will occur in 2022, but that it will be hardly visible from India, Rathnashree added.  A solar eclipse occurs on a new moon day when the Moon comes in between the Earth and the Sun and when all the three objects are aligned.  An annular solar eclipse will occur when the angular diameter of the Moon falls short of that of the Sun so that it cannot cover up the latter completely. As a result, a ring of the Sun's disk remains visible around the Moon. This gives an image of a ring of fire. Rathnashree cautioned that eclipsed Sun should not be viewed with the naked eye, even for a very short time as it can cause permanent damage of the eyes leading to blindness even when the Moon covers most portion of the Sun.  Safe technique to observe the solar eclipse is either by using proper filter like aluminised mylar, black polymer, welding glass of shade number 14 or by making projection of the Sun's image on a white board by telescope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/annular-solar-eclipse-underway-cloudy-skies-may-play-spoilsport-for-sky-gazers-in-delhi-852047.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Nepal's FM radio stations beam propaganda across border, say Lipulekh theirs||Nepal’s FM radio channels close to the border with India are broadcasting propaganda to back Kathmandu’s claim on Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, residents in India’s border villages said. Nepalese parliament recently adopted a new political map of the country showing these areas as part of its own territory, a move strongly opposed by India. "Some Nepalese FM channels have of late started playing anti-India speeches in between Nepali songs,” said Shalu Datal, a resident of Dantu village in Pithoragarh’s Dharchula sub-division. “As people on both sides of the border listen to Nepali songs, they also hear the anti-India speeches delivered by Nepalese leaders in between them,” she said. The main FM stations playing anti-India content between songs are Naya Nepal and Kalapani Radio, Datal said. "Some old channels like Mallikarjun Radio and a website named annapurna.online are also broadcasting reports depicting Kalapani as Nepalese territory,” she said.  The FM stations are situated at Chabrigar near the district headquarters in Nepal’s Dharchula. The stations have a range of about three kilometers and can be heard in Dharchula, Baluakot, Jauljibi and Kalika on the Indian side of the border. These radio stations have also started giving weather reports on Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, treating them as Nepalese territory, Krishna Garbiyal, a Rang community leader based in Dharchula said. However, the district administration and police said they have no information about any anti-India propaganda launched by Nepal through its FM radio channels. “We have no feedback from our intelligence units on the subject," Pithoragarh Superintendent of Police Preeti Priyadarshini said. Dharchula Circle Officer V K Acharya also expressed ignorance. "Our intelligence units have not yet spoken about any such anti-India propaganda by Nepal," he said. Ashok Nabiyal, a leader from Vyas Valley, said Indian intelligence agencies active on the border need to take cognizance of the situation to be able to counter the propaganda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nepals-fm-radio-stations-beam-propaganda-across-border-say-lipulekh-theirs-852068.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Facing health issues due to 'torture' by Congress, claims Pragya Thakur||BJP's Lok Sabha member from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur on Sunday attributed her health issues, including alleged loss of vision, to "torture" she suffered under the Congress regime. Thakur, who participated in the International Yoga Day event at the state BJP headquarters here, told reporters that she had "swelling and pus from retina to brain", adding she lost vision from one eye. "I sustained several injuries due to torture by the Congress for nine years. Many injuries resurface due to this torture. There was formation of pus and swelling in my eyes and brain. I have blurred vision in the right eye and I cant see at all from the left one," she said, apparently referring to her imprisonment in the 2008 Malegaon blast case. Asked about her posters appearing in Bhopal claiming she was 'missing' during the coronavirus outbreak, Thakur said she could not return to Bhopal from Delhi earlier because of travel restrictions due the lockdown. Thakur said she along with her staff and security could not get tickets on time due to the travel restrictions.  Congress MLA and former state minister P C Sharma claimed that Thakur was in Bhopal when the lockdown began and left for Delhi later for treatment of a small ailment. Talking to PTI, Sharma also rubbished her claim that she was tortured under the Congress regime. "We respect women. How can the Congress torture her when there was a BJP government for 15 years in||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/facing-health-issues-due-to-torture-by-congress-claims-pragya-thakur-852069.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Chargesheet against 12 Tablighi members from Nepal for violating lockdown norms in Muzaffarnagar||A chargesheet has been filed against 12 Tablighi Jamaat members from Nepal for assembling here in violation of the lockdown orders imposed to combat the coronavirus threat, police said on Sunday. According to the prosecution, the members of the Tablighi Jamaat have been charged under the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act. The charge sheet was filed in a court here on Saturday. A case was registered against them in early April, they said. The Jamaat members have already been released on bail. Meanwhile, the police have also filed separate charge sheets against 22 other Tablighi Jamaat members hailing from Delhi, Manipur, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. A congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi in March was blamed for spreading the novel coronavirus after many of its attendees carried the infection to different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chargesheet-against-12-tablighi-members-from-nepal-for-violating-lockdown-norms-in-muzaffarnagar-852077.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Overcast conditions play a spoilsport for sky gazers||Overcast conditions here on Sunday proved a dampener for sky gazers keen on having a glimpse of an annular solar eclipse which coincided with the summer solstice, the longest day in the northern hemisphere. Arrangements were made at Indira Gandhi Planetarium here to view the solar eclipse while adhering to physical distancing norms in view of the COVID-19 outbreak, a senior official at the facility said. The annular solar eclipse occurs when the sun, moon and the earth come in a straight line. During the celestial phenomenon, the sun appears to be a ring of fire. "The annular solar eclipse started in Lucknow around 9.27 am and continued till 2.02 pm. Because of the cloud cover, it was only around 1 pm that the eclipse was visible. At the planetarium, barely 100-150 people saw it," Anil Yadav, state project co-ordinator at the planetarium said. He said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, people were not invited to view the eclipse. "And those who viewed it strictly followed the social distancing norms," Yadav said. He also said the next solar eclipse will be visible in Lucknow in 2034. The next solar eclipse in India will be in 2031, Yadav added. "The 2034 solar eclipse will be complete while the 2031 one will be partial," Yadav said. Reports of people witnessing the solar eclipse poured in from Sonbhadra, Ballia and other cities of the state. Meanwhile, Allahabad-based astrologer Ashutosh Varshney said, "Astrologically, this solar eclipse will mark the onset of the decline of the COVID-19 graph."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/overcast-conditions-play-a-spoilsport-for-sky-gazers-852079.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police holds yoga session for personnel to de-stress them, boost immunity||Delhi Police organised an hour-long yoga session for its personnel on the International Day of Yoga on Sunday to de-stress them and enhance their immunity, police said. Around 100 officers and staffers of Delhi traffic police led by its Special Commissioner Taj Hassan and Joint Commissioner Meenu Chaudhary took part in the yoga session, they said. According to police, the idea was to help them de-stress and enhance their immunity as well as increase their concentration level through certain yoga 'asanas' such as 'Sukshma Vyayam', 'Bramari', 'Nadi Shodan Pranayam', 'Bhastrika Pranayam' and 'Chakra' meditation. The Police Families Welfare Society (PFWS) also organised a yoga session at the office of their president Pratima Shrivastava. A limited number of team leaders and officers attended the event due to social distancing norms in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-holds-yoga-session-for-personnel-to-de-stress-them-boost-immunity-852080.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Do yoga daily to stay clear of diseases, CM Manohar Lal Khattar urges people||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has urged people to do Yoga every day to remain disease-free, saying the importance of the ancient Indian practice is being felt more than ever due to the coronavirus pandemic. Greeting people on sixth International Yoga Day on Sunday, Khattar said, “Yoga connects mind, body and soul and helps us move forward in a positive direction”. Khattar, who performed various exercises at his residence here and posted the pictures on his Twitter handle, urged people to “do Yoga every day, remain disease-free for entire life”. With the world battling the coronavirus pandemic, Khattar said that yoga can be helpful in boosting immunity, which increases the importance of this ancient Indian practice more during the present times. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala also greeted people on the occasion. He also performed some yoga 'asanas' at his residence in Sirsa. Quoting the Bhagavad Gita, the Jannayak Janta Party leader posted on his Twitter handle, “Yoga is the journey of the self, through the self, to the self”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/do-yoga-daily-to-stay-clear-of-diseases-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-urges-people-852084.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Committee rejects Ex-Fortis promoter Malvinder Singh's representation on bail criteria||A High Powered Committee (HPC), headed by a Delhi High Court judge, has rejected the representation of former Fortis promoter Malvinder Mohan Singh challenging its criteria for grant of interim bail to under-trial prisoners (UTPs). Singh moved the representation after his plea for interim bail was denied by the high court which gave him liberty to approach the committee if he was aggrieved by the criteria laid down by it. He was arrested for alleged misappropriation of funds from the Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL).FIRs have also been registered against him for the offences of cheating and money laundering.  The HPC said that when the Supreme Court ordered setting up of such committees, to look into decongesting prisons to prevent the spread of COVID-19, it gave the panels "an absolute discretion" to determine which class/category of prisoners can be released on interim bail or parole. "In view thereof, this Committee is of the opinion that the representation is unmerited and the same is accordingly rejected," it added. The HPC said that Singh was at liberty to file a bail application before courts concerned, which shall consider the same on merits in accordance with the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/committee-rejects-ex-fortis-promoter-malvinder-singhs-representation-on-bail-criteria-852088.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: People mark Yoga Day indoors in UP||Owing to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, people stayed indoors in Lucknow on the International Day of Yoga. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel participated in Yoga Day activities at Raj Bhavan. Greeting people, she said by practising Yoga daily, one can remain physically and mentally fit, and it also boosts the immunity of the body. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while congratulating the people of the state, said in a tweet Yoga is the 'prasad' of spiritual tradition of Indian sages. "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the entire world is doing 'aatmiye samvaad' (close conversation) with India," he said. Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma also observed the Yoga Day. "We should also imbibe the spiritual aspect of Yoga, along with its physical aspect," Maurya said. Speaker of UP Legislative Assembly Hriday Narayan Dixit in a tweet in Hindi said, "The Indian culture gives the message of performing Yoga and move with nature, while honouring and following the traditions." UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and other BJP leaders performed Yoga at their homes. Officials and employees of UP Metro Rail Corporation attended a yoga session organised by UPMRC from their homes. The in-house yoga instructor taught 'asanas' online. Various yoga postures, which are helpful in healing the body and the mind, were performed. The participants were introduced to Yogasanas, Pranayama, and Meditation, a statement issued by Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation said. Keeping with the concerns related to Covid-19 pandemic, the theme for this year's Yoga Day was 'Yoga at home; Yoga with your family'. Emphasizing the importance of yoga, Managing Director of UPMRC Kumar Keshav said, "In these troubled times of corona pandemic, all of us need to improve our immunity and for this Yoga is one of the most effective tools. We all should make Yoga a part of our lifestyle."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-people-mark-yoga-day-indoors-in-up-852090.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Nepal's FM radio stations play anti-India propoganda across border||Nepal’s FM radio channels close to the border with India are broadcasting propaganda to back Kathmandu’s claim on Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, residents in India’s border villages said. Nepalese parliament recently adopted a new political map of the country showing these areas as part of its own territory, a move strongly opposed by India. "Some Nepalese FM channels have of late started playing anti-India speeches in between Nepali songs,” said Shalu Datal, a resident of Dantu village in Pithoragarh’s Dharchula sub-division. “As people on both sides of the border listen to Nepali songs, they also hear the anti-India speeches delivered by Nepalese Maoist leaders in between them,” he said. The main FM stations playing anti-India content between songs are Naya Nepal and Kalapani Radio, Datal said. "Some old channels like Mallikarjun Radio and a website named Annapurna.online are also broadcasting reports depicting Kalapani as Nepalese territory,” he said. The FM stations are situated at Chabrigar near the district headquarters in Nepal’s Dharchula. The stations have a range of about three kilometers and can be heard in Dharchula, Baluakot, Jauljibi and Kalika on the Indian side of the border. These radio stations have also started giving weather reports on Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, treating them as Nepalese territory, Krishna Garbiyal, a Rang community leader based in Dharchula said. However, the district administration and police said they have no information about any anti-India propaganda launched by Nepal through its FM radio channels. “We have no feedback from our intelligence units on the subject," Pithoragarh Superintendent of Police Preeti Priyadarshini said. Dharchula Circle Officer V K Acharya also expressed ignorance. "Our intelligence units have not yet spoken about any such anti-India propaganda by Nepal," he said. Ashok Nabiyal, a leader from Vyas Valley, said Indian intelligence agencies active on the border need to take cognizance of the situation to be able to counter the propaganda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nepals-fm-radio-stations-play-anti-india-propoganda-across-border-852098.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||35 transgenders participate in online yoga session in Madhya Pradesh||Nearly 35 members of the transgender community joined an online yoga session conducted from here in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday on the occasion of the International Day of Yoga, and prayed to God for the eradication of COVID-19 from the world. Transgenders from places like Indore, Bhopal (in Madhya Pradesh), Pune, Nagpur (Maharashtra) and Bengaluru performed different yoga asanas while joining the session, city-based yoga trainer Krishnakant Mishra, who conducted the special session, told PTI. "The session lasted for about an hour and in the end, the participants prayed to God to eradicate coronavirus for the world," he said. The participants adhered to the physical distancing guidelines while performing yoga, said Mishra, a clerk with the LIC, who in 2018 held a yoga session with 40 people at Hilsa, a mountainous region located at an altitude of 11,940 feet near Nepal-China border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/35-transgenders-participate-in-online-yoga-session-in-madhya-pradesh-852113.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||After opposition from religious groups, Jammu and Kashmir government says no plan to open liquor vends in Valley||Religious and political organisations in Kashmir have opposed a reported move to open liquor vends in the Valley, prompting the government to clarify on Sunday that it was not considering any such move. The Mutahida Majlis-e-Ulema (MMU), an amalgam of socio-religious organisations, headed by Hurriyat Conference chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, said any move by the administration to open liquor shops across the length and breadth of the Valley will be strongly opposed and resisted. "The government order which is widely circulating on social media clearly stating governments plan to set up liquor shops at 67 locations in Kashmir valley is causing grave concern and anguish among the Muslims of the valley," the MMU said in a statement. It asked the government to immediately withdraw this "immoral and anti-Islam order". Kashmir is a predominantly Muslim region. The Finance department of the Union territory, however, said it has not taken any policy decision regarding issuance of fresh liquor licences in unserved areas. "No list of unserved areas has either been considered or approved. No decision will be taken without participation of stakeholders and the due process," it said. It was reported that the Jammu and Kashmir administration planned to open new liquor shops in the Union territory. The Apni Party, headed by Altaf Bukhari, also slammed the government over the issue. "The government proposal to open liquor shops at around 183 newly identified locations in J&K, including 67 in the Kashmir Valley, is totally unacceptable as the decision is bound to have disastrous consequences for peace in the region," Apni Party leader Zaffar Iqbal Manhas said. "Such decisions are highly condemnable. Kashmir is a land of sufis and saints, and such obnoxious proposals are mooted to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-opposition-from-religious-groups-jammu-and-kashmir-government-says-no-plan-to-open-liquor-vends-in-valley-852118.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus outbreak: Delhi government issues revised order on home isolation||The Delhi government has issued a revised order stating that the novel coronavirus patients who do not have comorbidities or require hospitalisation could opt for home isolation following the withdrawal of the decision on five-day mandatory institutional quarantine. "All individuals who are positive will be referred to the COVID care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities," it said in an order on Saturday. An assessment will also be done to check whether adequate facilities like minimum two rooms and a separate toilet exist so that the family members and neighbours are protected and a cluster of cases does not develop in that locality, according to the order. "If the adequate facility for home isolation exists, and the person on clinical assessment is found to have no comorbidities and does not require hospitalisation, he would be offered to either continue to stay in COVID centre/paid isolation facility (hotels etc), or can opt for home isolation," the order said. The order said the patients in home isolation should follow home isolation guidelines laid down by the Health Ministry and should stay in touch with healthcare providers so that if their condition deteriorates, they can be moved to the COVID hospitals. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had directed on Friday five-day mandatory institutional quarantine for every coronavirus patient, but the decision was revoked on Saturday following stiff opposition from the AAP government. The development came after two meetings between the Delhi government and the Baijal. The AAP government had contended that the mandatory institutional quarantine rule would be seriously harmful as the facilities would not be able to take the burden of the rising number of coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-outbreak-delhi-government-issues-revised-order-on-home-isolation-852121.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Solar eclipse: No fair, only simple religious ceremony this time in Kurukshetra amid coronavirus crisis||A simple religious ceremony was held on the banks of the Brahma Sarovar here on Sunday as the administration had decided not to allow any fair this time on the occasion of solar eclipse amid the coronavirus pandemic. The holy city had been placed under curfew till 4 pm on Sunday to prevent people from gathering on the banks of sacred sarovars in this district for taking a dip or holding any ritual on the occasion of solar eclipse. According to Hindu beliefs, a bath in the holy tanks at Kurukshetra during solar eclipse is considered auspicious. A simple religious ceremony was held at Subhadra and Ganga ghats on the Brahma Sarovar in which 200 religious leaders took part. During usual times, the Brahma Sarovar and Sannihit Sarovar here attract close to 10 lakh pilgrims on solar eclipse. A large number of devotees from various parts of the country flock Kurukshetra on the occasion of solar eclipse to take a dip in the holy ponds here and a grand fair is organised. District Magistrate Dhirendra Khadgata said earlier that the administration had decided not to allow any fair this time in view of the pandemic. Swami Gyananand, the head of Kurukshetra-based Global Inspiration and Enlightenment Organisation, and some seers reached the Subhadra Ghat on Brahma Sarovar at about 10 am and took a holy dip. The local priests were allowed to perform their rituals only at Sannihit Sarovar. A few scientists had also reached here with their equipment to study the solar eclipse. An annular solar eclipse, wherein the sun appears like a ring of fire, was visible from here. The annular phase began at 10.19 am and ended at 2.02 pm. While interacting with the religious leaders here via video conference, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the 'anushthan' (religious ceremony) being performed at the banks of Brahma Sarovar would help in bringing peace and prosperity in the world, which is currently batting the COVID-19 pandemic. Kurukshetra district had been sealed from all sides with barricading at the Brahma Sarovar, and adjoining sacred ponds, officials said on Sunday. People had been requested to observe rituals at home, they said. To ensure tight security, 52 'nakas' were set up in Kurukshetra district with constant patrolling by the police, the officials said. The district magistrate on Wednesday had barred holding of the fair by imposing prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC with immediate effect. The provision bans the assembly of more than four persons. The annular phase was visible on Sunday morning from some places within a narrow corridor of the northern part of the country (parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand). A few prominent places within this narrow annularity path are Dehradun, Kurukshetra, Chamoli, Joshimath, Sirsa, Suratgarh. It was seen as a partial solar eclipse from the rest of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/solar-eclipse-no-fair-only-simple-religious-ceremony-this-time-in-kurukshetra-amid-coronavirus-crisis-852122.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||UP to engage consultant to draw blueprint to reach $1-tn GSDP in 5 years||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to engage consultant to prepare a roadmap to boost the gross state domestic product (GSDP) to USD 1 trillion in five years. A 41-page RFP (request for proposal) document for selection of consultant, accessed by PTI, said, "This herculean task demands some giant steps to be taken by the state government to move forward. It needs some well thought out and long-term strategies on a sustained basis. "This would also require organisational restructuring, focussed policies and rules for more effective governance, faster decision-making process and improved accountability". Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state and plays a critical role on the road to India becoming USD 5 trillion dollar economy. "The state contributes eight per cent of the national GDP. Aligning the state with the national target, the UP Chief Minister is keen to play a leading role. He has set up a target of making Uttar Pradesh a one trillion dollar economy in the same period. “It will require raising the current growth rate substantially and would necessitate a significant increase in the investment rate, besides improvement in basic infrastructure," a senior UP government official told PTI. The state has already embarked upon the journey of growth and prosperity, he added. "Resultantly, in 2018-19, the GSDP has already touched Rs 15.80 lakh crore (US dollar 230 billion) with a rich growth rate of 7 percent over the previous year. "However, it would be a challenging task to boost up the size of the GSDP size by nearly five times to reach the target of One Trillion-Dollar in five years (2020-25), discounting for the dollar fluctuations and global trends. It enhances the challenge and would require sustained and aggressive efforts at the state level," the RFP said. The consultant has to develop strategic framework, create implementation roadmap, design institutional reforms, and develop monitoring, learning and evaluation framework, the document said. In July 2019, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said that the path to achieve the country's target of being a USD 5-trillion economy passes through Uttar Pradesh. He expressed confidence that the state will contribute to it by becoming a USD 1-trillion economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-to-engage-consultant-to-draw-blueprint-to-reach-1-tn-gsdp-in-5-years-852159.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi prison reports first COVID-19 death||A 62-year-old inmate lodged in Mandoli Jail here has died of coronavirus, a first COVID-19 casualty in Delhi's prison, prompting authorities to test 28 other inmates who were sharing the barrack with the man, officials said on Sunday. Kanwar Singh passed away on June 15 and his COVID-19 test report came out positive on Saturday, they said. Singh was serving life sentence in a 2016 murder case. He was lodged in Central Jail number -14, Mandoli and was asymptomatic, the officials said. On June 15, some members of his barrack tried to wake him up but he did not respond. Soon the jail staff took him to a doctor who then declared him dead, they said. Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said inquest proceedings were conducted by the metropolitan magistrate and a COVID-19 test was also done. His test report came out positive on Saturday, Goel said. However, the source of infection was not known yet, according to the officials.  Twenty-eight other members of the barrack are being tested for the virus, they said. Delhi Prison comprises Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli Jail. Till now, 23 inmates of Delhi Prison have been found positive for COVID-19, out of them 16 recovered from the disease and one died. According to the officials, 45 prison staffers have tested positive for coronavirus so far. Of them, seven have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-prison-reports-first-covid-19-death-852164.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Include Chhattisgarh in Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan: Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday demanded that the Centre include districts of the state under the recently launched 'Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan', an employment-cum-rural public works campaign launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day earlier. In a letter to PM Modi, Baghel said neighbouring states like Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha have been included in the campaign while Chhattisgarh has been excluded despite having geographical, economical and social similarities with these states, a public relation department official said. The scheme was launched on June 20 in 116 districts of six states, namely Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha, to provide livelihood opportunities to migrant workers. Migrant workers who have returned to Chhattisgarh will get employment opportunities according to their interest and skills if the state will be made part of the scheme, Baghel said in the letter. The entire nation is bearing the brunt of COVID-19 pandemic and labourers are the most affected due to the crisis, and, so far, over 5 lakh migrant labourers have returned to Chhattisgarh, he said. The chief minister said about three-fourths of the state is extremely backward and covered with forests, and about 80 percent of the population is from the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes communities. About 90 per cent of the state's population depends on agriculture and labour, and there was a sense of despair among the poor, agricultural labourers, migrant workers and marginal farmers as the state has not been covered under the scheme, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/include-chhattisgarh-in-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-chief-minister-bhupesh-baghel-852166.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||No field staff allowed to take leave during monsoon: Delhi PWD||In view of the monsoon approaching the city, the Delhi government's Public Works Department has directed that no field staff of its maintenance units will be allowed to take leave during this period without prior approval. The department has also directed inspection of all drainage pumps across the city, a move that is aimed at ensuring no waterlogging in the city during the monsoon period. There are around 1,250 kms of roads managed by the Delhi PWD in the national capital. During the monsoon, there are often complaints of waterlogging on roads which cause traffic jams. "In view of the oncoming monsoon season, it has been decided by the competent authority that no field staff of maintenance units under the control of the Public Works Department will be allowed to take leaves during monsoon period without prior approval," the department said in an order. According to weather experts, the monsoon is likely to arrive two-three days earlier than its usual date of June 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-field-staff-allowed-to-take-leave-during-monsoon-delhi-pwd-852176.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Retired MEA official attacked, his wife stabbed to death during robbery attempt in Delhi||A 94-year-old retired External Affairs Ministry official was attacked and his 88-year-old wife stabbed to death during a robbery bid, allegedly by their security guard, at their home in south Delhi's Safdarjung Enclave, police said on Sunday. B R Chawla and his wife Kanta Chawla lived alone in the upper ground floor of the building after the death of their two children a few years ago. The incident took place around 9 PM on Saturday when their personal security guard, who was hired recently through a domestic help, arrived at their home with his two-three associates, the police said, adding that the accused have been arrested. According to police, the guard and his associates barged inside the Chawla house, overpowered the couple and forced them to sit on a sofa. They tied the man's hands and legs with a a rope. When Kanta tried to resist the robbery bid, one of the accused stabbed her with a sharp object. She became unconscious and fell on the sofa, a senior police officer said. The men then went to their bedroom and took away all the cash and jewellery kept in their cupboard, he said. While his wife was lying injured, the retired MEA official managed to go outside the house to alert their neighbours, who informed the Residents Welfare Association president. The woman was taken to a nearby hospital where she succumbed to the injuries, he said. The couple had hired the guard with the help of their building security guard Jitendra Kumar, who has been working in the society for the last 25 years. Recalling the incident, Kumar said he had just come for his shift in the night when he received a call from Chawlas' neighbours from the third floor about the robbery. Kumar said he immediately rushed to their home and found that the man was sitting on a chair while his wife was lying injured on the floor. She had injuries in the neck and her clothes were soaked with blood stains. "Mr Chawla was in shock. He told us that robbers took away all the cash and jewellery. I along with my reliever then placed her body on a bed and called up the RWA president to inform him about the incident," Kumar told PTI. Kumar said this is for the first time that such an incident was reported in the colony in his 25 years of experience. The society is under 24x7 watch and has eight CCTV cameras, he said. RWA president V K Malhotra, who lives in the adjacent building of the Chawlas' said the couple was registered with Delhi Police's Senior Citizen Scheme. "We have a security guard here 24 hours, one in the morning while another in night hours. The couple had also hired a separate guard recently," he said. The couple's personal guard was not verified by police, he said. A case has been registered and teams have been formed to nab the culprits, police said, adding that CCTV cameras in the area are also being scanned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/retired-mea-official-attacked-his-wife-stabbed-to-death-during-robbery-attempt-in-delhi-852181.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Srinagar encounter: Police made repeated efforts to make militants surrender; even brought parents||The Jammu and Kashmir Police's Special Task Force tried every trick in the book including bringing relatives of three-holed up young terrorists to convince them to surrender, but had to launch operation as emotional appeals failed to break the deadlock in the city’s Zoonimar area. The operation began late Saturday night and on Sunday, officials said, the trio was killed by security forces in an encounter. Two of the terrorists were identified as Shakoor Farooq Langoo of Bharthana in Srinagar and Shahid Ahmad Bhat of Semthan Bijbehara, while the third was a youth from Soura. They were affiliated to the banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group. When reasoning and emotional appeals failed to convince the terrorists, the police launched the final assault to save civilians in the congested downtown area, eliminating the trio in a smooth operation. The terrorists, believed to have been behind the killing of two BSF jawans in Soura during Ramzan, were cornered in a house. During the operation on late Saturday night, Superintendent of Police of the task force, Tahir Bhatti, made repeated appeals to the terrorists to lay down their arms and surrender. "The terrorists were cornered during the night and the first task was to rescue civilians. We successfully managed to pull out the house owner and people from nearby houses," a senior police officer said on the condition of anonymity. During the encounter, which took place at Zoonimar in the Zadibal area of downtown Srinagar, senior officers located the parents of the terrorists and brought them near the site to appeal to them to surrender. "Your mother is suffering from a heart ailment. Come out and surrender. They will help you," the uncle of one of the terrorists said, while the mother of one of the militants, with tears in her eyes, urged her son to lay down his arms. The owner of the house, where they were hiding, also made appeals to them to surrender. "I don't have money, please come out. I can't make the house again. My daughter is getting married soon. I will not be able to bear this loss," the owner of the house was heard saying. Bhatti, while talking to the parents of one of the holed up terrorists, requested them to bring him out with love and assured that "no harm will come to them". "We have been trying for the past 10 hours and the purpose why you have been called here is to make an appeal with love and care so that he is saved," Bhatti was heard telling the sobbing parents. However, repeated appeals were responded to by gunshots and police had to launch a final onslaught. They stormed the house and killed the terrorists. After the operation was over, the house owner was seen thanking the police officers for ensuring that there was no damage to his home. "Everything is fine inside," the owner said. Langoo was involved in the killing of two BSF personnel at the 90ft road in Soura on May 20. The snatched AK rifle belonging to the killed BSF Jawan was recovered from the site of encounter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-encounter-police-made-repeated-efforts-to-make-militants-surrender-even-brought-parents-852199.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Priyanka attacks UP govt over media report about Kanpur child shelter home||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over a media report about two girls being found pregnant at a state-run child shelter home, saying it shows that facts were being suppressed in the name of investigations at such facilities. The media report, tagged by Priyanka Gandhi in a Facebook post, claimed that during coronavirus tests at a state-run child shelter home in Kanpur, it was found that two girls living there were pregnant and one of them was HIV positive. A shocking fact has come to light after 57 girls were tested for coronavirus at the government child shelter home in Kanpur, with two girls being found to be pregnant, including one HIV positive, the Congress general secretary in-charge UP East posted on Facebook. "The entire story of the Muzaffarpur shelter home case is in front of the country. Such a case had also come to light in Deoria in UP," Priyanka Gandhi said. In this scenario, such an incident again coming out shows that everything is suppressed in the name of investigations, but very inhuman incidents are taking place in government child protection homes, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-attacks-up-govt-over-media-report-about-kanpur-child-shelter-home-852210.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh's COVID-19 count now 2,273 as 139 test positive||The number of COVID-19 cases in Chhattisgarh increased to 2,273 with 139 more people testing positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, a health official said. Of the new cases, 39 were reported from Korba, 21 from Janjgir-Champa, 17 each from Raipur and Balodabazar, 16 from Jashpur, 14 from Rajnandgaon, four from Gariaband, three from Durg, two each from Raigarh, Bemetara and Kanker and one each from Surguja and Balrampur, he said. A total of 53 patients were discharged after recovery in the day, he said. "The number of active cases in the state is 841, as 1,421 people have been discharged after recovery while 11 others have died so far," he said. Chhattisgarh's COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases 2,273, new cases 139, deaths 11, discharged 1,421, active cases 841, people tested so far 1,26,246.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarhs-covid-19-count-now-2273-as-139-test-positive-852211.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports 12 COVID-19 deaths, 393 new cases||Rajasthan reported 12 COVID-19 deaths on Sunday, taking their number to 349 as 393 fresh cases of the infection pushed the tally in the state to 14,930. Four deaths were reported in Jaipur, two each in Alwar, Bharatpur and Nagaur, and one fatality was registered in Ajmer, besides the death of a patient from another state, officials said. Of the fresh cases, 113 are in Dholpur, followed by 60 in Jaipur, 37 in Jodhpur, 30 in Pali, 22 in Jhunjhunu, 16 each in Bharatpur and Rajsamand, 15 in Sikar, 14 in Sirohi, 12 in Alwar and 10 in Karauli, besides cases reported from other districts of the state, an official report said here. A total of 11,355 patients have been discharged after being cured of the disease so far and the state now has 2,984 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-12-covid-19-deaths-393-new-cases-852212.html
21-06-2020||North and Central||Containment zones in Delhi will be mapped again to better manage COVID-19 situation: MHA||A high-level committee set up by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday recommended mapping of all containment zones in Delhi again for better management of the COVID-19 situation and vigorous contact tracing positive cases. The home minister advised the Delhi government to implement the recommendations of V K Paul Committee. The committee has recommended mapping of containment zones in Delhi again and a strict vigil on activities inside such areas, the home ministry said in a statement. The committee also suggested that there will be vigorous contact tracing of COVID-19 positive cases and such contacts will be quarantined, it said. The report of the committee was discussed at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal among others. In the meeting Shah advised the Delhi government to implement the report. The committee headed by VK Paul, member Niti Aayog, was set up by Shah on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/containment-zones-in-delhi-will-be-mapped-again-to-better-manage-covid-19-situation-mha-852248.html
21-06-2020||Panorama||Commercial coal mining, an invitation to environmental disaster||Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently launched auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and said the Indian economy is recovering fast amid COVID-19 outbreak. He wanted India to be the net exporter of coal and reiterated that coal auction was taking place at a time when business activity was recovering fast, with consumption and demand moving rapidly towards the pre-COVID levels. Coal-based power production cost was the minimum until in 2017, the cost of solar power production became competitive. Thereafter, solar power tariff was Rs 2.62 per KWh, which was 20% lower than the coal-based power of National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC). Subsequently, because of increase in cost of mining and transportation, tariff of coal-based power further increased whereas solar and wind power production cost remained stable, if not decreased. Coal is the single largest source of air pollution and Carbon dioxide (CO2) in India. Out of the total CO2 emissions, 50% comes from coal burning. Further, 60% of particulate and 50% of Sulfur dioxide (SO2) of all industrial emissions come from coal-based power plants. It leads to human sufferings and diseases and if the cost of the healthcare is added, coal power tariff would be still higher. In this scenario, private players do not prefer to establish coal-based new power plants. Two-third of such plants established in this country in 2019 are based on renewable energy--solar power and wind energy. Globally, our coal based-power cost is also not competitive. May be we have been importing coal for such plants. However, we should be able to cut the cost if we utilise our own coal. Export of coal to other countries may face a similar challenge as they may have to keep their cost down to be comparable to the cost of solar power production. Coal deposits are located in central and eastern part of India. There are about 25 districts in Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and West Bengal which are rich in these deposits. I had the opportunity to serve eastern region of Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, and visit a number of coal fields in Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand. Coal districts are polluted and backward and have the worst human development indicators. While I understand that the economic development and employment opportunities in these districts will have to be based on coal, the question is whether it is sustainable. Coal reserves are underneath areas covered by very good quality forests. Mining cannot be done without destroying the forests. The stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during the lockdown for the revival of economy includes Rs 50,000 crore for infrastructure development of the coal sector. It would necessarily need the destruction of more forests.   Coal India Limited has been doing opencast as well as underground mining. Both are pollution hazards and inflict damage to the environment. There have been frequent reports of fire in underground mines especially in Jharkhand and West Bengal, which take months to control. There were days when fires could not be controlled in Jharia coalfield near Asansol for six months. The instances of miners trapped in fire and getting perished resulting in very big human tragedy is not uncommon. Opencast mines and transport of minerals till the railhead produce dust and sound, detrimental to the health of local population. For the development of the regions with coal reserves, we must find alternatives and dependency of population on coal extraction must be phased out. Cost of coal-based power being higher than the cost of renewable energy, investment on coal infrastructure will lock our economy for several years. Opencast mines Forests are not only destroyed for open cast mines and infrastructures but are also damaged in areas with underground mines. During my visits to Dhanbad in Jharkhand and Asansol in West Bengal between 1993 and 1997, I found that forest lands had sunk where there were underground coal mines, the roots of the trees were disturbed and trees had dried up. We have recently seen the damages inflicted by super cyclone Amphan in Kolkata and Nisarga in Mumbai. Several reports from United Nations Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change have warned us against global rise in temperature and have also linked it to climatic catastrophes hitting the regions with increasing frequency and which are also more destructive. For the first time, the Ministry of Earth Sciences has come up with a similar scientific report for Asian sub-continent and projected 4.40 Celsius average rise in temperature by the turn of the century. This report is edited by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology Pune. The study has accessed the data from 1986 to 2015 and has concluded that during 30 years, the temperature of the warmest day and coldest night has risen by .630 C and .40 C, respectively. The study has also added that by the turn of the century, heatwaves would be three to four times more frequent than what it used to be 30 years ago; sea levels would rise by 30 cm with reference to the level in 1990. In business as usual condition, the report projects that the temperature of the warmest day and coldest night would rise further by 4.70 C and 5.50 C, respectively, by the turn of the century. Climatic conditions are worsened by greenhouse gas emissions and we are not doing enough to grow trees for the sequestration of carbon from the atmosphere. Despite so many warnings from nature, we are increasing coal mining and improving the related infrastructures. The compensatory afforestation in lieu of forests diverted for coal projects have generally failed everywhere. In other words, we plan to emit more CO2 in the atmosphere and do not plan to conserve forests and grow trees for carbon sequestration. We must do serious thinking if we are to avert climatic catastrophes. (The writer is former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/commercial-coal-mining-an-invitation-to-environmental-disaster-852224.html
21-06-2020||Right in the Middle||I opened my eyes||I had been going through a low phase in both my personal and professional life and I required a massive pep-talk by motivational wizards to get my bearings straight. My friend nudged me, “let’s go for this programme, 'We the Women’, organized and compered by Barkha Dutt who can help you to eliminate your negativity and it is guaranteed that you will start believing in yourself again.” So, we set out. We reached the venue where the function was held, which was for felicitating women who have made a difference. After a few perfunctory remarks, the programme started. And did it open my eyes, blinded by denial and delusion? I stopped wallowing in self-pity and bolstered my self-esteem and courage by seeing real-life women who have suffered in stark silence and who are living role models to emulate, particularly when the chips are down. Women who fought in the 'Me too' movement even though it was humiliating. It was heart-wrenching to see women who have lost their husbands or sons in the armed forces, who were now facing life alone, with bravery and resilience.  Then, there were women serving in professions thought to be only for men, ranging from being police officers to software engineers, and from those excelling in biotechnology to swimming at the Olympics’ level. There were women who could probably hold a candle to Sarojini Naidu in theatrical poetry and there were women who had reached the pinnacle of enviable positions like CEOs of jewellery and sari merchandise stores that have taken the nation by storm.     How did these confessionals affect me? When I grimaced at the job scenario with the usual cribs and complaints, I felt humbled to see an 82-year-old who has not stopped working, that too with alacrity and no complaints! When I cried saying that I had lost both my parents, I was enthused to see a young superstar not grimace at her plight of her being a young adult whose parents were separated.  At the end of the confessionals, there was tremendous applause that rose to a crescendo and which just refused to die down. Tears slipped from my eyes, like tiny diamonds. With the fire of determination burning in my eyes, I went home, had a cup of filter coffee, and resolved that tomorrow would start my second innings, my future of `No excuses’. If these sterling women could do it, why couldn’t I?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/i-opened-my-eyes-852223.html
21-06-2020||Second Edit||A pathetic record in environment index||India’s poor ranking in the Environment Performance Index (EPI) is a measure of its failure to address its environmental challenges, compared to other countries. India’s position is 168 among 180 countries whose performance has been analysed, and it is behind all other South Asian countries except Afghanistan. The index was released last week by Yale University in the US  which, along with Columbia University and other agencies, has been preparing the index since 2002. The index has been accepted as a reliable indicator of environmental actions and policies of governments, and is considered as a tool to assess the progress of countries in their efforts to achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). It also helps governments to set targets and formulate policies to achieve them and provides data and analysis to evaluate shortcomings and understand successes better. The index is based on 32 indicators of environmental performance, including bio-diversity, air quality and water and sanitation, and takes into consideration trends at the national and global levels for 10 years. This helps to track the progress or decline of countries in the achievement of environmental goals. India’s score is below the regional average on five important parameters including air quality, sanitation and drinking water, heavy metals and waste management. All these are important for the general health of the people. The country's performance was below par on other indicators also. The only consolation is that its position has gone up from 177 last year to 169 this year, but that would not have made any big difference on any indicator in a large country like India. In previous years also the country’s performance was equally dismal.  India has a fairly strong environmental movement and environmental awareness is growing. There are public debates and campaigns on many issues. There are environment ministries at the  Central and state levels and institutions like the National Green Tribunal (NGT). There are various laws on environment, and courts frequently accept environment-related petitions and issue orders, and  even take suo motu action in some cases. Yet the country’s performance is about the worst in the world, followed only by a few countries like Burundi and Liberia. The director of the EPI project identified some factors common to all top performers: good governance, public participation in policy process, good regulatory strategies, open debate over goals and programmes, a lively media and a commitment to the rule of law. India claims to have all these, but the results do not show that. It is time the Union and state government lay more stress on environment and initiate action-oriented steps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-pathetic-record-in-environment-index-852218.html
21-06-2020||South||Kerala: 54-day-old assaulted infant still in critical condition||In a case of suspected female infanticide, a 54-day old girl child is battling for her life at Ernakulam district in Kerala after suffering serious head injuries inflicted allegedly by her father. Grudge against the girl child and suspicion over paternity were the alleged reasons provocating the heinous crime, local police said. The incident took place at Angamaly, about 35 kilometres from Kochi, on June 18 morning. Police arrested the child's father Shaiju Thomas, 40, based on the statement of the mother, who is a native of Nepal. Attempt to murder and sections of Juvenile Justice Act were invoked against him and he was remanded to judicial custody, the Angamaly police station house officer said. The child was admitted to a private hospital in the district on Thursday morning with head injuries. She had internal bleeding and is under treatment at the intensive care unit. Conflicting statements by the father made the hospital authorities suspicious and they informed the police. He initially said the child fell from the bed. Later, he said the child fell accidentally when he tried to kill a mosquito. Police sources said that the child's mother informed the police that the father brutally attacked the child by slapping her and throwing her on the bed owing to suspicion over paternity. He was also unhappy that she was a girl child. Based on the mother's account, the police arrested him. He was also suspected to be under the influence of alcohol. Thomas, who hails from Kannur district, married the woman from Nepal after befriending her over the internet. He was working at a tourist home near Angamaly till the lockdown was announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-54-day-old-assaulted-infant-still-in-critical-condition-852046.html
21-06-2020||South||Derogatory and sexist remarks not new for Kerala politics||While Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran's 'COVID Queen' and 'NIPAH Princess' remarks against Kerala's Health Minister K K Shailaja have stirred a major controversy, especially by the left-front, Kerala's politics have witnessed even more derogatory remarks including those by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the years. 'Paranari' (scoundrel) and 'Nikrishtajeevi' (wretched creature)  were some of the most demeaning remarks by Vijayan. The scoundrel remark was targeted at RSP leader and Lok Sabha MP N K Premachandran during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls in the Kollam constituency and was considered to the reason for the CPM's failure in the polls. The wretched creature remark was against a bishop of North Kerala who criticised the left-front's policies in 2007. A senior CPM leader in Kerala, M V Jayarajan, was even sentenced for six months for his unparliamentary remarks against High Court judges for banning public meetings in 2010. The 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign witnessed CPM leaders making sexist remarks against women opponents in the Congress. Left Democratic Front convener and former CPM MP A Vijayaraghavan's uncouth remarks against Congress candidate Ramya Haridas wondering out loud what might have happened to her after she visited IUML leader and former minister P K Kunhalikutty, who earlier faced sexual allegations, were heavily criticised. CPM leader and Public Work's minister G Sudhakarantriggered a row for allegedly calling Congress candidate Shanimol Osman a 'Puthana' or demoness. The Congress faces embarrassment for the second time now for flaying the health minister who has received international attention for driving the state's fight against COVID-19 and NIPAH virus efficiently. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala's remark that the health minister was a media maniac for her regular media briefings also caused resentment. Congress leaders in Kerala have made adverse personal remarks on many occasions. Congress MP K Muraleedharan has even made adverse personal remarks against party president Sonia Gandhi. Meanwhile former Kerala Chief Minister and AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy and Chennithala on Sunday backed the PCC president. While Chandy asked whether Pinarayi Vijayan had the moral right to flay Ramachandran for making such a remark against the health minister, Chennithala recollected the series of derogatory remarks of Vijayan and said Vijayan never apologised for any such remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/derogatory-and-sexist-remarks-not-new-for-kerala-politics-852082.html
21-06-2020||South||Kerala celebrates International Yoga Day; CM Pinarayi Vijayan highlights its importance||The Kerala government on Sunday celebrated International Yoga Day through an online platform based on the theme 'Yoga with family at home' in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the'Yoga Day' jointly organised by the state government's AYUSH Department, National AYUSH Mission and Regional Outreach Bureau in Thiruvananthapuram. "Yoga is not just a physical exercise but also a scientific mental exercise. The United Nations has recognised yoga as an exercise programme for the health and fitness of humankind. It's also a secular workout regime," he said. "Yoga and Ayurveda are two major contributions of India to the world and the government is committed to promote the same," he added. Vijayan said the state government was developing and implementing a comprehensive Yoga Kerala project. The chief minister said the importance of yoga should be understood and effectively utilised to curb lifestyle diseases. Health Minister K K Shailaja, who presided over the online event, said immunity plays a very important role in the fight against COVID-19. "The relevance of yoga in this context is very important. Yoga helps to concentrate and reduce stress. The state government has initiated several programmes to promote yoga under the aegis of the Department of AYUSH and various yoga modules have been prepared and trained to suit people of different ages and health conditions," she said. The Health Minister said the various modules include a series of short yoga exercises that can be practised in the workplace. She said that the AYUSH department and the health department were working to make the yoga training accessible to the public through the family health centers. More than 300 people from across the state took part in the online Yoga Day celebrations after which the doctors from the AYUSH department performed various asanas. The Kerala police force also joined the International Yoga Day celebrations in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-celebrates-international-yoga-day-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-highlights-its-importance-852165.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NGT imposes Rs 10 lakh fine on Karnataka govt over pollution in Kithiganahalli Lake in Bengaluru||Pulling up the Karnataka Government for failure to stop discharging of pollutants into Kithiganahalli Lake near Bommasandra, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed an interim penalty of Rs 10 lakh on the state government. The green bench, headed by National Green Tribunal (NGT) Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, also slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh on the municipal council of Bommasandra for failure to perform its duties. Hearing a plea filed by Sanjay Rao and others seeking action against pollution in the Kithiganahalli Lake due to dumping of garbage, the bench said discharge of untreated sewage into water bodies causes a huge damage and the prevention of the same is the duty of the state authorities as the trustees of people's rights, the tribunal said, adding that such duty is being clearly breached. "Karnataka is liable to pay Rs 10 lakh and the Municipal Council, Bommasandra is liable to pay Rs 5 lakh. Final compensation will be determined after hearing the state and the municipal council," the bench said. The amount of interim compensation is liable to be deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) within one month and maybe spent for restoration of the environment, the bench said. "Failure of important constitutional obligation by the municipal council as well as... defiance of orders of this tribunal and the Supreme Court by state authorities is at the cost of environment and public health and is very unfortunate for which prompt remedial actions must be taken and accountability of erring officers fixed," the bench said. If required an expert committee would be set up. It is up to the state government and municipal body to recover ghe fine amount from errent official. The state pollution control board can initiate prosecution against guilty. The bench asked the state government to file compliance report about its order in 3 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ngt-imposes-rs-10-lakh-fine-on-karnataka-govt-over-pollution-in-kithiganahalli-lake-in-bengaluru-852100.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka lays down criteria to appoint Pollution Board chief||The Karnataka government has set the criteria to appoint a chairperson to the state pollution control board. The aspirants to the post should hold a master's degree in environmental engineering or equivalent degree from a recognised university or institute. Through a gazette notification, the government on Friday fixed the criteria. The chairperson would be selected by a search-cum- selection committee comprising the Chief Minister, Minister for Forest, Ecology and Environment and Chief Secretary. The notification said the government should nominate a person having knowledge or practical experience in matters relating to environmental protection or a person having knowledge and experience in an institution dealing with environmental issues. Also, the government fixed a maximum age limit of 56 years as on the last date for the receipt of applications. The government would have to call for applications three months prior to the expiry of the term of the chairman by publishing in two national newspapers. The rules were fixed against the backdrop of public interest litigation filed in November 2019 requesting the Karnataka High Court to direct the state government to frame the recruitment rules for the appointment of chairperson and members of the Pollution Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lays-down-criteria-to-appoint-pollution-board-chief-852148.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kanakapura under voluntary lockdown till July 1 to avoid spread of coronavirus||A voluntary lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 till July 1 has been declared in Kanakapura constituency of Ramanagar district, Karnataka on Sunday. The decision came following an emergency meeting convened by KPCC president and MLA of the constituency DK Shivakumar, regarding the spread of the pandemic in the constituency. During the meeting, elected representatives, representatives of civil and civic groups, businessmen and traders came to the unanimous decision to support the voluntary lockdown. "The lockdown is not a decision of the state government. The precautionary measure is a conscious and voluntary decision by the people of Kanakapura," Shivakumar said, according to a release. During the lockdown period, grocery and other essential stores will remain open from 7 am to 11 pm. A decision on pharmaceutical stores will be taken by the Deputy Commissioner and other officials. Excise department will take a call on when liquor stores will open during the lockdown. Shivakumar said that another meeting will be convened on July 1 to decide whether to extend the lockdown in the constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kanakapura-under-voluntary-lockdown-till-july-1-to-avoid-spread-of-coronavirus-852184.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tertiary hospitals in Bengaluru hit hard by COVID-19||With COVID-19 cases being reported from all government tertiary hospitals in the past week, cancer patients, heart patients and those with mental health issues visiting these hospitals would have to be cautious. Kidwai hospital saw two of its cancer patients testing positive, one of them a fresh case from Friday, Jayadeva hospital had three heart patients testing positive, with two of them dying, while seven staffers at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) tested positive after being infected by a mentally ill patient. On Friday, a 30-year-old woman who has thyroid cancer tested positive at Kidwai. She had visited the hospital on Wednesday for investigations. Since the hospital tests all its new patients for COVID-19 because of their immunocompromised status, she too was tested and turned out to be positive. One data entry operator, and two women -- a general duty doctor and a postgraduate surgical oncology student at the hospital -- have been home quarantined. If they test negative on the fifth day, they will be allowed to report back to work. The OPD and entrance where she was seen have been fumigated. On Thursday, a 29-year-old woman who had duodenum cancer tested positive. She was to undergo a major surgery. “Seven doctors and seven nurses have been sent for home quarantine. The six patients of her ward have been shifted to another ward. The ward will be shut for two days,” said Dr C Ramachandra, Director of Kidwai.  Jayadeva has tested 275 samples of its patients and staff and three have tested positive. Last Saturday, a 54-year-old man with heart problems and diabetes was brought to the hospital. He tested positive and was shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases where he passed away.   On Monday, a 64-year-old man with longstanding heart disease had a massive cardiac arrest and also tested positive. He was in the hospital for a day and the patients on either side of his bed were shifted and the room disinfected. Last Friday, a 74-year-old woman with three-vessel heart disease died and later tested positive.  Five doctors, six nurses and two ward helpers were home quarantined. Dr C N Manjunath, director, Jayadeva, said, “Our doctors, nurses and ward helpers wear masks and face shields. There is a fear psychosis but we cannot stop working. We test all our patients and staff in our TrueNat lab itself, on the fifth day of exposure.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tertiary-hospitals-in-bengaluru-hit-hard-by-covid-19-852227.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lake pollution: NGT slaps Rs 10L fine on Karnataka||Pulling up the Karnataka government for its failure in stopping the unregulated discharge of pollutants into Kithiganahalli lake near Bommasandra, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed an interim penalty of Rs 10 lakh on the state. The green bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh on the municipal council of Bommasandra for its failure to perform duties. Hearing a plea filed by Sanjay Rao and others seeking action against the pollution in the Kithiganahalli lake, due to unabated dumping of garbage, the bench said, “Discharge of untreated sewage into water bodies causes a huge damage, and the prevention of the same is the duty of the state authorities as the trustees of people’s rights.” The tribunal added, such duty is being clearly breached. “Karnataka is liable to pay Rs 10 lakh and Bommasandra Town Municipal Council, is liable to pay Rs 5 lakh. Final compensation will be determined after hearing the state and the municipal council,” the bench said. The amount of interim compensation should be deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) within one month, and the same may be spent for restoration of the environment, the bench said. If required an expert committee would be set up. It is up to the state government and municipal body to recover the fine amount from errant official(s).  The bench asked the state government to file compliance report on its order in3 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lake-pollution-ngt-slaps-rs-10l-fine-on-karnataka-852230.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 adds to Karnataka's worsening garbage situation||The COVID-19 pandemic scenario seems to have added to the worsening garbage scenario. Karnataka is generating about 3,000 kg biomedical waste daily and paying more than nine times what it used to, to dispose of and incinerate a kg of biomedical waste earlier. Sample this: Bengaluru’s Victoria Hospital campus, where 299 COVID-19 patients are housed, pays Rs 65 to dispose one kg of COVID waste as against Rs 7 per kg of biomedical waste that it used to pay before the pandemic. The Emergency and Trauma Care Centre spends Rs 6 lakh per month only to get 300 kg of COVID waste incinerated per day. The common biomedical waste treatment facilities, on their part, say  most of the COVID waste consists of PPEs made of polypropylene. To control emissions, they incinerate only 100 kg at a time as against the incinerators’ capacity of 400 kg. Medical Education Minister Dr Sudhakar has appealed to the public to use reusable masks made at home, to avoid contribution of masks to the piling up biomedical waste. Dr Asima Banu, Nodal Officer, Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, told DH, “We used to generate 700 kg to 800 kg biomedical waste per day. Now, since 96% of COVID patients are asymptomatic, we do not have usual waste like plasters, catheters, riles tubes in the numbers, like before.” “But the treatment facility, which used to charge Rs 7 per kg, is now charging Rs 65. He says this is because of the PPEs that the waste handlers use and the separate trips that they have to organise to transport COVID waste. The COVID waste and other biomedical waste of the hospital cannot be mixed. About 70% of the waste consists of used PPEs and we spend Rs 20,000 per day to dispose them,” she added.  Medicare Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, one of the six common biomedical waste treatment facilities in the city, has received 130 registrations to collect COVID waste in the past three months. Their clientele include Victoria Hospital’s Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, Sparsh Hospital, K C General Hospital, ESI Hospital and 22 quarantine centres in the city. Private establishments pay anywhere between Rs 70 and Rs 110 per kg of waste.   Seshi Reddy, AGM, Medicare Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, told DH, “A majority of the COVID waste comprises of PPE. Burning polypropylene in large quantity is not advisable. So, there is no optimal utilisation of our incinerator. Hence, we charge the customers our operational expenses.” According to the biomedical waste management guidelines, even used masks are considered COVID waste. Common biomedical waste treatment facilities get such waste from malls, offices and any place that uses PPEs. Linen, pillow covers, leftover food, water bottles are among the other waste the facilities get from COVID wards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-adds-to-karnatakas-worsening-garbage-situation-852236.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Almatti dam gets whopping 16 tmcft of water in five days owing to incessant rains||With the Krishna river catchment in Maharashtra experiencing incessant showers, Almatti dam (Lal Bahadur Shastri Sagar), the lifeline of north Karnataka districts, has received a staggering 16 tmcft of water in the last five days. On Sunday alone, 5.40 tmcft of water flowed into the dam. The inflow clocked 62,520 cusecs. The water level in the dam, as on June 21, is 513.40 meters. It was 508.02 metres during the corresponding period, last year. The full reservoir level (FRL) of Almatti dam is 519.60 metres. The dam received its first inflow of the season quite early. More than 12,000 cusecs of water flowed into the reservoir on June 5. Last year, the dam had received the season’s first inflows on July 3. The reservoir, however, had consistently received massive inflows for over three months, last year, owing to a prolonged monsoon and unprecedented rain in Krishna river catchment in Maharashtra. Yellow alert for coastal dists Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy showers, coupled with thunder and lightning, in three coastal district for June 22 and 23. With monsoon having weakened, north and south interior Karnataka are likely to get rain only after June 25. On Sunday, Mangaluru recorded 3 cm of rain while Ankola, Kumta, Dharmasthala, Kundapur and Udupi received 2 cm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/almatti-dam-gets-whopping-16-tmcft-of-water-in-five-days-owing-to-incessant-rains-852237.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru sees largest COVID-19 spike to date, 196 new cases reported||Bengaluru's stellar reputation for COVID-19 containment took a bruising on Sunday after a staggering 196 new cases and at least three new fatalities were reported.  This took the city’s total COVID-19 tally to 1,272. By far the largest category of new patients were those with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI). As many as 102 such people tested positive for COVID-19 from 5 pm on Saturday.  The next largest category is 67 positives, who fall into the “contact under tracing” segment. The lion’s share of the new cases (154) falls within the areas under the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits. However, health officials did not respond to queries for information on where the new cases were discovered and under what circumstances the patients contracted the disease. However, police sources said at least 15 of the new cases are members of the Kalasipalya police station, which has become a COVID-19 epicentre. Eight personnel had previously tested positive at the station.  In all, according to officials, a total of around 55 police personnel have tested for COVID-19 in Bengaluru since the start of the outbreak. Among the newly identified living cases are 25 primary contacts of known COVID-19 cases. At least two are contacts of inter-state travellers from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Another two are primary contacts of two babies.  One is Patient 8829, a 5-year-old boy, who was infected by an 11-month-old baby boy in Whitefield. The child’s parents had recently returned from Delhi. The other is Patient 8863, a 38-year-old man, who apparently contracted the disease from a one-year-old baby boy diagnosed with ILI.  A shocking eight of the new Bengaluru cases are contacts of Patient 2030, a 58-year-old man in Hassan, who tested positive on May 24 but was discharged on June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-sees-largest-covid-19-spike-to-date-196-new-cases-reported-852238.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kanakapura opts for voluntary lockdown till July 1||A voluntary lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was declared till July 1 in Kanakapura constituency of Ramanagar district, on Sunday.  The decision follows an emergency meeting convened by KPCC president and MLA of the constituency D K Shivakumar, regarding the spread of the pandemic in the constituency. During the meeting, elected representatives, representatives of civil and civic groups, businessmen and traders came to the unanimous decision to support the voluntary lockdown. "The lockdown is not a decision of the state government. The precautionary measure is a conscious and voluntary decision by the people of Kanakapura," Shivakumar said in a press release. During the lockdown period, groceries and other essential stores will remain open from 7 am to 11 am. A decision on pharmaceutical stores will be taken by the Deputy Commissioner and other officials. The Excise department will take a call on when liquor stores will open, during the lockdown. Shivakumar said that another meeting will be convened on July 1 to decide whether to extend the lockdown in the constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kanakapura-opts-for-voluntary-lockdown-till-july-1-852239.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kalaburagi, Bidar see more lining up for MGNREGA works||Karnataka, which recorded a surge in the number of people applying for job cards under MGNREGA, received most of the applications from districts that witnessed a large influx of people returning from urban areas after the lockdown was relaxed. For instance, 33,689 families (72,699 persons) applied for job cards in Kalaburagi district, followed by 24,063 families (50,844 persons) in Bidar. Chamarajanagar and Belagavi also had around 20,000 new applications for job cards. One job card under MGNREGA has two to three beneficiaries per family on average. The maximum number of work days was recorded in Ballari district where 37.38 lakh person days were generated, followed by Raichur with 30.7 lakh person days. It may be noted that the highest number of job cards in the last six years was issued in 2018-19, when 5.09 lakh families (11.15 persons) applied. Almost 50% of the said number was issued in the first two and a half months of this fiscal. L K Atheeq, Principal Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, said that it was difficult to predict the total number of applications for job cards they could receive during the year. On paucity of funds affecting employment generation in the last few years, he said that the Centre had increased allocation for MGNREGA for the current fiscal. According to data, MGNREGA allocation to Karnataka was increased by Rs 100 crore to Rs 1,300 crore for the financial year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kalaburagi-bidar-see-more-lining-up-for-mgnrega-works-852241.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt issues guidelines to appoint KSPCB chief, members||The government has issued fresh guidelines for nomination of chairman and members of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board. This after the appointment to the post of chairman was marred in controversy over qualifications in the recent past.  A Master’s degree in Environment Science, Environment Engineering or equivalent degree or allied sciences, with experience in environmental protection will be a must qualification. The age of the candidate for nomination as chairman should not exceed 56 years, according to the guidelines. In May this year, M Sudheendra Rao had to resign as chairman of KSPCB, following petitions in the High Court over the legality of his appointment. The petitioners had sought directions to frame guidelines for appointing heads to KSPCB.  A three-member search-cum-selection committee, consisting of chief minister, minister for forest, ecology and environment and chief secretary will select suitable candidates. Even nominated non-official members to the Board should “represent or possess special knowledge or practical experience in Agriculture or Fishery or Forestry or Industry or Trade or Engineering or any subject related to Natural Resource Management and Control of Pollution...” The government order dated June 19, which issued the guidelines, cited a September 2017 Supreme Court order, which had directed all state governments to frame appropriate guidelines “within six months” for institutional requirements of pollution control boards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-issues-guidelines-to-appoint-kspcb-chief-members-852242.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liberalisation of land laws crucial for industry: R Ashoka||Opinions are varied over proposed amendments to Land Reforms Act. Revenue Minister R Ashoka tells Akram Mohammed that liberalising the law was essential to boost agriculture sector and the legislations have only harassed farmers till date. Land Reforms Act amendments are being introduced again. What is the need now to introduce them? Was there any demand? The Act introduced in 1974 was relevant for the time. But, there have been several changes across the world and such regulations (for purchase of land) are not found in other states such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra and others, which has helped them develop in agriculture sector. Gujrat’s agriculture sector accounts for 22% of its GSDP, while it is 5% in Karnataka. We are making changes in the law to provide an impetus to the sector. Was there any demand? There is demand from all sides - from agriculture industry to  farmers. Farmers complain that due to sec 79 A, B cases, their lands have become worthless. Many agriculture graduates want to cultivate land in rural areas. The changes will provide an opportunity for them (to purchase land). The existing restrictions did not stop non-agriculturists from purchasing farm lands. Was there laxity in implementing the law? Around two lakh acres of agriculture land was bought in the past 40 years despite regulations. Neither the Congress nor other parties took any action against violators. If action cannot be taken, what is the need for such a legislation? The provisions only provide opportunity for assistant commissioners and tahsildhars to mint money. If past governments had acted, at least 1.50 lakh acre of such land should have been forfeited. Nothing was done. Though the demand was to simplify some sections of the Act, the government now plans to repeal Section 79 A, B altogether through an ordinance? Past governments have already simplified it twice and there was no use. Cases continue to pile up and the sections have to be repealed. Any laws which harass people, but with no teeth to act against violators, should be amended. The high court has also suggested the same. Any changes in law will also be prone to misuse... We have checks and balances, and the accusation of only rich buying 10,000 acres at a go is a wrong as the law does not allow it. Our objective is to promote agri industry in regions where specific crops are cultivated. Such liberalisation is essential to attract industries, which will benefit farmers by reducing transportation cost of their produce. In the recent Cabinet meeting where this was discussed, both Law and Agriculture Departments had flagged concerns against the amendments. Those concerns will be considered when rules are framed. All the rules recently being framed with respect to Land Laws are being dubbed as industry- friendly only. Won’t such laws affect people? What has happened in neighbouring states where there are no such regulations? If nothing happened there, it won’t happen here too. Technology has developed and it should be brought to villages to increase agro export and for boosting income of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liberalisation-of-land-laws-crucial-for-industry-r-ashoka-852243.html
21-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt notifies 3-tier care system amid rising COVID-19 cases||With COVID-19 cases reaching a new high in the state every day, the government has realigned the infrastructure with a three-tier patient-care system.  As per the latest order from the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Department, the COVID Care Centres (CCC) will cater to asymptomatic patients. Considering that 75% of COVID-19 positive cases were asymptomatic, the government has declared three new CCCs, which include two stadiums. The second level is the Dedicated COVID Health Centres (DCHC), which are meant for managing patients who have mild to moderate symptoms. “The DCHCs will act as health screening centres for classifying the cases, allotting the appropriate facility for them and managing mild to moderate symptomatic persons,” the notification said. An official working with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike said when a patient tests positive, he or she will be allotted to a particular care system based on several factors, including the symptoms, age and other conditions. The notification declared 16 hospitals as DCHCs where 1,330 beds including 527  oxygenated beds,will be reserved for COVID patients. Those with aggravated symptoms will be referred to Dedicated COVID Hospitals (DCH). The government has empanelled private hospitals for treatment of such patients. Meanwhile, the fever clinics will continue to work as first shield for walk-in patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-notifies-3-tier-care-system-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-852253.html
21-06-2020||West||Limit height of Ganesh idols: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Exactly two months away,  the 11-day festival commences on 22 August on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on 1 September on Anant Chaturdashi.On Saturday evening, Thackeray held a video-conference with the Ganesh mandals of Mumbai. "Let us celebrate Ganeshutsav keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak," he said. Thackeray asserted that some limitations need to be in place. "Mandals should keep the height of the idols small.  Festival tents should also be small. Planning for physical distancing norms needs to be there and just like health and hygiene facilities," said Thackeray. A couple of months ago,  Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS),  the apex body of Mumbai's mandals, has asked to keep the festivities simple. "The height of the idol, the nature of the festival, the traditional immersion route as well as the Ganesh immersion system were also discussed on this occasion," said Shiv Sena MLA Ajay Chaudhary,  who too participated in the meeting. Height of idols is a touchy issue - as several mandals have idols of Lord Ganesha between 18 to 22 feet. This time the government wants to limit it to 5 feet, however, the final call on the height issue is yet to be taken. Ganeshutsav office bearers promised that they would cooperate with the government's efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/limit-height-of-ganesh-idols-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-852066.html
21-06-2020||West||After 12 years in jail, accused in Gujarat 2008 serial blasts case released after becoming a witness||After 12 years of incarceration in Ahmedabad serial bomb blast case, an accused in his 30s, who has turned a witness for the prosecution, was released from jail here in Ahmedabad four days after Gujarat High Court granted him bail. He was one of the first to have been arrested in the terror case that rocked the city with 21 serial bomb blasts that killed 56 persons and left over 200 injured on July 27, 2008. He is also the first to get regular bail in this case. Another accused, Naved N Kadri, is on temporary bail on the ground that he is suffering from schizophrenia. Officials of Detection of Crime Branch (DCB), Ahmedabad, which investigated the case and arrested the 80 accused over the years in this case, said that the man (identity withheld due to court's order), who has turned an approver, was granted bail by the High Court on June 17 and was released from Sabarmati Central Jail on Saturday evening. "The applicant is in jail since 2008. Further, it is reported that the matter has reached the stage where further statements of the accused are being recorded and the statements of a majority of the accused have already been recorded. Since the status of the applicant is changed to approver and he has become the witness of the state, the court is inclined to use judicial discretion to enlarge the applicant on regular bail," justice R P Dholaria has said in his order while granting bail on June 17. According to DCB officials, this accused-turned-approver was arrested in August, 2008 for his alleged role in buying bicycles which were used for in planting bombs at various places. They said that he had also allegedly planted a bomb in Bapunagar locality. In March 2019, the accused wrote an application seeking pardon while confessing to his crime. The special trial court accepted his confession and his plea to be turned into an approver after prosecution's acceptance. The court approved his plea and directed to keep his identity secret in view of his "security concerns." Two of the co-accused Jahid Shaikh and Kayamuddin Kapadia challenged this in High Court alleging that "his confessional statement i.e. tender for pardon at the very last stage of recording of evidence i.e. after recording of more than 1130 witnesses and after disclosing of all prosecution evidence, in accordance with charge-sheet papers" should not have been accepted by the court. They argued that after ten years of recording of evidence in the trial court "the accused had submitted his confessional statement praying to tender the pardon, the contents of the confessional statements, the role and conduct of the investigating agency and prosecuting agency indicate their collusion and malafide act at a very later stage of recording of evidence." The high court rejected the petition and confirmed the trial court's order accepting the accused as an approver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-12-years-in-jail-accused-in-gujarat-2008-serial-blasts-case-released-after-becoming-a-witness-852070.html
21-06-2020||West||Gujarat gets to see partial solar eclipse with 72% visibility||Astronomy enthusiasts, sky gazers and scores of other people in Gujarat witnessed a partial solar eclipse on Sunday that lasted for over three hours. The celestial spectacle was visible in the state from 10 am till around 1.30 pm with 72 per cent visibility, an official said. Although overcast skies and rains played a spoilsport in a few districts like Surat and Porbandar, people in most other parts of the state managed to catch a glimpse of the eclipse using solar filters, the official said. Maintaining social distancing and following other norms in view of COVID-19 pandemic, several enthusiasts gathered at some centres in state capital Gandhinagar and other districts to watch the phenomenon. The Gujarat Council on Science and Technology (GUJCOST), an autonomous body under the state department of science and technology, made special arrangements for students and other enthusiasts for viewing of the solar eclipse in Gandhinagar and other cities. "No big event was organised due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But to provide a glimpse of the eclipse, we arranged a limited programme at GUJCOST office in Gandhinagar with telescopes, pinhole cameras and solar filters for students and enthusiasts," Narottam Sahoo, an advisor at GUJCOST, said. Experts from ISRO and various universities were invited to speak at the event and the entire phenomenon was telecast live on the YouTube channel of GUJCOST, he said. "A partial solar eclipse of 72 per cent was witnessed in Gujarat between 10 am and 1.30 pm. The experience was very good and despite the pandemic and prevailing weather conditions, we managed to organise the event," he said. Various community science centres in other districts also organised such events. In Rajkot, a group championing the cause of rationalist thoughts organised programmes like cooking during the solar eclipse to bust the superstition that it was harmful to a person. Effigies of superstition were also burnt. Rationalist Jayant Pandya from Rajkot said, "We cooked as well as consumed food during the eclipse period. We also burnt an effigy of the demon of superstition. "We also carried out an awareness campaign to tell people that an eclipse is a purely scientific event. We believe that such an events do not affect human life."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-gets-to-see-partial-solar-eclipse-with-72-visibility-852119.html
21-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Doubling rate in Mumbai goes up to 34 days||In a major boost to containing the spread of COVID-19,  the doubling rate in Mumbai has shot up to 34 days. To combat the viral pandemic, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), last month, started Chase-the-Virus initiative. Doubling rate over 30 days is considered safe. According to BMC data, over the weekend the doubling rate in Mumbai stood at 34. Around a month ago, the doubling rate was 15 days. As of now,  Mumbai has over 65,000 COVID-19 positive cases and, it has reported 3,600 deaths. The recovery rate in Mumbai is now 50 per cent. From June 13-19,  the growth rate stood at 2.05 per cent. As far as the worst-affected area of Dharavi is concerned,  the daily addition of cases has gone below 10.  The jump of  cases has also come down in the Worli area. Recently, the BMC introduced war rooms at all the 24 wards to reduce waiting period and provide quicker response to calls regarding COVID-19 information and bed availability. While there is some respite,  there is concern as well  because of sudden spurt in cases in Malad,  Kandivli,  Borivli and Dahisar areas in the western suburbs of Mumbai. The Mumbai police wants a total lockdown in these areas but BMC is of the opinion that the jump will come down in days ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-doubling-rate-in-mumbai-goes-up-to-34-days-852129.html
21-06-2020||West||COVID-19: Dharavi doubling rate is 78 days, double that of Mumbai's||In a sign of multi-pronged COVID-19 prevention and combat strategies plus strict containment working in Dharavi, the doubling rate has jumped to 78 - exactly double of Mumbai. Dharavi, the largest slum cluster of Asia, was once dubbed as the COVID-19 hotspot of Mumbai, the worst-affected Indian city. It has a population between seven and 10 lakh in 2.1 sq km area - and 80 per cent of the people use common toilets. According to the Centre, the strategies of Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are working and showing results. On Sunday, the Union Health Ministry stated that the doubling rate in Dharavi is 78 per cent. On Saturday, the BMC has put Mumbai's doubling rate as 34 per cent. The first COVID-19 case and death in Dharavi was reported on 1 April. "Dharavi had 491 cases in April 2020 with a 12 % growth rate and a case doubling period of 18 days. The proactive measures adopted by BMC reduced the COVID-19 growth rate to 4.3 % in May 2020 and further to 1.02 % in June," the central Health Ministry said. These measures also ensured an improved case doubling time to 43 days in May and 78 days in June. Doubling rate over 30 days is considered safe. Around a month ago, the doubling rate in Mumbai was 15 days. As of now, Mumbai has over 65,000 COVID-19 positive cases and, it has reported 3,600 deaths. On Saturday, Dharavi has reported an addition of 7 cases taking the progressive total to 2,158. As many as 77 persons have died.  The Uddhav Thackeray government has initiated Chase-the-Virus concept in Mumbai under which 15 persons i.e., close contacts against a positive patient are being sent for institutional quarantine. About 8-10 people live in households/hutment which measures about 10ft x 10ft coupled with existence of narrow lanes with 2-3 storied houses where often the ground floor is a house and other floors are used as factories. Hence, there were severe limitations of physical distancing with no possibility of effective ‘home quarantine’. According to a note from the government, the BMC adopted a model of actively following four T’s – tracing, tracking, testing and treating. This approach included activities like proactive screening. While 47,500 people were covered by doctors and private clinics in house-to-house screening, about 14,970 people were screened with the help of mobile vans, and 4,76,775 were surveyed by BMC health workers. Fever clinics were set up for screening high risk category such as elderly/senior citizens. This helped to screen 3.6 lakh people. Also, around 8,246 Senior Citizens were surveyed and as part of its policy of ‘timely separation’, they were separated from the other community to effectively limit the transmission of the disease. In all, 5,48,270 people have been screened in Dharavi. The suspected cases were shifted to well organized COVID Care Centres and Quarantine Centres. To tackle the issue of manpower to carry out proactive screening in high risk zones, BMC forged strategic public private partnerships in containment measures and all available ‘private’ practitioners were mobilized. BMC provided the private doctors with PPE Kits, thermal scanners, pulse Oxymeters, masks and gloves and started Door-to-Door screening in high risk zones and all suspects were identified. BMC encouraged all practitioners to open their clinics to attend to the patients and communicate to BMC in case any COVID-19 suspects were found. BMC sanitised the clinics of the private practitioners and provided them all necessary support. To augment health infrastructure in the city, all private hospitals were brought onboard and acquired for treatment. As the option of home quarantine could not effectively produce the desired outcomes due to the space limitations in the congested area, institutional quarantine facilities were created in all available schools, marriage halls, sports complexes, etc. These were provided with a community kitchen for breakfast, lunch and dinner, round the clock access to medical services, necessary medicines and equipment. A salient feature of BMC’s COVID-19 response strategy is strict enforcement of containment measures which has three primary components: an effective containment strategy; conducting comprehensive testing; and ensuring uninterrupted supply of goods and essential supplies to the community. "Only critical patients were moved outside Dharavi for admission to hospitals; 90% of the patients were treated inside Dharavi itself," officials said. The BMC also distributed more than 25,000 grocery kits and more than 21,000 food packets for lunch and dinner separately within the containment zones so people stayed inside and did not have the need to move out, thereby curbing spread of the virus. Food and grocery were also supplied and distributed free of cost by local MLAs, MPs and corporators. In addition, there was frequent disinfection of the containment area and community toilets. MSRTC buses were operated for facilitating staff conveyance. The high-risk zone was sealed from all sides and community leaders were appointed as a ‘COVID Yoddha’ to address all issues of the community and to act as a bridge between the health workers and the community.  This helped to allay any fears and concerns they may have, and bolstered their confidence in the Government’s efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-dharavi-doubling-rate-is-78-days-double-that-of-mumbais-852160.html
21-06-2020||West||Mumbai BJP leader protests against Chinese products, booked||A BJP functionary and several of his supporters were booked by Bangur Nagar police in Mumbai for protesting against Chinese products amid the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Sunday. BJP Yuva Morcha Mumbai unit chief Tejinder Singh Tiwana and party workers were protesting in front of shops displaying Chinese products in Evershine Nagar locality in Malad, asking them not sell these items, he said. They also removed some items from the shops and destroyed them as part of the protest, the official added. "We have taken a suo motu case under sections 188 (disobeying the order of public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease) among others of the IPC. However, no arrests have been made so far," the Bangur Nagar police station official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-bjp-leader-protests-against-chinese-products-booked-852185.html
21-06-2020||West||Centre praises BMC for COVID-19 growth-rate dip in Dharavi||The Centre praised the Mumbai civic body on Sunday for "actively" chasing the novel coronavirus in Dharavi, saying proactive measures reduced the growth rate of the infection in Asia's largest slum to 1.02 per cent in June from 12 per cent in April. The Union Health Ministry also lauded the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for ensuring a steep decline of daily COVID-19 cases in Dharavi from an average of 43 in May to 19 in the third week of June. Through a pre-emptive, proactive and graded response policy, the Centre is taking several steps along with the states and Union territories for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19, the ministry said in a statement. In this effort, various guidelines, advisories and treatment protocols have been developed and shared with the states to strengthen the collective response toward combating COVID-19, the statement said. Noting that several states have implemented these containment strategies and produced effective outcomes, the Centre said the efforts of the Maharashtra government and the BMC had shown encouraging results. "As part of these efforts, they have actively chased the virus and aggressively conducted targeted tracing of COVID suspects," the ministry said. "Being densely populated (2,27,136 persons/sqkm), Dharavi had 491 cases in April 2020 with a 12% growth rate and a case doubling period of 18 days," it said. "The proactive measures adopted by BMC reduced the COVID-19 growth rate to 4.3% in May 2020 and further to 1.02% in June." These measures also ensured an improved case doubling time to 43 days in May and 78 days in June, the Centre said. The BMC faced several challenges in Dharavi where 80 per cent of the population depends on community toilets, it said. About 8-10 people live in households or hutment that measures about 10/10 feet, coupled with existence of narrow lanes with two-three-storey houses where often the ground floor is a house and other floors are used as factories, the statement said. Hence, there were severe limitations of physical distancing with no possibility of effective 'home quarantine', it said. The BMC adopted a model of actively following the four T's – tracing, tracking, testing and treating, the ministry said. This approach included activities like proactive screening and while 47,500 people were covered by doctors and private clinics in house-to-house screening, about 14,970 people were screened with the help of mobile vans, and 4,76,775 were surveyed by BMC health workers.  "Fever clinics were set up for screening high risk category such as elderly/senior citizens. This helped to screen 3.6 lakh people. Also, around 8246 senior citizens were surveyed and as part of its policy of 'timely separation', they were separated from the other community to effectively limit the transmission of the disease," the ministry said. In all, 5,48,270 people have been screened in Dharavi with suspected cases shifted to well organised COVID care centres and quarantine centres, it said. To tackle the issue of manpower to carry out proactive screening in high risk zones, the BMC forged strategic public private partnerships in containment measures and all available 'private' practitioners were mobilised, the ministry said. "BMC provided the private doctors with PPE Kits, thermal scanners, pulse Oxymeters, masks and gloves and started door-to-door screening in high risk zones and all suspects were identified," it said. The BMC encouraged all practitioners to open their clinics to attend to the patients and communicate to it in case any COVID-19 suspects were found, the statement said. "BMC sanitised the clinics of the private practitioners and provided them all necessary support. To augment health infrastructure in the city, all private hospitals were brought on board and acquired for treatment," it said. As the option of home quarantine could not effectively produce the desired outcomes due to the space limitations in the congested area, institutional quarantine facilities were created in all available schools, marriage halls, sports complexes, etc, the ministry said. These were provided with a community kitchen for breakfast, lunch and dinner, round-the-clock access to medical services, necessary medicines and equipment, it said. A salient feature of the BMC's COVID-19 response strategy is strict enforcement of containment measures, which has three primary components -- an effective containment strategy, conducting comprehensive testing, and ensuring uninterrupted supply of goods and essential supplies to the community.     Only critical patients were moved outside Dharavi for admission to hospitals and 90 per cent of the patients were treated inside Dharavi itself, the ministry said. BMC also distributed more than 25,000 grocery kits and more than 21,000 food packets for lunch and dinner separately within the containment zones so people stayed inside and did not have the need to move out, thereby curbing spread of the virus, it said. Food and grocery were also supplied and distributed free of cost by local MLAs, MPs and corporators, it said, adding that there was frequent disinfection of the containment area and community toilets. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation buses were operated for facilitating staff conveyance, while the high-risk zone was sealed from all sides and community leaders were appointed as a 'COVID warriors' to address all issues of the community and to act as a bridge between the health workers and the community, it noted. This helped to allay any fears and concerns they may have, and bolstered their confidence in the government's efforts, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-praises-bmc-for-covid-19-growth-rate-dip-in-dharavi-852194.html
21-06-2020||West||Nagpur: Man cuts birthday cake with sword, arrested||A 27-year-old man who recently cut his birthday cake with a sword in Nagpur was arrested under the Arms Act with police claiming he was planning to commit a crime with it. An Ajni police station official on Sunday identified the man as Aman Vakil Ufade, a resident of Rahate Nagar. "We were alerted that he cut a birthday cake with a sword. We arrested him as he was plotting a crime with the sword. He has been charged under the Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-man-cuts-birthday-cake-with-sword-arrested-852198.html
21-06-2020||West||Thane's COVID-19 count 21,588, Kalyan numbers continue to rise||The number of COVID-19 cases in Thane district reached 21,588 as 1,023 people tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, with Kalyan Dombivali area racking up 200-plus numbers for the fourth day in a row, an official said. The death toll reached 745 in the district as 81 people lost their lives to the infection on Sunday, he added. "Thane city accounted for 29 deaths. The death figure was more due to a number reconciliation exercise," he said. "Of the 1,023 cases, Kalyan Dombivali accounted for 254, Thane city 193, MBMC-106, Navi Mumbai 154, Bhiwandi 170," the official added. Neighbouring Palghar has 2,629 cases, and 97 people have died of the infection, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thanes-covid-19-count-21588-kalyan-numbers-continue-to-rise-852213.html
21-06-2020||West||Pune adds 620 new COVID-19 cases, tally reaches 12,474||With the addition of 620 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, Pune city's cumulative count has gone up to 12,474, a health official said on Sunday. With six more people succumbing to the infection, the death toll mounted to 510, he said. A total of 171 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-adds-620-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-12474-852245.html
