22-06-2020||First Edit||Good step to save lakes; is it enough?||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s decision to ban construction activity in the 30-metre buffer zone around Bengaluru’s lakes is a step in the right direction. According to the circular issued by the civic body, construction of bridges, roads or any other structure in the lake and surrounding areas is forbidden as is any kind of activity whether commercial or recreational. Use of lake water for irrigation or human consumption is also forbidden. The BBMP has called on its solid waste management division and the BWSSB to come up with a plan to stop flow of waste in the city’s lakes. With the exception of the Bellandur and Varthur lakes which remain under the Bangalore Development Authority, and the Veerasandra lake, which is with the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited, Bengaluru’s 200 lakes are under the charge of the BBMP. After years, if not decades, of procrastination, the BBMP appears to be getting its act together with regard to reviving Bengaluru’s dying lakes. Its circular forbids some of the activities that are killing our lakes. Now the BBMP must ensure that the banned activity is not allowed to take place on the ground. Will it be willing to take on powerful real estate sharks, with ties to the powers that be? Will the BBMP crack the whip on the rich and the powerful? Or is the recent circular just the latest attempt to hoodwink Bengalureans? Bengaluru was once a city of lakes. Many of its water bodies have virtually disappeared. The few that remain are shrunken and stinking versions of their original selves. In the name of development, builders, ably supported by government officials, have systematically encroached into our water bodies. Rules have been changed to reduce the width of ‘buffer zones’ around lakes. Construction activity on natural waterways and rajakaluves has grown manifold in recent decades. It has added to Bengaluru’s problem of flooding during heavy rains. Additionally, construction debris, sewage and industrial effluents are being discharged into the lakes. This has resulted in occasional fire on lakes at Bellandur and Varthur. The BBMP’s latest steps to halt the damage being done to our lakes require comprehensive and concerted action. Importantly, it needs a change of approach. At present, its approach is aimed at beautifying lakes. While our water bodies do need an image makeover, prioritising beauty over survival of the lake will result in cosmetic measures. We need to restore and rejuvenate our lakes. Saving our lakes and taking steps to make them living water bodies should be the BBMP’s goal. Its efforts must be led by hydrological and environment engineers. Only then can our lakes come alive again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/good-step-to-save-lakes-is-it-enough-852626.html
22-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Will get Karnataka High Court's stay vacated on Hubballi-Ankola railway line, says Jagadish Shettar||Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said the Karnataka government will consider all legal options to vacate the stay order issued by Karnataka High Court relating to Hubballi-Ankola railway project. Speaking to media persons here on Monday, he said, "The railway line is a long-pending demand of the people of the region and as an elected representative, it is my duty to fulfil their demands. I do not have any personal interest in this project. But for the sake of development works I have been trying to implement the project,” he said. Hubballi-Ankola railway line will not only be used for transportation of goods trains but also for plying passenger trains. “It is the demand of coastal area people,” he said. The railway line will help in the development of the region as several projects. including the development of Belekeri port, are being proposed. The Indian Navy is also planning to develop an airport in the coastal region.  No companies The industries minister also clarified that the state has so far not received any concrete proposal from any companies that are planning to leave China and establish their manufacturing unit in India. “Talks are on with several companies, but so far the State has not received any concrete proposal. We are hopeful that in the near future, a few companies will start their units here,” he said. No more lockdown||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/will-get-karnataka-high-courts-stay-vacated-on-hubballi-ankola-railway-line-says-jagadish-shettar-852386.html
22-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Idol-makers urge Karnataka govt to issue height guidelines as Ganesh Chaturthi nears||The Chitragar community of the Karnataka Arya Kshatriya Chitragar Samaj, who has formed the Clay Idol Makers' Association and makes idols for Ganesh Chaturthi, the grandest and most celebrated festival in North Karnataka region, especially Hubballi, has urged the Karnataka government to issue guidelines on the height of idols.  "Although we start making small Ganapati idols from Ugadi itself, this is the time we make big idols when we get orders from Sarvajanika Ganapati Samitis. I have already received an order for a six-feet idol. However, I am confused as the government has not yet issued guidelines about the height of Ganapati idols to be worshipped publicly," said idol maker Govind Murgod of Chitragar community at Bammapur Oni in Hubballi. Govind Murgod's words reflect the confusion Ganapati idol-makers are experiencing in the absence of government guidelines though only close to two months are left for the festival.Samaj president Raghavendra P Murgod said he started making small idols three months back for which they do not take orders in advance. "The confusion is about big idols, where the money is received in advance. Most of the members in our community depend on clay idol-making throughout the year, and if guidelines about the reduced height of Ganapati idols come in at the last moment, it would be a great loss for us,'' he lamented. "The Chitragar community is mainly concentrated in Bammapur Oni and Hosur in Hubballi and Madihal in Dharwad. They had incurred a loss when PoP idols were banned at the last moment. In the district and surrounding areas, nearly 1,000 big-size idols and nearly one lakh small idols are usually made for worshipping every year. Orders are now coming for big idols, but we do not know whether to accept them or incur a loss if guidelines come negative later. Maharashtra government has already issued guidelines in this regard," said Karnataka Kshatriya Okkuta city unit president Hanumanthsa C Niranjan. Staging a protest in front of Mini Vidhana Soudha in Hubballi on Monday, members of Chitragar Samaj urged the government to issue guidelines immediately and announce a package for them to compensate the hardship they experienced during the lockdown. A memorandum was also submitted to the Chief Minister through the tahsildar's office.Parashuram Nimbalkar, Vijay Kamble, Mahesh Murgod, Prakash Burbure and others were present at the protest meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/idol-makers-urge-karnataka-govt-to-issue-height-guidelines-as-ganesh-chaturthi-nears-852400.html
22-06-2020||In Perspective||Changes to Electricity Act: Diluting states' autonomy||The draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 proposed by the Ministry of Power intends to bring certain structural changes in the electricity sector. While some proposals like formulating a National Renewable Energy Policy are welcome and changes are essential in the interest of the sector, other changes appear to weaken the role of the state. It is proposed to establish an authority known as the Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) to deal exclusively with issues related to the performance of contracts. The justification given is that the Electricity Regulatory Commissions (ERCs) are overburdened with multiple responsibilities with limited powers for adjudication of disputes. This is far from the truth. In reality, the ERCs have little workload except determining the tariff once in a year or so. Besides, the disputes that are raised before the ERCs are adjudicated without delay.  In fact, it is the ECEA that will be overburdened because it will have to deal with the disputes adjudicated by the 29 ERCs across the country. Further, the amendment proposes to strengthen the ERCs with another member from the legal background, which will take care of additional burden, if any, on the ERCs. Secondly, the contracting parties derive other advantages if disputes are settled by the ERCs. Since ERCs are located in state capitals, contracting parties need not travel to New Delhi, which is time-consuming and costly. Thirdly, ECEA is likely to restrict public participation in the adjudicatory process. Most of the contract disputes have an impact on consumers at large. The primary requirements of consumers - cost and quality of power--depend on the contract entered into by DISCOMS and power producers. This being the case, consumer participation is crucial. Consumers may find it difficult to participate in the adjudicating process if it is handled by ECEA at Delhi.  Fourthly, the electricity sector is already saddled with multiple institutions. Expenditure relating to ECEA will further increase the tariff to be paid by the end consumer. Hence, all the powers envisaged to be given to ECEA may be given to ERCs. As electricity is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution, states have some rights over electricity matters. However, the Amendment Bill appears to dilute the power of the states. It is proposed that there will be a single selection committee at the Central level for selection to the posts of chairperson and members of the Appellate Tribunal and all ERCs. This will take away the rights of the state, which is not advisable. The selection committees are to be separate at the Centre and state level. The proposed amendment stipulates that the Regional/State Load Dispatch Centres (RLDC/SLDC) are not to dispatch power unless adequate payment security is provided as per contract. This proposal is legally tenable and ensuring payment security will result in financial discipline and viability of the electricity sector. Besides, providing such freedom will ensure the independence of the RLDC/SLDC. However, this proposal, if implemented, may lead to some sort of friction between generators and SLDC. In view of the fact that most of the generating companies and SLDCs are state entities, the implementation of this amendment may not be possible. The subsidy has been a controversial issue in the electricity sector. The Amendment Bill envisages direct transfer of subsidy to consumers by making it obligatory on the part of the ERCs to fix tariff without taking into account the subsidy element promised to be paid by the government. LPG subsidy While this is good in principle and needs to be experimented, the road to implementation may not be as smooth as in case of LPG subsidy. The amendment is not clear whether subsidy will be transferred to distribution companies and then to the beneficiaries or directly to consumers’ accounts.  Issues like identification of beneficiaries, usage of electricity by the unmetered category of consumers etc, may pose practical difficulties. Though electricity bills are paid by the users, the owner of the premises may be different. In such a case, to whose account will the subsidy is to be transferred or credited? Secondly, there may be delay (as is now the case) on the part of the government in providing the subsidy amount to the distribution companies. In such a case, the distribution company will raise bills as per retail tariff. This may result in tariff shock to the end consumers leading to non-payment of bills resulting in financial strain on distribution companies.  The amendment envisages certain structural changes in the sector. It is proposed to introduce distribution sub-licensees (DSL) and amend provision relating to franchisees.  The amendment bill is not clear about the rights and obligations of the DSL like procurement of power, implementation of rules and regulations issued by the ERC, filing of tariff petitions, consumer grievance handling, billing disputes etc. While the DSL is required to obtain the permission of the ERC for its operations, the Franchisee is not obliged to do so. It can operate merely by ‘informing’ the ERC.  Once again, DSL is a burden to the consumers without any additional benefits. Since the present distribution companies are quite efficient, DSL may not be required. The Bill is silent on other amendments relating to consumer protection. (The writer is with Consumer Rights Education and Awareness Trust)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/changes-to-electricity-act-diluting-states-autonomy-852629.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 lockdown may not be extended in Karnataka, says Shivram Hebbar||Labour Minister Shivram Hebbar on Monday hinted that the lockdown in the state may not be extended further. He said that the labourers should work with confidence for the progress of the state and nation and take strong steps.  Hebbar visited BJP office during his maiden visit to the city as minister on Monday. Parents and children will not be forced for schools. Until parents get enough confidence, schools will not reopen. The state cabinet has discussed the issue many times. Bus services have been commenced to instil confidence among people, but they were not boarding them, he said.  SSLC examination should be taken as challenge and precautions have been taken for the safety of the students appearing for the examination. Party workers and office-bearers should cooperate along with elected representatives to facilitate the students reach the examination centres, Hebbar stated.  Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, Belagavi South MLA Abhay Patil, BUDA Chairman Ghulappa Hosamani, BJP District President Sanjay Patil, City President Shashikant Patil and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-lockdown-may-not-be-extended-in-karnataka-says-shivram-hebbar-852362.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Writer's house in ruins: Literary enthusiasts demand memorial||Literary enthusiasts have urged the Karnataka State government to earmark land and construct a memorial in the name of well-known writer Mandara Keshava Bhat, known for his work ‘Mandara Ramayana’ in Tulu. The sliding of a large amount of garbage from the Pacchanady landfill site last year had damaged the 100-year-old heritage structure house of noted writer Mandara Keshava Bhat. It is not possible to rebuild the century-old structure due to the garbage surrounding it, said Yakshagana exponent Dr M Prabhakar Joshi, to mediapersons in Mangaluru on Monday. Instead, the government should initiate measures to recreate the house in identified land and develop it as a memorial. Mandara Keshava Bhat, the first writer to win the Bhasha Samman award was well-versed in Kannada, Tulu and Marati languages and was always engaged in literary activities. His book ‘Mandara Ramayana’ has been a milestone in the Tulu literary world. The incident of garbage sliding from the landfill site took place at a time when a group of literary enthusiasts and his family members were making preparations for celebrating the birth anniversary of the writer in the year 2019. 2019 is also the centenary of his house, which was constructed in 1919.  Joshi said: “The century-old house with traditional architectural interiors is known for its vastu principles of Tulu Nadu. The house was also ‘Dharmachavadi’ for the Daivas of the area during kola and other religious rituals associated with Tulu Nadu. The garbage sliding had damaged houses of Mandara, Daivastana, Nagabana along with 12 acre farmland and 27 houses in the surroundings. There is a need to rebuild the house and instil the traditional beliefs associated with it,” he demanded. The memorial should be built on the model of Kavimane of Kuppalli, and Bendre Bhavana in Dharwad. Mandara Keshava Bhat is a pride of Tulu Nadu. The district administration and the State government can not neglect the well-known writer, said writer Chandrakala Nandavara.   Prof Bhaskar Rai Kukkuvalli noted “Mandara Ramayana narrates Ramayana with Tulunadu context. It is unfortunate that the house of writer and Yakshagana arthadhari is in ruins.” Pramod Sapre, grandson of Mandara Keshava Bhat said “We have already made representations to the State government through elected representatives to earmark land for constructing a memorial. Atleast one acre land should be earmarked for the purpose.” Stressing on the need to remember the eminent writer, Kannada Sahitya Parishat DK unit President Pradeep Kumar Kalkura said “the funds under Smart City Mission can be diverted to build a memorial in the name of Mandara Keshava Bhat to continue various literary activities in the memorial.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/writers-house-in-ruins-literary-enthusiasts-demand-memorial-852392.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||FIR against 28 people for violating home quarantine norms||Separate First Information Report (FIR) has been filed against 28 people who were found roaming by violating home-quarantine norms, said Deputy Commissioner B Sharat. Inter-state returnees and the secondary contacts of the infected have been kept under 14-days home quarantine instead of institutional quarantine. Cases have been filed as they violated quarantine norms often. It has been decided to keep those who violate the home-quarantine norms for the first time under the institutional quarantine. A total of eight migrant workers, who were found roaming in public places by violating home-quarantine guidelines, have been re-sent to institutional quarantine, the DC explained. Secondary contacts of the infected, pregnant women, children below 10 years and elders aged above 65 years and those who have co-morbid conditions have been kept under a close watch in home-quarantine. Village accountants, Panchayat Development Officers and bill collectors will visit home quarantinees every day and will send their pictures to government through Quarantine Watch App, Sharat told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fir-against-28-people-for-violating-home-quarantine-norms-852455.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tractor runs over rider||A rider was killed after the bike which he was riding collided with a tractor and he came under the wheels of the heavy vehicle at Hoohakuvakallu Punyakoti Nagara under Konaje Police Station limits on Monday. The deceased is identified as Srikanth. Incidentally, Srikanth was working as the driver of the same tractor which ran over him. As he had taken leave on Monday, another driver was operating the tractor. After completing the day’s work, the tractor driver was driving on Mudipu-Manjanady connecting road when the accident took place between the tractor and the bike. Srikant was thrown on the road and the tractor ran over him. A case was registered at Konaje Police station, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tractor-runs-over-rider-852462.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Video of girl rescuing accident victim goes viral||A video clip of a class 10 student who was instrumental in providing first aid to a woman after rescuing her from the car that had plunged into Chowlikere in Barkur, has gone viral on social media. The car in which entrepreneur Santhosh Shetty and his colleague Shwetha were travelling had plunged into the water body, killing Shetty on the spot. The passenger travelling with Shetty has survived. The house of Namana, a class 10 student was near to the water body. The timely act of Namana has helped Shwetha to survive. Soon after Shwetha was fished out of the lake, Namana gave her first aid and tried to remove the excessive water swallowed by Shwetha. A video of Namana giving first aid has gone viral on social media and she has been lauded for her timely action. After giving her first aid, Shwetha was rushed to the hospital. The doctor who is treating Shwetha too lauded the timely first aid. Namana is a student of Little Rock Indian School and is the daughter of Brahmavar Government PU College lecturer Savitha Yermal. "Soon after the accident victim was pulled out of the water, I gave her CPR on the spot. The first aid and CPR method I learnt in my NCC training have helped me a lot in saving the life of Shwetha,” said Namana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/video-of-girl-rescuing-accident-victim-goes-viral-852465.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Recovery of special allowance given to teachers against SC order’||MLC S L Bhoje Gowda said the State government’s directions to recovery the special allowance given to higher secondary school teachers and PU lecturers of aided and government schools and colleges, was a violation of Supreme Court order.  According to the Supreme Court's order, all eligible teachers should get the special allowance, he said. Gowda warned of exploring legal options if government does not withdraw its order on the recovery of the special allowance given to the teachers. He said the director of Department of Public Instruction had directed DDPIs to instruct the drawing authorities—headmasters and principals, to collect special allowance of Rs 200 given to higher secondary school teachers and PU lecturers of aided and government institutions. The government’s order has not taken into account the Supreme Court’s order that had upheld the special payment. The director in his order had cited the order of Comptroller and Auditor General of India of March 31, 2017, that had asked for recovery procedure, he said Gowda said he had raised the issue with Thirthahalli MLA and Chairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Araga Jnanendra. “Araga Jnanendra has agreed to revisit the same order. The recovery of Rs 8 crore will affect 16,367 teachers, including 11,804 government teachers,” the MLC said. He criticised the government for failing to tackle COVID-19 crisis in Karnataka. Gowda said though the government had announced relief package, it had failed to identify the beneficiaries for the package till now. Only 200 beneficiaries had been identified in Savitha Samaja in Dakshina Kannada for the relief package. The COVID-19 testing laboratories have not been set up in all the districts in Karnataka. Chikkamagaluru has no testing laboratory. The samples from Chikkamagaluru are sent to Hassan. "Mangaluru has only 13 ventilators,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/recovery-of-special-allowance-given-to-teachers-against-sc-order-852468.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Woman’s death triggers panic in Chamarajanagar district||A woman, who had come to a private hospital for respiratory problems and diarrhoea, on Sunday evening, failed to respond to the treatment and died at the Covid Hospital here, on Monday morning. This created panic among the people. However, lab reports confirmed that she was not suffering from Covid and was a patient of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). As the woman was suffering from respiratory problems, the doctors at the private hospital, directed to shift her to the Covid hospital. As she was said to be a native of Mandya district, the doctors suspected Covid-19, and the private hospital, where she was treated was closed for sanitisation. The places surrounding the hospital were also disinfected and the road was sealed-down. This created anxiety among the residents, who claimed that the hospital staff were not quarantined, despite treating a woman with Covid. As soon as they learnt that the woman died, they panicked. However, only after the reports confirmed that the deceased's throat swabs and blood samples confirmed negative for Covid, they heaved a sigh of relief. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi in a press briefing clarified that the woman is a native of Byadamodlu village in Chamarajanagar taluk. She was married to a person in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district, but was living at Kalasthawadi in Mysuru district. She complained of chest pain on June 19 and was treated by a local doctor. Later, she came to her native Byadamodlu on June 20. On Sunday (June 21), she complained of diarrhoea and vomiting. She was brought to a private hospital, when the doctors found her oxygen levels were low, they suspected it to be a SARI case, and advised to shift her to Covid hospital. She was kept on ventilator support, but she passed away on Monday morning. All tests conducted for Covid were negative, he said. Medical college dean Dr Sanjeev and District Surgeon Dr Krishna Prasad were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-s-death-triggers-panic-in-chamarajanagar-district-852553.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Council: All seven candidates elected unanimously||Senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad and BJP’s MTB Nagaraj, one of the defectors who helped the saffron party come to power in Karnataka, were unanimously elected to the Legislative Council along with five others on Monday.  All seven were declared as “duly elected” by Legislative Assembly Secretary MK Vishalakshi, the returning officer for the biennial election to the Legislative Council.  Hariprasad and Naseer Ahmed of the Congress, Nagaraj, R Shankar, Prathap Simha Nayak and Sunil Vallyapur of the BJP and Govinda Raju of the JD(S) are now MLCs.  While Ahmed was an incumbent who will get another term, the six others will replace Jayamma, MC Venugopal, NS Bore Raju, HM Revanna and TA Sharavana and DU Mallikarjuna whose term ends June 30.  While an election was scheduled June 29, it was not necessary as only seven candidates were in the fray for the seven seats on Monday, which was the last date for withdrawal of nominations. The nominations of A Yadavanahalli PC Krishnegowda and Mandikkal Nagaraja were rejected.  With their rejection as MLCs, Nagaraj and Shankar - who jumped ship to the BJP last year - will now look to become ministers in Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s Cabinet. Both Nagaraj and Shankar were ministers when they resigned and defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition. While Nagaraj lost the December 2019 bypolls, Shankar did not contest.  Nagaraj, Shankar and Vallyapure were Yediyurappa’s picks for the Council, whereas Nayak is said to have been backed by BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel.  There were many aspirants in the Congress for the Council berths, but Hariprasad and Ahmed were picked, given their experience. Hariprasad is widely believed to counter Siddaramaiah, who leads the party in the Assembly.  Raju of the JD(S) runs a poultry business in Kolar and the choice of a fresh face is seen as the party leadership steering clear of any trouble as there were many asking for the ticket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-council-all-seven-candidates-elected-unanimously-852460.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||MLA Umesh Katti aspires to become Karnataka chief minister||MLA Umesh Katti expressed his desire to become chief minister of Karnataka if the people from the Hukkeri assembly constituency continue to bless him. “Myself want to be at the helm of the affairs of the state and it is possible if I become chief minister," he said. He was speaking at food kits distribution programme for corona warriors that included Anganwadi workers and health assistants at Vishwaraj Bhavan in the town on Monday.  Katti said, he himself has been elected as MLA for eight terms and has been minister for 13 years. There has been no aspiration left to become minister, but will accept if inducted in the Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa cabinet, he added. “People, if continue to bless me, I am ready to lead the state as chief minister. I have 40 years of political experience,” he stated.  Katti called the Anganwadi workers to inspire women to become self reliant. "Women can make many products consumed on daily basis at their homes that includes various forms of chutneys, roti and jaggery based sweets and himself can offer them market facilities at Bengaluru," he said. He complimented Anganwadi and health workers for the hard work done by them to create awareness about COVID-19 and prevent its spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mla-umesh-katti-aspires-to-become-karnataka-chief-minister-852466.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||COVID-19: 249 new cases & five more related deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 249 new COVID-19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the total number of infections in the state to 9,399 and the death toll to 142, the health department said on Monday. The day also saw 111 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of June 22 evening, cumulatively 9,399 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 142 deaths and 5,730 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said that out of the 3,523 active cases, 3,443 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 80 are in Intensive Care Units. Among the five dead were three from Bengaluru urban and one each from Ramanagara and Ballari. Those from Bengaluru are two men aged 70 and 45 years, and a woman aged 38, all of whom had a history Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The other two dead are a 60-year-old woman from Ballari with a history of Influenza-like illness (ILI) and a 90-year- old man from Ramanagara, whose contact history is under tracing. Out of 249 new cases, 50 are returnees from other states, while 11 are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with a history of SARI and ILI among others, the bulletin said. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 126, followed by Kalaburagi 27, Vijayapura 15, Udupi 14, Dakshina Kannada 12, Davangere 9, six each from Uttara Kannada and Bagalkote and five each from Bidar and Chikkamagaluru. The others included four each from Dharwad and Bengaluru rural, Ramanagara 3, two each from Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Kolar and Kodagu, and one each from Yadgir, Mysuru, Chikkaballapura, Gadag and Koppal. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,398 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,226 and Udupi 1,077. Among discharges, Udupi topped the list with total 961 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi with 731 and Yadgir, 537. A total of 5,15,969 samples were tested so far, out of which 9,204 were tested on Monday alone, the bulletin said. So far 4,93,921 samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 8,576 reported negative on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/covid-19-249-new-cases-five-more-related-deaths-in-karnataka-852476.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Legislative Council polls: All 7 candidates elected unanimously||Senior Congress leader B K Hariprasad and BJP’s M T B Nagaraj, one of the defectors who helped the saffron party come to power in Karnataka, were unanimously elected to the Legislative Council along with five others on Monday.  All seven were declared  “duly elected” by Legislative Assembly Secretary M K Vishalakshi, the returning officer for the biennial election to the LegislativeCouncil.  Hariprasad and Naseer Ahmed of the Congress, Nagaraj, R Shankar, Prathap Simha Nayak and Sunil Vallyapure of the BJP and Govinda Raju of the JD(S) are now MLCs.  While Ahmed was an incumbent who will get another term, the six others will replace Jayamma, M C Venugopal, N S Bose Raju, H M Revanna and T A Sharavana and D U Mallikarjuna, whose term ends June 30.  While the election was scheduled for June 29, it was not necessary as only seven candidates were in the fray for the seven seats on Monday, which was the last date for withdrawal of nominations. With their election as MLCs, Nagaraj and Shankar - who jumped ship to the BJP last year - will now look to become ministers in Yediyurappa’s Cabinet. Both Nagaraj and Shankar were ministers when they resigned and defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition. While Nagaraj lost the December 2019 bypolls, Shankar did not contest.  Nagaraj, Shankar and Vallyapure were Yediyurappa’s picks for the Council, whereas Nayak is said to have been backed by BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel.  There were many aspirants in the Congress for the Council berths, but Hariprasad and Ahmed were picked given their experience. Hariprasad is widely believed to counter Siddaramaiah, who leads the party in theAssembly.  Raju of the JD(S) runs a poultry business in Kolar and by choosing him, a fresh face, the party leadership steered clear of any trouble as there were many aspirants for the ticket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/legislative-council-polls-all-7-candidates-elected-unanimously-852577.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Speak truth on China issue, Mallikarjun Kharge tells PM Modi||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should come clean on the India-China situation.  The Congress, Kharge said, will offer full support, but PM Modi should speak the truth.  “The Chinese always show love first, put on an act of gentleness and then stab the back. This has happened several times. But for the first time, 20 people have been killed by the Chinese,” Kharge told reporters. “When they attack us, we can’t keep quiet with hands folded. Entire country is with the government and soldiers. We will extend full support, but PM Modi has to speak the truth on the matter,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/speak-truth-on-china-issue-mallikarjun-kharge-tells-pm-modi-852620.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||PWD to be trifurcated soon: Govind Karjol||DyCM and Public Works Minister Govind Karjol, on Monday, directed authorities to speed up the process of trifurcating PWD, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, and Water Resources departments. Efforts are on since the past several years to divide the departments. The government has consulted with representatives of engineers’ associations regarding the move and has decided to go ahead with the move, Karjolsaid. The trifurcation was necessitated as all engineers were recruited by PWD and deputed to different departments of the government. This will allow departments to hire and manage people for various posts. Bronze statue Karjol also sought a report from officials regarding the installation of a bronze statue of K C Reddy - the first chief minister of Karnataka (erstwhile Mysore state). Reddy had played an important role in the construction of Vidhana Soudha, the centre of the state’s administration. The statue will replace the fibre one installed on the Vidhana Soudha premises by the Congress government in 2018, after family members of Reddy staged a protest demanding that a bronze statue be installed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pwd-to-be-trifurcated-soon-govind-karjol-852632.html
22-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Only 20 Cong MLAs using social media, laments DKS||The DK Shivakumar-led Congress wants to take the fight to the BJP on the social media turf, but only a fraction of legislators are active on various online platforms.  “Only 20 out of 68 Congress MLAs are on social media and only their works are getting projected,” Shivakumar, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, told DH. “So I’m saying, all those MLAs who are doing well need to be projected. We want leaders, not mere followers. I want to sell them and not just my face or Siddaramaiah’s,” he said.  Shivakumar’s diktat has resulted in the party’s social media unit scrambling to get leaders to create their accounts. “We’re pressuring them. We’re asking their personal assistants or gunmen to operate their accounts if they are not savvy with social media,” KPCC social media chief A N Nataraj Gowda said.  He pointed out that the 20 MLAs who are active on social media include Dinesh Gundu Rao, Priyank Kharge, Krishna Byre Gowda, U T Khader among others. “We’re also trying to get the accounts verified of those who are beginning to get active. For example, it was only recently that we got the accounts of S R Patil and Vijay Singh verified,” Gowda said.  Tapping the full potential of social media is crucial for the Congress because the BJP has found much success in reaching out to voters through various online platforms. In fact, ahead of the 2018 Assembly elections, the Congress found that there were 10 ministers and some 40 MLAs who had turned a blind eye towards social media.  Shivakumar said he was also working on putting in place a system in the party under which all developments related to the state and country will be communicated to all party leaders at 10 am every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/only-20-cong-mlas-using-social-media-laments-dks-852634.html
22-06-2020||Main Article||Time to effect change in Karnataka State Universities Act||The Governor of Karnataka is the Chancellor of all state-funded universities. Although this responsibility is not considered as one of the constitutional obligations, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had assigned this role to governors since 1956 in as much as the President of India is made the Visitor of all Central institutions of higher learning. The Karnataka State Universities Act, 2000 (KSU Act) has ascribed several functions to the office of the Governor as Chancellor of which the appointment of Vice Chancellors (V-Cs) is a significant one. However, not all is well at the moment in the discharge of this noble task that has profound ramifications on the governance of higher education so crucial for sustenance of quality. Gone are the days when only distinguished men of vision and intellect totally alienated from politics, were nominated as governors. Another equally contentious issue is the functioning of the Governor as Chancellor of dozens of state universities. That this academic responsibility, of late, is being largely circumvented, if not grossly misused, is illustrated by the following examples. First, as per Section 14(2) of the Act, the Chancellor shall nominate a person to be part of the selection committee to identify suitable/eligible candidates who could be considered for appointment as V-C. Although the Act does not specifically prescribe the qualifications of such nominees, in the past, tradition has it that only distinguished people from the academia or judiciary or administration were chosen. Alas!, nowadays the Chancellor is equivocally nominating people far below the rank of a Vice Chancellor. Such nominees were found to have neither proven academic credentials nor admirable accomplishments. A person of lower cadre participating as part of a team constituted to identify incumbents for a much higher position, is unheard of in our selection/search processes, be it in universities, corporates or industries. This practice of diluting the established convention has significantly damaged the credibility of the selection committee. What is still more perplexing is that the practice of such undeserving nominations is being wantonly continued in spite of the strong resentments from many stakeholders including the Forum of Former Vice Chancellors of Karnataka. Second, Section 14(4) of the Act lays down that the recommendation of a selection committee (formed for short listing V-C aspirants) with a panel of three eminent persons shall be submitted to the state government which in turn shall forward it to the Chancellor who shall appoint one person among them as V-C but with the “concurrence” of the state government. Quite contrary to this provision of the Act, in the past few years, there were umpteen instances wherein the Chancellor resorted to appoint V-Cs on his own accord disregarding the healthy norm of ‘concurrence’. This action has baffled not only the legal experts and the state government but also the academics. The issue of serious concern here is the glaring violation of the provision of the Act of which the top custodian is the Chancellor! Third, in the past, the Chancellor, soon after receiving the panel of eligible candidates from the government, subject to his satisfactory perusal of the proceedings, used to approve one candidate and issue the appointment order within few hours. Of course, the Chancellor with the concurrence of the state government could call for a second panel if he considers it necessary for some valid reasons.  In such an event, the search committee shall submit a second panel (again through the state government) which shall be final. Against these established, transparent and expeditious norms, the Chancellor nowadays takes weeks, months and even years to take a decision. Unfortunate vacuum In fact, this is one of the reasons for several V-Cs’ posts lying vacant for prolonged periods resulting in unfortunate vacuum in the vitally important academic leadership. Moreover, the inordinate delays have given rise to great deal of suspicion and speculation, not to mention lobbying through powerful and influential external factors. What was once a healthy practice and convention is being vitiated beyond comprehension. Fourth, Section 69 of the Act provides for the award of honorary degrees (honoris causa - D.Sc. / LL.D) to eminent persons in recognition of their outstanding contribution to society in various fields. The authority to recommend stalwarts for such distinction to the Chancellor was (and is still supposed to be) the prerogative of the University Syndicate. Again, in blatant contravention of this procedure, the Chancellor has unilaterally abrogated the privilege of the Syndicate by constituting a committee to identify (not more than three) deserving candidates. Here again, the composition of such committees is so downgraded that ordinary professors (or those below this position) are inducted. Nowhere in the world an ordinary person sits on judgement about the suitability of candidates for coveted honours. Also, the selection of recipients of honorary degrees by the Chancellor is not always based on exemplary merit and yeoman service. In academic circles and in the opinion of the general public, some of the recent choices have given rise to widespread disappointment and apprehension. Fifth, the Chancellor does not hold periodic parleys/interactions with the V-Cs to discuss the serious problems (especially the dearth of faculty and paucity of finances) confronting higher and professional education. Besides, the two nominees of the Chancellor on the Syndicate are no different from those of the government in antecedents. In view of the large number of state universities (it is on the rise these days because of greater demand for higher education) as well as the changing perception of higher education against the backdrop of globalisation, there is wisdom in setting free the governor as Chancellor. The KSU Act has remained static for the last 19 years. It has to be amended early to incorporate several changes including the desirability of a separate Chancellor for each state university, if UGC permits. Perhaps, it should be mentioned in this context that each Central University has a separate Chancellor in addition to the Visitor. Our state private universities and Deemed-to-be Universities also have separate Chancellors. (The writer is former Vice Chancellor, University of Mysore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/time-to-effect-change-in-karnataka-state-universities-act-852628.html
22-06-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru IGP, SP under quarantine after police personnel tests COVID-19 positive||While IGP, SP and ASP are under home quarantine, other officers are in quarantine facility since Sunday.  It has to be mentioned that a police, also an assistant to Investigation Officer in connection with theft of live bullets of 303 rifles from T Narasipur Police Station, tested positive for COVID-19. An officer said he had visited the SP office several times and also worked with higher officials closely.  The source from where the police was infected is yet to be ascertained, said the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-igp-sp-under-quarantine-after-police-personnel-tests-covid-19-positive-852389.html
22-06-2020||Mysuru||IGP, SP, ASP placed under quarantine||As many as 58 police officials, including Inspector General of Police Southern Range Vipul Kumar, Mysuru Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and Additional SP P V Sneha, are under quarantine as a police personnel tested positive for Covid-19. While IGP, SP and ASP are under home quarantine, other officers are in facility quarantine. A policeman, also an assistant to the investigation officer, in connection with a theft case of live bullets of rifles from T Narasipur Police Station, tested positive for Covid-19. The policeman worked closely with the higher officials and also visited SP and IGP’s office. While 22 persons are primary contacts, the remaining are secondary contracts. An officer said, the infected policeman had visited SP office several times. The source from where the policeman was infected is yet to be ascertained. The infected policeman had visited ‘Cafe Mysuru,’ located in Ittigegud. It has to be recalled that a couple infected with the virus had visited the café, the officer said. Following the case, the SP office and the police stations are disinfected. As a police personnel attached to Nanjangud Rural Police station tested positive on Monday, the station is sealed down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/igp-sp-asp-placed-under-quarantine-852554.html
22-06-2020||Mysuru||Triage system launched at KR Hospital||With the infection of Covid-19 increasing, Krishna Rajendra Hospital (KR Hospital), the tertiary referral centre and teaching hospital attached to Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI) is facilitated with certain facilities for the benefit of patients. The authorities have introduced a triage system, to ensure better patient care. The newly setup triage system is a boon to screen Covid suspects, ILI (Influenza like Illness) patients and SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) patients at KR Hospital, said Dr C P Nanjaraj, Dean and Director of MMC & RI. Patients with flu or Covid symptoms will be attended immediately at the new facility. The triage area has facilities like multiple registration and billing counters, hand sanitiser, thermal screening, waiting area with wheel chairs, stretchers and trolleys. In addition, social workers will help and guide the patients regarding lab facilities, radiology and inpatient wards. Doctors from General Medicine and Community Medicine departments will attend to patients and nursing station is available for primary care. The hospital is equipped with 1,050 beds, with state of the art laboratory and radiology services, casualty, blood bank facility and 24x7 emergency services, the director said. The hospital is empanelled for Ayushman Bharat Arogya Raksha (ABAR) Scheme and has dedicated wards for ILI and SARI patients is established. The Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) is set up in Microbiology department to test Covid samples, he added. According to the director, the inflow of patients with ILI and SARI symptoms has been increased. “On an average, 1,800 to 2,000 patients visit the hospital. In March, the number of ILI and SARI cases was high as private hospitals were not treating such cases.    According to the director, ILI cases will decline as monsoon has commenced. During normal years, ILI cases will be more between summer and commencement of monsoon, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/triage-system-launched-at-kr-hospital-852555.html
22-06-2020||National||Yoga is 'carrier of India's spiritual tradition': Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said Yoga is a "carrier of India's spiritual tradition" and it strengthens the immunity. The chief minister was addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers from the party’s office here on the occasion of International Yoga Day. Adityanath also said, “the world has acknowledged India's power of Yoga during the corona crisis.” He said, “It (yoga) is the carrier of India's spiritual tradition, which has taken India's cultural heritage to a higher stage of consciousness in the world.” On the occasion, he praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying, the PM’s “foresight and ability to take quick decisions saved India from the corona crisis”. Adityanath said during the pandemic, while people in other countries are opposing the policies of their government and taking to the streets, Indians stand together with their prime minister with respect and reverence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-is-carrier-of-indias-spiritual-tradition-yogi-adityanath-852262.html
22-06-2020||National||Delhi on high alert after intelligence inputs about terror threat||The Delhi Police haş been put on high alert following intelligence inputs about a probable terror threat to the national capital, sources said on Sunday. Intelligence agencies have alerted police on the possibility of four to five men entering the national capital with an intention to carry out a terror attack, they said. The sources said all the 15 police districts have been put on high alert along with elite units of the Crime Branch and the Special Cell. Special vigil is being maintained on Delhi's borders and a close watch is being kept in market areas and hospitals, which are seeing a large influx of patients these days, they said. Security agencies are on heightened vigil in view of the India-China stand off in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-on-high-alert-after-intelligence-inputs-about-terror-threat-852270.html
22-06-2020||National||Will take 'favourable action': Odisha govt on Jagannath Rath Yatra||The Odisha government on Sunday said it will take "favourable action" as legally permissible on a request by Gajapati Maharaja Dibyasingha Deb that Lord Jagannath's Rath Yatra, which was stayed by the Supreme Court this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, be allowed sans congregation of devotees. After the Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the annual Rath Yatra, the state government had been facing tremendous pressure from different quarters to intervene in the matter. "The State Government will take favourable action as legally permissible on the request of the Gajapati Maharaj when the writ petition W.P.(C) No. 571 of 2020 is taken up for hearing before the Hon'ble Supreme Court," Odisha law department said in a statement. The government's response came a day after Gajapati Maharaja Deb requested it to move a fresh application before the Supreme Court seeking modification of its June 18 order. The titular king of Puri had also requested the state government to request the court to allow the yatra sans any devotees and only in Puri as the festival is "sanctioned and mandated" according to the religious scriptures and legal provisions. More than a dozen petitions have been moved before the Supreme Court seeking recall of its order staying the historic Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra, which was scheduled for June 23. Some petitioners have prayed to the Supreme Court that the yatra be allowed to take place and the three chariots maybe pulled by the servitors of Jagannath temple and police officials in Puri by adhering to the social distancing norms, according to the law department. The state government said its stand in the hearing before the Supreme Court on June 18 was primarily related to thousands of ratha yatras taking place all over Odisha, it said. These involve lakhs of people, and happen almost in every gram panchayat, it added. The government said, "More than 5 lakh people of Odisha have returned to the state since May. Most of them are likely to complete their quarantine period by the end of June. This along with the onset of monsoon has made the COVID pandemic likely to peak in the State in June and July." The pandemic has killed lakhs of people across the globe and so far Odisha has handled it in an efficient manner with lowest mortality rate in the country, it said. "Any congregation during the probable peaking period can lead to loss of lives and serious public health hazard," it added. The Odisha government said the apex court, on June 18, after hearing all the parties including the three intervenors, passed an order in the interest of public health and safety of citizens who are also devotees, restraining the state government from holding the Rath Yatra this year. "In the meanwhile, the Gajapati Maharaj of Puri who is also the Chairman of the Sri Jagannath Temple Managing Committee, has written a letter dated 20th June, 2020 to the State Government, inter alia requesting that the Rath Yatra in Puri may be held without any congregation of general public and with the State Government taking appropriate steps to prevent spread of COVID-19," it said. Similar views were also submitted by the intervenors in the Supreme Court during the hearing on June 18, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-take-favourable-action-odisha-govt-on-jagannath-rath-yatra-852281.html
22-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 22, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-22-2020-edition-852282.html
22-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 22||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of COVID-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 4 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  While COVID-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. COVID-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of COVID-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:    Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths) - 4,39,638 as of June 22 States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 13,998   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged:  2,38,212  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the COVID-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-22-852283.html
22-06-2020||National||The Lead: Reel and real life hero Sonu Sood on how he is helping migrant workers reach home||The Lead from Deccan Herald Podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In this episode, DH's Nina C George speaks to actor Sonu Sood about how he is helping migrant workers reach home and bring a smile on their faces.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-reel-and-real-life-hero-sonu-sood-on-how-he-is-helping-migrant-workers-reach-home-852284.html
22-06-2020||National||No respite for common man as petrol, diesel prices hiked for 16th straight day||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the 16th straight day on Monday.  Diesel will now cost 58 paise more per litre in Delhi at Rs 78.85 per litre, while petrol will cost 33 paise more per litre at Rs Rs 79.56 per litre, according to Indian Oil website.   In Bengaluru, petrol will be costlier by 34 paise per litre at Rs 82.15 per litre, while diesel will cost 55 paise more per litre at Rs 74.98 per litre. The government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each and then again on May 5 by a record Rs 10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. The two hikes gave the government Rs 2 lakh crore in additional tax revenues. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers, adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of a decline in international oil prices to two-decade lows. International oil prices have since rebounded and oil firms are now adjusting retail rates in line with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-for-common-man-as-petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-16th-straight-day-852285.html
22-06-2020||National||Police bust extortion racket being run form Tihar jail||Police have busted an extortion racket that was being run from inside the Tihar Jail by an inmate following a complaint from a Karol Bagh-based businessman, an official said on Sunday. The main accused was identified as Mahesh (39), who is lodged in the Tihar Jail since 2014. His two associates were identified as Bhanu Pratap (21), a resident of Sangam Vihar, and Ashok Kumar (40), a resident of Karol Bagh, they said. Police said while Mahesh used to allegedly demand money from builders and businessmen over the phone from inside the jail, his men from outside used to threaten the targets on his directions until payment was received. The matter came to light in November last year after Jugal Kishore, who is in the construction business, reported that he had received WhatsApp calls from Mahesh who demand extortion of Rs 20 lakh in installments of Rs 50,000, according to police. However, when Kishore refused to pay, two men fired outside his house. Mahesh then called him again and threatened him to pay, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said Mahesh's associates were arrested from their hideouts in Karol Bagh recently. They confessed that they were working for Mahesh, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-bust-extortion-racket-being-run-form-tihar-jail-852287.html
22-06-2020||National||Ensure verification of COVID-19 cases within 24 hours: Delhi govt to DMs||The Delhi government on Sunday directed all district magistrates to ensure that the daily reported cases of coronavirus are verified within 24 hours and scale up their operations by constituting additional surveillance teams if needed. The Delhi government had on Saturday issued a revised order stating that coronavirus patients who do not have any comorbidities or require hospitalisation could opt for home isolation. In a State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) meeting on Saturday, it was decided that the home quarantine system will continue. The decision came a day after LG Anil Baijal ordered mandatory five-day quarantine for all COVID-19 patients. "All individuals who are positive will be referred to the COVID care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities," the Delhi government order said. In the order issued on Sunday, the government said, "All District Magistrates are directed to implement the decision of the SDMA, in letter and spirit with immediate effect through CDMO's, District Surveillance officer and all other resources available at their disposal. District Magistrates are required to ensure that all daily reported positive cases are physically verified immediately but not later than 24 hours." "They may scale up their operations by constituting additional surveillance teams, engaging additional manpower and requisitioning additional resources proper implementation and daily reporting," it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-verification-of-covid-19-cases-within-24-hours-delhi-govt-to-dms-852288.html
22-06-2020||National||A lonely and dangerous coronavirus lockdown for LGBTQ Indians||In conservative India, many in the LGBTQ community hide their real selves. But being stuck inside with their families for months in the coronavirus lockdown has made this hard to keep up -- with sometimes dire consequences. Kumar, a young gay man living in a town in northern India, was physically assaulted by his family who then called the police when they found out his secret. "They found his phone -- he was chatting with someone or sharing photos -- and beat him up," said Shruta Neytra, co-founder of the LGBTQ online youth support group Yaariyan. Kumar -- not his real name -- reached out to the group seeking help. But because of coronavirus restrictions on travel and movement, there was little anyone could do. And he is not alone. "We are hearing of so many cases where people are facing harassment and psychological torture by their families," Neytra told AFP. "It is very distressing because we can't even tell them to leave home and seek shelter elsewhere." A colonial era law banning gay sex was scrapped in 2018 and transgender Indians were legally recognised four years before that. But outside of big cities LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer or questioning) people still face widespread discrimination and violence. The lockdown that began in March brought misery to millions, destroying migrant workers' livelihoods and driving many deeper into poverty. The restrictions also left LGBTQ Indians already living on the margins vulnerable to further abuse, often at the hands of their own families. As a transgender woman, Anjali Siroya saw going to work and seeing friends as a lifeline, away from the hostile environment of the Mumbai tenement flat she shares with her parents and brother. "They don't beat me anymore after I tried to run away once... but being with them 24/7 is still very traumatic," the 21-year-old told AFP. "They insist on using the male pronoun to refer to me even though I have never wanted to hide my identity," she said. As the pressure at home has grown, she has taken to Instagram to celebrate her gender identity with glamorous photographs of herself -- shot before the lockdown -- and vocal posts about the fight for equality. "I miss dressing up, putting on lipstick and earrings, and posing for selfies," she said. "I know this might sound silly to some people but it was a way for me to express myself." As LGBTQ Indians have increasingly turned to social media and online communities for support, many have also expressed a mounting urge to come out to their families. A bisexual sociology student in Delhi, Seema -- not her real name -- told AFP that life under lockdown felt "lonely and claustrophobic".  "Everything I say about girls needs to be said in code," she said, describing how she hides her phone from her mother and grandparents to avoid being accidentally outed. With no room of her own, she said in an emailed interview that she was unable even to speak privately on the phone, forcing her into a life of constant subterfuge. "I feel compelled to come out on some days," she said as she spoke of not being able to share her dreams of love and marriage with her family. But she feared that any such move would prompt her family to monitor her movements and further limit her freedom. "I just want to say 'My wife and I'... instead of hesitating and always being scared that it'll slip out by mistake," she added. LGBTQ activists have largely advised members of the community to do nothing until life returns to normal. "As an out and proud trans person, I would never tell another person not to live their truth," said Jo, digital editor for online forum Gaysi, who goes by one name. "But right now, it is simply too dangerous to come out of the closet."  Even those who took the leap and found some acceptance say the aftermath has been complicated and stressful. "I never expected to tell my father I am bisexual, it was nice seeing him react well to it," Tina -- not her real name -- told AFP. But as the lockdown wore on, subsequent interactions revealed that her father was "not entirely comfortable", the 25-year-old artist said. "Earlier, I didn't spend much time thinking about how my parents would respond, now every possibility has become more real," she said. "I don't know how my mum will react if she knows. I don't think she will ask me to leave home but I am not 100 percent sure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-lonely-and-dangerous-coronavirus-lockdown-for-lgbtq-indians-852303.html
22-06-2020||National||New coronairus hotspots are emerging in rural villages across India||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Abhijit Roy Chowdhury Home to nearly 70% of India’s 1.3 billion population, the nation’s villages have little access to health care and are struggling to support themselves through the country’s prolonged economic slowdown. Initially isolated from the epidemic that has swamped the capital New Delhi and financial centre Mumbai, rural areas were exposed when millions of migrant workers who lost their jobs in the cities when the government implemented a strict nationwide lockdown on March 25 went home. The states of Bihar, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh received the most number of returning labourers -- now they are also witnessing the sharpest rise in new cases in the two weeks to June 8, according to internal government estimates seen by Bloomberg. In the rural districts of Rajasthan and Karnataka, the virus is also spreading rapidly, it showed. Infections have now spread to 98 of the country’s 112 poorest rural districts, up from 34 on April 15, according to the report from NITI Aayog, the government’s planning body. Nearly 2,250 new cases were added in those districts. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration runs the risk of a burgeoning death toll if the pandemic’s spread is not checked in rural India, where under-funded health care infrastructure and poor living conditions provide fertile ground for the virus. India is already the world’s fourth most affected country, and an exponential rise in cases in the villages could catapult it higher. With the crisis pushing the economy toward its first full-year contraction in more than four decades, the likelihood of increasing social unrest continues to grow. The Prime Minister’s Office didn’t respond to an email seeking comment for this story.  ‘Living in Fear’ In the agricultural Ganjam district in Odisha, the Choudhari Tikarapada village of 5,000 people was coronavirus free till the end of May. That all changed when about 200 laborers returned home to the area after they lost their jobs in the states of Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu during the lockdown. They were quarantined for seven days before entering the village. Soon after 13 were found Covid-19 positive, prompting the administration to declare it a containment zone, stopping any movement of people. “If tests are conducted in my village then more infected persons will be found,” said villager Sadananda Sahu, adding it is impossible to maintain social distancing and hygiene in his area. “We are living in fear.” Districts like Ganjam are among India’s poorest and have a skeletal health infrastructure, with most villagers accessing hospitals in nearby cities. Indis spent just 3.7% of gross domestic product on health care in 2016, putting it in the bottom 25 countries globally, according to the most recent World Bank data, leaving hospitals at risk of becoming quickly overwhelmed with virus cases. All 33 rural districts in Rajasthan have also been affected, after more than 1.1 million labourers from cities including Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad came home in May, said Raghu Sharma, the desert state’s health minister. “They came to their villages from highly infected places,” said Sharma. “Thus it spread in the villages of Rajasthan.” The state has set up quarantine facilities in each village, deployed senior-level officials to monitor them and formed village panels to check people’s movement, Sharma said. The state has enough isolation beds, ICU rooms, and personal protective equipment to deal with the situation and was ramping up testing capacity to 40,000 per day from current 25,250 over the next two weeks, he said. Low Testing “Rural death rates for nearly all infectious conditions are considerably higher than in urban areas,” said Prabhat Jha, professor at the University of Toronto, citing a study. He called on the government to release all de-identified data on positive tests so epidemiologists can better understand how the virus is travelling through India. “Had the lockdown been a true lockdown, with workers not being kicked out of their urban places of residence, the problem would not have spread,” Jha said.  India’s low testing rates over the last two months have added to the uncertainty. India had tested more than 6.8 million samples as of June 20, according to the Indian Council for Medical Research. The country has so far reported more than 410,000 infections and nearly 13,300 deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The eastern state of Jharkhand has about 1,500 confirmed cases. Just 117 are from urban centres, while the rest are from rural areas, which witnessed a surge following the arrival of people from outside the state, said Nitin Kulkarni, secretary of the health department. The authorities have worked to stop the spread by isolating infected people at quarantine centres, Kulkarni said on June 11. About 5.7 million migrants have been shifted to various destinations across the country by special trains and a further 4.1 million by road transport, according to a government filing in the country’s top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-coronairus-hotspots-are-emerging-in-rural-villages-across-india-852317.html
22-06-2020||National||India-China border tension: PM Narendra Modi must be mindful of implications of his words, says Manmohan Singh||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be “mindful of the implication of his words” as a controversy raged over his “no intrusion” remark about the violent face-off with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley. Singh’s remarks evoked a strong riposte from BJP President J P Nadda, who reminded the former prime minister that he belonged to the Congress party that had “helplessly surrendered” 43,000 sq km of Indian territory to the Chinese. “The Prime Minister must always be mindful of the implications of his words and declarations on our Nation’s security as also strategic and territorial interests,” Singh said in a statement here as Chinese media welcomed Modi’s ‘no intrusion’  remarks contending that it may lead to a de-escalation of tensions between China and India. Congress has been maintaining that Modi’s assertions at Friday’s all-party meeting that neither was there any intrusion nor was any Indian post captured ran counter to the statements made by the Indian Army and the External Affairs Ministry.  Singh said the prime minister cannot allow his words to be used by China as a vindication of its position and all organs of the government should work together to tackle this crisis and prevent it from escalating further. “We remind the Government that disinformation is no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership. The truth cannot be suppressed by having pliant allies spout comforting but false statements,” the former prime minister said. Singh said the prime minister and the government should rise to the occasion to ensure justice for Colonel B Santosh and the army jawans who made the supreme sacrifice and resolutely defended the nation’s territorial integrity. “To do any less would be a historic betrayal of the people’s faith,” the former prime minister said. “At this moment, we stand at historic crossroads. Our Government’s decisions and actions will have serious bearings on how the future generations perceive us,” Singh said. BJP President J P Nadda criticised Singh’s statement and accused the Congress of repeatedly insulting the security forces and questioning their valour. “Dear Dr. Singh and Congress Party, Please stop insulting our forces repeatedly, questioning their valour. You did this post the air strikes and surgical strikes. Please understand the meaning of national unity, especially in these times. It is never too late to improve,” Nadda said. Nadda also reminded Singh that he belonged to the Congress party that had “helplessly surrendered” 43,000 sq km of Indian territory to the Chinese. Congress has been maintaining that Modi’s assertions at Friday’s all party meeting that neither was there any intrusion nor was any Indian post captured ran counter to the statements made by the Indian Army and the External Affairs Ministry. Singh said the Prime Minister cannot allow his words to be used by China as a vindication of its position and all organs of the Government should work together to tackle this crisis and prevent it from escalating further. Singh said the prime minister and the government should rise to the occasion to ensure justice for Col, B Santosh and the army jawans who made the supreme sacrifice and resolutely defended the nation’s territorial integrity. “To do any less would be a historic betrayal of the people’s faith,” the former prime minister said. Singh said China was brazenly and illegally seeking to claim parts of Indian territory such as the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Tso Lake by committing multiple incursions between April 2020 till date.   “We cannot and will not be cowed down by threats and intimidation nor permit a compromise with our territorial integrity,” said Singh.  The former prime minister said this was a moment where “we must stand together as a nation and be united in our response to this brazen threat.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-tension-pm-narendra-modi-must-be-mindful-of-implications-of-his-words-says-manmohan-singh-852322.html
22-06-2020||National||Army jawan killed as Pakistani troops shell forward areas along Line of Control, International Border in Jammu and Kashmir||An Army jawan was killed on Monday as Pakistani troops opened fire and lobbed mortar shells at forwarding areas along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The heavy Pakistani firing and shelling were reported along the LoC in Poonch district's Krishna Ghati sector and Rajouri's Nowshera sector, and along the IB in Kathua district, the officials said. An Army jawan, guarding a forward post, was critically injured after being hit by cross-border shelling in the Nowshera sector, they said, adding that he succumbed to his injuries later. He is the fourth Army personnel to be killed in Pakistani firing along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch this month. Two soldiers were killed in Pakistani firing in Rajouri district on June 4 and 10, while another soldier fell to cross-border firing in Poonch on June 14. There has been a spurt in Pakistani shelling along the border in Jammu and Kashmir this year with over 2,027 cases of violation of a ceasefire agreement being reported till June 10. Earlier, a defense spokesman said, "At about 0330 hours today, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing of small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Krishnagati Sector in Poonch district," a defense spokesman said. "Again at about 0530 hours Pak Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation in Nowshera sector, district Rajouri," he said. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he said. Along the International Border, Pakistani Rangers engaged in heavy firing on forwarding posts and villages in the Karol Matrai area of the Hiranagar sector in Kathua district, an official said. He said the unprovoked firing from Pakistan started around 1 am and the Border Security Force (BSF) gave a befitting retaliation. The exchange of fire between the two sides continued till 3.50 am, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-jawan-killed-as-pakistani-troops-shell-forward-areas-along-line-of-control-international-border-in-jammu-and-kashmir-852324.html
22-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 tally 4,25,282 with 14,821 fresh cases, death toll rises to 13,699||India on Monday added 14,821 new COVID-19 cases pushing the infection tally to 4,25,282, while the death toll rose to 13,699 with 445 new fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data. The country registered over 10,000 cases for the 11th day in a row. The number of recoveries also continued to surge with 2,37,195 patients cured so far, while there were 1,74,387 active cases, according to the updated official figures at 8 am. One patient has migrated.  In the last 24 hours, a total of 9,440 COVID-19 patients have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 55.77 per cent, officials said. Of the 445 fresh fatalities reported till Monday morning, 186 were from Maharashtra, 63 from Delhi, 53 from Tamil Nadu, 43 from Uttar Pradesh, 25 from Gujarat, 15 from West Bengal, 14 from Madhya Pradesh, 12 from Rajasthan, 11 from Haryana, seven from Telangana, five each from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, two from Odisha, one each from Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Puducherry and Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-425282-with-14821-fresh-cases-death-toll-rises-to-13699-852325.html
22-06-2020||National||57 girls at Uttar Pradesh children's shelter home test COVID-19 positive, 5 of them pregnant||Fifty-seven girls at a state-run children's shelter home in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district have tested positive for COVID-19, with five of them found to be pregnant, an administration official said on Sunday. Two other girls in the shelter home, who are also pregnant, have tested negative for the virus, he said. "The five pregnant girls, who have been found COVID-19 positive, were referred by the Child Welfare Committees of Agra, Etah, Kannauj, Firozabad and Kanpur under the POCSO Act. Two other pregnant girls have tested negative for COVID-19. The seven girls were pregnant at the time when they came to the shelter home," Kanpur DM Brahma Dev Ram Tiwari told reporters. The district magistrate added that two girls are undergoing treatment at LLR Hospital in Kanpur, while three others are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.In a Facebook post, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the media reports about the girls being found pregnant at the shelter home. "The entire story of the Muzaffarpur shelter home case is in front of the country. Such a case had also come to light in Deoria in UP," Priyanka Gandhi said. In this scenario, such an incident again coming out shows that everything is suppressed in the name of investigations, but very inhuman incidents are taking place in government child protection homes, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/57-girls-at-uttar-pradesh-childrens-shelter-home-test-covid-19-positive-5-of-them-pregnant-852326.html
22-06-2020||National||Yoga does not discriminate: PM Narendra Modi||Amid a stand-off with China over the boundary issue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said practicing yoga helped achieve emotional stability to confidently negotiate challenges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-does-not-discriminate-pm-narendra-modi-852329.html
22-06-2020||National||Encounter underway in J&K's Anantnag||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Kapran forest area of Anantnag in South Kashmir this morning after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon the search party of the forces, who retaliated. The exchange of fire is going on and further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/encounter-underway-in-jks-anantnag-852337.html
22-06-2020||National||Centre moves SC, seeks nod for Puri Rath Yatra without public participation||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that Lord Jagannath's Rath Yatra in Puri can be allowed to be held this year without public participation in view of the coronavirus pandemic, saying the "tradition of centuries may not be stopped". The Odisha government also supported the Centre’s stand in the apex court, which is likely to hear the plea seeking modification of its June 18 order staying this year’s Puri Rath Yatra due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "It is a matter of faith for crores. If Lord Jagannath will not come out tomorrow, he cannot come out for 12 years as per traditions," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who mentioned the matter before a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, said. Mehta said that besides maintaining precautions, the state government can impose curfew for a day. "All 'sebayats' and 'pandas' who have tested negative (for COVID-19) can participate in rituals as may be decided by HH Shri Shankaracharya. People may not congregate and seek blessings on TV during live telecast. Raja of Puri and the temple committee may supervise arrangements of these rituals," Mehta told the bench. The Puri Rath Yatra, which is attended by lakhs of people from across the world, is scheduled from June 23. The apex court had on June 18 said that in the interest of public health and safety of citizens, this year's Puri Rath Yatra cannot be allowed and that "Lord Jagannath won't forgive us if we allow" it. A day after the order was passed, some applications were filed in the top court seeking recall and modification of its order. The modification applications filed earlier are already listed today before a single judge bench of Justice S Ravindra Bhat.  These applications, including the one filed by 'Jagannath Sanskruti Jana Jagarana Manch', have urged the court to allow the Rath Yatra. While the Rath Yatra festival, held over 10-12 days with lakhs of people participating, was scheduled for June 23, the 'Bahuda Jatra' (return car festival) was fixed for July 1. Three heavily-built wooden chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra are traditionally pulled by thousands of devotees over a distance of three kilometres twice during the nine-day festival of the Trinity at Puri. The application filed by 'Jagannath Sanskruti Jana Jagarana Manch' has sought modification of the June 18 order, saying the festival is deeply associated with the religious beliefs of millions of devotees of Lord Jagannath and it is "not impossible and impracticable" for the state and district administration to conduct the yatra by maintaining social distancing and following the Centre's guidelines. Besides this, a separate application seeking modification of the June 18 order has been filed by one Aftab Hossen, who has said that "as per the ritual of Lord Jagannath, the Rath Yatra is performed every year and if one year it is not performed, same cannot be performed for the next 12 years". Hossen, while urging the apex court to modify its order and allow the Rath Yatra, has said in his application that restraining the Rath Yatra this year would practically mean restraining it for the next 12 years and this could create "great repercussion and chaos" in the Lord Jagannath culture and rituals. In its separate application, the 'Jagannath Sanskruti Jana Jagarana Manch' has said that as per the earlier direction of the Orissa High Court as well as decision of the state government, 372 people were engaged in the construction of three raths/chariots for more than one-and-half months and all were isolated, tested and found COVID-19 negative. The top court's June 18 order had came on a PIL filed by an Odisha-based NGO seeking cancellation or postponement of this year's yatra. Two pleas were filed in the apex court seeking cancellation or postponement of the historic yatra. Besides the PIL filed by NGO 'Odisha Vikas Parishad', seeking stay on holding of the annual festival, an appeal has been filed by one Surendra Panigrahi of 'Bhartiya Bikash Parishad' against the Orissa High Court order of June 9, which had asked the state government to decide on holding the yatra in line with the COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-sc-seeks-nod-for-puri-rath-yatra-without-public-participation-852346.html
22-06-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves for 3-day visit to Russia||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday left for a three-day visit to Russia during which he will hold talks with top Russian military brass and attend a grand military parade in Moscow to mark the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Germany in the Second World War. It is the first visit abroad by a senior union minister in four months as foreign travels were restricted in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The last foreign trip abroad by a senior member of the union cabinet was by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman when she visited Riyadh from Feb 22-24 to attend a meeting of G-20 finance ministers. Days before Sitharaman's trip, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar visited Germany from February 18 to 19. The defence minister's visit to Russia comes in the midst of an escalating border standoff between India and China, particularly after the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on June 15. "Leaving for Moscow on a three day visit. The visit to Russia will give me an opportunity to hold talks on ways to further deepen the India-Russia defence and strategic partnership. I shall also be attending the 75th Victory Day Parade in Moscow," Singh tweeted before leaving for Moscow. Officials said Singh went ahead with the visit, notwithstanding the border row with China, due to India's decades-old military ties with Russia. They said the defence minister is likely to hold a series of meetings with top military brass of Russia with a focus on further ramping up military cooperation between the two countries. A tri-service 75-member Indian military contingent has already reached Moscow to participate in the parade. The Indian team will participate in the parade alongside armed forces personnel from at least 11 countries, including China. "The visit of the defence minister will strengthen the longstanding special and privileged strategic partnership between India and Russia," the defence ministry said on Saturday. "The Indian participation in the Victory Day parade will be a mark of tribute to the great sacrifices made by Russia and other nations in the Second World War in which Indian soldiers also participated and made supreme sacrifice," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-leaves-for-3-day-visit-to-russia-852354.html
22-06-2020||National||Goa reports first COVID-19 death; 85-yr-old man succumbs||An 85-year-old man succumbed to the coronavirus infection in Goa on Monday, making it the first case of death due to the disease in the state, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. While Rane earlier said the deceased was a woman, he later clarified in his tweet that the victim was a man. The victim, belonging to Morlem village in Sattari taluka of North Goa district, was undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital, a designated facility for COVID-19 patients, Rane said. "Deeply saddened to inform that an 85-year-old man, from Morlem in Sattari, who had tested positive has succumbed to #COVID-19. My heartfelt condolence to the family. This is the first COVID-19 death reported in the state, Rane tweeted. We assure the people that our team is doing everything to keep our people safe and are following the strictest measures that are in place. This is an unfortunate incident and I stand with the family in their time of grief," he said in another tweet.  The state government has already declared Morlem village, which falls under Valpoi, the Assembly constituency of Rane, as a COVID-19 containment zone. The victim, who was bed-ridden for four years, was taken to the Goa Medical College and Hospital near here on Saturday from his home in Morlem after he complained of breathlessness, a health department official said. He was later shifted to the ESI Hospital, the official added. Till Sunday, Goa reported 818 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 683 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-reports-first-covid-19-death-85-yr-old-man-succumbs-852360.html
22-06-2020||National||HM Amit Shah speaks to Mizoram CM after earthquake||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday spoke to Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga and took stock of the situation in the northeastern state after it was jolted by an earthquake. The home minister also assured the chief minister of all possible help from the central government to deal with the situation. "I have spoken to Shri @ZoramthangaCM ji, Chief Minister of Mizoram, to review the situation after the earthquake tremors in the state. I assured him of all possible support from the central government. Praying for everyone's safety and well-being," Shah tweeted. The earthquake occurred at 4.10 am and the epicentre was at Zokhawthar in Champhai district on the India-Myanmar border. The tremors were felt in several parts of the state, including state capital Aizawl, a state official said. Several houses and buildings in Champhai district have been partly damaged due to the quake, he said. The quake also caused cracks on highways and roads at several places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hm-amit-shah-speaks-to-mizoram-cm-after-earthquake-852361.html
22-06-2020||National||Stop insulting our forces: BJP hits back at Manmohan Singh||In a scathing counter-attack on Manmohan Singh, BJP president J P Nadda said on Monday that he as prime minister "abjectly surrendered" hundreds of square kilometres of India's land to China and presided over 600 incursions made by the neighbouring country between 2010 and 2013. In a series of tweets after Singh took aim at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his handling of the ongoing stand-off with China, Nadda said the senior Congress leader and his party should stop "insulting" our forces repeatedly and questioning their valour. They did this post the airstrikes and surgical strikes, the BJP president said, asking the Congress to understand the true meaning of national unity, especially in such times. "Dr Manmohan Singh belongs to the same party which: Helplessly surrendered over 43,000 KM of Indian territory to the Chinese! During the UPA years saw abject strategic and territorial surrender without a fight. Time and again belittles our forces. "One only wishes that Dr. Singh was as worried about Chinese designs when, as PM, he abjectly surrendered hundreds of square kilometres of India’s land to China. He presided over 600 incursions made by China between 2010 to 2013!" Nadda tweeted. In his first remarks on the Ladakh face-off, the former prime minister said Modi must be mindful of the implications of his words and cannot allow China to use them as a vindication of its position. Noting that disinformation is no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership, Singh called upon the prime minister to ensure justice for soldiers who died defending India's territorial integrity. Hitting back, Nadda said Singh’s statement is mere "wordplay". Sadly, the conduct and actions of top leaders of the Congress party will not make any Indian believe such statements, he added. Remember, this is the same Congress that always questions and demoralises our armed forces, he said. "India fully trusts and supports PM Narendra Modi. 130 crore Indians have seen his administrative experience in some of the most testing times, particularly how he has always put the well-being of the nation over and above everything else," he said. Nadda said Singh rightly calls for unity. He then added that these strong words on paper fall flat when people see exactly who is vitiating the atmosphere of unity. 'Hope Dr. Singh is able to prevail on his own party at least," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-insulting-our-forces-bjp-hits-back-at-manmohan-singh-852371.html
22-06-2020||National||India 'fast moving' economy, progressively taking steps to deepen trade ties: Aus minister||Describing India as a "complex market" but a "very fast moving economy", Australian trade minister Simon Birmingham has said that the government is progressively implementing the recommendations of a report to further deepen its trade and investment relations with New Delhi. India is Australia's eighth-largest trading partner and fifth-largest export market, with two-way goods and services trade valued at 30.3 billion Australian dollars in 2018-19. In a recent interview to a television news channel, Birmingham said, "India is a complex market". However, it is a "very fast moving economy" with "lots of different pieces with lots of different states". "And that's why we commissioned an India Economic Strategy that has many recommendations to it, and we're getting on and we're progressively implementing those recommendations so that we can deepen our ties in areas like education, build new opportunities in areas such as agriculture," he told the Sky News. Birmingham said the government is also pursuing to strenghten its trade ties with India in the resources sector. "Pursue -- especially in the resources sector -- not just the sale of critical minerals and rare earths to India but also, increasingly, mining and engineering services going into India using Australian skills and Australian knowhow as part of the business operation there with India," he said. The India Economic Strategy, released in 2018, is an ambitious plan to transform Australia's economic partnership with India out to 2035. It aims at bringing India into the inner circle of Australia's strategic partnerships and make the country the third largest destination in Asia for Australian outward investment. It aims at making India the third largest export market of Australia. The report contains 90 recommendations for Australia to reach the 2035 targets. It also highlights 10 sectors where Australia has competitive advantages with education as a flagship sector, three lead sectors that are agribusiness, resources and tourism and six promising sectors which are energy, health, financial services, infrastructure, sport, science and innovation. The report identifies 10 states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab, the National Capital Region of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh -- for expanding the opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-fast-moving-economy-progressively-taking-steps-to-deepen-trade-ties-aus-minister-852373.html
22-06-2020||National||Railways' isolation coaches: 59 suspected COVID-19 cases admitted in UP's Mau since Jun 20||The coronavirus isolation wards set up by the railways have found their first set of patients, with 59 suspected COVID-positive people being admitted at the Mau station in Uttar Pradesh since June 20, officials said on Monday. Eight of them have already been discharged, they said, adding that as of now, 51 suspected coronavirus patients are admitted in these non-air-conditioned coaches of the railways that have been modified into isolation wards. On June 20, 42 patients were admitted to the isolation ward at Mau, while 17 were taken in on June 21. As of now, the national transporter has deployed a total of 960 "COVID Care" coaches in five states -- Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, and Andhra Pradesh. In Uttar Pradesh, as many as 372 such coaches have been stationed at 23 locations -- Lucknow, Varanasi, Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction, Agra, Bhadohi, Kanpur, Saharanpur, Faizabad, Mirzapur, Jhansi, Jhansi Workshop, Nakha Jungle, Subedarganj, Gonda, Bhatni, Nautanwa, Bahraich, Manduadih, Farrukhabad, Varanasi City, Mau, Bareilly City and Kasganj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-isolation-coaches-59-suspected-covid-19-cases-admitted-in-ups-mau-since-jun-20-852378.html
22-06-2020||National||HC gives day’s time to police for instruction on Zargar's bail plea in UAPA case||The Delhi Police Monday urged the Delhi High Court to grant them a day’s more time for seeking instructions on a plea by Jamia student Safoora Zargar, who was pregnant and arrested under the anti-terror law --UAPA--, seeking bail in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Justice Rajiv Shakdher, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, allowed the request after Zargar’s counsel said she has no objection to it and listed the matter for Tuesday. Zargar, M Phil student of Jamia Millia Islamia University, is more than four months pregnant. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Delhi Police, sought a day’s time to take instructions on the issue and said it will be in “larger interest” if he is given indulgence. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi also joined Mehta and said they are ready with the arguments on merits of the case but they do not intend to proceed on merits at this stage. Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, appearing for Zargar, said the woman is in a delicate state and is in a fairly advanced stage pregnancy and if the police need time to respond to the plea, she be granted interim bail for the time being. The high court asked Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta to come back with instructions on Tuesday. The police has also filed a status report in response to the bail plea. Jamia Coordination Committee member Zargar, who was arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police on April 10, has challenged in the high court the June 4 order of the trial court denying her bail in the case. The hearing in the high court also witnessed exchange of words between Mehta, Lekhi on one side and Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra who objected the appearance of the two senior law officers on behalf of Delhi Police in the case. Mehra contended that unlike another North East Delhi violence matter in which requisite approval was sought by the Delhi Police to be represented by a team of lawyers led by the Solicitor General, no such procedure was followed in this case. "They know that my view in such cases will be more humanitarian and not as per their whims and fancies. I am not supposed to be the mouth piece of the Delhi Police, I am an officer of the court," he said. Lekhi shot back "a client chooses the lawyer and a lawyer cannot impose himself on the client. He said this controversy would deviate the court from the issue in hand and Mehra's objection can be kept aside in this case. The high court concluded the hearing, asking the counsel for Delhi Police to sort out their battles by tomorrow.  The trial court, in its order, had said “when you choose to play with embers, you cannot blame the wind to have carried the spark a bit too far and spread the fire.” It had said that during the course of investigation a larger conspiracy was discernible and if there was prima facie evidence of conspiracy, acts and statements made by any one of the conspirators, it is admissible against all. The trial court had said that even if there was no direct act of violence attributable to the accused (Zargar), she cannot shy away from her liability under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). However, the trial court had asked the concerned jail superintendent to provide adequate medical aid and the assistance to Zargar. The police had earlier claimed that Zargar allegedly blocked a road near Jaffrabad metro station during the anti-CAA protests and instigated people that led to the riots in the area. It further claimed that she was allegedly part of the “premediated conspiracy” to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-gives-day-s-time-to-police-for-instruction-on-zargars-bail-plea-in-uapa-case-852384.html
22-06-2020||National||CPM leaders accused of being silent against China||The Congress, BJP and other anti-CPM groups in Kerala have alleged that the CPM was not condemning China's attacks along the borders owing to their affinity to Communist China. A controversial speech of CPM Kerala state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in 2018 praising China is now doing the rounds in the social media. Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress and BJP state president K Surendran slammed the CPM's stand on the matter. While Chennithala flayed that even as Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the death of soldiers, he did not condemn China's action, BJP state president said that CPM's reluctance to flay China's actions against India was not surprising. Anti-CPM cadres in Kerala are attacking the CPM on social media platforms. Many alleged that CPM's official statements on the killing of soldiers in the borders did not utter a word against China. Some even mocked that the CPM was pinning hopes of coming to power in India with China's help. Speeches of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in 2018 praising China was also being widely circulated in the social media now by anti-CPM cadres. Apart from praising China, Kodiyeri had said that an axis of countries like US, Japan, Australia and India was taking shape for attacking China from all sides.  CPM leaders were yet to come out with any reactions to the allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpm-leaders-accused-of-being-silent-against-china-852417.html
22-06-2020||National||Now, Nepal stops Bihar from taking flood control measures||The strained relation between India and Nepal is having its cascading effect in Bihar where several hundred kilometres of area are likely to be submerged this monsoon if the Himalayan Kingdom remains adamant on not allowing fortification of embankment on the Nepal-Bihar border. According to sources in the Water Resources Department, Nepal has stopped fortification of the 2.5 km-long embankment on Lal Bakey river in Dhaka block of East Champaran district in Bihar, claiming the 500 metres of the embankment fall in the Nepalese territory. Lal Bakey river originates from Nepal but flows downstream in Bihar.  The Water Resources Department of Bihar has built the embankment (till the last point sharing with Nepal) and before every monsoon, carries out repair and fortification work. However, Nepal has now stopped the Bihar officials from carrying out flood control measures saying “500 metres of the 2.5 km-long embankment fall in Nepal, and, therefore, no such work could be carried out by them (Bihar engineers).” “This is the first time that Nepal has taken such stand (of not allowing repair work),” said Bihar’s Water Resources Department Minister, Sanjay Jha. “If our engineers will not have access to flood fighting material there, then repair work of the embankment will be affected. During heavy rainfall in the Himalayan Kingdom, the pressure on the embankment will increase manifold and may pose threat to Bihar areas,” Jha added. The minister said he is going to apprise the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) about the standoff. “I will write a letter in this regard to the MEA. If the issue is not addressed on time, then a large tract of land in Bihar could be flooded this rainy season,” said Jha. This is the second occasion in the last fortnight when ties between Nepal and Bihar have been strained. On June 12, one Indian was killed while three others injured when Nepalese police reportedly opened fire at Sitamarhi-Nepal border. Tension between the two countries have been brewing ever since Nepal released a new map claiming Indian territories within the Himalayan Kingdom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-nepal-stops-bihar-from-taking-flood-control-measures-852422.html
22-06-2020||National||SC allows Jagannath Rath Yatra with curfew and no public participation||Days after staying the Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on Monday modified its June 18 order and allowed the Yatra to go ahead with restrictions. The court ordered that there would be curfew in Puri from 8 pm on Monday and all entry points to the city would be closed and the general public would not be allowed to participate in the 10-day event. It also directed the Odisha government and the temple administration to adhere to the safety guidelines relating to the pandemic. It said not more than 500 people, including officials and police personnel, who have been tested negative of COVID-19, would be allowed to pull the chariot. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and A S Bopanna lifted its stay after hearing a batch of applications filed by Gajapati Maharaj of Puri, the Chairman of the Puri Jagannath Temple Administration, and social worker Aftab Hussein and BJP leader Sambit Patra and others for allowing the Yatra "in a limited way without public attendance". "The primary responsibility for conducting the Rath Yatra in accordance with the conditions and other norms shall be that of the Committee in-charge of Puri Jagannath Temple Administration. Each member of the Committee shall be responsible for due compliance with the conditions," the bench ordered.  The court noted that Odisha has a good record of having controlled the pandemic with a very little loss of life.  "We see no reason why the same attitude of care and caution should not be applied to the Rath Yatra," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, said the tradition of centuries should not be stopped as it was a matter of faith for crores of people. "If Lord Jagannath will not come out tomorrow, he cannot come out for 12 years as per tradition," he said.     The court accepted Mehta's plea saying that the state government can impose curfew for a day apart from maintaining precautions to ensure that the pandemic does not spread. It also agreed to another suggestion by Mehta that people may not congregate and seek blessings on TV during the live telecast.  Appearing for the Odisha government, senior advocate Harish Salve agreed to the suggestion. He said such yatras should not be allowed anywhere else except in Puri. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for NGO Odisha Vikas Parishad, on whose plea stay was granted earlier, said only a minimum number of people should be allowed to pull the chariot and participate in the event. On June 18, the court had said Lord Jagannath would not forgive it if the Yatra was allowed to continue due to the COVID-19 pandemic. On Monday, the bench said, "In the 18th-19th century, a yatra of this kind was responsible for the spread of cholera and plague “like wild fire”. We say this in order to remind the authorities concerned that the situation can become dangerous if the rules of caution are ignored".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-jagannath-rath-yatra-with-curfew-and-no-public-participation-852427.html
22-06-2020||National||India fighting two wars against China, on border and against coronavirus: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the country is fighting two wars against China--one against coronavirus that has come from the neighbouring country and the other on the border. He said there should be no politics by anyone in fighting these two wars. Kejriwal’s remarks come amid criticism of the Centre by the Congress over the situation in eastern Ladakh. Addressing an online media briefing, the Delhi chief minister said, "Twenty of our brave soldiers did not back down, we will also not retreat and win both wars against China." Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops on June 15 in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley. "Today, the country is fighting two wars against China - one against the virus that has come from China and the other on the border," Kejriwal said during the briefing. On one hand, all doctors and nurses of the country are fighting COVID-19, and on the other hand, soldiers are fighting wars on the border, he said. "The entire country is standing with doctors and soldiers. We all have to fight these two wars together and there should be no politics and groupism in this," the AAP supremo asserted. Earlier in the day, senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must be mindful of the implications of his words and cannot allow China to use them as a vindication of its position. Noting that disinformation is no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership, the former PM called upon Modi to ensure justice for soldiers who died defending India's territorial integrity. Meanwhile, the country recorded 14,821 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, pushing the infection tally to 4,25,282, while the death toll rose to 13,699 with 445 new fatalities, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-fighting-two-wars-against-china-on-border-and-against-coronavirus-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-852430.html
22-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 cases per lakh population among lowest in world: Health Ministry||India's COVID-19 cases per lakh people is one of the lowest in the world despite its high population density, and the recovery rate has now reached almost 56 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. For every one lakh population, there are 30.04 coronavirus cases in India, while the global average is over three times at 114.67, the ministry said, referring to the WHO Situation Report 153, dated June 21. “This low figure is thus a testimony to the graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach the Government of India along with the states and UTs took for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19," the ministry said in a statement. Citing the WHO Situation Report, the ministry said the US has 671.24 cases per lakh population, while Germany, Spain, Brazil and the UK have 583.88, 526.22, 489.42 and 448.86 cases per lakh population, respectively. It said Russia has 400.82 cases per lakh people, while Italy, Canada, Iran and Turkey have 393.52, 268.98, 242.82 and 223.53, respectively. Coming back to India, as on Monday morning, the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 4,25,282 and the death toll at 13,699, according to figures issued by the ministry. In its update issued at 8 AM Monday, the ministry said 9,440 COVID-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,37,195, a recovery rate of 55.77 per cent. Presently, there are 1,74,387 active cases and all are under medical supervision, it said. "The difference between the recovered patients and the active COVID-19 cases continues to widen. Today, the number of recovered patients has crossed the number of active patients by 62,808," the ministry said. The COVID-19 testing infrastructure is continuously being ramped up and number of government labs has been increased to 723 and the private labs to 262, adding up to a total of 985, it said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a total of 69,50,493 samples have been tested up to 21 June, 1,43,267 of them just on Sunday. On Monday, the country added 14,821 new COVID-19 cases in a single day, pushing the tally to 4,25,282, while the death toll rose to 13,699 with 445 new fatalities reported till 8 am. The country breached the four lakh-mark on Sunday, eight days after crossing three lakh COVID-19 cases. It has recorded 2,34,747 infections since June 1. Monday was the 11th day in a row when the country registered over 10,000 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-per-lakh-population-among-lowest-in-world-health-ministry-852434.html
22-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Lockdown in parts of Bengaluru; Manmohan Singh hits out at PM Modi and JP Nadda||From the Newsroom, in today's episode, the Karnataka government has imposed lockdown in four areas namely K R Market, Chamarajpet, Kalasipalya and Chickpet, Former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh has said that PM Narendra Modi must be mindful of the implications of his words, BJP president  J P Nadda counters Dr Manmohan Singh, Mizoram hit by an earthquake of 5.3 magnitudes and The price of Petrol hiked by 33 paise per litre and diesel by 58 paise.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-lockdown-in-parts-of-bengaluru-manmohan-singh-hits-out-at-pm-modi-and-jp-nadda-852437.html
22-06-2020||National||Entire nation delighted over Supreme Court's decision on Jagannath Rath Yatra: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said the entire country is delighted over the Supreme Court decision on Jagannath Rath Yatra in Puri and stressed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the initiative for consultations which ensured that the "great traditions of our land are observed". In a series of tweets, Shah said that last evening, as per the instructions of the prime minister, "he spoke to Gajapati Maharaj (The King of Puri) and the respected Shankaracharya of Puri and sought their views on the Rath Yatra". Shah said this morning, on the prime minister's instructions, he spoke to the Solicitor General. "Today is a special day for all of us, particularly our Odia sisters and brothers as well as devotees of Mahaprabhu Shri Jagannath Ji. The entire nation is delighted by the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court to ensure the Rath Yatra goes on," he said. The home minister said he as well as crores of devotees across India were happy that the Prime Minister "not only understood the sentiment of the devotees but also initiated consultations which ensured that the great traditions of the country are observed". "Considering the urgency and importance of the matter, it was placed in front of a vacation bench of the Supreme Court and the hearing took place this afternoon, which paved the way for the important decision by the SC. Congratulations to the people of Odisha," he said. The Supreme Court on Monday indicated it would allow Puri's Rath Yatra, scheduled to start from June 23, saying it cannot "micro-manage" the rituals and left it to the wisdom of state, the Centre and temple management to deal with that issue. The apex court had on June 18 said that in the interest of public health and safety of citizens, this year's Puri Rath Yatra cannot be allowed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and that "Lord Jagannath won't forgive us if we allow" it. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde was informed informed by the Centre that Rath Yatra can be conducted without compromising on citizen's health and with co-operation of state and temple trust. The Odisha government too said that it will coordinate with temple management and the Centre to make things smooth during the Rath Yatra. The top court said it is considering the issue of conducting Rath Yatra in Puri only and not at other places in Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/entire-nation-delighted-over-supreme-courts-decision-on-jagannath-rath-yatra-amit-shah-852443.html
22-06-2020||National||15-year-old beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh after his buffalo damages crop||In a shocking incident, a 15-year old boy was allegedly beaten to death after his buffalo damaged the crop of the culprits in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district, about 175 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the reports, the victim, identified as Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Sisaiya village in the district, had taken his buffalo for grazing on Sunday (June 21), when it entered the fields of one Sadhu Singh, who also hailed from the same village. As the buffalo damaged crops in a portion of the field, an enraged Sadhu caught the animal and refused to hand it over to Kuldeep, sources said. As Kuldeep insisted, Sadhu, who was accompanied by his brother Dharmendra and the latter's son Bhupinder, attacked the boy with sticks and bricks. The attackers fled after Kuldeep fell on the ground. He was rushed to the district hospital but was declared brought dead, sources said. Police said that a case was registered against the three accused persons and one of them had been arrested. ''We have launched a hunt to nab the other two,'' a senior police official said in Shahjahanpur. The opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) workers led by their local leaders later staged a dharna before the district police chief's office demanding stern action against the culprits.  Kuldeep's parents said that he had taken the buffalo out for grazing for the first time. ''Usually he would be busy with his studies,'' said his distraught father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-year-old-beaten-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-after-his-buffalo-damages-crop-852445.html
22-06-2020||National||Amit Shah's wife asks CAPFs to use 'swadeshi' products; urges CRPF to take lead||Union Home Minister Amit Shah's wife Sonal Shah on Monday urged Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) personnel and their families to use 'swadeshi' or indigenous products for making the country self-reliant, officials said. Sonal Shah said this while speaking to the families of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the country's largest paramilitary force, through a webinar hosted to mark the 25th silver jubilee of the CRPF Family Welfare Association (CWA). "She called upon the CRPF family to use 'swadeshi' products and encourage others to do so reiterating the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on self-reliance by incremental usage of homemade or 'swadeshi' products," a CRPF spokesperson said. She asked the CWA to take lead and encourage self-help groups under it to seize this time during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic as an opportunity.  "Around 50 lakh family members of 10 lakh personnel of CAPFs would stand to enjoy 'swadeshi' products being sold through their respective canteens across the country," she said. The Union home minister had recently declared that the country-wide network of CAPF canteens will only sell 'swadeshi' goods from June.  Officials said the canteen department is working on the proposal. Sonal Shah, during the event, also paid tributes to the 20 Army soldiers who were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh recently. She also paid respect to all police and security forces personnel who laid down their lives on duty and said the entire country stands with their families, the spokesperson said. Sonal Shah also released a calendar of CWA activities and welfare programmes that will be carried out year long, he said. CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari also joined the session and said the CWA will work for the benefit and welfare of the troops and the society at large.  The about 3.25 lakh personnel strong CRPF is designated as the lead internal security force of the country and works under the command of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shahs-wife-asks-capfs-to-use-swadeshi-products-urges-crpf-to-take-lead-852448.html
22-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Opposition seeks probe into UP shelter home, officials say infected girls were pregnant before admission||As the opposition leaders demanded a high level probe into reports, that seven inmates, five of them coronavirus positive, of a government shelter home in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur town were found to be pregnant, the officials on Monday claimed that the girls were pregnant at the time of their admission to the shelter home. Kanpur district magistrate Bramhadeo Tewari told reporters that in all 57 inmates of the shelter home had been found to be infected with coronavirus. ''Seven girls are pregnant....five of them have tested positive...two are negative,'' he added. One of the pregnant girls was also HIV-positive, sources said. The district police chief also said that these girls (pregnant ones) had been brought to the shelter homes from different parts in the state. ''FIRs are registered in the districts, where they were sexually assaulted,'' he said. The opposition leaders, however, slammed the UP government on the issue and sought a high level probe into the matter.  ''It is shameful....such matters are brushed under the carpet on the pretext of probe....a similar incident had happened in UP's Deoria town also,'' Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said that the guilty must be brought to the book. ''It is a shocking incident,'' he said in a tweet. As many as 57 inmates of the shelter home had tested positive for coronavirus. Their pregnancy came to light at the time of their medical examination at a private medical college hospital in Kanpur on Saturday. The entire building, that housed the shelter home, had been sealed.  The revelation has set off alarm bells in the official circles here and brought back the memories of exploitation of inmates of a women's shelter home in the state's Deoria town, about 325 kilometres from here, around two years back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-opposition-seeks-probe-into-up-shelter-home-officials-say-infected-girls-were-pregnant-before-admission-852451.html
22-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Railways to implement austerity measures, cut down on wasteful expenditure||With revenue to take hit severely due to COVID-19 pandemic, Indian Railways is working on to implement strict austerity measures by cutting down on wasteful expenditure in the organisation including reducing ticket booking counters and reducing cost on staff. Railway Finance Commissioner Manjula Rangarajan in a letter to General Managers of Zones suggested number of measures to cut down the costs including freezing of creating new posts, posts created in the last two years and not filled should be abolished, uneconomic branches should be closed down and reconsider staff re-engaged after retirement. “Review of posts created in the last two years should be done and if recruitment has not been done against those posts, the same may be reviewed for surrendering,” the letter said. “Review and closure of uneconomic branch lines to the extent possible, " she said as part of the government measures to tighten the expenditure. Reduce  passenger reservation system (PRS) counters and redeployment of Enquiry Cum Reservation Clerks due to decrease in the over-the-counter reservation, some of the measures the railways wants to implement. The railways also suggested zonal offices to ensure annual General Manager inspection, a  “silent and low key affair with minimum number of staff required.” " An effort has to be in control activities, works, purchases and all contractual obligations so that the liabilities are controlled within available funds, the allocation of which should be prioritised,” said the railways. Due to nationwide lockdown, the railways suspended its passenger trains services from March 24 and only freight trains transporting essential commodities operated.  At present, besides freight trains, railway is operating  100 pair regular passengers trains and 15 pair special Rajdhani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-railways-to-implement-austerity-measures-cut-down-on-wasteful-expenditure-852452.html
22-06-2020||National||S Jaishankar to join Chinese, Russian foreign ministers at RIC meet on Tuesday||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will join his Chinese and Russian counterparts at a virtual conference of the Russia-India-China trilateral on Tuesday, against the backdrop of New Delhi's frayed ties with Beijing over the Galwan Valley clashes. As the June 15 incident triggered fears of fresh confrontation between troops of India and China, Russia is learnt to have reached out to both the countries, urging them to resolve the border row through talks. People familiar with the matter said India was initially reluctant to join the Russia-India-China trilateral foreign ministers' meeting but agreed to participate in it following a request from Moscow, the host of the conference. Interestingly, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday left for Russia on a three-day visit to attend a military parade in Moscow on June 24 to commemorate the 75th anniversary of victory of the Russian people in the second world war. Officials said he will have a series of meetings with top Russian military brass. A senior Chinese leader is also expected to be in Moscow to attend the parade. India lost 20 Army personnel in the violent hand-to-hand clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15, in the biggest ever confrontation between the two sides after a gap of 45 years. In a telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi June 17, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called the clashes a "premeditated" action by Chinese PLA and said they will have a "serious impact" on the bilateral relationship. The spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava on Thursday confirmed Jaishankar's participation at the RIC meeting. He said the meeting will deliberate on the coronavirus pandemic as well as issues relating to challenges to the global security and financial stability. It is unlikely that the border standoff between India and China will figure in the meeting as bilateral issues are usually not discussed under the trilateral format, sources said, citing convention. "It will be a good opportunity for all the three countries to come together and discuss regional issues in order to synchronise our views to contribute to support regional stability," a senior diplomat told PTI last week on the condition of anonymity. Russia has already said that India and China should resolve the border dispute through talks and that a “constructive” relationship between the two countries was important for regional stability. The three foreign ministers are also expected to deliberate extensively on the evolving political situation in Afghanistan after the US inked a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing the curtain on Washington's 18-year war in the country. The meeting of the RIC foreign ministers is also expected to delve into key connectivity projects in the region including the implementation of the 7,200 km-long International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC) linking India, Iran, Afghanistan and Central Asia with Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-to-join-chinese-russian-foreign-ministers-at-ric-meet-on-tuesday-852456.html
22-06-2020||National||Seafarers demand welfare steps like gratuity, preferential travel in plea to PM Narendra Modi||National seafarers body NUSI on Monday sought some welfare measures, including provision for gratuity, expediting the process for contributory annuity and priority in modes of travel, for the seamen community, saying it is also 'the second line of defence" in times of calamities and wars. In a petition to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, ahead of the 'International Day of Seafarers', the National Union of Seafarers (NUSI) said that the Union was putting forward these proposals on behalf of its members and urged the government to consider them. Every year, June 25 is celebrated as the 'International Day of Seafarers', globally. "India is facing unprecedented challenges created by the coronavirus pandemic. We are aware that the government under your astute leadership, is taking all necessary steps to counter the pandemic, which has locked down the lands and the skies of the entire world.  Everything is at a standstill. "But the seas are busy with thousands of ships plying across the oceans loaded with cargo to keep our world moving. All this is possible only because of the hard work of the brave seafarers, the fearless working men and women on cargo ships and cruise ships," Abdulgani Y Serang, General Secretary-cum-Treasurer, NUSI said in its petition. The copies of the petition have also been marked to Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Santosh Kumar Gangwar and sector regulator, Director General of Shipping, Amitabh Kumar. Stating that the seafarers already have statutory Provident Fund scheme, Serang said, "When the bill of the Seamens' Provident Fund Act, 1966, which was on the recommendations of the statutory National Welfare Board, was being tabled in Parliament, it was mentioned that gratuity for seafarers has been brought into force from June 1, 1964." The gratuity is paid by the shipowners, though no formal legislation was enacted, and was left to the mechanism of collective bargaining, he said.  "While due diligence is taken in the collective bargaining process, not all seafarers get gratuity. Hence what did not happen in 1964 as formal legislation should now be enacted for gratuity as a retiral benefit to be paid by the shipowners," the petition stated.  The Seamen's Provident Fund office has procedures for pension for seafarers under the scope of Contributory Annuity Fund Scheme (CAFS) which is still under process for nearly two decades, it said.  "The Government should have it expedited," the Union stated.   The merchant navy seafarers, who are declared essential workers, have to travel at very short notices nationally and internationally when they have to join and return from their ships, the union said, adding,"seafarers should be added to the priority list to make it easier for them to travel." In addition to these, the NUSI has also proposed that the Government should provide "voting rights" to onboard seafarers during the General and state Assembly polls. "If Non-Resident Indians can vote, the procedures should be enacted to ensure that seafarers who are away on high seas can also vote during the state and national elections," he said, adding,  "NUSI interaction with the Election Commission on this matter was not positive."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seafarers-demand-welfare-steps-like-gratuity-preferential-travel-in-plea-to-pm-narendra-modi-852464.html
22-06-2020||National||Air India pilot tests positive for COVID-19 after landing flight in Sydney from Delhi||An Air India pilot was found COVID-19 positive after landing a flight in Sydney from Delhi, senior airline officials said on Monday. The pilot tested positive on Saturday, they said. "The pilot was tested on June 16 and was found negative. That is why, as per the rules, he was rostered for the Delhi-Sydney flight of June 20. Before the flight, his sample was taken again. He was found positive after landing the flight in Sydney," officials said. The pilot and his two cockpit crew have been put in quarantine in Sydney, they said, adding the cabin crew or passengers have not been quarantined as they did not get in touch with the pilot. According to the Air India protocol on pre-flight COVID-19 testing, the crew will be required to visit the designated venue for COVID-19 testing for the purpose of giving a sample up to five days prior to departure date. Since the pilot tested negative four days prior to departure of Delhi-Sydney flight of June 20, he was rostered to operate it. It is not clear why he gave the second sample for testing just before the flight. An Air India spokesperson said the pilot had a valid pre-flight COVID-19 negative test report just before operating the flight. Air India's June 20 flight was part of Vande Bharat Mission, under which the central government, has authorised operation of international evacuation flights to help stranded people reach their destinations. The national carrier is operating a Delhi-Sydney flight on Monday under the mission. "We had no flight to Sydney yesterday (Sunday), so no one is stranded there. The crew operating today's (Monday) flight will take their mandatory rest and operate back. We have adhered to all the laid down protocols in this regard," the spokesperson added. On May 30, an Air India flight from Delhi to Moscow was asked to return midway after its ground team realised that one of the pilots onboard the plane tested positive for coronavirus. Two senior bureaucrats had confirmed that there was a "lapse" on part of officials responsible to scrutinise the coronavirus test reports of the crew members and that they did not look at the pilot's test results properly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-pilot-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-landing-flight-in-sydney-from-delhi-852478.html
22-06-2020||National||Army commanders deliberate on eastern Ladakh situation||The apex leadership of the Indian Army on Monday held detailed deliberations on the eastern Ladakh standoff and the situation along the Line of Actual Control with China after the Galwan Valley clashes that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, official sources said. On the opening day of a two-day conference, the commanders carried out a comprehensive review of India's security preparedness along the LAC in Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, they said. In his initial remarks, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane briefed the commanders about the overall situation following which detailed discussions on the matter took place, the sources said. The commanders also deliberated on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, the sources said. It is the second phase of the biannual commanders conference. The first phase had taken place last month. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in the violent hand-to-hand clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15, in the biggest ever confrontation between the two sides after a gap of 45 years. Following the incident, the government has given the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the 3,500-km de-facto border. The Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border in the last one week. The IAF has also moved a sizeable number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft and Apache attack helicopters to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar following the clashes. The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of eastern Ladakh since May 5 when their troops clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. Prior to the clashes, both sides had been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it was necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-commanders-deliberate-on-eastern-ladakh-situation-852483.html
22-06-2020||National||Pendency of coronavirus tests rises in Delhi with increased number of samples being collected||With an increase in the number of samples being collected for COVID-19 testing in the national capital, the pendency of tests has also spiked up to more than double, according to official figures. The national capital conducted 5,824 coronavirus tests on June 15, 6,510 on June 16, 8,452 on June 17 and 12,389 on June 18, according to official figures. On June 15, 6,105 samples were collected, while 7,786 samples were collected the next day. A total of 8,093 samples were collected on June 17 while 15,766 samples were collected on June 18. By June 18, the number of samples pending at various laboratories across Delhi reached 7,439. The number was 3,478 on June 15, 5,116 on June 16 and 6,892 on June 17. An official, requesting anonymity, said, "The government had directed the laboratories to process the samples within a maximum of 48 hours. The pendency is not beyond the stipulated level." With a surge in COVID-19 cases, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had on June 14 announced that the number of coronavirus tests would be doubled in Delhi in the next two days and subsequently, increased by three times. Following Shah's announcement, the Delhi government had directed all the laboratories and hospitals to work on their full potential and ramp up the COVID-19 testing capacity to meet the increased demand of processing samples. Health Secretary Padmini Singla had also called for processing the samples within a maximum of 48 hours. "It has been decided to scale up lab testing immediately to effectively contain COVID-19 cases in Delhi. There is no upper limit to send samples to private sector labs, provided they undertake to process the same within the stipulated time frame, that is 24 hours (preferably) and maximum within 48 hours," an order issued by Singla had said. It had also directed the public and private sector laboratories "to work on their full potential and also further ramp up their testing capacity on priority to meet the increased demand of processing". On June 18, Delhi also commenced COVID-19 testing through the rapid antigen methodology in and around the containment zones in the city. The rapid-antigen test makes results available within 30 minutes. According to the ICMR website, the COVID-19 test is being conducted in 44 laboratories in the city, including 19 government facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pendency-of-coronavirus-tests-rises-in-delhi-with-increased-number-of-samples-being-collected-852489.html
22-06-2020||National||Baby boy given burns on abdomen by parents to treat swelling||In a shocking incident, a three -month-old baby boy was administered burns with a hot sickle by his parents on advice of a quack to treat him for a swelling on his abdomen here in Maharashtra, officials said on Monday. The incident took place on June 20 in village Bortha under Chikhaldara tehsil in the Melghat tribal belt of Amravati district, said an official release from the district information office here. The baby has been admitted to the district general hospital here even as the Chikhaldara police have arrested the infant's father and a female 'bhumka' (witch doctor) who allegedly suggested the barbaric treatment, the release said. The parents of the three-month-old baby boy, who had developed a swelling on his stomach, took him to the local quack instead of the government health centre, it said. The quack advised them to give burns with a hot sickle on the child's belly to mitigate the swelling and the parents acted accordingly, leaving the boy injured, the release said. When the news reached the flying health squad at Katkumbh, it rushed to the village and took the child to Churni Primary Health Centre from where he was shifted to the district general hospital accompanied by his mother, it said. Maharashtra Minister for Women and Child Development Yashomati Thakur enquired about the condition of the baby at the hospital, the release said. Thakur, who is also Guardian Minister of Amravati, directed the district administrations to take all necessary steps to avoid recurrence of such incidents in the future. "It is sad to see such an incident happening in the tribal-dominated Melghat region even after having all medical facilities in place there. "There is an express need to put in place a competent machinery to arrest the occurrence of such superstitious incidents through an awareness programme," Thakur told PTI. She called for running an intensive public awareness campaign in Melghat with coordination of health, rural development, forest, police and revenue departments. "The administration should take a serious note of this incident and ensure such cases don't recur," the minister said. PTI COR RSY RSY||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baby-boy-given-burns-on-abdomen-by-parents-to-treat-swelling-852490.html
22-06-2020||National||India condemns abduction of Sikh community leader in Paktia province in Afghanistan||A Sikh community leader in Paktia province of Afghanistan has been abducted by terrorists, and the government said it was in touch with Afghan authorities to ensure the security of the minority community in the country. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the "targeting and persecution" of the minority community by terrorists at the behest of their external supporters is a matter of "grave concern". "We strongly condemn the abduction of Nedan Singh, a leader of the Hindu and Sikh Community of Afghanistan, by terrorists," he said in response to a media query on the abduction of the community leader in Paktia. Srivastava said India is in touch with the Afghanistan government for ensuring the safety, security and well being of the minority community in that country. "We hope that the government of Afghanistan would be able to secure safe and early release of Nedan Singh,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-condemns-abduction-of-sikh-community-leader-in-paktia-province-in-afghanistan-852491.html
22-06-2020||National||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extends greeting on Kalidas jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday extended greetings on Kalidas Jayanti, recalling his works which reflect Indian philosophy and social service. Tweeting in Sanskrit, he said Kalidas came from a common background and rose to become a great poet or a "kavya guru" due to his works. कालिदासजयन्त्याः हार्दिक- शुभकामनाः। समाजस्य सामान्यवर्गे जातः कालिदासः स्वस्य कृतिभिः महान् कविः कविकुलगुरुः अभवत्। सः अजपालः आसीत् इति प्रसिद्धा लोककथा। त्यागः तपस्या प्रजासेवा भारतीयदर्शनं राष्ट्रिय-जीवनमूल्यानि इत्यादीनां श्रेष्ठगुणानाम् अभिव्यक्तिः तस्य काव्येषु दृश्यते। Modi recalled that Kalidas became famous by the name "Ajpal". The expression of renunciation, penance, social service, Indian philosophy is reflected in his poetry and literature, Modi said. Kalidas is considered as the greatest scholar and poet in Sanskrit language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-narendra-modi-extends-greeting-on-kalidas-jayanti-852495.html
22-06-2020||National||Javadekar inaugurates virtual India Pavilion at Cannes Films Market||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday virtually inaugurated the India Pavilion at the Cannes Film Market. The film market includes virtual pavilions for institutions such as film funds and filming boards from across the globe as well as virtual booths for sales companies to screen their projects-in-work and connect with buyers. The Cannes Film Festival, one of the biggest gatherings of filmmakers and cinema lovers, could not take place this year in May due to the coronavirus pandemic. It was announced in March that the five-day-long film market, which runs parallel to the festival, will go virtual this year. The film market closes on Friday. Javadekar said to promote collaborations – both business and artistic -- the ministry will help Indian filmmakers to connect with global cinema leaders. "India Pavilion at #CannesFilmMarket is attractive even in online format; the virtual place will be the real partnership place, it will showcase films and numerous webinars. We, as Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, will assist you in connecting with right people,” the minister said in a Zoom webinar. Calling cinema the “soft power” of India, Javadekar said the ministry is continuously working towards making India a film shooting friendly destination. “Our Film Facilitation Office has facilitated 80 foreign film shootings. Now, it will function as a single-window where all central and state government permissions will be given in one go, saving time and cost. I appeal to film fraternity, come invest and shoot in India.” From India, Ananth Mahadevan’s Marathi film ‘‘Mai Ghat: Crime No 103/2005", starring actor Usha Jadhav, and National Award-winning Gujarati film “Hellaro” will be screened at the film market. The Pavilion is set up jointly by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting and FICCI. Javadekar hoped the films would be loved by the international film fraternity. The members of Indian film fraternity including Prasoon Joshi, chairman, Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), actor Kangana Ranaut and filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar also attended the virtual praised the ministry’s decision to participate in the virtual film market. Joshi said cinema has become an essential part of people’s lives and in these unprecedented times, when the world is trying to bounce back to normalcy, art plays an important role. “Art finds its own way. We are going through tough times. People have started seeing cinema differently as they have started seeing their lives. Over the generation cinema has become an essential thing for people. Cinema has gone hardwired into us and there will always be a need for entertainment,” he said. The lyricist said a platform like Cannes is important for artists as it looks at the “nuances” and celebrates it. Bhandarkar said such platforms help storytellers from different parts of the world to have a creative exchange. “I think it is necessary to tell our stories and culture to the world. Last year, we had great discussions with a lot of people who want to come to India for shooting. We should also collaborate with international filmmakers, scriptwriters and other talents.” Ranaut said the Indian Pavilion will act as a platform for artistic minds to explore new avenues. “In times when we are so isolated to reach out to global community, this is such a great effort. In these times, we are caught up in uncertainty and being a performing artist there is nothing much I can grasp from other creative minds. I believe it is important to have these virtual sessions for global community.” In the webinar, the minister also unveiled the booklet and poster of the 51st International Film Festival of India, which is scheduled to take place from November 20 to 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javadekar-inaugurates-virtual-india-pavilion-at-cannes-films-market-852528.html
22-06-2020||National||COVID-19: How the nationwide lockdown impacted PM-JAY, Modi’s Govt’s pet health scheme under Ayushman Bharat||Ten weeks of lock down imposed by the Narendra Modi government has led to a 51% drop in the weekly claims of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojna (PMJAY) - the government's pet health insurance scheme that covers nearly 50 crore poor. In terms of the value of the amounts claimed under this government supported medical insurance scheme, the drop is even sharper at 76%. This is because of a decline in higher cost packages like surgery. Planned surgeries like cataract operations and joint replacements suffered a decline of over 90%. By analysing the claim patterns during the lock-down period and comparing the trend with the claims made in the previous 12 weeks, a team of researchers at the National Health Authority found a sharp drop in the institutional admissions for child delivery and oncology cases. Both are a matter of concern to the public health officials. In oncology cases, there was a 64% drop for the nation but the numbers rose sharply for Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the two states affected most by the COVID-19. “Increased burden on healthcare infrastructure due to diversion of resources towards COVID-19 response along with fear of infection have resulted in a reduced uptake of Aysuhman Bharat PM-JAY services over the last few months. Particularly, decline in pediatric and oncology package utilization is the most worrisome aspect that has been observed in our study,” Vipul Aggarwal, Deputy CEO, National Health Authority told DH. The steepest decline in claim volume – over 75% - was seen in Assam, Maharashtra and Bihar whereas smaller drops – 25% or less - was observed in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Kerala. In Karnataka, the claims declined by nearly 62%. There was a 57% decline in utilization of surgical procedures than medical cases (46%). This is to be expected, since surgeries are more commonly planned in advance, whereas medical cases are not. The claims for hemodialysis, an essential life-saving treatment, was lowered by only 6% during lockdown, far less than for most other procedures. Overall the claims from government hospitals reduced during the lock-down period possibly because many such hospitals were converted to COVID-19 centres by the government and there were few staff to do the paperwork required for the PM-JAY scheme. Also hemodialysis being the most utilized PM-JAY package, there was a shift in the claims as most people availed the service at private hospitals. "The number of 'active' hospitals – those submitting at least one claim during a week – fell by almost 50% in both the public and private sectors. Activity levels among private hospitals started to recover late in the lock-down but remained low among public hospitals,” says the NHA report, giving an indication how the pandemic bulldozed everything else in the healthcare system. "We are making all possible efforts to spread awareness regarding COVID-19 and encourage patients to avail required services under the scheme. To further augment the availability of healthcare services, we have empanelled more than 2200 hospitals since April 2020,” Agarwal said. PM-JAY is the principal component of the Modi government’s flagship Ayushman Bharat scheme to address the healthcare needs of the economically backward section of the society. The other half of the scheme is to convert lakhs of sub-centres in the villages into wellness centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-how-the-nationwide-lockdown-impacted-pm-jay-modi-s-govt-s-pet-health-scheme-under-ayushman-bharat-852529.html
22-06-2020||National||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar discuss COVID-19 situation||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar on Monday discussed the present COVID-19 situation in parts of the state, sources said here. According to the sources, the COVID-19 situation in North Mumbai and Pune in particular came up for discussion during the meeting held at the Bal Thackeray Memorial here. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and NCP leader Praful Patel were also in attendance, the sources said. Areas in North Mumbai like Malad, Kandivali, Borivali and Dahisar have witnessed a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases recently. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation data revealed that the case doubling rate in Borivali was 18 days compared to 34 days for Mumbai as a whole, while neighbouring Dahisar, part of R North Ward, was even worse with numbers doubling every 16 days. The situation mainly in North Mumbai and Pune was reviewed during the meeting the sources said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of COVID- 19 cases among states till now. PTI ENM RSY RSY||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-discuss-covid-19-situation-852530.html
22-06-2020||National||Gujarat reports 563 new coronavirus cases; 21 more die||Gujarat reported 563 new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the tally to 27,880, while 21 more patients succumbed to the infection, 16 of them in Ahmedabad, the state health department said. The death toll in the state rose to 1,685 with the addition of 21 more COVID-19 fatalities, it said. With 560 patients getting discharged, the number of recovered cases in the state rose to 19,917, the department said. The state now has 6,278 active cases with 67 patients in critical condition and on ventilator, it said. Ahmedabad reported314 out of the total 563 new cases in the state, while Surat reported 132 and Vadodara 44. With this, the total COVID-19 cases in Ahmedabad rose to 19,151. In Surat, the total number of cases increased to 3,365, and in Vadodara to 1,898, the department said. Out of the total 21 COVID-19 fatalities reported in the state on Monday, 16 were from Ahmedabad and five from Surat, it said. Total fatalities in Ahmedabad district rose to 1,348, while in Surat toll increased to 128. As many as 25 out of the state's 33 districts reported fresh coronavirus cases on Monday. Among other districts, Jamnagar reported 10 cases, Gandhinagar, Junagadh and Narmada seven each, Anand six, Bharuch five, Mehsana four, Bhavnagar, Patan and Kheda three each, among others. In terms of recoveries, Ahmedabad reported 401 such cases, taking the total number of discharged patients in the district to 14,013, the department said. With 63 discharged in Surat, the number of recovered patients rose to 2,384, while the figure increased to 1,246 in Vadodara with 51 recoveries. So far, 3,29,343 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the state. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 27,880, new cases 563, deaths 1,685, discharged 19,917, active cases 6,278, people tested so far 3,29,343.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-reports-563-new-coronavirus-cases-21-more-die-852531.html
22-06-2020||National||Maharashtra: Man jumps into wife's funeral pyre, then into well, dies||A man distressed at the death of his pregnant teen wife committed suicide on Monday by jumping into a well moments after he was pulled out of her burning pyre by those attending the funeral, police in Chandrapur in Maharashtra said. The incident happened in Bhangaram-Talodhi village, some 60 kilometres from the district headquarters, said a Gondpipri police station official. "Kishor Khatik married 19-year-old Ruchita on March 19. She had gone out to answer nature's call on Sunday evening and her body was later found floating in a well. While she was being cremated on Monday, he jumped into the pyre but was rescued by those present," Inspector Sandeep Dhobe said. "He sustained burn injuries. However, moments later, he jumped into a well located near the crematorium. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-man-jumps-into-wifes-funeral-pyre-then-into-well-dies-852533.html
22-06-2020||National||Ex Union Minister and Congress leader Bharatsinh Solanki tests positive for coronavirus||Two days after he lost the Rajya Sabha polls, former Union minister and Congress leader Bharatsinh Solanki tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Vadodara where his condition is said to be stable, party officials said. Solanki, who hails from Anand district, had contested Rajya Sabha polls along with party colleague Shaktisinh Gohil on June 19. Solanki lost while Gohil won. For the past couple of weeks, he was constantly in touch with his party MLAs in the run-up to the poll. He was present at the Gujarat assembly where the polls were held. He had interacted with several party leaders and journalists. State's chief spokesperson Manish Doshi told DH, "He (Solanki) had stayed with party's all 65 MLAs at the hotel for three to four days prior to polls. They all have to go under quarantine. During the polls, he was screened before entering the polling area when his temperature was normal. We are taking all precautions in view of this development."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-union-minister-and-congress-leader-bharatsinh-solanki-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-852535.html
22-06-2020||National||Niti Aayog member wants govt to stop raw material import for bullet-proof jackets from China||Niti Aayog member V K Saraswat on Monday said Indian companies manufacturing bullet-proof jackets for the army personnel should avoid importing raw materials from China because of "inconsistencies in the quality" of the shipments. This assumes significance as the clamour for the boycott of Chinese goods has been growing louder ever since the violent clash broke out between the Indian and Chinese armies in the Galwan Valley last week. Saraswat, also a former Defence Research and Development Organisation(DRDO) chief, said these companies producing bullet-proof jackets for the army can get raw material from other sources that are the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) production agencies.   "Many times raw materials imported from China (to produce bullet-proof jackets) are not of good quality... We should avoid importing from Chinese sources because of inconsistencies of the raw material quality," he told PTI. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) had asked Niti Aayog to prepare a road map for "incentivising" domestic manufacturing of lightweight body armours and protective gears. The Bureau of Indian Standards has also finalised quality norms for body armours to be used by Indian forces.         "Our committee made very clear recommendations, we should use indigenous material as much as possible and wherever indigenous materials are not available and import is required then we should avoid import from China because of inconsistent quality," the eminent scientist emphasised.         India lost 20 of its army personnel, including a colonel, in the violent face-off on the night of June 15/16 on the border, the biggest confrontation between the militaries of India and China after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300.         The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of eastern Ladakh since May 5 when their troops clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso.        According to government projections, more than 3 lakh bullet-proof jackets will be required by Indian armed forces.       Indian companies were earlier procuring raw materials for bullet-proof jackets from the US and Europe. Now, most of them are being obtained from China due to lower prices.          Indian companies like Kanpur-based MKU and Tata Advanced Materials export body armour to armed forces of many countries.       If the lightweight bullet-proof vests and helmets are produced in bulk quantity within the country, it will ensure low-cost supplies and end the endless wait for foreign vendors to supply the equipment.       Meanwhile, according to sources, the government has sought product-wise details of cheap imports, comparison with domestic prices and tax disadvantage, if any, from industry to curb low-quality inbound shipments especially from China and boost domestic manufacturing.       They said a high-level meeting to discuss ways to promote 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India), including the cut in import dependence from China, also took place recently in the Prime Minister's office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-member-wants-govt-to-stop-raw-material-import-for-bullet-proof-jackets-from-china-852539.html
22-06-2020||National||Man falls to death from roof of girlfriend's house in Bengal||A 28-year-old man has died after falling from the roof of his girlfriend's house in West Bengal's Nadia district, police said on Monday. Locals reportedly saw the man, identified as Bhabatosh Debnath, fall from the roof of cloth shop owner Narayan Majumder's house in Barajaguli town in Haringhata police station area on Sunday evening, they said. The locals took Debnath to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, a police officer said. The deceased had returned from work in a West Asian country before the lockdown was imposed and had visited the house of his girlfriend, Narayan Majumder's daughter, on Sunday. A case has been registered and an investigation is underway to find the cause of the death, Ranaghat police district Superintendent of Police, VSR Anantanag said. Both the young woman and her father are being interrogated, another police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-falls-to-death-from-roof-of-girlfriends-house-in-bengal-852542.html
22-06-2020||National||Rajnath Singh leaves for Russia on a three-day visit; to press for timely delivery of S-400 missile defence systems||In the midst of India's escalating border row with China, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday left for Russia on a three-day visit during which he is likely to press for the timely delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems and discuss ways to further expand bilateral military ties. Singh is primarily visiting Russia to attend a grand military parade in Moscow on June 24 to mark the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Germany in the Second World War. However, it is learnt that the minister will also discuss with Russian leaders regional security scenario and bolstering of overall defence cooperation. It is the first visit abroad by a senior union minister in four months as foreign travels were restricted in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Singh travelled by an Indian Air Force aircraft, while strictly following all laid precautions against the coronavirus infection, officials said. The last foreign trip abroad by a senior member of the union cabinet was by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman when she visited Riyadh from Feb 22-24 to attend a meeting of G-20 finance ministers. Days before Sitharaman's trip, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar visited Germany from February 18 to 19. The defence minister's visit to Russia comes in the midst of the escalating border standoff between India and China, particularly after the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on June 15. Russia has been in touch with both India and China following their border row and officials did not rule out discussion on the matter during Singh's meetings in Moscow. "Leaving for Moscow on a three-day visit. The visit to Russia will give me an opportunity to hold talks on ways to further deepen the India-Russia defence and strategic partnership. I shall also be attending the 75th Victory Day Parade in Moscow," Singh tweeted before leaving for Moscow. Officials said Singh went ahead with the visit, notwithstanding the border row with China, due to India's decades-old military ties with Russia. They said the defence minister in his talks with top Russian military brass is expected to request for the timely delivery of the S-400 missile systems. Russian Deputy Chief of Mission Roman Babushkin recetly told PTI that there could be some delays in implementation of military contracts including the S-400 one in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. Last year, India made the first tranche of payment of around USD 800 million to Russia for the missile systems. Moscow was to begin the delivery of the system by second half of next year. The defence minister is also expected to request Moscow to cut delays in supply of spares of key Russian-origin platforms like tanks, fighter jets and helicopters. Russia has been one of India's key suppliers of arms and ammunition. However, it has been a long-standing grievance of armed forces that supply of critical spares and equipment from Russia takes a long time affecting maintenance of military systems procured from that country. A tri-service 75-member Indian military contingent has already reached Moscow to participate in the parade. The Indian team will participate in the parade alongside armed forces personnel from at least 11 countries including China. "The visit of the defence minister will strengthen the longstanding special and privileged strategic partnership between India and Russia," the defence ministry said on Saturday. "The Indian participation in the victory day parade will be a mark of tribute to the great sacrifices made by Russia and other nations in the Second World War in which Indian soldiers also participated and made supreme sacrifice," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-leaves-for-russia-on-a-three-day-visit-to-press-for-timely-delivery-of-s-400-missile-defence-systems-852544.html
22-06-2020||National||Indo-Pak fair on International border cancelled due to coronavirus outbreak||The ‘Baba Chamliyal’ annual fair celebrated on both sides of the International border in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir has been cancelled this year in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, officials said on Monday. The decision was conveyed by the district administration to the management of the shrine, the epicentre of India-Pakistan bonhomie in the past, at a meeting on Monday. “The district administration has decided not to hold the mela this year due to COVID-19 pandemic,” Billu Choudhary, chairman of the management committee of the revered shrine, said. He said the management will offer a 'chadar' at the shrine on behalf of the villagers and will offer special prayers for eradication of COVID-19. The three-day fair, scheduled to take place later this week, attracts devotees from various parts of the country besides Pakistan as the shrine is located near the zero line in Ramgarh sector of Jammu and Kashmir. The fair was also cancelled in 2018 following the killing of four BSF personnel, including an assistant commandant, in unprovoked firing by Pakistan Rangers on June 13 that year. Last year, thousands of devotees had thronged the famous shrine of Baba Dalip Singh Manhas, popularly known as Baba Chamliyal, from different parts of the country. While the fair is held for three days at the shrine complex on the Indian side, it is held for a week on the opposite side of the border in Saidanwali village of Sialkot district in Pakistan. Pakistani nationals were allowed to come to the Indian side of the border to pay obeisance at the shrine till 1971. However, after the 1971 India-Pakistan war, the practice was stopped. Since then, a Pakistani Rangers delegation comes to offer chadar at the shrine and, in return, carries 'shakkar’ and ‘sharbat' for the devotees in the neighbouring nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-pak-fair-on-international-border-cancelled-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak-852547.html
22-06-2020||National||COVID-19 deaths spike by 445; Delhi now second worst-hit as national toll nears 14,000||India’s COVID-19 fatalities registered a massive spike on Monday as 445 patients succumbed to the disease in a single-day, taking the death toll to 13,699. COVID-19 infections continued to surge in the country as Delhi overtook Tamil Nadu to emerge as the second worst-hit state with 59,746 confirmed cases and 2,175 fatalities. According to the Health Ministry figures released on Monday morning, India had 4,25,282 confirmed cases of the disease out of which 2,37,196 had recovered and discharged from hospitals. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total confirmed cases at 4,27,590 and the death toll at 13,732 at 7:30 p.m. on Monday. Goa reported its first COVID-19 death as an 85-year-old man from Morlem in North Goa succumbed to the disease at a government hospital on Monday. The Health Ministry said India had the lowest COVID-19 cases per lakh population in the world despite the high population density. “For every one lakh population, there are 30.04 coronavirus cases in India, while the global average is over three times at 114.67,” the Ministry said, referring to the WHO Situation Report 153, dated June 21. This low figure is thus a testimony to the graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach the Government along with the States and UTs took for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19, the Ministry said in a statement. Bihar, which has been reporting approximately 150 new cases every day, has started testing for COVID-19 utilising the state-of-the-art COBAS-6800 machine that can test 1500 samples per day. The machine, installed at the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences, has enhanced the testing capabilities from existing 2,000 samples per day to 3,500 samples per day. The Health Ministry also lauded special efforts taken by the Punjab government to reduce mortality among vulnerable groups such has persons suffering from cardiac or renal disease, hypertension, diabetes by offering them government quarantine facilities outside their containment zones till the restrictions in their locality are relaxed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-deaths-spike-by-445-delhi-now-second-worst-hit-as-national-toll-nears-14000-852549.html
22-06-2020||National||Supply free food grains to migrants till September: Sonia Gandhi tells PM Modi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the supply of free food grains for migrant workers for three more months till September this year. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Gandhi also asked him to issue temporary ration cards to poor households that had been excluded from the public distribution system (PDS). The government had announced supply of free food grains of 5 kg per person every month for May and June for migrant workers who were not covered under any central or state PDS scheme. “The Union government must consider extending this provision for free food grains for a further period of three months i.e. from July-September 2020,” the Congress President said, pointing out that several state governments had made similar demands. “I hope that the central government will consider the above mentioned suggestions and announce the decision at the earliest,” Gandhi said. She said after three months of lockdown, millions of Indians are at the risk of slipping into poverty. “The adverse impact on livelihoods has led to chronic food insecurity for both our urban and rural poor. In light of the current situation, food entitlement must be expanded to address the hunger crisis facing some of the most vulnerable people in the country,” Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supply-free-food-grains-to-migrants-till-september-sonia-gandhi-tells-pm-modi-852566.html
22-06-2020||National||Two officials of High Commission of India in Islamabad return from Pakistan||Two officials of the High Commission of India (HCI) in Islamabad returned from Pakistan on Monday— a week after they were arrested by the police in the neighbouring country’s capital and held for over 10 hours allegedly after the car they were driving hit a pedestrian and injured him. D Brahma and P Selvadhas, the two officials of the HCI in Islamabad, crossed over to India from Pakistan through the Wagah-Attari border. They were accompanied by two more officials, whom New Delhi asked to come for consultation. Brahma and Selvadhas went out of the HCI in Islamabad for official work in the morning on June 15 and went missing. The High Commission immediately took up the matter with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan government. The reports on the news-portals published from the neighbouring country later claimed that the two officials of the HCI in Islamabad had tried to flee after the BMW car they were driving hit a pedestrian and injured him. They were caught by some local people and handed over to police, who later found that they were officials of the HCI. They were accused of having fake currencies in their possession too and were tortured while in the custody of police. They were returned to the High Commission of India in Islamabad later India dismissed all the allegations against them as concocted and accused Pakistan of flouting Vienna Conventions on Diplomatic and Consular Relations 1961. The incident came a fortnight after India expelled two consular officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi after they were found to be involved in espionage. New Delhi earlier on June 4 lodged a complaint with the Pakistan Government after its diplomats in Islamabad were harassed and intimidated by the agents of the neighbouring country’s military spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-officials-of-high-commission-of-india-in-islamabad-return-from-pakistan-852583.html
22-06-2020||National||20 train passengers quarantined after man gets message he is Covid-19 positive during journey||Over 20 passengers of the Dehradun Jan Shatabdi Express have been quarantined after a co-passenger received a text message, while still on board the train on Sunday, that his Covid-19 test has returned positive, officials said. The man immediately informed Covid control room authorities that he had tested positive, scaring his co-passengers who overheard him saying this on phone, they said. The 48-year-old man, who works at a battery making factory in Noida, boarded the Dehradun-bound train from Ghaziabad on Sunday afternoon despite the fact that his Covid-19 test report was awaited, Haridwar GRP Station House Officer (SHO) Anuj Singh said on Monday. The man hails from Shyampur in Uttarakhand's Rishikesh town. The passenger, who was travelling on board the Jan Shatabdi Express, had received a text message telling him that he had tested positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, a Northern Railway spokesperson said. The man was admitted to the isolation ward of the Mela Hospital in Haridwar after he deboarded the train, Haridwar Chief Medical Officer Saroj Naithani said. Twenty-two of his co-passengers are in institutional quarantine in the town, she said. Northern Railway spokesperson Deepak Kumar, however, said, “He (the man) has been sent to a hospital while 19 others have been sent to a quarantine facility.” After the man got the message, he informed the control room through a toll-free number that he had tested Covid-19 positive. He made the call when the train was nearing Roorkee in Haridwar district. Officials said that the man was asymptomatic. The railways has asked authorities in Ghaziabad as to how a person who had given his sample for testing was allowed to board a train. The man’s samples were taken for testing at the factory in Noida and ideally he should have been restricted from any travel and kept in quarantine till his reports arrived, the officials said. SHO Singh said it is being investigated as to how the man whose swab samples had been sent for testing from Noida two days back was allowed by his company to travel and how he boarded the train||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-train-passengers-quarantined-after-man-gets-message-he-is-covid-19-positive-during-journey-852593.html
22-06-2020||National||A video call that brought joy to family of Havildar injured in Chinese face-off||A bandaged left arm and swelling on his face. That's how Havildar Vishnu Nair's family members here got to see him on a video call days after he was injured in the violent clash with Chinese troops in Ladak, yet they were relieved he survived the high-altitude skirmish. If it were moments of shock and anxiety on the day when the news about the clash in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh was flashed by TV channels, a call from the Army confirming he was safe and then followed by Vishnu's own calls and the video chat overjoyed his family. Twenty Indian army personnel, including a colonel, were killed and Vishnu was among the more than 75 injured in the fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 night in the biggest military confrontation in over five decades. "I was numb with shock and scared for his safety. We were very scared. My younger brother rushed to some people in the neighbourhood who had relatives in the army to find out the names of the soldiers who lost their lives...," Preetha, wife of the 34-year old Vishnu, told PTI. Then an official called to inform that her husband was injured. "Do not get worried. He is safe. He is injured", the officer informed, Preetha said, recollecting the conversation that brought her the much-needed relief. But only after she could talk to her husband and heard his voice, the homemaker said she was truly relieved. "My husband kept reassuring me that there is no problem. Though I asked him what happened, he did not disclose anything", Preetha, who is at her home at Pullukulangara village in Alappuzha district, said. It was only after he held a video chat with the family, Preetha realised that he had suffered a fracture on his left arm and there was swelling on his face. "There was swelling on his face. He had suffered a fracture on his left hand in the attack and he said there were injuries all over," she said. However, the family was relieved and grateful to God that he is safe, Preetha added. Vishnu had been posted in Ladakh, after a stint in Bihar. "He came here seven months ago on November 15. We were in Bihar earlier and following the Ladakhposting, he left us here", she said. Their children five-year-old Vedika and 18-month old Madhav were overjoyed to see their father during the video call, she said. "I asked him if he can come to Kerala?" she said adding his reply was he first has to get well. Vishnu's mother Indiraamma is also relieved on learning about his safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-video-call-that-brought-joy-to-family-of-havildar-injured-in-chinese-face-off-852595.html
22-06-2020||National||No pendency from states on payment for Shramik Special trains: Indian Railways||The railways on Monday said there is no pendency in payment of fares from state governments for the Shramik Special train services run by the national transporter to ferry migrant workers home. Since May 1, the railways has run 4,436 Shramik Special trains and transported more than 62 lakh migrant workers to their home states. “As of now there is no pendency in payment by any state for the Shramik Special services. However, we cannot give you a consolidated amount of money they paid as the services are still running. “Currently we have a demand for 15 trains. We have also written to the states to give their balance demand. We will run these services as long as they are needed,” P S Mishra, Member Traffic, Railway Board said at an online press briefing. Last week, the railways had said that the average fare per person on Shramik Special trains was Rs 600 and indicated that by carrying 60 lakh migrant workers home since May 1, it has generated a revenue of around Rs 360 crore. It also said that the railways spent Rs 3,400 per Shramik Special train passenger and incurred a total loss of around Rs 2,040 crore in running these trains. The cost of operating such trains is being shared by the Centre and the states in an 85-15 per cent formula respectively. The running of Shramik Special trains had kicked up a storm after political parties alleged that the national transporter was charging migrants for the journey. Mishra also said that while the railways’ freight loading suffered during the lockdown period, it was already showing signs of recovery. He said there was a dip in freight loading by 57.95 MT (28 per cent) during the period April-May 2020. In June, loading increased to 64.52 MT which was a dip of around 8.31 per cent than in June last year. During the lockdown phase (between April and May), the railways achieved 70 per cent of last year's freight loading and also maintained the supply of essentials with foodgrains loading being 94 per cent more than last year, he said. The official added that during the opening up phase in June, there was a revival in freight loading with the railways achieving 90 per cent of last year’s loadings during the same month. These included steel, cement, foodgrains and fertilizers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-pendency-from-states-on-payment-for-shramik-special-trains-indian-railways-852623.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||BJP diverting MGNREGA funds to win 24-seat MP bypolls: Congress MLA Govind Singh||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Govind Singh on Monday said the ruling BJP was diverting MGNREGA funds to win bypolls in 24 seats in the state and that he had written to the chief secretary about it. In the 230-member MP Assembly, 22 seats are vacant after Congress MLAs resigned in March and joined BJP while legislators from two constituencies have died. However, no dates have been announced for the bypolls as yet. "I have written a letter to Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bais regarding misuse of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) funds in the 24 seats which will have bypolls. The funds are being diverted by the BJP to win bypolls," Singh told PTI. "In my home district Bhind, a lot of money was being allocated under MNREGA, but instead of generating employment, the money is going to be used to win upcoming elections by unfair means. If the CS does not take action, I will approach the Election Commission," Singh, MLA from Lahar since 1990, alleged. BJP MP chief spokesperson Deepak Vijaywargiya said the allegations were false and it only showed that the Congress' defeat in the bypolls was imminent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-diverting-mgnrega-funds-to-win-24-seat-mp-bypolls-congress-mla-govind-singh-852387.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||Congress asks BJP not to compromise on national security, country's territorial integrity||The Congress hit back at the BJP on Monday for its attack on former prime minister Manmohan Singh and asked the saffron party not to compromise national security and the country's territorial integrity, saying it would be the "biggest disservice" to the armed forces. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Singh has given an important advice and hoped that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would adhere to it politely as it was given in the country's interest. "Dear Sh Nadda and the BJP, Stop compromising on 'national security' and India's 'territorial integrity'. "This would be the biggest disservice to our Armed Forces and our 20 martyrs. Don't buckle down, have the strength to 'rise to the occasion'. We'll give the government every support," Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala wrote on Twitter. His comments came after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda hit out at Singh, accusing him of "abjectly surrendering" hundreds of square kilometres of India's land to China and "presiding over" 600 incursions made by the neighbouring country between 2010 and 2013 during his prime ministership. Nadda also asked the former prime minister to stop "insulting" the armed forces repeatedly and questioning their valour, alleging that Congress leaders did so post the surgical strikes. "Dr Manmohan Singh belongs to the same party which: Helplessly surrendered over 43,000 KM of Indian territory to the Chinese! During the UPA years saw abject strategic and territorial surrender without a fight. Time and again belittles our forces. "One only wishes that Dr. Singh was as worried about Chinese designs when, as PM, he abjectly surrendered hundreds of square kilometres of India's land to China. He presided over 600 incursions made by China between 2010 to 2013!" Nadda said in tweets. One only wishes that Dr. Singh was as worried about Chinese designs when, as PM, he abjectly surrendered hundreds of square kilometres of India’s land to China. He presided over 600 incursions made by China between 2010 to 2013! In his first remarks on the Ladakh face-off, the former prime minister said Modi must be mindful of the implications of his words and cannot allow China to use those as a vindication of its position. Noting that disinformation is no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership, Singh called upon the prime minister to ensure justice for the soldiers who died defending India's territorial integrity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-asks-bjp-not-to-compromise-on-national-security-countrys-territorial-integrity-852424.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||Positive results in Manipur in 2-3 days: BJP's Himanta Biswa Sarma on political crisis||BJP is confident of a "positive result" in Manipur's political crisis in the next two-three days even as Congress-led new front remained firm on their demand for a floor test against N. Biren Singh's government. "Things are under control. We are discussing with all our MLAs and the discussion is on the positive way. I am again going to Imphal tomorrow and you will see a positive result in the next two-three days," BJP's pointsman in the Northeast and Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters in Guwahati on Monday evening.  The BJP-led coalition government in Manipur slipped into a crisis on Wednesday when nine MLAs--three from BJP, four from National People's Party (NPP), an ally, one from Trinamool Congress and an independent MLA resigned and joined a Congress-led new front named as Secular Progressive Front. The front headed by former Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Okram Ibobi Singh met Governor Nazma Heptulla on Thursday demanding a floor test and even staked claim to form the new government.  The front claimed the support of 26 MLAs in the house of 52 while pushing for dismissal of Biren Singh government. The front, however, got a jolt the next day when BJP candidate and Manipur's titular king, Leishema Sanajaoba was elected to the Rajya Sabha with 28 votes. Congress' T. Mangibabu got 24 votes giving a boost to BJP's confidence. "Things have changed after the Rajya Sabha election. Some MLAs have been disqualified by the Speaker and so we are discussing everything for a positive result. But i can only say that all issues will be addressed keeping the spirit of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) and NDA intact," Sarma said. Sarma also denied possibility of a leadership change despite the demand by NPP. Sarma and Conrad Sangma, Meghalaya Chief Minister and NPP chief had flown to Imphal on Sunday and held discussion with the disgruntled MLAs, both in BJP and NPP. But sources said that all four NPP MLAs in Manipur, who resigned on Wednesday were firm on their stand despite Sangma's efforts to convince them to remain with Biren Singh government. Sarma is the convenor of NEDA, a platform of BJP and its allies in the Northeast, which was formed in 2016 with a target to make the region "Congress free." AICC leaders Ajay Maken and Gaurav Gogoi are also camping in a hotel in Imphal since Saturday. They have been put into quarantine as per protocols of COVID-19. But sources said Sarma and Sangma were not quarantined as they returned the same day, which is allowed as per the guidelines for unlocking. Congress on Monday reiterated their demand for the floor test saying Rajya Sabha result alone was not enough to deny their democratic rights for a floor test against a "minority government." Congress spokesperson in Manipur, Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said NPP legislature party leader L. Jayanta Kumar, in a press conference of Secular Progressive Front clearly stated in Imphal on Monday that all four NPP MLAs would not go back to BJP government, even if the CM is replaced. "So the question now is what magic Himanta Biswa Sarma can do in the next two-three days to resolve the internal conflict in his party? If NEDA or BJP respects the Constitution, then they should face the floor test. Why is BJP running away from the floor test?" asked Meitei.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/positive-results-in-manipur-in-2-3-days-bjps-himanta-biswa-sarma-on-political-crisis-852486.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||India-China Border: Why is China praising Mr Modi during conflict, asks Rahul Gandhi||Firing a fresh salvo at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked as to why China is “praising Mr Modi during this conflict”. "China killed our soldiers. China took our land. Then, why is China praising Mr Modi during this conflict," he asked on Twitter. In his tweet, Gandhi tagged a news report that said the Chinese media has lauded Prime Minister Modi's speech during an all-party meeting on the Ladakh situation. Before this tweet, in another post, Gandhi shared Manmohan Singh's statement on the ongoing Ladakh standoff with China, saying the former PM has given an important advice. Gandhi expressed hope that Modi would accept it "politely" in the interest of the country. Gandhi has been attacking Modi over his statement on the Ladakh standoff with China and even accused him of "surrendering" Indian territory to the neighbouring country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-border-why-is-china-praising-mr-modi-during-conflict-asks-rahul-gandhi-852496.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||Gujarat's veteran politician Shankersinh Vaghela resigns from NCP, announces new outfit||Veteran Gujarat politician Shankersinh Vaghela on Monday resigned from the post of general secretary of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and from the primary membership of the party. While leaving the party he had joined last year, Vaghela also announced a new outfit - Praja Shakti Morcha - through which he plans to carry on his "public-oriented work." Vaghela has written a letter to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar that mentions change of presidentship in the state unit and "recent political developments" as reasons behind his resignation. As a matter of fact, Vaghela was removed as state president earlier this month and was replaced by Jayant Patel. The other reason behind his resignation is said to be NCP's lone MLA Kandhal Jadeja who voted in favour of BJP candidate in the recently held Rajya Sabha polls in defiance of the whip issued by the party. For the past one month, the 80-year-old has been actively helping coronavirus infected persons and their relatives who were in duress. Vaghela, fondly called "Bapu", had visited Ahmedabad civil hospital after its criticism by the high court as a "dungeon". After tendering the resignation, he said that through his new outfit he is going to take on BJP on the issue of rising price of petrol and diesel, among other issues in public interest. Vaghela started his political career with Jan Sagha which later became Bharatiya Janata Party. In 1996, he orchestrated a political coup in which he toppled the first BJP government in the state and formed his own with the help of Congress. However, the government didn't last long and Vaghela joined Congress. He was elected as a member of parliament twice in 1999 and 2004 and was a minister in the Congress-led UPA government. He left Congress in 2017 months before the assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarats-veteran-politician-shankersinh-vaghela-resigns-from-ncp-announces-new-outfit-852497.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||Politics heats up with mounting COVID-19 cases in Telangana as TRS and BJP spar over pandemic control||A day after Telangana recorded 730 new cases, the highest daily spike in COVID-19 infections till now, the BJP leaders including state unit chief Bandi Sanjay held protests against the “inept handling of the pandemic situation” by the Rao government. Telangana has till Sunday night recorded a total of 7,802 infections, with 210 COVID-19 related deaths. Bandi and others were detained by the Hyderabad police on Monday as they attempted to lay siege to the directorate of health office serving as the COVID-19 Command Control Centre. Some BJP leaders like MLC and city unit chief Ramachander Rao were kept under house arrest. BJP had called for statewide demonstrations at the primary, district health centres “to highlight the TRS government’s neglecting approach in COVID-19 mitigation.” “The TRS government is suppressing the questioning voices with arrests and police cases. This government is playing with lives of the public by not conducting tests properly. It has embezzled the thousands of crores of rupees sent by the centre for COVID-19 control. It is because of this indifferent handling that cases and death rates are surging,” said Bandi, who is also the Lok Sabha MP from Karimnagar. The TRS and BJP are engaged in political mudslinging, after BJP national president J P Nadda’s comments faulting KCR government’s handling of the pandemic. In a virtual rally of BJP cadres on Saturday, Nadda accused Telangana government as failing on the COVID-19 front. He even charged the KCR government of huge corruption in various projects.            On Sunday, TRS ministers Etela Rajender, managing health and Harish Rao (finance) hit back. Etela alleged that the centre has diverted testing kits meant for Telangana to Bengal and has sent insufficient number of PPE kits and masks. The ministers asked BJP to desist from “cheap politics.” BJP leaders demanded KCR to include COVID-19 under the state’s Aarogyasri scheme or else implement the Ayushman Bharat of Narendra Modi government in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politics-heats-up-with-mounting-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-as-trs-and-bjp-spar-over-pandemic-control-852527.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||Supreme Court's permission for Rath Yatra order is a big relief for the BJP||The Supreme Court’s decision for allowing the Rath Yatra, four days after it had stayed it came as a relief for the ruling dispensation, whose core Hindutva constituency was livid over the earlier order. Had the stay continued, it would have been the first time in the last 284 years since it started in 1737. The rage on social media over the no to Rath Yatra was evident with demands for bringing an ordinance to facilitate the Yatra to question why Hindu festivals are being stopped.  The significance of Jagannath Puri in BJP politics is such that immediately after the Supreme Court on June 18 stayed the Rath Yatra, BJP leadership concerned over its adverse message on core constituency swung into action as social media saw many drawing parallels of the stay on Yatra with what used to happen during Muslim rules.  Puri was one the constituencies under consideration in 2019 for PM Modi to contest. The township known for its Hindu culture fits into the scheme of BJP things for expanding its reach in the state. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, who filed the petition in the Supreme Court, had contested 2019 Lok Sabha polls from the Puri seat. BJP chief J P Nadda said, “heartful gratitude to the PM, who, respecting sentiments of people, initiated dialogue from all concerned parties. I thank our Home Minister, whose fruitful efforts have paved the way for the Rath Yatra to happen tomorrow.” In the court, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, argued that the tradition of centuries should not be stopped as it was a matter of faith for crores of people. Welcoming the Supreme Court’s “momentous decision”, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from the state said flagged “when it comes to matters of faith, traditions and sentiments of crores of people, Prime Minister Narendra Modis’ government has always led from the front.” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, who filed the petition in the Supreme Court, thanked the apex court as also PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for “the timely intervention by the central government” and BJP chief J P Nadda for his “guidance” VHP through its Central Secretary General Milind Parande, too had on Sunday filed a modification petition in the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision. Parande, separately also reminded the BJD government of Odisha that it was its responsibility to take proper steps to ensure the nonstop conduction of this ancient tradition – the pride and identity of Odisha and Bharat as it also hit out at saying the state government has “completely failed in fulfilling its duty”. Parande said that the Supreme Court should have heard all the concerned parties and stakeholders before delivering a verdict in this matter. “At least, the Shankaracharya of Puri Gobardhan Peethadhishwar Ven. Swami Nischalananda Saraswati Ji Maharaj, the trustees of the temple and the Yatra management committee should have been heard,” VHP had maintained. VHP also separately urged the Centre to remove obstacles from the Yatra and issued appeals made by various Hindu saints. BJP Odisha President Samir Mohanti said he had at the direction of Prime Minister Modi, “an ardent devotee of Lord Jagannath and Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Puri Gajapati Maharaja Dibyasingha Deb regarding the ongoing Rath Yatra issue."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/supreme-courts-permission-for-rath-yatra-order-is-a-big-relief-for-the-bjp-852592.html
22-06-2020||National Politics||Decisive enforcement of nationwide lockdown ensured Covid-19 deaths were kept low: Piyush Goyal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's farsighted vision in providing impetus to development and the decisive enforcing of the nationwide lockdown ensured Covid-19 deaths were kept low in the country, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said on Monday. Goyal, the Railways Minister, also said the situation would have been worse had not the Centre implemented flagship initiatives like Swachch Bharat, free LPG connections and the Jan Dhan Yojana. Despite having 17 per cent of the world's population, India's Covid-19 deaths was at a low of three per cent of the world's statistics. "Our recovery rate of 55 per cent is amongst the highest," Goyal said, addressing a virtual rally on completion of one year of NDA-2, organised by the BJP's Tamil Nadu unit. In its most recent update, the Health ministry placed the total number of coronavirus cases in the country at 4,25,282 and the death toll at 13,699. The ministry said that 2,37,196 people have so far recovered from the infection. Goyal further said Modi took various developmental programmes to every nook and corner of India. "During the past four to five years, the Centre constructed 11 crore toilets through Swachch Bharat programme and made the country open defecation-free and provided 25 to 26 lakh free LPG connections," he said. These have made it possible for the people to stay safe in their homes during the lockdown period, he claimed. "Imagine how many lives these programmes have saved by providing a safe environment. Just imagine how fast the virus would have spread in an unsafe condition," he added. It has been possible for the Centre to provide Covid-19 relief to farmers at short notice because the "sisters and mothers" have managed to save money through the 38 crore Jan Dhan Yojana accounts that the BJP government had created. The creation of bank accounts in the last five to six years has facilitated all the adults to have their own accounts, he said. "Thus, we could send the monetary assistance to crores of farmers and women," he added. He further said that precautions of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing too have reduced the impact of Covid-19 in India, given the large population. Goyal called upon the people to collectively work to ensure discipline is maintained. "With the decisive measures taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modiji, the government of Tamil Nadu, health workers and Corona warriors, India will not only win this battle, but will emerge stronger," he said. Today, the world has recognised the work done by the Prime Minister in combating Covid-19 pandemic, he added. The next five years will see the fulfilment of the aspirations of the people, encourage entrepreneurship and the nation emerging as the global factory of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/decisive-enforcement-of-nationwide-lockdown-ensured-covid-19-deaths-were-kept-low-piyush-goyal-852597.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi's coronavirus death rate 11 times national average||Delhi is being ravaged by the COVID-19 outbreak, with the national capital reporting 3,000 new patients on Sunday evening, taking the total confirmed cases to 59,746. The COVID-19 situation nationwide is equally grim as 15,053 new infections were recorded on Sunday, with Haryana becoming the ninth state to cross the 10,000-mark.  In Delhi, the virulence of the outbreak is alarming. The prevalence rate of COVID-19 across the country was 300 cases per million, but the disease was more widespread in the national capital, where there were 3,033 cases per million population. As many as 67% cases or 40,082 new infections were reported in the month of June itself in Delhi. According to economist Shamika Ravi, while India had a death rate of 9.68 per million, Delhi was reporting 112.88 deaths per million population — 11.7 times the national average. Delhi’s neighbour Haryana reported 480 new infections on Sunday, taking its tally past the 10,000 mark to 10,223. The state is the ninth to cross the grim landmark after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. While cases continued to surge, the number of persons recovering from the disease also recorded its steepest increase as 13,925 patients were discharged from hospitals. According to the DH COVID-19 Tracker, the total number of confirmed cases had risen to 4,26,663, while the fatalities due to the infectious disease had touched 13,698 at 11 pm on Sunday. Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continue to account for 60% of the total cases in the country. Andhra Pradesh (491), Telangana (546) reported their highest number of cases in a single day on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-coronavirus-death-rate-11-times-national-average-852266.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: Mobile Internet restored in Srinagar district||Mobile Internet was restored in Srinagar district late on Sunday night, 17 hours after it was snapped in view of an encounter between militants and security forces, officials said. The Internet on mobile devices was restored at 11 pm on Sunday, the officials said. It was snapped in the district at 6 am after the encounter broke out in the Zoonimar area of the city. Three militants were killed in the enounter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-mobile-internet-restored-in-srinagar-district-852306.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops shell forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistani troops opened fire and lobbed mortar shells at forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri and Poonch districts on Monday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, officials said. "At about 0330 hours today, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing of small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Krishnagati Sector in Poonch district," a defense spokesman said. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he said. Exchange of fire was going on when last reports came in from the area, the spokesman said. "Again at about 0530 hours Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation in Nowshera sector, district Rajouri," he said. Pakistan has been violating the ceasefire agreement three to four times a day in the past fortnight, officials said. Pakistan has violated the ceasefire over 800 times this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-shell-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-852314.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Dhok Defence Committee member injured in firing in Jammu and Kashmir||A Dhok Defence Committee (DDC) member was injured in firing in a remote village in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district, a police official said on Monday. Gopal Nath (35), a resident of village Duggi-Dandi, suffered injury in the right leg when unidentified gunmen opened fire at a dhok (mudhouse) in Jhompari Dal, 16 km from Bhaderwah town, around 11.30 pm on Sunday, Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Aadil Rishu said. The injured was taken to the Government Medical College (GMC) Hospital in Jammu. He said Nath and another DDC member, Firoz Din, were present inside the dhok (mudhouse) with their sheep when they reportedly came under fire. Police have recovered a 12-bore gun from the area, Rishu said. The officer said the preliminary investigation did not point towards involvement of terrorists. Further investigation into the firing incident is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dhok-defence-committee-member-injured-in-firing-in-jammu-and-kashmir-852331.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Second India-China Corps Commander level meeting at Ladakh; top Commanders meet Army Chief in Delhi||As yet another high-level meeting of the military leaders in eastern Ladakh continued late in the night on Monday, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane met all his top commanders in Delhi for an emergency review of the tense situation prevailing at the China and Pakistan borders. As the situation along the 3,488 km long disputed boundary between India and China remains tense, Gen Naravane called an emergency meeting of its commanders to take stock of the situation on the northern and western front. The senior military leaders were also appraised of the changes in the rules of engagement with the PLA troops in which local commanders had been empowered to give a “befitting reply” to the Chinese troops, sources said. “An Army Commanders Conference is being conducted on June 22-23, 2020 to review the operational situation on both the Northern and Western fronts,” said an Army officer. The high-level meeting comes within a month of the regular commanders conference that took place in May. This is an unusual meeting because typically such commanders' conferences do not discuss operational issues. A week after the bloody clash at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh that led to killing of 20 Indian soldiers, senior military leaders from both sides met at Moldo (opposite to Chushul in eastern Ladakh) to thrash out a road map to end the crisis at the Galwan Valley and Hot Spring areas. The meeting between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps from the Indian side and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military region began around 11.30 AM. In the meeting, the Chinese side admitted the death of one of its officers in the clash. Once the meeting is over, Lt Gen Singh would debrief the Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi and Gen Naravane. Subsequently, the outcome of the meeting would be debated within the government before a call is taken on releasing information to the media. On June 6, Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu held another marathon meeting to find a way out to end the one and half month long face-off in eastern Ladakh. But that meeting was followed by a violent clash between the Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley, the worst cross-border violence in 45 years, as the People's Liberation Army troops did not follow the agreed road map and breached several agreements by attacking the Indian troops as they removed a make-shift observation post installed on the Indian territory. The bloody battle frayed ties between the two countries, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi sending a strong message to China that “India wants peace but if provoked, India is capable of giving a befitting reply”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/second-india-china-corps-commander-level-meeting-at-ladakh-top-commanders-meet-army-chief-in-delhi-852345.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Debt-ridden farmer commits suicide in Uttar Pradesh||A debt-ridden farmer allegedly died by suicide in Jakhora town here, police said on Monday. Kure Ahirwar, 40, on Sunday afternoon was rushed to a nearby government hospital, where he died during treatment, they said. The family members of Ahirwar said that he was facing financial problems and had also taken a loan of Rs 2.50 lakh last year for the marriage of his daughter. Dayaram, the brother-in-law of the deceased, said Ahirwar's poor financial condition could be the reason behind his extreme step. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/debt-ridden-farmer-commits-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-852349.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||India fighting 2 wars against China, will win them both, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||During a digital address, Kejriwal said the country is fighting "two wars against China" -- one against the "virus (COVID-19) sent" by China and another "at the border" -- and this was not the time to do politics. "Today, the country is fighting two wars against China. One is against the virus (COVID-19) sent by China and the second at the (India-China border). Our doctors and nurses are fighting against the virus while our soldiers are fighting against China at the borders," Kejriwal said. He said the whole country is with the healthcare workers and soldiers and "in these two wars", all countrymen should be united. "There should not be any politics in this. This is not the time to play politics. The country has to fight unitedly against the Chinese at the borders and COVID-19. Twenty of our soldiers did not back out and the country is not going to back out till we win," he said. Kejriwal's appeal for the united fight came against the backdrop of Congress, CPI(M) and a section of defence and foreign affairs experts among others attacking PM Modi for his comments that "neither anyone intruded into our territory nor anyone is present in our territory nor any military post has been captured". It was interpreted as giving a lee-way to China and going against the statement earlier by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar that China erected structures on Indian side of the border. As the attack on PM Modi intensified, the Prime Minister's Office issued a clarification on Saturday that his remarks were about the incident that happened in Galwan valley on June 15. Four Chief Ministers -- K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana), Y S Jaganmohan Reddy (Andhra Conrad Sangma (Meghalaya) and Prem Singh Tamang (Sikkim) -- tweeted on Saturday in support of Modi. Incidentally, Kejriwal or AAP was not invited to the all-party meeting, and the party had raised criticism over the issue. AAP's Parliamentary Party leader Sanjay Singh had on Friday launched an attack on the Modi government before the meeting, asking why it was hiding details about the border row. Kejriwal's "virus sent by China" remark comes against the backdrop of a large number of people believing that the virus could have either escaped from a laboratory or deliberately released from a laboratory by China. However, available studies said the virus is natural. A recent study 'Pulse of the Pandemic' by Anhad and the P M Bhargava Foundation said that COVID-19 is not only a biological virus but becomes a societal virus as well, when the community acts to "stigmatise" sections of citizens or when the "othering" happens. While a large number of people surveyed for the study believed that people can recover from COVID-19, it said, when it comes to the question whether COVID-19 is natural or not, the opinion is divided as conspiracy theories have gained momentum. According to the report based on a survey done in May, 41.7% of the 2,223 people who participated in the study said the virus is natural but a sizeable chunk – 31.89% believe it is man-made while 24.11% did not have a clue from where it came from. Referring to United States President Donald Trump's assertions that Wuhan Institute of Virology was the origin of the virus, the report had said it was quite evident that when powerful politicians "propagate a conspiracy theory" it not only gets wide publicity but a large section of common citizens also start believing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-fighting-2-wars-against-china-will-win-them-both-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-852375.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to give pulse oximeters to those in home isolation, says CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday that his government will give pulse oximeters to the COVID-19 patients under home isolation in the city and said the number of coronavirus tests has increased by three times in the national capital. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said India is currently fighting two wars against China -- one against the virus that has come from the neighbouring country and the other on the border. "Twenty of our brave soldiers did not back down, we will also not retreat and win both wars against China," he said, adding, "This is not the time for politics, all of us have to fight the wars together."  Talking about his government's efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, the chief minister said around 18,000 coronavirus tests are being conducted daily in the city now. There are around 12,000 people under home isolation and they will be given pulse oximeters by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government, he said. Kejriwal said the Delhi government and the Centre are working together to arrest the spread of COVID-19 in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-give-pulse-oximeters-to-those-in-home-isolation-says-cm-kejriwal-852377.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Follow Lieutenant Governor order on COVID-19 testing scrupulously, HC tells AAP govt||The Delhi High Court Monday said it expected the AAP government to "scrupulously" follow the directions issued by the Lieutenant Governor (LG) on June 8 in connection with testing of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued the direction while disposing of two pleas challenging the Delhi government health department's June 2 decision to exclude asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic patients from COVID-19 testing. "It is expected of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) that the LG's direction of June 8 shall be followed scrupulously," the bench said. The court said it was not going to further monitor the matter in view of the Delhi government status report which said that LG Anil Baijal on June 8 set aside the June 2 order. The LG by his June 8 order had directed that testing strategy recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) be followed, said the report, filed through Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam. The report also stated that testing in Delhi has been ramped up and another testing methodology in the form of 'Rapid Antigen Testing' has been adopted in Delhi as per the recommendation of ICMR.  The two separate but similar petitions were filed by doctor K K Aggarwal, Padma Shri Awardee and former President of Indian Medical Association (IMA), and Renu Goswami. Aggarwal, who is also the president of NGO 'Heart Care Foundation of India', said during the hearing that multiple orders from Delhi government and then the LG was leading to confusion among the doctors as well as general public. He said there should be only one common order to avoid confusion. Aggarwal claimed that as COVID-19 is a notifiable disease it is mandatory for all citizens to get themselves tested for the virus, irrespective of whether the patient is symptomatic or asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic patient. In the second petition, Goswami said the Delhi government excluded asymptomatic direct contacts of confirmed cases from COVID-19 testing (except high risk cases), which is in contravention of ICMR testing guidelines issued on May 18 mandating testing of asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case. It said the AAP government has also issued show cause notices to authorised private laboratories for testing asymptomatic cases by alleging that they have purportedly acted in violation of the ICMR testing guidelines as well as suspended testing by eight labs. "The impugned actions restricting testing to symptomatic and high risk cases and reduced testing capacity of the state are in violation of the Article 21 of the Constitution in as much as denying the right of a citizen to get tested for an infection is a gross violation of Right to Life and the attendant right to health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/follow-lieutenant-governor-order-on-covid-19-testing-scrupulously-hc-tells-aap-govt-852383.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||India-China Border: Traders hold protest in Delhi, burn Chinese goods||Traders' body CAIT on Monday burnt Chinese goods in Delhi's main market Karol Bagh to demonstrate their resentment and anger against the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes with the Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley last week. The protesting traders led by Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal were briefly detained by the police and taken to the Karol Bagh Police Station. The trader's body claimed that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has accepted its demand to cancel three MoUs signed by the Maharashtra government with Chinese companies recently. While complimenting Thackeray, Khandelwal said, "This step is in line with the sentiments of the people of the country and will be a lesson to China". The traders' body recently launched a national campaign titled 'Bhartiya Samaan-Hamara Abhimaan' to boycott Chinese goods. Khandelwal said that traders and consumers across the country have shown great enthusiasm and tremendous support for boycott of Chinese goods. The first highlight of this campaign will be seen on the festival of Rakhi in the month of August when Indian women will tie purely Indian made rakhis to their brothers and boycott China-made rakhis, he added. The CAIT has urged traders from all over the country to refrain from selling or buying Chinese goods in view of the upcoming festivals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-border-traders-hold-protest-in-delhi-burn-chinese-goods-852398.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Action sought against Rajasthan BJP chief for breach of MLAs' privilege||Rajasthan’s Sirohi MLA Sanyam Lodha has charged state BJP chief Satish Poonia with the bid to tarnish the image of the legislators who backed the Congress in the just-concluded Rajya Sabha polls and sought action for the breach of their privilege. In a letter to Assembly Speaker C P Joshi on Sunday, the legislator alleged that Poonia attempted to tarnish the image of 23 MLAs belonging to other parties and Independents by claiming that the state government “offered them mines, plots and cash” for supporting the Congress candidates. The ruling Congress had won two seats and the BJP one in the Rajya Sabha polls held in the state on Friday. Attaching a news report with his letter, Lodha sought action against Poonia under the breach of privilege motion. “I am a member of the legislative assembly and desirous to uphold the integrity and prestige of the institution. A blatant attempt has been made by Satish Pooonia to tarnish the image of members of the legislative assembly by raising false aspersions against 23 members,” Lodha said in the letter. The Sirohi MLA further said Poonia not only tried to harm the image of the legislators but also the legislative assembly by making allegations of such a nature in a newspaper “without substantiating it with any proof”. Poonia, on the other hand, dubbed the attack a “political propaganda”. “Lodha is working as a Congress agent. Even the chief minister has stated of Rs 35 crore being offered to MLAs in the RS polls. Whatever I have said has a ground. We will fight the motion,” Poonia said. The Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly and it enjoys the support of 18 other MLAs, including 13 Independents, whereas the BJP has 72 lawmakers and support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/action-sought-against-rajasthan-bjp-chief-for-breach-of-mlas-privilege-852405.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Vendor tests positive in Gwalior, contact tracing begins||A 28-year-old street vendor was detected with novel coronavirus infection in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh and the district administration on Monday asked people who may have come in contact with him to come forward to get themselves tested. District Collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh said the man's report returned positive on Sunday night after he had gone to a hospital on Wednesday complaining of fever. He sold momos (steamed dumplings) at Goal Ka Mandir and CP Colony, and those who had come in contact must approach the district hospital, Singh added. Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Pradeep Tomar said 12 people had come forward and contacted the hospital on Monday after the appeal. As on Sunday evening, the COVID-19 count in Gwalior stood at 286, while two people have died of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-vendor-tests-positive-in-gwalior-contact-tracing-begins-852408.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi accuses UP govt of negligence over death of COVID-19 patients||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over a media report that 28 COVID-19 patients died within 48 hours of hospitalisation, saying if the Yogi Adityanath dispensation continues with its negligence, it will be dangerous. Taking to Twitter, Priyanka Gandhi tagged a media report which claimed that 28 coronavirus patients admitted for treatment at a hospital in Agra died within 48 hours of their hospitalisation. "Twenty-eight corona patients admitted in Agra died within 48 hours. It is a matter of shame for the UP government that by falsely propagating this model, efforts were made to suppress the truth," the Congress general secretary said, tagging the report. "Questions over the government's 'no test-no corona' policy were raised, but the government did not answer them," Priyanka Gandhi said. If the Uttar Pradesh government keeps suppressing the truth on coronavirus-related issues, continuing with its negligence, then this will be dangerous. In another tweet, Priyanka Gandhi attacked the UP government over the alleged suicide by a couple in Kanpur, following job loss during the lockdown. She said the government should focus on solving problems rather than indulging in propaganda in these difficult times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-accuses-up-govt-of-negligence-over-death-of-covid-19-patients-852440.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi government to give pulse oximeters to those in home isolation, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday that his government will give pulse oximeters to the COVID-19 patients under home isolation and said the number of coronavirus tests has increased by three times in the national capital. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said in the last one week, there was a rise of only 1,000 active coronavirus cases, which indicates that the COVID-19 situation is slowly getting stabilised in the city. From June 15 to 21, Delhi reported 18,564 coronavirus cases. However, 16,790 people also recovered from the disease in the national capital in the said period. The chief minister said till now, Delhi did not require beds for COVID-19 patients on a large scale as most of them recovered from the disease, adding that the number of serious patients is also less in the national capital.  He said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is getting "enough support" to arrest the spread of COVID-19 in Delhi. "We will give pulse oximeters to the COVID-19 patients under home isolation. Every district will have oxygen concentrators. Delhi will soon have a helpline and our team will go to the houses of the patients who are recovering from the disease to provide oxygen," Kejriwal said. The patients can return the pulse oximeters to the government after they have fully recovered, he added. Kejriwal said Delhi currently has 25,000 active COVID-19 cases and of these, 12,000 people are under home isolation, adding that around 18,000 coronavirus tests are being conducted daily in the city.  Until a few weeks ago, around 5,000 COVID-19 tests were being conducted daily in the national capital. With the Centre's help, antigen tests, which give the results within 30 minutes, have also been started in Delhi, the chief minister said. He said as on June 12, a total of 5,300 beds were occupied in all the hospitals in the city. "As of now, 6,200 beds have been occupied, which means only 900 more beds have been occupied in the last 10 days...7,000 beds are still available. "This means that the number of new coronavirus patients admitted in hospitals is almost the same as that of the people recovering from the disease and going back to their homes," the chief minister said. There was some chaos a few days ago as regards availability of beds, he said, while asserting that his government has worked on a war-footing to increase the number of beds in government and private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-government-to-give-pulse-oximeters-to-those-in-home-isolation-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-852442.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Neem tree's 'birthday' celebrated in Bhopal market||Shop owners of a market in Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal continued a 26-year-old environment conservation ritual by celebrating the "birthday" of a neem tree, though the affair this year was muted due to the novel coronavirus outbreak and the need for social distancing. The birthday celebration of the neem tree at Piplani's Adarsh Market in BHEL area here is normally attended every year by local officials and hundreds of schoolchildren. "I have been taking part in this event continuously for the past 16 years as I strongly believe in conserving our environment for future generations," MP Industry Principal Secretary Sanjay Shukla, who cut a cake along with other shopkeepers on Sunday, told PTI. Among those present, apart from Shukla, were Bhopal Range Inspector General of Police Upendra Jain and Bhopal civic chief VS Choudhary Kolsani. The man behind the initiative, Adarsh Market's Rambabu Sharma, said the idea was to give back to nature, and he chose a tree as a symbol as people used wood through all stages of their lives. "Normally, a person uses wood all his life, from birth to building a house to deploying it for late rites. However, he does not give anything in return. With this thought in mind, I floated the idea of planting a neem tree 26 years ago on June 21. And since then we have been celebrating its birthday," he said. He claimed public sector major BHEL had got inspired by this idea and turned a 10-acre land near the market into a tree-filled plot. Bhopal civic chief Kolsani said saplings would be planted across the city during the monsoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-neem-trees-birthday-celebrated-in-bhopal-market-852463.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Bridge collapses in Jammu and Kashmir, narrow escape for driver||A driver of a vehicle had a narrow escape when a bridge collapsed in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Monday, officials said. The bridge on a river in the Panjgrahi belt of the district collapsed when the vehicle was crossing it, they said, adding that the driver suffered injuries. Due to the collapse of the bridge, several hamlets have been cut off, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bridge-collapses-in-jammu-and-kashmir-narrow-escape-for-driver-852493.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar condole demise of Rajinder Goel||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and ex-CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday expressed their grief at the demise of legendary spinner Rajinder Goel. Goel, 77, breathed his last at his Rohtak residence on Sunday, after prolonged illness. Khattar said he was saddened by the demise of the legendary spinner. "I pray to Almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family to bear the irreparable loss," the Chief Minister said in his condolence message. Hooda, a senior Congress leader, said tat Goel's death "was an irreparable loss to the sports world". Meanwhile, former BCCI treasurer MP Pandove also condoled the death of Goel. The 74-year-old Pandove played with him from his college and university days. Later on both played together for Southern Punjab and thereafter while Goel represented Delhi and later Haryana in Ranji Trophy, Pandove played against him for Punjab. "Goel's demise brings an end to the golden era of spin bowling in domestic cricket."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-condole-demise-of-rajinder-goel-852494.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Fake plasma donor arrested for duping Delhi Assembly Speaker||A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cheating Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel on the pretext of donating plasma to coronavirus patients, police said on Monday. The accused has been identified as Abdul Karim alias Rahul Thakkar, a resident of Prahladpur, they said. The matter came to light after the police received a complaint from the Speaker on Saturday. According to the complaint, Goel’s nephew was in search of a plasma donor for his father-in-law who had tested positive for coronavirus. Subsequently, he posted a request for help on social media and got a call from Thakkar. The accused introduced himself as a doctor of a government hospital and said he had recently recovered from the disease and was ready to donate his plasma. His help, however, was not taken at that time due to the availability of another donor, police said. But later, on June 19, when Goel required a donor for one of his acquaintances, his nephew again posted for a request online. They received a call from Thakkar who asked for transferring Rs 450 to his account for meeting his travel expenses. After Goel transferred the requested amount, the accused assured that he would reach the private hospital where the patient was admitted, they said. But later, the accused told them that he did not receive the amount and asked the Delhi Assembly Speaker to transfer the money again. When they tried to contact him, Thakkar’s phone was found to be switched off, the complaint added. Later, Goel found out that the accused had taken money from the family members of the patient as well, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said an FIR was registered under section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code against Thakkar at the Civil Lines Police Station. He was arrested on Saturday, she said.  "During interrogation, the accused disclosed that he cheated people on the pretext of donating blood plasma amid the pandemic outbreak. He introduced himself as a doctor to COVID-19 patients, pretended to be a plasma donor and asked for money in the guise of travelling expenses to reach the hospital where patients were admitted," the DCP said. The mobile phone used in commission of crime has been seized, the officer said, adding the accused was also involved in a case of cheating registered at the Hauz Khas Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fake-plasma-donor-arrested-for-duping-delhi-assembly-speaker-852507.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||10 new COVID-19 cases reported in Ladakh; tally at 847||Ten more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Ladakh on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the Union Territory to 847, health department officials said. While one person had died of COVID-19, 136 others have been cured and subsequently discharged from various hospitals in the region. Out of the 10 fresh positive cases -- eight were from Leh and two from Kargil, taking the number of active positive cases in the twin districts to 710, the officials said, adding that Kargil has the highest number of positive cases at 557 while Leh district has 153 cases. Out of the total 557 active cases in Kargil, 54 patients are admitted in COVID hospital and 383 people are in home isolation while 120 patients are in COVID care centres (CCC), the officials said.  Similarly, out of the total 153 active cases in Leh, nine positive patients are admitted in COVID hospital while 144 positive cases are in home isolation, the officials said. They said the condition of all 710 active cases is “stable”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ladakh-tally-at-847-852537.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||North-East Delhi violence: HC seeks school owner’s response on police’s plea challenging his bail||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the owner of a private school on a plea by the Delhi Police challenging bail granted to him in a case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Faisal Farooq, owner of Rajdhani School in Shiv Vihar locality was among the 18 arrested, for alleged involvement in burning and damaging the property of adjacent DRP Convent School. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, also directed that “till further order, if the respondent/accused (Farooq), pursuant to order dated June 20 (of trial court) is still in custody, he shall not be released.” The high court listed the matter for further hearing on Tuesday and said the copy of the order be communicated to the concerned judge and jail superintendent concerned through phone, mail or any other mode for information and compliance. The police, in the petition filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, have challenged the trial court’s June 20 order granting bail to Farooq on the ground that it was prima facie not established that he was present at the spot at the time of incident. The hearing also saw exchange of words between Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra who submitted that the Central Government has no power to file this petition against the June 20 order of the trial court. The Solicitor General submitted that he has received instructions from the Central Government to file this petition and to appear before the court. However, this fact was disputed by Mehra. The high court noted in its order, “At this stage, the Solicitor General submits that in this situation, out of disgust, he seeks permission to withdraw his name from the present petition. Needless to state that it is upto the Solicitor General to appear in any matter or not unless specifically directed by the court.” The matter was passed over for a while and after the hearing resumed, Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi appeared in place of the Solicitor General and prosecutor Amit Chadha appeared in place of Mehra, who was in another court. Prosecutor Chadha submitted that the controversy raised in the petition shall be resolved during the course of the day and jointly sought adjournment for Tuesday. The Delhi Police had on June 3 filed a charge sheet before the court against Farooq and 17 others in the incident in which the building of a private school was burnt down in North East Delhi. The trial court, in its bail order, had noted that the charge sheet filed against him in the case was bereft of material showing his alleged links with Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group and Muslim clerics. The trial court has said the accused would be released from the jail on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 50,000 along with two sureties of like amount. It had directed Farooq to surrender his passport and should not leave the National Capital Region without permission of the court and should mark his attendance on every alternate Wednesday at the concerned police station. It also asked him not to tamper with evidence or influence the witnesses. The Crime Branch of Delhi police had filed the charge sheet against the accused for allegedly conspiring with Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination Committee and Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz for creating riots, in and around his school. It has also been alleged that protestors against the CAA had received funds from PFI, formed in 2006 in Kerala as a successor to the National Democratic Front (NDF). Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students. In 2015, Jamia Millia Islamia University had issued a notice restricting female students from staying out after 8 pm. When the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) questioned the Jamia administration on it, a group of women students decided to protest against the restrictions not only in Jamia but other universities in Delhi. Later named as Pinjra Tod, the group mobilised people around several issues faced by female residents of hostels and PGs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/north-east-delhi-violence-hc-seeks-school-owner-s-response-on-police-s-plea-challenging-his-bail-852567.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Death threat to Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath: Lucknow court denies bail to accused||A Lucknow court on Monday rejected the bail plea of the man accused of issuing death threats to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on WhatsApp. The court of Additional Sessions Judge Durg Narayan Singh also denied bail to Sayed Mohammed Faisal, who had allegedly issued threats for the release of Kamran Amin Khan. On May 23, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad had arrested Khan in Mumbai for allegedly threatening to kill the CM. The Uttar Pradesh Police's social media helpdesk had received a WhatsApp message on May 22, in which the sender allegedly threatened to kill Adityanath in a bomb blast, an official had said. The UP Police alerted the Maharashtra ATS after the message was traced to Mumbai following which the sender was tracked down and arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-threat-to-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-lucknow-court-denies-bail-to-accused-852576.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Punjab cabinet pays homage to 20 Indian soldiers killed in Galwan Valley||The Punjab cabinet on Monday paid homage to the 20 Indian soldiers who were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley. All the members of the cabinet stood in silence for two-minutes before passing a condolence resolution in the honour and memory of those killed in action on June 15, according to an official statement. Among the 20 soldiers, four belonged to Punjab. The cabinet, headed by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on Monday also approved a comprehensive Public Grievance Redressal Policy. The policy paves the way for the creation and management of a Public Grievance Redressal System (PGRS) to bring grievance mechanisms of all departments under one umbrella, the statement said. The cabinet also decided to put in place a uniform system for redressal of grievances of citizens in a time-bound, accessible and transparent manner. There is currently no single interface for citizens to register their grievances with the government and this necessitated the formulation of a comprehensive policy, the statement said. In the absence of a clearly defined policy for grievance resolution, various departments were till now operating and maintaining their individual systems to receive and redress grievances from citizens. The council of ministers also approved an amendment to the Punjab State Lotteries Rules, 2015, by inserting the definition of 'Discount' and 'Face Value'. This amendment would help in starting new weekly lottery schemes in the state to enhance its revenue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cabinet-pays-homage-to-20-indian-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-valley-852587.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Bhopal gas victims account for 75% of COVID-19 deaths: NGOs||Nearly 75 per cent of the patients who have died due to complications from COVID-19 in the capital city till June 11 were the victims of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, NGOs working for their welfare said on Monday. Most of these gas victims had fragile immunity, they said. "We have written a letter to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan drawing the governments attention towards this disturbing trend, Bhopal Group for Information and Action (BGIA) convener Rachna Dhingra told PTI. BGIA and three other NGOs, working for survivors of the worlds worst industrial disaster, have carried out an analysis that claims that 48 of the 60 patients, who died due to coronavirus till June 11 in the state capital, were also gas victims. These 48 fatalities included three persons who were born to parents exposed to the toxic gas leak 35 years ago, the NGOs's analysis said. These mortalities show survivors and their children were suffering even 35 years after the toxic methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas spewed out from the Union Carbide plant here, said Dhingra. The analysis has revealed that 81 per cent gas victims who died due to COVID-19 had comorbidities (pre-existing health conditions), she said. "Of course, their exposure to the toxic gas has left them in a state of permanent disability," she contended. We want the state government to hold talks with us and gas tragedy survivors to find a way to help them," Dhingra added. The four groups (NGOs) working for the survivors have come out with the right analysis," said Purnendu Shukla, a member of the Supreme Courts Monitoring Committee for Gas Victims. The government should take the analysis seriously. The state government does not even have data of gas victims which is very disturbing," he added. The Indian Council of Medical Research-run Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC), the dedicated superspeciality hospital meant for the survivors, was not taking proper care of the victims, he added. We are going to inform the court about these things," Shukla said. The other three NGOs involved in the exercise were Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh, Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila, Purush Sangharsh Morcha and Children Against Dow-Carbide. A state government official they were aware of the analysis. Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation Director Basant Kurre said they were aware of the analysis. Twenty deceased were gas victims. We are checking whether others, too, were gas tragedy survivors, he said. "The government is working for the welfare of gas victims," Kurre added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopal-gas-victims-account-for-75-of-covid-19-deaths-ngos-852600.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||7 coronavirus deaths in Rajasthan, 18 members of Congress MLA's family test positive||Seven deaths and 302 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in Rajasthan on Monday, including 18 family members of Congress legislator from Bari constituency Giriraj Singh Malinga who have tested positive in Dholpur district, officials said. All 18 of the MLA's relatives have been home quarantined and medical treatment is being provided. Out of the 18, two have been cured whereas 16 others are still under treatment, Dr Shiv Dayal Mangal, Dholpur Principal Medical Officer said. A total of 415 positive cases have surfaced in Dholpur till date, according to the health department. Of the fatalities, four deaths were reported in Jodhpur and one each from Jaipur, Kota and Udaipur. Among the fresh cases, 45 were reported from Jodhpur followed by 42 in Jaipur, 32 in Pali, 29 in Sikar, 26 each in Churu and Bharatpur, 13 each in Dholpur and Udaipur besides cases in other districts of the state, officials said. Jaipur has reported maximum of 150 deaths and 2,899 positive cases in the state followed by 34 deaths and 2,459 cases in Jodhpur. A total of 11,675 people have been discharged whereas 2,966 are active cases in the state, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-coronavirus-deaths-in-rajasthan-18-members-of-congress-mlas-family-test-positive-852611.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Centre profiteering from hike in fuel prices: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said petrol and diesel prices have been raised for the 16th consecutive day during the period of unprecedented hardship that common people are facing due to COVID-19. He asked the Centre to explain to the people, why prices are being hiked continuously for 16 days. "Government should give the benefit of reduced international oil prices to the public, instead the government is profiteering from it," Gehlot said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-profiteering-from-hike-in-fuel-prices-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-852615.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Implement MHA directions to contain Covid-19 in Delhi: Chief Secretary Vijay Dev to officials||Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Monday directed officials to implement all directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, including re-mapping of containment zones and aggressive contact-tracing, to effectively fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital. Sources said that in his directions to Principal Secretary (Health) Vikram Dev Dutt and Divisional Commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar, the chief secretary also asked them to ensure enhanced testing and patient-friendly medical care. These directions come a day after a high-level committee set up by Union Home Minister Amit Shah recommended quarantine of contacts of all Covid-19 positive cases in Delhi and re-mapping of all containment zones to check the rapid spread of the coronavirus infection in the national capital. "The chief secretary has issued directions to the principal secretary (Health) and the divisional commissioner to scrupulously implement all the directions of MHA to aggressively fight Covid-19, including enhanced surveillance, re-mapping of containment zones, enhanced testing, aggressive tracking and patient-friendly medical care," a source said on Monday. The committee had recommended that containment zones be drawn afresh and strict vigil and control be maintained on their borders and activities inside them, the home ministry had said in a statement. It had also suggested that contact-tracing be done for all infected people and once identified, such contacts should be quarantined. The Aarogya Setu and Itihaas apps should be jointly used to accomplish this task, it had said. The Union home minister had advised the Delhi government to implement the containment strategy recommended by the V K Paul Committee. Shah had asked Delhi government authorities to take technical help for drawing the new or amended limits for containment zones in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/implement-mha-directions-to-contain-covid-19-in-delhi-chief-secretary-vijay-dev-to-officials-852618.html
22-06-2020||North and Central||Medical curriculum will have to adapt itself in post Covid-19 era: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Monday said medical curriculum will have to adapt itself in the post-Covid-19 era as there is going to be a renewed focus on the study and management of infectious diseases. Addressing an online conference with the heads and representatives of national medical teaching institutes, he said coronavirus has suddenly awakened the whole world, particularly the medical fraternity, to realise that the age of infections is far from over. Singh said the Indian medical fraternity has an advantage over their western counterparts because the practice of medicine in the country was inherently tuned to prescriptions based on hygiene and prevention of cross infections. Therefore, he said, in the wake of Covid-19, Indian medical fraternity was quick to re-orient itself to the new norms of medical management, according to a Personnel Ministry statement. “The leading academic institutions of India owe the responsibility to re-emphasise certain aspects of medical curriculum because these are the institutions which actually enjoy the distinction of training the teachers for nearly 400 medical colleges spread across the country. We may get over the coronavirus, but this may not be the last virus to confront,” the minister said. In the last three decades, the disease spectrum in India shifted to non-communicable diseases and hence, the medical teaching got focussed more on metabolic and vascular disorders like diabetes mellitus, coronary heart diseases etc, while the infectious diseases took a back seat with the advent of superior anti-microbial drugs, Singh said. The Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions also said there is going to be renewed focus on the study and management of infectious diseases in the post-COVID-19 era and the medical curriculum will have to adapt itself accordingly. The institutions like AIIMS, New Delhi and PGI Chandigarh have always taken a lead, he said and hoped that new protocols for the new norms in medical teaching and management will also emerge from these institutes. He said medicos from several western countries were deputed to India to do their internship in tropical diseases, because these diseases were hardly prevalent there. Many of the western researchers come to India to do their research on diseases like tuberculosis, leprosy and sexually transmitted diseases, Singh, a renowned diabetologist, said. Those who made their presentations at the conference included Jagat Ram from PGI Chandigarh, Shakti Gupta from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, P Bhattacharya from North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS), Shillong, A Shanta Singh from Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Manipur, A G Ahangar from Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Srinagar and Nasib Chand Digra from GMC Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medical-curriculum-will-have-to-adapt-itself-in-post-covid-19-era-jitendra-singh-852639.html
22-06-2020||Panorama||‘Make Tibet a peace zone, border issue will be over’||Lobsang Sangay, a Fulbright Scholar and an alumnus of the Harvard Law School, was elected as head of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile (TGiE) – formally known as Central Tibetan Administration–in 2011 and re-elected in 2016. As India’s military stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh turned violent in Galwan Valley on June 15, the Sikyong (President) of the TGiE tells the DH that all democratic nations should come together to resist the Communist country’s bid to dismantle the rules-based world order. He spoke to Anirban Bhaumik of DH. Excerpts: How do you view the recent aggression by China along its disputed boundary with India? India’s late Defence Minister George Fernandes had said that China is India’s Number One potential threat. He even warned of China’s “String of Pearls” strategy to encircle India. What we are now seeing on the China’s Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India as well as in the Indian Ocean confirms what he had said two decades ago. Twenty Indian Army soldiers lost their lives protecting India’s borders against China’s aggression. There was no border conflict in the Himalayas 70 years ago, because Tibet served as a natural buffer between the two Asian giants – China and India.  By invading Tibet, China turned that buffer zone into a strategic upper hand for its People’s Liberation Army to implement its expansionist dreams. China is now coming after what Mao Zedong described as Tibet’s “Five Fingers” – Ladakh, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Bhutan and Nepal. China promised to bring prosperity and stability in Tibet. But it sent its trucks, guns and tanks to occupy Tibet and plunder the mineral resources of Tibet. What it did with Tibet revealed China’s increasing military expansionist policy in Asia. We have been saying for the last 70 years that what happened to Tibet could happen to all the neighbouring countries of Tibet, including India.  How do you think India should respond to the aggression by China? Tibet lies at the core of the territorial dispute between India and China since the Indo-Tibet border turned into Sino-Indian border in 1954. Since China’s invasion of Tibet in 1950, China is trying to expand its geopolitical ambitions. China’s military aggressions along its Himalayan borders with India are just a tip of the iceberg. Until you solve the issue of Tibet, China’s military incursion across its border with India will continue. A resolution to the Tibet issue by restoring Tibet to its traditional status of peace zone is imperative for Asia’s geopolitical stability and peace. The Central Tibetan Administration, the exile Tibetan Administration, has been pursuing the peaceful resolution of Tibet issue through the Middle Way Approach that seeks to demilitarise Tibet and make Tibet a peace zone. If Tibet is demilitarised, there wouldn’t be any issue over the border. So, making Tibet a peace zone is in the interest of peace and stability of Asia. We can see China’s aggression in East China Sea, South China Sea and Taiwan Strait too. Why do you think China is pursuing such an aggressive policy? Amid a global backlash over its severe mishandling of Covid-19 coupled with insecurities and fears emanating from growing internal tensions, the Communist Party of China is trying to obfuscate the international scrutiny by raking up maritime disputes, imposing legal crackdown in Hong Kong and military provocations with India. From seeking to overturn Hong Kong’s ‘one country, two systems’ with the new national security laws to stirring maritime disputes in the South China Sea and East China Sea and browbeating Taiwan, China is going all out in advancing its grand geopolitical strategy to become the ultimate global hegemony unilaterally. The world is no stranger to China’s brazen disregard for international law when laying claim to new territory. China has claimed that Tibet was a part of its territory for centuries, even though historically and legally, Tibet has been an independent country until it was forcefully occupied in 1950. The same blueprint is now applying to the South Asian countries such as Nepal, Bhutan and India as well as in the East China Sea, South China Sea, Taiwan and Hong Kong. China is trying to change the status quo by using its military power and violating international laws. Even in this Covid-19 era, China is capitalising the global health crisis to serve its own political interest, instead of joining the world to fight the pandemic collectively.  How should the international community respond to new aggression of China? It will require a multilateral front to respond to mishandling of powers by China. The democratic countries around the world must forge an alliance to systematically counter the economic and military intimidations by China and reset its relations with Xi Jinping’s regime in Beijing on every front. The world can no longer hope that China will someday play by the rules because it clearly never did and never will. Tibetans have been saying this for the past 70 years and, if the world still continues to ignore it, China will soon dismantle the rules-based world order to impose its very own draconian system globally. What is the situation in Tibet, particularly during this Covid-19 crisis? The authorities are using the Covid-19 outbreak to propagate the Communist party’s drive to enhance “party’s stability” and “social stability maintenance”, intensifying crackdown on Tibetans, introducing drastic surveillance measures in every Tibetan district, schools, monasteries and personal spaces. During the Tibetan New Year festival in February and during the month of Buddha Purnima in May, Tibetans were not allowed to visit monasteries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/make-tibet-a-peace-zone-border-issue-will-be-over-852630.html
22-06-2020||Panorama||Covid-19: Prevention is better than cure||While the coronavirus pandemic has exposed many of our healthcare system’s underlying weaknesses, no one is addressing the elephant in the room. Co-morbidities have been one of the primary causes of coronavirus deaths globally, and non-communicable diseases are the main culprits. Their incidence is on the rise and they are currently responsible for 61% of all deaths in the country. This number is only set to go up with increasing lifestyle changes and shifting disease patterns. It does not help that the Indian healthcare system is full of contradictions. Even though the healthcare costs in the country are among the most affordable worldwide, almost 96% of the rural population and 82% of the urban population do not have health insurance. While medical tourism is set to cross 8 billion dollars in 2020, we suffer from a deficit of more than 600,000 doctors and 2 million nurses.  Conventional medicine alone cannot guarantee equal access to healthcare in India. We have a population of over 1.3 billion and the social, economic, geographical and infrastructural variations across the country make it impossible for a reactionary allopathic approach to succeed in delivering the mandate of universal health coverage.  The government needs to put preventive care on the front foot to improve health outcomes and reduce the burden on our healthcare system. For instance, naturopathy is one such system that relies on the power of the body to heal itself. Naturopaths factor in physical, environmental, psychological and social factors when treating a patient. The unique patient-centric approach focuses on devising customized, non-invasive and drugless treatments to treat chronic conditions. Yoga is another holistic system of physical and mental exercises that have been shown to control non-communicable diseases, from diabetes and arthritis to hypertension and chronic respiratory diseases. Many physicians recommend it to their patients as a part of disease management and prevention. It is slowly but surely becoming an integral part of the multi-sectoral approach to tackling NCDs. The coronavirus pandemic has also made people acutely aware of their unhealthy lifestyles. Patients across the country have begun to see the value of preventive care and have started to take their health into their hands. This will lead to a rise in wellness tourism and give the alternative medicine industry an unprecedented leg up. The government has to take cognizance of the fact. Encouraging investments in wellness schemes will surely help alleviate the severity of the crisis and lay the road to a healthier India. Standardizing the practise of naturopathy will help restore its credibility as a scientific system of medicine. While the central government has set up regulatory bodies for Homeopathy, Ayurveda, Unani, and Siddha, yoga and naturopathy remain unregulated, owing to the fact that they are drugless systems of medicine.  Although a parliamentary committee sought to include both naturopathy and yoga in the NCISM bill, there has been no development on that front yet. Making the bill more inclusive is the only way to ensure quality in healthcare delivery. It will lead to a more productive interface between conventional and alternative systems of medicine, lightening the load on our healthcare system. More importantly, it will force practitioners to follow standards, which will help restore global credibility. Instituting a committee with industry experts can help solve the tricky regulatory issues, and ease the process of integrating yoga and naturopathy in the NCISM bill. Allocating central funds to integrate complementary approaches into the primary care setting will help widen its reach and efficacy, and promote a healthcare service delivery model that will be unique in its approach and act as an example for developing countries across the world. If the government can spearhead mass awareness campaigns to educate people on the benefits of alternative medicine, they will surely get all the support they can from the industry. (The writer is Chairman, Jindal Naturecure Institute)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-prevention-is-better-than-cure-852631.html
22-06-2020||Right in the Middle||At the break of dawn||Like Diwali and Independence Day, I’m sure an essay on ‘morning walks and its advantages’ was a familiar topic for many at school. Key elements like fresh air, birds chirping, dew on the grass, calm and pleasant weather were inescapable. With every passing year, the word limit or the write up would be raised, and a bigger, better composition was expected. Though the key points of the dissertation remained the same through the school years, a practical experience once would have said a lot more. As I was not much of a morning person, many years passed by without seeing the first rays of the Sun. A few years back, while staying in Noida, I enrolled her in a skating class. I would wake early every morning and rush through my neighbour's garden and dash to the stadium. Once inside the arena, I was astonished to see so many souls engaged in different activities. It warmed my heart to see lined with trees and a huge open ground in the centre. At the entrance, loud guffaws could be heard from a group standing in a  circle with a leader at the centre. The closer I got, the louder became the laugh. This unperturbed laugh was from the aged members' group. A few steps down was the ‘yoga group’  with individuals stretched out on their mats trying to strike the right pose. Football enthusiasts were all geared up with their morning warmup. The sun started to peep out and a bunch of little kids arrived with their skating gears. I dropped my daughter and while I walked away, I could hear their giggles. Betwixt all this, there were moms who sat around in bunches and spoke their heart out to their friends. This laughter therapy was unadulterated. From maids to mother in laws--all woes were addressed. The whole place was abuzz with activities. After a brisk walk around the stadium, the road back was a sight to behold. The pathway was filled with fresh mounds of vegetables straight from the fields. A quick stopover there was a must before heading back home. The morning dew often saw me walking through it. Today, with the rise of pollution and smaller spaces to walk, fresh air has become a concern for all. People have switched to indoors with air purifiers and treadmills. The benefits of a morning walk are still greater than indoors. One must breathe in that wonderful feeling while it is free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/at-the-break-of-dawn-852627.html
22-06-2020||Second Edit||BJP strength rises in Rajya Sabha||The latest round of Rajya Sabha elections has seen the BJP increasing its strength in the Upper House where it has never enjoyed a majority. It won eight of the 19 seats which were contested, and five candidates, including four from Karnataka, were elected unopposed. The NDA, led by the BJP, now has a tally of 101 in the 245-member House. With the help of parties like the BJD, the AIADMK and the YSR Congress, it can cross the half-way mark and push through legislations in the House. The lack of a majority in the Rajya Sabha had prompted the party to resort to many questionable manoeuvres in the past. The gradual increase in numbers has taken the party to a comfortable position, though a majority is still far off.   The BJP has not had any major victory in state assembly elections in recent years which would have helped it to naturally increase its strength in the Rajya Sabha. So it has tried to increase its strength in the House by other means. The Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) contingent of four in the House en masse defected to the BJP last year, beating the anti-defection law. It has perfected the strategy of weaning members from the Congress or regional parties to destabilise state governments and form its own governments, as it did in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. The re-election of the defecting members would increase the strength in the House and help send more members to the Rajya Sabha. An operation was perhaps attempted in Rajasthan before the latest round of elections but it did not succeed, at least for the time being. Defections have also been tried specifically for the Rajya Sabha elections, sometimes in retail but on a bigger scale also, as In Gujarat in 2018 and even now.  Because of the resignation of eight Congress MLAs in the state in recent weeks, the BJP was able to get one more candidate elected to the Upper House, than the two it could normally have.  It is unfortunate that in the attempts and manoeuvres to increase the number of members in the Rajya Sabha, the role and function of the House are lost altogether. Of the 61 vacancies being filled up now, 43 are accounted for by first-timers. Some of them may have some experience in the Lok Sabha. But generally, the Rajya Sabha has been losing its status as the House of Elders who, with their experience and wisdom, would raise the proceedings in the House to a higher and more mature level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bjp-strength-rises-in-rajya-sabha-852625.html
22-06-2020||South||Madras High Court acquits girl's father in honour killing case||Four years after the murder of Shankar, who belonged to Scheduled Caste, sent shockwaves across Tamil Nadu, the Madras High Court on Monday acquitted the prime accused in the sensational case – his father-in-law B Chinnasamy – of all charges. The division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and M Nirmal Kumar also commuted the death sentence of five others to 25 years in prison. The aforementioned five persons and Chinnasamy were awarded death sentence by a local court in Tiruppur that fast-tracked the case and delivered the verdict in just about 18 months. Shankar, a Dalit man, and Gowsalya, who hails from dominant Thevar community, fell in love while studying at a private engineering college in Pollachi near Coimbatore. After they got married against the wishes of the girl’s parents, Shankar was hacked to death in front of Gowsalya in broad daylight in Udumalpet in Tiruppur district on March 13, 2016. Gowsalya, who was also injured in the attack, mustered courage in the coming days and fought a brave battle to get her parents punished for the “grievous crime.” After losing her husband, Gowsalya transformed herself into an activist against “honour killing” and is a vocal campaigner for a law against caste killings in the country. Gowsalya launched a trust and named it after Shankar and chose to live with her husband’s family till she married Shakti, a parai artiste, in December 2018. As a result of her struggle, the Tiruppur court sentenced her father and five people who were hired by the latter, to death, while acquitting her mother and maternal uncle.   However, the six moved the Madras High Court seeking a review of the death sentence, while the state moved against the acquittal of Gowsalya's mother. The Madras High Court while confirming the acquittal of Gowsalya’s mother, cleared the father also of all charges and ordered his release from the Coimbatore Central Prison. Only the five men who were hired to kill Shankar now face life imprisonment with a minimum of 25 years in prison without any right for remission.   A visibly shaken Gowsalya told the media in a choked voice that she will appeal against the Madras High Court order in the Supreme Court. “I respect the judiciary, but the Madras High Court verdict has come as a shock and disappointment to me…We will not rest until we get justice. My legal fight will continue as long as I am alive. And I will continue to fight till Shankar gets justice for his killing,” Gowsalya told journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-acquits-girls-father-in-honour-killing-case-852366.html
22-06-2020||South||17 new COVID-19 cases reported in Puducherry; Tally rises to 383||The COVID-19 cases rose to 383 in the union territory of Puducherry on Monday with 17 more people testing positive, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. A total of 229 samples were tested in the last 24 hours ended at 10 am and of them, 17 tested positive, he told reporters here. The total active cases stood at 226 of which 218 are in hospitals here while seven in Karaikal and one patient was in Yanam, an enclave of the UT in Andhra Pradesh. Eleven of the new patients had been admitted to the state run Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) Hospital and the remaining six to the centrally administered JIPMER here, he said. The patient admitted to the hospital in Yanam is a 14- year old boy from Hyderabad. While 149 people had been treated and discharged so far, the fatalities remained at eight with no fresh deaths reported in the last two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/17-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-puducherry-tally-rises-to-383-852399.html
22-06-2020||South||COVID-19: Kerala sees fourth consecutive day of record spike with 138 fresh cases||Kerala witnessed its fourth consecutive day of a record spike in COVID-19 as the state reported 138 cases on Monday. With 88 more recovering from the infection, the total number of active cases reached 1,540. People from abroad and other states constitute the major chunk of those being infected. Of the 138 found infected on Monday, 87 were from abroad and 47 from other states. Only four got infected through a local contact. Kerala Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar had gone in a self-quarantine as a health worker in Thrissur, with whom the minister recently interacted, was tested positive. Meanwhile, former chief minister and AICC leader Oommen Chandy demanded the government to reconsider the decision to insist on pre-departure Covid-19 test for NRIs. He alleged that the decision would put NRIs to hardship. If the state could make arrangements for conducting the tests, it would be fine, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-sees-fourth-consecutive-day-of-record-spike-with-138-fresh-cases-852457.html
22-06-2020||South||Telangana CM consoles Col Babu's family, hands over Rs five crore cheque, house site and job documents||Telangana Chief Minister Chandrashekar Rao visited the family members of Colonel Santosh Babu on Monday to console the bereaved family and hand over the assistance – including a Rs five crore reward - he had announced for them. Babu, the commanding officer of the 16th Bihar Regiment, died along with 19 others last Monday night in a violent clash with the Chinese troops, along the LAC in Ladakh. CM Rao went to Babu’s house in Vidyanagar in Suryapet town of Telangana and paid tributes to the slain Colonel. Babu’s mortal remains were consigned to flames on Thursday near Suryapet, with full military honors. Rao consoled Col Babu’s wife Santoshi, his parents Bikkumalla Manjula and Upendar, sister Sruthi. The CM also chatted with Babu’s children Abhignya (8), Anirudh Teja (4). The CM personally handed over the letter appointing Santoshi as a Group-I officer in Telangana government. He also handed over the documents allotting 711 Square Yards of a house site in the Banjara Hills of Hyderabad to Santoshi. The CM handed a cheque of Rs four crore to Santoshi and Rs one crore to Babu’s parents. The CM hailed the Colonel “for sacrificing his valuable life for the wellbeing of the country” and told the family that Babu’s death has made him very disturbed. He assured that the Telangana state would stand by the Colonel’s family at all times. CM also told the family members that they could contact him whenever they need anything, CMO officials said adding that the CM had urged local minister Jagadish Reddy to be supportive of the family. Rao had also announced that the Telangana government would provide Rs 10 lakh each for the other 19 martyred army men in the Galwan incident, through the Union Defense Ministry. In the all-party video conference last week with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the border issue, Rao suggested the PM to pursue short- and long-term strategies to counter China’s aggression. Rao, chief of the TRS, also committed to stand by the central government. “What we require now is Ran-neeti (war strategy), not Raj-neeti (politicization of the issue),” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-consoles-col-babus-family-hands-over-rs-five-crore-cheque-house-site-and-job-documents-852467.html
22-06-2020||South||Honour killing case: Girl’s father acquitted by Madras High Court||Four years after the murder of Shankar, who belonged to Scheduled Caste, sent shockwaves across Tamil Nadu, the Madras High Court on Monday acquitted the prime accused in the case, his father-in-law B Chinnasamy, of all charges. The division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and M Nirmal Kumar also commuted the death sentence of five others to 25 years in prison. The aforementioned five persons and Chinnasamy were awarded death sentence by a local court in Tiruppur that fast-tracked the case and delivered the verdict in just about 18 months. Shankar, a Scheduled Caste man, and Gowsalya, who hails from dominant Thevar community, fell in love while studying at a private engineering college in Pollachi near Coimbatore. After they got married against the wishes of the girl’s parents. Shankar (23) was hacked to death in front of Gowsalya, then 19, in broad daylight in Udumalpet in Tiruppur district on March 13, 2016. Gowsalya, who was also injured in the attack, mustered courage, and fought a brave battle to get her parents punished for the “grievous crime.” As a result of her struggle, the Tiruppur court sentenced her father and five people who were hired by the latter to death, while acquitting her mother and maternal uncle. However, the six moved the Madras High Court seeking a review of the death sentence, while the state moved against the acquittal of Gausalya’s mother and maternal uncle. The court in its verdict on Monday said the prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the conspiracy to kill Shankar was hatched by the prime accused i.e. Gowsalya’s father. “This Court has set aside the conviction and sentence passed against A1 and acquitted him of all charges levelled against him and found him not guilty in the appeal filed by him (Chinnasamy),” the court said. It also observed that testimonies of “witnesses as to the seeing of A1” in the company of some of the assailants is “highly doubtful.” “It is also to be noted at this juncture that except A1, they do not have any acquaintance with the other accused and no Test Identification Parade was conducted and the identification for the first time was made in the Court and as such, this Court is not inclined to believe the said testimonies as regards the charge of conspiracy,” the bench observed. After the murder, Gowsalya launched a trust and named it after Shankar and chose to live with her husband’s family till she married Shakti, a parai artiste, in December 2018. A visibly shaken Gowsalya told the media in a choked voice that she will appeal against the Madras High Court order in the Supreme Court. The Tamil Nadu government might also appeal against the order. “I respect the judiciary, but the Madras High Court verdict has come as a shock and disappointment to me…We will not rest until we get justice. My legal fight will continue as long as I am alive. And I will continue to fight till Shankar gets justice for his killing,” Gowsalya told journalists, flanked by Shakti. An emotional Gowsalya said if not for her parents— Chinnasamy and Annalakshmi— her husband Shankar would have been alive, and they would have led a happy and content life. The Madras High Court while confirming the acquittal of Gowsalya’s mother, cleared the father also of all charges and ordered his release from the Coimbatore Central Prison. Only the five men who were hired to kill Shankar now face life imprisonment with a minimum of 25 years in prison without any right for remission.  After losing her husband, Gowsalya transformed herself into an activist against “honour killing” and is a vocal campaigner for a law against caste killings in the country. The verdict also led to fresh calls for the need to pass legislation to prevent honour killings. VCK chief and Lok Sabha MP Thol. Thirumavalavan said the high court verdict was disappointing and demanded that legislation be brought immediately to prevent the incidence of honour killings. “If Shankar was not killed by Gowsalya’s parents and her maternal uncle, who killed the innocent man? Then, should not the people who filed a bogus case be punished? Should not we find the real culprits? Why is the court not answering such questions?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/honour-killing-case-girl-s-father-acquitted-by-madras-high-court-852473.html
22-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu COVID-19 tally zooms past 60,000-mark; CM K Palaniswami tests negative||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally zoomed past the 60,000-mark on Monday with 2,710 people, including 1,487 from this metropolis, testing positive for the novel Coronavirus. With the high prevalence of the virus is no longer confined to the state capital of Chennai, the southern city of Madurai, which has been reporting a sizeable number of positive cases, will also go under a seven-day lockdown from June 24. The state’s tally stood at 62,087, including 34,112 discharges— 1,358 of them left the hospitals in the last 24 hours alone— and 794 deaths, 37 of which were reported on Monday. Chennai is still the biggest hotspot with a total of 42,752 cases, but the virus is spreading across the state’s length and breadth quite fast with the number of people testing positive for COVID-19 outside the capital city is growing each passing day. As many as 1,223 people who tested positive belonged to other districts of the state. Madurai, the temple city, reported 157 fresh cases on Monday, while Tiruchirapalli in the central part of the state also recorded 51 fresh cases, and Thoothukudi (62). Northern districts that are either geographically close to Chennai or that had received a huge influx of people from the state capital continued to report a greater number of cases. While Chengalpattu reported 126 fresh cases, Kancheepuram (56), Tiruvallur (120), Tiruvannamalai (139), Ranipet (52), Villupuram (41), and Vellore (13). Most of these districts except Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Chengalpattu that share borders with Chennai had brought the spread of the Coronavirus under control. However, the huge exodus from Chennai due to a high prevalence of the virus in the city and the 12-day ‘strict’ lockdown might have led to people from these district testing positive, experts feel. Though the testing numbers reached the 31,000-mark on Sunday, it came down to 26,592 on Monday. The state had ramped up its testing numbers last week. While Madurai will go for a lockdown from June 24, a few other districts were also mulling to shutdown till June 30 to prevent the spread of the virus. Briefing reporters through video conferencing, Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said the state has created a record by testing 9,19,204 samples so far, the highest in the country. He also said Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami underwent a COVID-19 test and has tested negative. The Chief Minister took a test after people working in his office had tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-tally-zooms-past-60000-mark-cm-k-palaniswami-tests-negative-852484.html
22-06-2020||South||70-year old becomes first doctor fatality of COVID-19 in Telangana||A 70-year old doctor died due to COVID-19 at a private hospital here, the first healthcare professional fatality to the deadly virus in Telangana, hospital sources said on Monday. The doctor, running a private clinic here for the last 12 years, was admitted to hospital on June 17 and his end came on Sunday, they said. This was the first COVID-19 fatality of a doctor in the state, sources in the Telangana chapter of the Indian Medical Association said. He was suspected to have contracted the disease from a patient, they added. Meanwhile, about 30 post-graduate students of general medicine abstained from duties for the third straight day at the state-run Osmania General Hospital here, protesting heavy work burden, a health official said. The hospital was managing the situation with alternative arrangements, he said. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Raja Singh said he tested negative for coronavirus, conducted after his gunman was contracted the disease. Telangana on Sunday witnessed the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 730 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 7,802. The death toll stood at 210.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/70-year-old-becomes-first-doctor-fatality-of-covid-19-in-telangana-852485.html
22-06-2020||South||Statues of former Tamil Nadu CMs masked up to create awareness on COVID-19||Two statues of former Tamil Nadu Chief Ministers C N Annadurai and M G Ramachanran, wearing protective face masks here, apparently to create awareness among public on prevention of coronavirus took residents by surprise. Anxious moments were witnessed as people were in a dilemma over whether to remove the masks or inform the district officials. However, some in the area removed them, police said. Police suspect that the masks were put on the statues to create awareness among people. However, investigations are on to ascertain who was behind it, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/statues-of-former-tamil-nadu-cms-masked-up-to-create-awareness-on-covid-19-852520.html
22-06-2020||South||Malayalam singer-actor Pappukutty Bhagavathar passes away at 107||Malayalam singer and actor Pappukutty Bhagavathar died at the age of 107 in Kochi on Monday. He had got a place in Limca Book of Records by conducting music concert at the age of 100 to celebrate his birthday A native of Kochi, he started singing and acting at the age of seven and performed in around 15,000 plays. He acted in around 25 films also. He sang for a Malayalam movie in 2010, when he was close to hundred. 'Maya' a play in which Pappukutty did lead role was a big hit as it was played in about 290 stages in a year. Pappukutty had received several awards also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-singer-actor-pappukutty-bhagavathar-passes-away-at-107-852545.html
22-06-2020||South||With coronavirus cases nearing 10,000, Andhra Pradesh to screen all families for early detection of infection||The Andhra Pradesh government is going for a comprehensive screening, to be completed in 90 days, of all the households for Covid-19. For collecting samples for tests wherever there is a suspicion, the state intends to make use of the 104 ambulance services, especially in rural areas with lesser health care facilities. In the process, the Jaganmohan Reddy government also wants to identify people with BP, Diabetes like ailments and provide necessary medical support. The medical history of all screened patients would be fed into their QR coded, chip-based health cards.   Positive cases in Andhra Pradesh are adding in worrying numbers – above 400 every day for the past few days. The state has, as of Monday morning, a total of 9372 infections, out of which 4826 are active. AP has so far recorded 111 Covid-19 related deaths.     In this backdrop, Chief Minister Reddy held a review meeting on Monday to evolve a plan to contain the Covid-19 spread. He instructed health officials to ensure screening of every family in the state within 90 days and conduct tests wherever necessary. The state with 53.4 million population has till Sunday conducted 6,76,828 tests, with an average of 12,675 tests per million people – one of the highest in the country. The screening now is meant to be carried at-least once every month in all villages with one 104 ambulance assigned for every mandal, assisted by the respective local health workers. Reddy ordered that more awareness should be created about Covid-19 to help remove the stigma from people’s minds. “The procedure as in what to do and whom to approach in case of any doubt of Covid-19 should be displayed at all village secretariats. Such hoardings should be erected in areas with more cases.” “With the onset of monsoon, the health department should be prepared to meet any contingency,” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-coronavirus-cases-nearing-10000-andhra-pradesh-to-screen-all-families-for-early-detection-of-infection-852550.html
22-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami tests negative for coronavirus: Health Minister||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami has tested negative for coronavirus, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said here on Monday. Testing is being given special attention by the government, he said adding as per protocol which includes tracing (contacts) aspects, "without any exception, the Chief Minister subjected himself to the coronavirus testing and today we have the good news that he is negative." He maintained that the government was transparent in tackling coronavirus and no information was concealed and daily bulletins, district wise data was being released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-health-minister-852582.html
22-06-2020||South||YSRC MLA tests positive for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh||An MLA of the ruling YSR Congress on Monday tested positive for coronavirus in Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh. This is the first such case in the state where a legislator contracted the virus. His personal security officer also was infected with the virus, sources here said. Recently, the MLA returned from a trip to the US and remained in self-isolation for a few days. Later, during tests he was confirmed positive for Covid- 19, sources added. His gunman also simultaneously tested positive. Last week, the MLAattended the Budget session of the Legislature in Amaravati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrc-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-andhra-pradesh-852614.html
22-06-2020||State||New boards for workers from unorganised sector in state soon: Karnataka Labour Minister||Karnataka Labour and Sugar Minister Shivram Hebbar said that state government will form different boards to protect the interests of workers from unorganised sector. Neighbouring state of Kerala has 24 such boards and Tamil Nadu has 19 boards. Bills in this regard would be tabled during the coming session of state legislature. Hebbar reviewed progress of Labour and Sugar Departments at the Deputy Commissioners office on Monday. He said the move to table bills for the establishment of boards could not be done due to the COVID-19 crisis. Problems of workers from unorganised sector came to the fore during the lockdown period and government did its best to come to their aid and also ensure that no starvation deaths take place in the state. Labour Department distributed food kits to the labourers and was well supported by philanthropists, foundations and seers. Many of the government departments are spread into different wings and are costing the state exchequer. A cabinet subcommittee headed by Revenue Minister R Ashok decided to merge many of the departments to avoid multiplication of works and bring them under one umbrella and that has resulted in the Sugar Commissionerate being shifted to Bengaluru, he said. He said development of North Karnataka is the agenda of the government and it wants to allay fears of step motherly treatment being meted to the region. "As a minister myself , I want development of the state and as elected representative from North Karnataka region, I want its development too. Feelings of second grade treatment being meted to the region are being resolved," he said. Employee State Insurance (ESI) Hospitals across the state are facing shortage of doctors. Soon 155 doctors will be appointed through Karnataka Public Service Commission and preference will be given for Belagavi district with it being an industrial hub, Hebbar stated. He directed the sugar factories to ensure that they clear dues of farmers and not to keep them pending until receipt of subsidies from the centre. Farmers while supplying sugarcane do not levy such conditions and factories should reciprocate by paying their dues in time. Hebbar said non-availability of data and labourer cards not being renewed had come as hurdle while distributing aid announced for unorganised sector workers. Among the 7 lakh plus such workers, aid has been pending for over 3 lakh and with norms being relaxed, they will get the aid soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-boards-for-workers-from-unorganised-sector-in-state-soon-karnataka-labour-minister-852414.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: No school till Dasara, appeal most parents||Almost 80% of parents are not ready to send their children to school until there is a proper solution/treatment for Covid-19 or at least till the Dasara holidays. The Primary and Secondary Education Department received this feedback during an exercise to gather the opinion of various stakeholders, including parents and teachers, about the opening of schools for the 2020-21 academic year.  The education department had directed schools to submit parents’ feedback by June 20. Sources revealed that about 70% of the districts have sent their reports and a few more are expected to do so in a day or two. “Of the responses that we have got till date, about 80% of parents are not ready to send their kids to schools until there is some treatment for Covid-19 or at least till the completion of Dasara holidays,” a senior official said. The official said a decision will be taken after they receive responses from all districts.  The report will be submitted to the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, which had granted powers to the states to take a decision based on the feedback of all stakeholders.    Working parents differ Meanwhile, working parents have urged the government to reopen schools as it has become difficult for them to manage children amid the work-from-home scenario.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-no-school-till-dasara-appeal-most-parents-852265.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Reverse migration spurs demand for MGNREGA jobs in state||Thanks to reverse migration caused by the lockdown, 5.5 lakh people from 2.2 lakh households in the state applied for job cards under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) in the last two months. Only 7.28 lakh people from 3.22 lakh families had applied in the 12 months of 2019-20. Due to the large number of applications, the number of work hours generated in the last 50 days since the relaxation of curbs was more than the employment generated during the first two and a half months of 2019-20. Between April 1 and June 18, 2019, the employment generated was 2.93 crore person days, compared to 3.33 crore, mostly since May this year. On April 27, the state had issued only 12,030 new job cards. Since then, 2,08,719 new households have applied. Karnataka received most of the applications from districts that witnessed a large influx of people returning from urban areas after the lockdown was relaxed. For instance, 33,689 families (72,699 persons) applied for job cards in Kalaburagi district, followed by 24,063 families (50,844 persons) in Bidar. Chamarajanagar and Belagavi also had around 20,000 new applications for job cards. One job card under MGNREGA has two to three beneficiaries per family on average. The maximum number of work days was recorded in Ballari district where 37.38 lakh person days were generated, followed by Raichur with 30.7 lakh person days. It may be noted that the highest number of job cards in the last six years was issued in 2018-19, when 5.09 lakh families (11.15 persons) applied. Almost 50% of the said number was issued in the first two and a half months of this fiscal. L K Atheeq, Principal Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, said that it was difficult to predict the total number of applications for job cards they could receive during the year. On paucity of funds affecting employment generation in the last few years, he said that the Centre had increased allocation for MGNREGA for the current fiscal. According to data, MGNREGA allocation to Karnataka was increased by Rs 100 crore to Rs 1,300 crore for the financial year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reverse-migration-spurs-demand-for-mgnrega-jobs-in-state-852271.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt imposes lockdown in 4 areas of Bengaluru after COVID-19 cases rise||The Karnataka govt has imposed lockdown in four areas — K R Market, Chamarajpet, Kalasipalya and Chickpet —  after a surge in COVID-19 cases, according to Revenue Minister R Ashoka.  Earlier, DH had reported that barely a fortnight since the Unlock 1.0 order by the Centre to reboot the economy, the Bengaluru—the silicon city of India, was limping back to ‘lockdown’ mode, following a sudden upsurge of COVID-19 positive cases and alarming death rate within the city. The BBMP officials had drawn out a list of localities with a high incidence of COVID-19 cases, to get it approved by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday afternoon.  The civic body has already ordered sealing down of Anandapura locality adjacent to KR Market in Chamarajpet assembly constituency in Central Bengaluru. The locality with a high density of trade activities has a population of 4,000 people in about 700 households. Of the six COVID-19 positive cases reported from the locality, three have already died and many are under home quarantine.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-imposes-lockdown-in-4-areas-of-bengaluru-after-covid-19-cases-rise-852370.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar's father, domestic help test positive for coronavirus||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s father, cook and a domestic help tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. His father, Keshava Reddy, 82, is a former Chikkaballapur Zilla Panchayat president. In a tweet the minister said, “My father’s Covid-19 test has come out positive. Anxiously waiting for reports of other family members. Praying for speedy recovery of my father.” In an earlier tweet, the minister had mentioned, “My 82-year-old father has been admitted in hospital with complaints of fever and cough.” His father is said to have contracted the virus after coming in contact with their domestic help who was working in their Sadashivanagar house.  The cook is 40 years old and the domestic help is 26 years old. Eight people, including the security personnel and the family members, have been home quarantined. While his father is in a private hospital, the two staffers are in Victoria Hospital. The minister’s team members said that he, his wife and two children have been home quarantined. “Dr Sudhakar has no home office,” they said. Asked if the minister’s team members were tested for Covid, they said, “We are tested every 15 days because of Sudhakar’s work as medical education minister and as Covid incharge minister. We have been tested five times till now and have tested negative.”   This is the first time for a Karnataka politician to have been exposed to the virus at such close quarters. Earlier, the cameraperson of a Kannada news channel tested positive for the virus and had come in contact with three ministers: Sudhakar, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. They had quarantined themselves at home for 14 days and had tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-medical-education-minister-k-sudhakars-father-domestic-help-test-positive-for-coronavirus-852492.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ADGP goes on home quarantine as personal assistant tests COVID-19 positive||A top police official in Karnataka has been home quarantined after his personal assistant was tested positive for coronavirus. Many policemen and their family members in the city have been put under quarantine in the recent past after their colleagues contracted the virus. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Amar Kumar Pandey told PTI: "Yes, my Personal Assistant has tested positive. I am home quarantined." Pandey had played a crucial role in the extradition of gangster Ravi Pujari from Senegal to Bengaluru. A total of 56 personnel in the Karnataka State Reserve Police have been tested positive for the virus till now, said a top police officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-adgp-goes-on-home-quarantine-as-personal-assistant-tests-covid-19-positive-852548.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Find solution to online class issue, Karnataka HC tells state||The Karnataka High Court has directed the state government to immediately find a solution to the issues that have surfaced following the ban on online classes up to 5th standard. The high court will hear the petitions filed challenging the legality of the ban on Friday. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy heard the PIL filed by Anumitha Sharma and 22 others from Bengaluru. The division bench on Monday said that it would take up two other petitions, filed by educational institutions challenging both June 11 and June 15 orders of the state government pertaining to the ban on online classes, also on Friday. The counsel, appearing for the state government, stated that the ban on online classes will be in force only till the guidelines are framed. The counsel for the petitioner contended that the notification imposed blanket ban on online classes and the guidelines have been proposed for conducting online classes from 6th standard onwards. During the hearing, the court asked the state government whether banning the online classes violates the provision under Article 21-A of the Constitution (free and compulsory education). The bench asked if the online classes be permitted for a few hours in a day. The court also observed that online class facility could be available only to the cities and asked the government as to what could be done to the students in the rural areas. The petition challenging the legality of the ban was filed by parents of students studying in classes 1 to 5 in the state. The petitioners contended that prohibition of online education was arbitrary.  The state government, on June 11, 2020, had banned the online classes for children from KG to class 5. The ban was based on a report submitted by director NIMHANS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/find-solution-to-online-class-issue-karnataka-hc-tells-state-852563.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Is Kanakapura lockdown voluntary? Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan wants to know||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan seems to have taken exception to the “voluntary lockdown” of the Kanakapura Assembly constituency represented by state Congress president D K Shivakumar.  On Sunday, Shivakumar presided over an emergency meeting where it was decided that Kanakapura should be locked down till July 1 owing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases.  Kanakapura is in Ramanagara district and whose minister in-charge is Narayan. “There’s so much confusion. It is being shown as a voluntary lockdown even if it could be imposed. Let’s see,” Narayan told reporters.  Shivakumar, meanwhile, said he had not overstepped. “People have given me authority. I’m only doing my duty to save our people,” he said. Based on the decision taken in a meeting chaired by Shivakumar, groceries and essentials will be available only between 7 am and 11 am. The SSLC exams will go on as scheduled.  As on June 22, the Ramanagara district has 84 active Covid-19 cases.  Narayan also said that lockdown was not necessary. “Both CM and PM have already said there won’t be another lockdown. Initially, there were shortcomings in our readiness because we didn’t know the behaviour of the virus. Now, we’re ready to face this. So, the way I see it, there won’t be another lockdown and there’s no need for panic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/is-kanakapura-lockdown-voluntary-deputy-cm-ashwath-narayan-wants-to-know-852564.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Students can enter SSLC exam halls from 7.30 am||Students appearing for SSLC exams beginning June 25 will be allowed to enter the examination centre as early as 7.30 am. This is to maintain social distance and to provide all necessary safety measures to students appearing for the exams, including those who are specially-abled. During the video conference with Deputy Directors of Public Instruction on Monday, Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “The entry to examination hall should begin as early as 7.30 am by following all necessary safety measures.” Previously, students were allowed inside the premises of the exam centre only one hour before the start of the exam. Early entry will help authorities in screening the students.  The communication issued by the minister’s office reads that face masks and sanitisers have already reached the respective examination centres. Volunteers who want to distribute face masks to students will not be allowed to do it in front of the exam centres. The minister instructed officials to ensure that no child is absent for the exams due to transportation issues. “We have opened two examination centres in Goa state and deployed our officials there. In Shivamogga district, separate transportation has been arranged for one student who travels from a place 40 km away,” the minister stated in the release. To reduce the chances of social contact, all students have been advised to bring their own water bottles. A demo will be conducted on June 24 to boost confidence among students and parents at respective exam centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/students-can-enter-sslc-exam-halls-from-730-am-852578.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Central team slams Karnataka's tardy approach to clean 17 polluted rivers||Karnataka's commitment to clean 17 polluted river stretches has come under question with a report submitted to the central monitoring committee stating that the agencies concerned have not been submitting status reports. In its quarterly report submitted to the Central Monitoring Committee, the three-member team of experts from the Centre, gave a detailed assessment of the situation after visiting Bengaluru and other towns on river stretches. Priority has been assigned to 17 polluted river stretches in state based on the level of pollution, especially the Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand (BOD). Four rivers, including Arkavathi, Tungabhadra, Laksmitirtha and Malaprabha, are under priority level three (BOD 10-20 mg/l), severn rivers are in priority level four (BOD 6-10 mg/l) and six classified as priority level five (BOD 3-5 mg/l). The pollution is contributed by domestic and industrial sewage from 43 urban environments that have come up along the stretches. However, the committee stated that the agencies have not been providing the required data. "KSPCB, BWSSB, ULB or KUWSDB were unable to provide results of combined sampling of operational STPs by operating agencies and KSPCB," it said. Combined sampling is a method adopted to obtain more reliable results from multiple samples due to variability in analytical and sampling procedures. The lack of such data makes it harder to assess the water quality. A member of the team said the monthly progress data submitted by Karnataka agencies were inadequate. "Karnataka is among the few states that are not submitting proper data since the first meeting held in January, despite strict directions by the NGT and Jal Shakti Ministry," the member said. The central team had sought to know the efficiency of common effluenct treatment plants (CETP). However, except for the old data, the KIADB was yet to submit details of proposed CETPs along with deadline for their completion. The action plans prepared by the state agencies were also inadequate. "The sewage infrastructure has been proposed for 2011 population", prompting the central team to seek revision of the action plans. To a question, KSPCB Member Secretary Srinivasulu stated that the Board has been sending reports regularly to the central committee. "We are following the directions and periodically submitting all the reports," he said. BWSSB Chief Engineer Gangadhara B C said the agency has taken the matter of sewage treatment plants seriously to check flow of sewage to Vrishabhavathy Valley. "We have commissioned the 60 MLD capacity STP at Kengeri. Rehabilitation of 180 mld STP and commissioning of a new 150 mld STP have been delayed by a few months due to Covid-19," he said. He said the BWSSB has taken up 145 works to complete the underground sewage network. "About 60% of the work is completed. We are doing joint survey with KSPCB to put an end to letting of sewage into open drains," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/central-team-slams-karnatakas-tardy-approach-to-clean-17-polluted-rivers-852584.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC stay on Hubballi-Ankola rail line: Govt mulling legal option||Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said the state government would consider all legal options to vacate the stay order issued by Karnataka High Court on the proposed Hubballi-Ankola Railway project. Speaking to media persons here on Monday, he said the railway line was a long-pending demand of the people of the region. “I do not have any personal interest in this project. But for the sake of development I have been trying to implement the project,” he said. Hubballi-Ankola railway line will not only be used for freight movement but also passenger trains will ply on this line. “It is the demand of the people of coastal area,” he said. The railway line will help in the development of the region as several projects, including development of Bellikeri port is being proposed. The Indian Navy is also planning to develop an airport in the coastal region. The Industries minister also clarified that the state has so far not received any concrete proposal from any companies that are planning to leave China and establish their manufacturing unit in India. “Talks are on with several companies, but so far the state has not received any concrete proposal. We are hopeful that in the near future a few companies will start their units here,” he said. ‘No more lockdown’ Shettar also clarified that in spite of the spike in Covid-19 cases the state government may not go for complete lockdown in the future. “We may have to live with this virus, so there is no proposal in front of State government for another lock,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-stay-on-hubballi-ankola-rail-line-govt-mulling-legal-option-852599.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Woman’s death triggers panic in Ch’nagar, but she tests negative for Covid||Panic gripped Chamarajanagar for a few hours after a woman who had come to private hospital for respiration problems died at Covid hospital on Monday. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, in a press meet said that the woman, a resident of Kalasthawadi village in Mysuru district was treated for chest pain by a local doctor on June 19. She returned to her native place, Byadamodlu village in Chamarajanagar taluk the next day and complained of diarrhoea and vomiting on Sunday.  She was brought to a private hospital where the doctors found her oxygen levels were low and suspected her to be a SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) case. They advised to shift her to the Covid hospital. She was kept on ventilator support, but passed away on Monday morning. She tested negative for Covid, the DC said.  However, local residents were panicked after the woman passed away in the morning. The private hospital where she was treated, was closed for sanitisation. The areas surrounding the hospital were also disinfected and the road was also sealed down. The people heaved a sigh of relief after blood samples and throat swabs of the deceased tested negative for Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/woman-s-death-triggers-panic-in-ch-nagar-but-she-tests-negative-for-covid-852601.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Normalcy in industrial sector soon: CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa assured industrialists on Monday that Karnataka was recovering well from the pandemic and that normalcy would resume in the industrial sector soon. Speaking at the 12th Horasis India - Virtual meeting on "Building for the post-Covid Economy," organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Yediyurappa said that 80% of the industries in the state were working at 60% capacity and this was improving by the day. The priority of the government is to cautiously open all sectors of economy, including tourism, he said. The government will conduct several promotional events for tourism sector, which will highlight the measures in place against the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, Yediyurappa said. A special task force consisting of members from the industry was formed to attract new investments to Karnataka. A new industrial policy for the years 2019-24 will be implementedm aiming at generating employment in large numbers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/normalcy-in-industrial-sector-soon-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-852602.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Southern range IGP, Mysuru SP, addl SP quarantined||As many as 58 police officers and staff, including Inspector General of Police (IGP) Southern Range Vipul Kumar, Mysuru Superintendent of Police (SP) Ryshyanth and Addl SP Sneha are under quarantine after a police personnel attached to Nanjangud Rural police station tested positive for coronavirus.  While the IGP, SP and Addl SP are under home quarantine, the remaining officers and the staff have been sent to institutional quarantine. The cop, who tested positive, was part of a team that was probing theft of live bullets from T Narasipur police station. He had visited the SP and IGP offices several times and had worked closely with the higher officials. While 22 police personnel are identified as primary contacts, the remaining are secondary contacts. The Nanjangud Rural police station has been sealed while the IGP and SP offices have been disinfected. An officer said, the infected policeman had visited the SP office several times. He had visited Cafe Mysuru located in Ittigegud. It has to be recalled that a couple who tested positive for the virus had visited the cafe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/southern-range-igp-mysuru-sp-addl-sp-quarantined-852604.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||JSW plant Covid-19 cluster grows, keeps Ballari administration on its toes||Ballari district continued to see a spurt in Covid-19 cases with 28 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. The district tally has jumped to 470 with Jindal steel plant at Toranagallu alone accounting for more than 90% of the reported cases. Among the fresh cases reported on Monday, 20 are linked to the Jindal (JSW) cluster. Six patients with influenza-like illness, including a month-old baby girl, have also tested positive for novel coronavirus. Contact-tracing is underway for two cases. The district also third Covid-19 fatality on Monday. A 60-year-old woman, a known case of diabetes mellitus, died of multiple organ failure in the early hours of Monday at the designated hospital. She was admitted to VIMS after testing positive for virus on June 17. She was put on ventilator after her condition worsened. Despite best efforts, the woman failed to respond to treatment and died, Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters. The district also saw 28 patients walk out of the VIMS, post-recovery on Monday. Meanwhile, nine contacts of an 18-year-old pregnant woman from Harihar tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The woman had attended a wedding at her maternal home at Rajanahalli on June 15. An elderly woman from the virus-hit Jalinagar in Davangere had also attended the event. Four days later, the pregnant woman (Patient 8065) tested positive for coronavirus. Six people at her husband’s house at Agasara Beedhi in Harihar, and three, including her mother, at Rajanahalli, have tested positive for virus.On Sunday, seven of a Channagiri family had contracted virus from a 56-year-old woman (P7353), who’d lost her battle against Covid-19 at McGann Hospital on June 16. With this, Davangere district’s Covid-19 tally has shot up to 265 (38 cases are active). Former Magadi MLA and Congress leader H C Balakrishna on Monday tweeted saying that his daughter, a doctor at KIMS, Bengaluru, has contracted Covid-19 while on duty. She’d complained of fever two days back. Her throat swab sample returned positive on Monday. Three persons have contracted the virus in Ramanagara town. Meanwhile, the district has reported two deaths in three days. A 45-year-old man from Kanakapura, with complaints of SARI and TB, had died at a Bengaluru hospital on June 15. A 90-year-old man, asymptomatic but a known case of hypertension, died at his house on June 20. His swab sample returned positive for virus on Monday. A bus conductor with NWKRTC from Yellapur depot, in Uttara Kannada, and an employee of Chamarajanagar taluk Land Survey and Records department have tested positive for the virus on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jsw-plant-covid-19-cluster-grows-keeps-ballari-administration-on-its-toes-852635.html
22-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister Sudhakar's father, cook test positive||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s father, cook and a domestic help tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. His father, Keshava Reddy, 82, is a former Chikkaballapur Zilla Panchayat president. In a tweet the minister said, “My father’s Covid-19 test has come out positive. Anxiously waiting for reports of other family members. Praying for speedy recovery of my father.” In an earlier tweet, the minister had mentioned, “My 82-year-old father has been admitted in hospital with complaints of fever and cough.” His father is said to have contracted the virus after coming in contact with their domestic help who was working in their Sadashivanagar house.  The cook is 40 years old and the domestic help is 26 years old. Eight people, including the security personnel and the family members, have been home quarantined. While his father is in a private hospital, the two staffers are in Victoria Hospital. The minister’s team members said that he, his wife and two children have been home quarantined. “Dr Sudhakar has no home office,” they said. Asked if the minister’s team members were tested for Covid, they said, “We are tested every 15 days because of Sudhakar’s work as medical education minister and as Covid incharge minister. We have been tested five times till now and have tested negative.”   This is the first time for a Karnataka politician to have been exposed to the virus at such close quarters. Earlier, the cameraperson of a Kannada news channel tested positive for the virus and had come in contact with three ministers: Sudhakar, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. They had quarantined themselves at home for 14 days and had tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-sudhakars-father-cook-test-positive-852637.html
22-06-2020||West||First COVID-19 death in Goa; 85-yr-old woman succumbs||An 85-year-old woman, who tested positive for coronavirus earlier, succumbed to the infection on Monday, making it the first case of death due to the viral disease in the state, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. The woman, belonging to Morlem village in North Goa district, was undergoing treatment at the ESI hospital, a designated facility for COVID-19 patients, he said. The state government has already declared Morlem village, which falls under Valpoi, the Assembly constituency of Rane, as a COVID-19 containment zone.  "Today, an 85-year-old woman from Morlem village died. This is the first COVID-19 death in the state. My condolences to the family," Rane told reporters. He said the state government was following all the latest protocols to keep Goa safe. "Team Goa is united and is doing its best. Stringent methods and protocols are in place. The death was unfortunate, he said. Rane appealed to people to remain calm and said the Goa government was making all efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state. Till Sunday, Goa reported 818 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 683 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/first-covid-19-death-in-goa-85-yr-old-woman-succumbs-852321.html
22-06-2020||West||Surge in COVID-19 cases in Thane district rattles Maharashtra govt||Thane district now has 24,338 cases and has reported 713 deaths, according to the daily report of the Public Health department. The district has six big municipal corporations - Thane,  Navi Mumbai,  Kalyan-Dombivli,  Ulhasnagar, Mira Bhayander and Bhiwandi-Nizampur.  Thane is among the top five worst-affected districts in India and the government is focussing on controlling through the Chase-the-Virus initiative. The Thane city and the satellite township of Navi Mumbai are the worst-affected with 7,311 and 5,786 cases and 237 and 163 deaths, respectively.  Thane and Navi Mumbai are two of the biggest industrial belts and the residents of the district comprise a majority workforce in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Two jumbo hospitals with over 1,000 beds,  one in Thane and another in Navi Mumbai, have been set up, which are COVID-19 care centres and have oxygen and ICU facilities. "Medical facilities have been enhanced significantly," said state's urban development minister Eknath Shinde,  who is Thane district's guardian minister.  On Sunday, 1,023 COVID-19 positive cases were added to the tally.  "The spike is a matter of concern.  After Mumbai, Thane is a hotspot with a spurt of cases in the last week. There are many cases being reported from highrises," said Badlapur-based activist MP Joshi. Last week, the Maharashtra government released an additional fund of Rs 35 crore to tackle the pandemic. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, who reviewed the situation in Thane, has instructed for extensive contract tracing like Mumbai's Chase-the-Virus.   In the Thane central jail, four constables tested positive for COVID-19. They have been sent for treatment and those who came in contact with them are being quarantined.  The Thane Municipal Corporation and the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has created teams to ensure that physical distancing in shops and bus and railway stations are being followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-thane-district-rattles-maharashtra-govt-852328.html
22-06-2020||West||As COVID-19 cases spike, quarantine facilities augmented in Maharashtra's Palghar||Over the past fortnight,  the Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC) has seen a surge in COVID-19 cases and deaths, forcing the administration to clamp lockdown is certain areas of the township. The Palghar district reported 3,453 positive cases and 90 deaths, according to the Sunday's data of the Public Health department. The VVCMC, which comes under the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), accounts for 2,823 cases and 81 deaths.  The Nalasopara East area of Vasai Tehsil is the worst affected. Nalasopara MLA and Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) leader Kshitij Thakur said that things will be under control. "Across India, you would have noticed that there is a spurt in cases after the lockdown ended and unlocking started. We have and are taking a series of measures to ensure that things are normal," said Thakur.  Kshitij's father and BVA founder, Hitendra Thakur, is an MLA from Vasai and their party controls the VVCMC. The Vishnu Vaman Thakur CharitableTrust-run Viva College in Virar West and Viva Institute of Technology in Virar East have been turned into quarantine/isolation centres. Besides, a massive quarantine centre has been created at Varun Industrial Estate at Waliv in Vasai East. It has 400 to 500 beds and there is space for scaling it further. The Thakurs had already announced free ration including rice, dal, sugar to 3.5 lakh ration card holders. In the VVCMC jurisdiction, 18 areas have been put under lockdown for a fortnight's time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-cases-spike-quarantine-facilities-augmented-in-maharashtras-palghar-852332.html
22-06-2020||West||Amid India-China border tension, Maharashtra puts on hold 3 Chinese projects worth Rs 5,000 crore||In a significant decision, the Maharashtra government has put on hold three major agreements inked with Chinese companies last week in the wake of India-China border face-off. The MoUs were signed at the recent Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 event. The proposed projects entail investments of over Rs 5,000 crore. “We have taken this decision in consultation with the central government. These agreements were signed prior to the development on the Indo-China border and killing of 20 Indian soldiers," Industry Minister Subhash Desai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-india-china-border-tension-maharashtra-puts-on-hold-3-chinese-projects-worth-rs-5000-crore-852334.html
22-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: COVID-19 lockdown hinders annual inspection of water sources||The coronavirus-induced lockdown has affected the annual quality testing of drinking water sources in Maharashtra, with nearly 1.5 lakh such facilities remaining unchecked, as per official figures. According to data of the Maharashtra drinking water and sanitation department, there are 2,12,642 water sources notified in the state, of which samples of only 62,482 could be tested while 1,50,160 water sources still remain untested. Every year, the Maharashtra government carries out quality testing of notified drinking water sources in the state. It helps in finding out the quality of water and to undertake preventive measures, if needed, a senior official from the drinking water and sanitation department said.  "Before the lockdown, the target was to carry out tests on samples of some two lakh water sources. However, due to severe restrictions, only samples from 62,482 water sources could be tested till mid-June. Samples from the remaining water sources are still not collected, he said. The untested water sources include 63,000 from the Marathwada region, which remains perennially dry and in highly dependent on groundwater supply, the official said. The Pune-based Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency has already written to the chief executive officers of all zilla parishads in the state, asking them to send the samples for testing at the earliest, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-lockdown-hinders-annual-inspection-of-water-sources-852350.html
22-06-2020||West||High-rise building in South Mumbai sealed after 21 COVID-19 cases reported||The Tahnee Heights, a skyscraper in upscale Nepean Sea Road, that commands one of the most expensive property prices in India, has been sealed. Located in the posh Malabar Hill area of south Mumbai, the 28-storey building is home to several who's who of India's financial capital. "There were 21 cases over the last seven days out of which 19 are house helps, drivers and security staff," said Prashant Gaikwad,  assistant commissioner of BMC's D-Ward.The house helps work in different flats in the buildings and there is every possibility that they may have spread the virus to the other flats as well. "In order to break the chain, it was necessary to seal the entire building," the officer said.  "We have also shifted nearly 20 house helps and security staff to quarantine centres. We have requested the society to sanitise the common toilets used by their staff four to six times a day and till the time society makes arrangements, we have started sanitisation from our side," he said. Also, screening of all the residents is carried out and the corporation has requested the society to do the same regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/high-rise-building-in-south-mumbai-sealed-after-21-covid-19-cases-reported-852358.html
22-06-2020||West||HC seeks Maharashtra govt's stand on pending ICSE board exams||Raising concern over the rising number of COVID-19 cases and deaths in Maharashtra, the Bombay High Court on Monday asked the state government to clear its stand on permitting the ICSE board to conduct its pending examinations of Classes 10 and 12 in July. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde said the state government cannot maintain an ambivalent and ambiguous stand, that if the number of students who opt to appear for exams is few, then permission would be given for it. The Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE) board had decided to hold its pending examinations from July 2 to 12 across the state, after the exams could not be conducted in March due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Mumbai resident Arvind Tiwari then filed a petition challenging the board's decision, claiming that the number of COVID-19 cases was still on the rise and hence, it would be appropriate to declare results based on gradation and assessment of the past performance of students in internal exams conducted by various ICSE schools. The board last week told HC that it has now decided to offer students an option to either take the pending exams in July or have their final results, in subjects for which exams have not been held, determined by the board based on their performance in internal assessment/pre-board exams, results of which the board has already taken from respective schools. The bench had then directed the board to present its methodology about alternative grading for those students who opt not to physically appear for the exams. On Monday, the board sought further time to submit its methodology. The court then sought to know the government's stand. It said the government cannot adopt a wait and watch stand, and directed it to file an affidavit clearing its stand on the issue. What is the government's stand if 50 per cent of the students from ICSE schools opt to appear for the examinations physically...what if the percentage of students is higher or lesser? the court said and posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. The court noted that the number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra was still on the rise and even the mortality rate is high. Petitioner Tiwari told the court that the board had conducted exams in Karnataka, and 24 students from a school had to be quarantined after the father of one of the students tested positive for coronavirus. As per data submitted by the ISCE board, there are 226 schools in Maharashtra affiliated with it and 23,347 students are scheduled to appear for the Class 10 examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-seeks-maharashtra-govts-stand-on-pending-icse-board-exams-852374.html
22-06-2020||West||Maharashtra BJP protests over farm loans, attacks Thackeray govt||The Maharashtra unit of the BJP staged protests across the state on Monday seeking loan waiver and new crop loans to farmers. The protests were led by state unit chief Chandrakant Patil who took part in a demonstration in front of Kolhapur collectorate. "Monsoon has arrived, sowing is about to end, but the farmers still are not getting crop loans. The state government has not given compensation announced for farmers whose crops were hit by unseasonal rains in the recent past," Patil told reporters. "They (the state government) said they will give Rs 25,000-Rs 50,000 per hectare compensation, but gave nothing. To cover that up, they declared a loan waiver of Rs 18,000 crore," Patil, a former state revenue minister, said. Patil claimed the coronavirus infection broke out when some 7,000 crore of the Rs 18,000 crore had been disbursed, adding that 70 per cent of farmers eligible for the waiver still have loans pending as the remaining Rs 11,000 crore waiver amount was not paid. "Hence, banks will not give new crop loans to these farmers now," he added. Patil also picked holes in the state government's decision to give Rs 11,000 crore guarantee to banks to nullify loans to allow farmers to be eligible for fresh loans. "On one hand, farmers are not getting new crop loans and on the other, the government is not procuring their produce. The Centre has allowed Maharashtra to raise loans of up to Rs 1.65 lakh crore," he said. Patil asked the Uddhav Thackeray regime to take a "dynamic decision" in the interest of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-protests-over-farm-loans-attacks-thackeray-govt-852380.html
22-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Woman kills herself by jumping off hospital building||A 36-year-old woman allegedly killed herself in the early hours of Monday by jumping off the fifth floor of a leading Pune-based hospital where her minor son was undergoing treatment, police said. The woman left a purported note, requesting that care be taken of her children, they said. Seema Balani, who lost her husband to cancer three months back, admitted her 13-year-old son to the hospital here in Maharashtra on Sunday as he was suffering from diabetes and kidney ailment and his COVID-19 test report was awaited, an official from Samarth police station said. She allegedly killed herself by jumping off the fifth floor of the hospital, he said. "Before taking the extreme step, she left a brief note in the room where her son was being treated, asking for care to be taken of her children," he said. The woman and her family used to live in Jamaica and they had come to India for the treatment of her husband who was suffering from cancer, he said. "Her husband died three months back. It seems the deceased was under stress due to the death of her husband and son's ailment," the official said. An accidental death report has been registered and an investigation is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-woman-kills-herself-by-jumping-off-hospital-building-852391.html
22-06-2020||West||Mumbai: After 21 COVID-19 cases, Malabar Hill building sealed||A plush residential complex in Napean Sea Road in Mumbai's Malabar Hill area has been sealed after 21 COVID-19 cases were reported from there in seven days, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation official said on Monday. He said 19 of the 21 patients were domestic helps, drivers and security staff. "House-helps work in different flats in the building and may have spread the infection. The entire building had to be sealed to break the chain of spread," Assistant Municipal Commissioner (D Ward) Prashant Gaikwad said. "We have shifted the house-helps and security staff to quarantine centres and told the residential complex society to sanitise common toilets at least four to six times a day," he added. Officials said the building is being sanitised and the residents screened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-after-21-covid-19-cases-malabar-hill-building-sealed-852404.html
22-06-2020||West||Residents protest outside Shivaji Park crematorium against cremation of large number of bodies||Residents of the Dadar's Shivaji Park area in Mumbai on Monday staged a silent protest against the cremation of large number of dead bodies in the crematorium. The Mumbai-BJP unit has targetted the Uddhav Thackeray government on the issue. "Thackeray sarkar says no politics over COVID-19 issue. But now due to their carelessness, citizens have to come on road and protest!," Mumbai-BJP president Mangalprabhat Lodha tweeted. Around 15 to 20 bodies are cremated every day at the Shivaji Park crematorium. Residents have said that the thick black smoke is affecting them. Shivaji Park is located in G-North ward,  that covers Dadar, Dharavi and Mahim. Two big COVID-19 hospitals - the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion and King Edward Memorial Hospital are located in the.vicinity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/residents-protest-outside-shivaji-park-crematorium-against-cremation-of-large-number-of-bodies-852436.html
22-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Dhananjay Munde discharged after recovery from COVID-19||Maharashtra Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde was on Monday discharged from Breach Candy hospital in Mumbai after recovering from COVID-19. He was admitted in the hospital on June 12 after testing positive for novel coronavirus. "My second test report came negative thanks to your good wishes and prayers. I am heading to my village after getting discharged," Munde said. Along with Munde, his private secretary, personal assistant, two drivers and one of his bodyguards have been discharged after their second test reports returned negative while a cook and bodyguard continue to be under treatment for COVID-19, sources said.  Earlier, Maharashtra ministers Ashok Chavan of the Congress and Jitendra Awhad of the NCP had tested positive for the virus, and both recovered later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-dhananjay-munde-discharged-after-recovery-from-covid-19-852439.html
22-06-2020||West||Talks on with DD, other channels for distance learning modules for students: Pramod Sawant||The Goa government is talks with national broadcaster Doordarshan and other private channel platforms to develop and broadcast the teaching modules for school students, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday, even as schools continue to be shut down in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and a rising number of active cases. Speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting of Education department officials and other stakeholders like representatives of bodies of headmasters and the Parents Teachers Association, Sawant, who also holds the Education Ministry portfolio, said that students from STD IX and XI would automatically pass to STD X and XII, due to a decision taken on Monday to scrap supplementary exams for the two grades. "We are thinking of options. We are looking at Doordarshan and other channels to partner. We will see if we can take this to rural areas, where there is no mobile coverage," Sawant told a press conference. Mountainous Goa is plagued by poor mobile and internet coverage especially in the state's rural areas, where internet connectivity is virtually nil, which is a deterrent for online education modules, which some urban schools have adapted to due to the pandemic. Sawant also said that the Education Ministry was also considering uploading teaching modules on Youtube for students living in urban areas and easy availability of syllabi content. The Chief Minister also said that all teachers would have to report to their respective schools from Wednesday and prepare for the upcoming academic year. "Teachers will have to compulsorily attend their schools, irrespective of whether the schools are government or government aided institutions. All government staff attend office, teachers should also be available in schools," Sawant said, adding that a formal decision on opening up of schools would be taken on July 15. "There is no decision yet on opening of schools. The decision will be taken after July 15, after seeing what the situation is in Goa," Sawant said. Active COVID-19 cases in the state have reached over 700, even as Goa also witnessed its first COVID-19 related death on Monday in the form of an 85-year-old man, who Sawant said was also suffering from asthma and diabetes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/talks-on-with-dd-other-channels-for-distance-learning-modules-for-students-pramod-sawant-852481.html
22-06-2020||West||Case filed for blocking ambulance with COVID-19 victim's body||A case has been registered against a group of persons in Maharashtra's Palghar district for obstructing movement of an ambulance carrying the body of a COVID-19 victim to the crematorium in their locality, police said on Monday. The incident occurred on the night of June 20 in Umela Phatak area near Vasai, a police official said. He said people who stopped the ambulance feared that its movement might expose them to the virus. They were not wearing masks and violated lockdown norms by their act, he said, adding that the situation was resolved only after intervention of the police. A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under DisasterManagement Act and Epidemic Diseases Act at Vasai police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/case-filed-for-blocking-ambulance-with-covid-19-victims-body-852482.html
22-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: 80-year-old man killed by son in Latur on Father's Day||An 80-year-old man was killed and four others injured in a dispute over division of land in Nilanga tehsil in Maharashtra's Latur district, police said on Monday. Anandwadi-resident Panchappa Dhappadhule was attacked and killed by his son Nagnath on Sunday, ironically Father's Day, an official said. "Nagnath and his brother Virnath would quarrel over land affairs and wanted division of property. The two brothers had a fight on Saturday which was resolved by villagers. On Sunday, Nagnath and his sons etc attacked people in Virnath's household. Three people were injured while Panchappa died," he said. One person has been arrested so far and several others are on the run after a murder case was registered, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-80-year-old-man-killed-by-son-in-latur-on-fathers-day-852500.html
22-06-2020||West||Online education not compulsory: Goa CM Pramod Sawant amid coronavirus pandemic||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said online education was not compulsory though 11,000 teachers had been trained for it since the state did not have cent per cent connectivity nor do all children have smartphones. After a meeting with education sector stakeholders, the CM said there were various options for school to conduct classes, including airing content on Doordarshan or private channels. "There is no circular mentioning that online education is compulsory. All schools will have teach the entire syllabus without insisting on online education. We will take a decision on reopening schools after July 15 depending on the COVID-19 situation,' Sawant said. "Teachers will have to attend school from Wednesday onwards and start preparations so that time is not lost," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/online-education-not-compulsory-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-852571.html
22-06-2020||West||Gujarat Congress leader tests coronavirus positive, hospitalised||A senior Congress leader from Gujarat was on Monday hospitalised in Vadodara after testing positive for novel coronavirus, a senior IAS officer said. According to Congress leaders, the senior leader and former Union minister was part of the Rajya Sabha elections held on June 19 for four seats in Gujarat. "The Congress leader has been admitted in a designated COVID-19 hospital in Vadodara on Monday morning. His condition is stable," said Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Vinod Rao. State Congress unit president Amit Chavda said the party leader came in close contact with MLAs and other leaders.  "He was alright till the election and the thermal scanner at the entrance of polling booth also cleared him on June 19. He felt sick on Sunday and gave his samples for testing. He was admitted to a hospital today morning after his results came positive," Chavda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-leader-tests-coronavirus-positive-hospitalised-852586.html
22-06-2020||West||Gujarat seeks lifting of HC stay on Jagannath Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad||The Gujarat government on Monday approached the high court for modification of its earlier order staying the procession of Lord Jagannath Yatra in Ahmedabad, which was supposed to be taken out on June 23. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said he had directed the state Advocate General to approach the high court and request it to allow the annual procession. The HC had on Saturday stayed the procession in the light of coronavirus pandemic in Ahmedabad. The court had also questioned local authorities over the delay in taking a decision on an application filed by the Jagannath Mandir Trust. Rupani's comments came hours after the supreme court allowed holding of the procession in Puri in Odisha with restrictions by modifying its earlier order. "The Supreme Court had stayed the Rath Yatra in Odisha's Puri due to the coronavirus pandemic. But today, the apex court allowed the Rath Yatra with restrictions. "The Gujarat government has also informed the Advocate General to request the High Court to allow the historic Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad like the apex court did in Puri, with whatever restrictions the High Court places for the procession," Rupani said. Earlier in the day, the high court refused to entertain a plea moved by an NGO seeking modification of its order staying the procession and allowing the same with certain restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-seeks-lifting-of-hc-stay-on-jagannath-rath-yatra-in-ahmedabad-852613.html
22-06-2020||West||Rajya Sabha polls: Gujarat NCP issues show cause notice to MLA for cross voting||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Gujarat on Monday issued a show-cause notice to its lone MLA Kandhal Jadeja for defying the party whip and cross-voting in the recently-concluded Rajya Sabha elections. Though Jadeja was directed to cast his vote for a Congress candidate in the June 19 elections to four seats, he apparently voted for a BJP nominee. The NCP directed Jadeja, who represents Kutiyana seat in Porbandar district, to explain his stand within the next seven days. "Though you were asked to vote for a Congress candidate and a whip was also issued for the same by the party, you indulged in indiscipline and defied the whip. You are supposed to submit your explanation in seven days. Action will be taken as per the explanation furnished by you," stated the notice signed by Gujarat NCP unit president Jayant Patel. Jadeja, whose party shares power with the Congress in Maharashtra and a constituent of the UPA bloc, had been openly saying that he would vote for the BJP in the elections to the Upper House of Parliament. He had also voted for a BJP candidate against the party whip in the 2017 Rajya Sabha elections when Ahmed Patel of the Congress was in the fray. In the June 19 elections, all three candidates of the BJP- Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin- got elected to Rajya Sabha. The Congress could ensure victory of only one of its two candidates, Shaktisinh Gohil, while Bharatsinh Solanki lost as he failed to garner enough votes. The situation would have been different for the Congress if eight of its MLAs had not resigned after the announcement of the Rajya Sabha polls. Gohil of Congress got 36 votes and Solanki got 30 votes plus some 1.99 second preference votes which added up to 31.9. While 170 out of the total 172 MLAs exercised their franchise, two Bharatiya Tribal Party MLAs did not turn up to vote. In the 182-member House, whose effective strength stood at 172 due to resignation of eight MLAs of the Congress and two vacancies caused by court cases, the ruling BJP has 103 members and the Congress 65.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajya-sabha-polls-gujarat-ncp-issues-show-cause-notice-to-mla-for-cross-voting-852619.html
