23-06-2020||Comment||India must not drop out of cryptocurrency arms race||By Andy Mukherjee Talk about cutting off the nose to spite the face: For a second time, India wants to ban cryptocurrencies.  Harnessing the power of tokens residing on distributed ledgers can save the world’s biggest recipient of money transfers billions of dollars annually. Regulating digital assets and allowing the industry to grow can also keep India in the reckoning as both China and Silicon Valley try to reshape the global payments industry.  But instead of trying to match President Xi Jinping’s resolve to make blockchains the focus of China’s next big technological push, New Delhi wants to retreat — when it was just about to move forward. Earlier, a central bank directive had ordered commercial lenders to stay away from customers dealing in digital assets. But after the Supreme Court overruled the monetary authority in March, the Finance Ministry has decided to introduce a law to prohibit cryptos, the Economic Times reported recently.  Any such law might still get challenged. Binance Holdings Ltd., the top spot exchange for virtual currencies by trading volume, is joining a crypto lobby group in India. The industry doesn’t want to go down without a fight in an important future market. Yet for a nascent local talent pool just beginning to feel hopeful about its prospects, an existential crisis has arrived instead. A perverse outcome will be to drive Bitcoin and other private alternatives to fiat money underground; transactions will occur outside the banking system and stay under the radar of regulators. Money-laundering and terror-financing risks won’t go away. They’ll just become harder to detect. Bad crypto will drive out good crypto. Top brains will leave India or look for other problems to solve. Who stands to lose the most? Last year, Indian families received $83 billion from members working overseas, more than any other country. Capital controls make it harder to take funds out, but at $19 billion, outbound flows for education, travel, or overseas asset purchases by residents were still significant. The coronavirus will no doubt make 2020 the annus horribilis for migrants. The World Bank Is forecasting a 23% slump in remittances to India. In these times, every dollar saved by a nurse from Kerala who’s helping Covid-19 patients in the U.S. and supporting a family thousands of miles away matters more than ever. Yet it costs in excess of $10 to send $200 to India. And 5.3% is the average. Singapore-to-India transfers are cheap at 2% because the two countries allow each others’ major lenders a presence. By contrast, the Thailand-India corridor, which requires handovers across a chain of correspondent banks, could cost 12%. Or $24 on a $200 transfer. Expenses pile up as sending institutions must maintain idle liquidity with correspondent banks in foreign countries, earning little and running the risk of currency depreciation. Cryptography is helpful in such situations. Establishing ownership of funds with hard-to-crack secrets bypasses the need to establish trust with costly pre-funded accounts. And if hackers can steal hundreds of millions of dollars of digital assets, blind trust in an accounts-based system often costs more. As the Wirecard AG scandal shows, investors can wake up one morning and realize that 1.9 billion euros ($2.1 billion) they thought had gone to the German payment processor’s accounts in the Philippines probably didn’t exist.  Meanwhile, the Philippines, which also gets large remittances, allows money to come in as XRP virtual tokens and get converted into pesos. It takes seconds and is 40% to 60% cheaper than traditional means, according to Ripple Labs Inc, the US digital money transfer firm behind XRP. As Ripple argues, for crypto processors to operate in India, the government needs to follow the Singapore model of categorizing digital assets. Some, like Bitcoin or Ethereum, are means of payment. Others are security tokens that give the holder rights similar to stocks or bonds. The regulatory noose around them has tightened after many initial coin sales defrauded investors. In between are utility tokens, which are like in-store vouchers. They give rights, but only on a blockchain.  Allowing rupees to be swapped for permissible payment tokens in regulated quantities, and for the latter to be used without contravening the country’s foreign-exchange management law, would be the logical next steps. Instead, India’s regulators seem to be living in a fantasy land where they hold blockchain to be good, but crypto assets to be evil. At first glance, they seem to be copying the Chinese playbook. While elevating distributed ledgers to a “strategic frontier technology” since 2016, Beijing has rejected the notion that bitcoin is legal tender. However, it hasn’t banned people from holding it as a commodity. This year, it even started piloting a central bank-issued digital yuan. If US-China relations continue to nosedive, Beijing wants to be prepared with an alternative to the Western financial system, a parallel track to Swift. Soon enough, Facebook Inc-sponsored Libra will come in with its own vision of a modern payment system. Even a small nation like Singapore is exploring the potential of central bank virtual currencies with its Project Ubin. If New Delhi wants a voice in a world of two clashing superpowers, and competing networks for moving money as cheaply as information, it needs to build its own capabilities. A ban will be self-defeating. India needs crypto, both for financial inclusion today and strategic heft tomorrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/india-must-not-drop-out-of-cryptocurrency-arms-race-852680.html
23-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Demos held to check SSLC exam preparedness amid Covid-19 scare||Even amid Covid-19 scare, the Public Instruction Department has made elaborate arrangements to conduct the SSLC examinations safely and as per guidelines from Thursday. A demonstration on how the SSLC examinations should be held has already been conducted at St Mary’s High School at Keshwapur in Hubballi. The Hubballi Urban Block Education Office has also uploaded video of this demonstration on the YouTube channel, to instill confidence among students and their parents. Thermal screening, hand sanitiser, masks, and social distancing, both for students and teachers were demonstrated. "A total of 2,573 students will appear for the examinations at 24 centres in Hubballi City, where CCTV cameras are also installed. As all precautionary measures have been taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection, students should write the papers courageously," said BEO Shrishail Karikatti. The Lamington School, one of the examination centres, also conducted a similar demonstration on Tuesday. All 22 blocks are sanitised, and 15 students would be allowed to sit in each block (one student per desk), while a total of 346 students will appear here. As many as 24 teachers have been appointed for supervision. "Though the examination begins at 10:30 am, students can come at 7:30 am itself, and vehicles are also arranged for them. Distance boxes for them have been marked for them while they wait for thermal screenining, getting masks, and entering the room," said Lamington School Principal G R Shivaparasad. Police Commissioner R Dileep also held a meeting with the police officials and examination centre chiefs, and gave instructions about safety measures to be taken during the examinations. Kshamata donates sanitisers, thermal scanners Kshamata NGO, promoted by Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, has handed over masks, hand sanitisers, and thermal scanners worth nearly Rs 50 lakh to the Public Instruction Department, for the benefit of students and teachers at the 118 SSLC examination centres in Dharwad Lok Sabha constituency, including 90 centres in Dharwad district. On Tuesday, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar handed over the material to Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) M L Hanchate. Shettar highlighted the importance of awareness, self-regulation, and following guidelines as most important to contain Covid-19 spread. Kshamata NGO convener Govind Joshi informed that 70,000 masks, 3,500 sanitisers, and 70,000 masks would be distributed for around 33,000 students, and 2,000 teachers. This service was done during PUC second year English examination also, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/demos-held-to-check-sslc-exam-preparedness-amid-covid-19-scare-852962.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||1318 students from Dakshina Kannada will attend SSLC exams outside district||The Dakshina Kannada district administration and department of public instruction has taken all precautionary measures for the smooth conduct of SSLC examinations from June 25. "The students need not panic and write the exam without any fear. There are 95 examination centres in Dakshina Kannada and 30,835 students have registered for writing the exam. A total of 1318 students who were studying in Dakshina Kannada and returned to their native following Covid-19 pandemic will write their exams in the centres identified outside the district in their native," said DDPI Malleswamy during phone-in programme organised by Prajavani at PV-DH editorial office in Mangaluru on Tuesday. Of 30,835 students, the examination centres for 3135 students are near their houses. Parents have arranged to drop 12,156 students to the examination centres on their own. As many as 7,755 students travel in buses to reach the examination centres. Private schools have arranged buses to ferry 4012 students. As many as 1987 students including 367 students from Kerala studying in Karnataka have appealed to the department to make arrangements for their ferry to reach the examination centres. The district administration has arranged school buses to ferry the students from designated points in the border areas. The designated areas are Pathuru, Muguli, Anekal Saradka, Beripadavu, Nandarapadpu, Kedambadi, Bayaru, Kayarmar, Talakki, Salethoor in Bantwal; Talapady, Manjanady in Mangaluru taluk; Ardhamoole, Galimukha, Kayarpadavu, Mayyal, Menasikana, Panaje, Panchodi, Pandi, Pilipude, Saradka, Swarga in Puttur; Jalsoor/Muroor, Kolchar/Kallappalli, added the DDPI. The DDPI said that already 60,000 masks have been distributed among the students and 100 additional masks have been reserved in examination centres in case a student fails to get the mask. “We have also arranged 19 additional examination centres in the district in case of emergency to conduct the exams,” added the DDPI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1318-students-from-dakshina-kannada-will-attend-sslc-exams-outside-district-852835.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Youth Congress in Hubballi protests against hike in petrol, diesel prices||Staging a unique protest by selling few bottles of half litre petrol at a rate of Rs 20 each, Youth Congress members claimed that petrol price would have been Rs 40 per litre if the Congress was in power at the Centre. They staged the protest in front of Mini Vidhan Soudha in Hubballi on Tuesday. Raising slogans and displaying placards against the Union Government for hiking petrol and diesel prices, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) Hubballi-Dharwad Assembly Constituency Committee members lamented that petrol and diesel prices are being increased daily when the entire country is hit by Covid-19 pandemic, and people are in crisis due to the lockdown. Submitting a memorandum to the President of India through the tahsildar's office, protesters charged that the government is not at all controlling petroleum companies, and common people are heavily burdened. The Centre should take steps to withdraw hike in petrol and diesel prices, and should fix prices affordable for people who have just recovered from the problems created by the lockdown, they demanded. Shahzaman Mujahid, Naveed Mulla, Faruq Kalebudde, D M Doddamani, and others led the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-congress-in-hubballi-protests-against-hike-in-petrol-diesel-prices-852932.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Loft of pigeons a threat to heritage structure'||A loft of blue rock pigeons on Balarama and Jayarama Gates, on the northern part of Mysuru Palace, is a threat to the heritage structure. The pigeons dot the heritage entrance gates of the century-old palace, as they get easy food in the vicinity. Environmentalists say, compassion of generous people for birds, by providing grains, has adverse effects on the health of the birds too. People, claiming to be generous, offer food — grains, cereals and even glucose-rich biscuits — in front of Kote Anjaneya Swamy temple, up to Chamaraja Circle, where a statue of the late Maharaja Chamaraja Wadiyar X is housed in an ornate canopy. The presence of hundreds of pigeons, their feeding and flying in hordes offer a great sight. But, those who enjoy the sight seem to ignore the harm to both, the heritage structure and also the birds. Longer stays by blue rock pigeons at a particular place causes irreversible damage due to their droppings, which contain a compound called saltpeter or potassium nitrate. It is a threat to the marble statue of Chamaraja Wadiyar X. Besides, the life-size statue of the late Maharaja, the artwork, canopy, cusped arches of the fort wall and other heritage structures are under threat due to the droppings. A few enthusiasts used to feed the birds near Rangacharlu Town Hall, Dodda Gadiyara and Mysuru Palace. Since a few years, these enthusiasts have come together to feed the pigeons and crows that flock in front of the gate, with huge amounts of seeds, cereals or grams. Helping Hands treasurer Rajan Baghmar said, “Jiv Daya (compassion for living beings) motivated us to feed the birds near Balarama and Jayarama Gates of Mysuru Palace. We feed 250 to 300 kg of white jowar per day since January 1, 2015. Pigeons are mostly from Halladakeri and they are not a threat to the heritage structure.” Wildlife enthusiast Rajkumar Devaraje Urs said, “Human intervention is harmful for nature. More so for birds. Feeding of seeds and cereal grains and sometimes biscuits is bad for their health. Feeding too much of jowar will lead to indigestion. Then, the pigeons lap up tiny pebbles to facilitate digestion. Natural instinct to look for food, to find a mate, breeding cycle, self-defense, instinct to rescue younger ones, adaptive nature and evolution are disturbed. The prey-predator chain is under stress.” Member Secretary of Zoo Authority of Karnataka B P Ravi said, “Feeding either birds or animals is not good. Animals and birds know how to find their food. Feeding them will create imbalance in their hormone levels, which lead to loss of instincts.” “Monkey-menace on Chamundi Hill is often discussed. Every year, monkeys are rescued and shifted to some forest. But, monkeys reappear on Chamundi Hill and devotees complain about their menace. The problem lies with the devotees, who either litter the surrounding with eatables or intentionally feed the monkeys. The monkeys throng the vicinity of Chamundeshwari temple as they easily get food. If food is not available there, the monkeys will go in search of food into the forests,” said Ravi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/loft-of-pigeons-a-threat-to-heritage-structure-852979.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Round 2 of Covid-19: 21 new cases reported in Mysuru||It looks like it is a second wave of Covid-19 infection in Mysuru district. On Tuesday, another 21 persons were tested positive, taking the total tally to 191 so far, and the total active cases to 79. One of them is a 93 year old man, likely the eldest to be infected so far. It has to be recalled that the people of Mysuru district celebrated on May 15, when Covid-19 cases were nil, after all 90 patients, till then, were discharged. The first case, Patient (P) 20 was reported on March 21. Kothwal Ramaiah Street, Devaraja Mohalla, Shivarampet; Seebaiah Road Devaraja Mohalla, behind Sapna Book House; and 3rd West Cross of Shivarampet — all in the heart of the city — were sealed down, as containment zones, on Tuesday. The patients from P-9551 to P-9571, identified on Tuesday, are all being treated at the Designated Covid Hospital, the District Hospital on KRS Road in Metagalli. While two of them have returned from Rajasthan, one has a travel history to Bengaluru, three are KSRP Police personnel who have returned from Bengaluru, 12 have travel history of Tamil Nadu and three have contact history with P-9399. Thirteen of them are men and eight of them are women. Among the patients confirmed on Tuesday, P-9558, a 79-year-old woman, who has returned from Tamil Nadu; and a 93-year-old man, who has a contact history with P-9399; are in the high-risk category. There are also four children under the age of 15, including an eight-year-old boy, who has returned from Tamil Nadu. As on Tuesday, the total number of persons observed in Mysuru district are 9,866. Those who have completed 14 days of isolation are 8,088. Those who have completed house isolation for 14 days are 1,467. Those who have completed seven-day quarantine are 232. The number of samples tested are 17,009. So far, 112 persons have recovered and have been discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/round-2-of-covid-19-21-new-cases-reported-in-mysuru-852980.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Feel ‘upside down’ at this amusement park||One can experience how the world would look, if it turned ‘upside down’ at an amusement park of the city. Deemed to be the first-of -its- kind in the country, ‘GRS Up Down Museum’, besides GRS Fantasy Park, is open since a few days. The museum has many rooms, including kitchen, dining hall, living room and slanting room, that are all ‘upside down’. Vintage car and scooter models, tables, chairs and other furniture are part of it. If one takes photographs, it makes one feel as if they themselves are standing upside down. Balakrishna Kini, operations head, said, “We have taken all precautions to safeguard our staff and guests. Compulsory hand sanitisation on entry, regular temperature check of staff and customers, half hourly sanitisation of whole area, complete social distancing between customers, special air filters for air-conditioning and treated fresh air units are in place.” Ashwin Dange, business head, said, “We were ready to open the museum in March, but because of Covid-19 lockdown, we had to postpone it by three months. We also opened a drive-in restaurant recently. The museum will be open from 1 pm to 9 pm. However, the Water Park and Snow Park will remain closed, for now.” Contact: 95900 80808.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/feel-upside-down-at-this-amusement-park-852982.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Not lobbying for MySugar factory: Murugesh Nirani||MLA and chairman of MRN Group of companies Murugesh R Nirani clarified that Nirani Sugar Company is not lobbying to take over MySugar factory, as projected by a few vested interests. In a press release, the MLA has said, “Rumours are being spread that Nirani Group is trying to takeover MySugar factory. Please do not link our company with MySugar issue. It is not possible for anyone to get the contract directly. It has to be taken on lease through a global tender. Only those who win the bid can get the factory on lease.” “MySugar factory is not a provision store for the state government to give it to anyone they wish. In future, if the government decides on privatisation and invites tender, I may participate, only if I am interested,” he stated. Commenting on Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK), Nirani has mentioned: “I will begin the factory, only if the people extend cooperation and there is no need for any confusion. I am also from a farmer’s family and understand their problems” Nirani stated that his meeting with Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, member of the erstwhile royal family, during his recent visit to Mysuru, was out of courtesy. “I had not met Yaduveer. But, a few persons are unnecessarily spreading news that I am lobbying for MySugar factory, which hurt me. The people of Mandya should not heed to such rumours,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/not-lobbying-for-mysugar-factory-murugesh-nirani-852983.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Jagadish Shettar responds to D K Shivakumar on Karnataka's Covid-19 model; no lockdown in Dharwad||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday criticised the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief D K Shivakumar's wish to make Congress a cadre-based party can never be a reality, opining that Congress has no workers who work for common people but all are leaders there. "Where is the cadre in Congress? Remaining workers also do not have respect there. It will continue to resort to mere vote bank politics. Whereas, BJP has lakhs of workers who always work with common people," he said. In reply to Shivakumar's criticism against the 'model' tag given to Karnataka by the Union Government for its Covid-19 management, Shettar said, "He is in the opposition and says so purely based on politics. Naturally, he cannot hail the BJP government. Has the Centre given the same appreciation to all States where BJP is in power?". BJP has already given representation to North Karnataka region in Rajya Sabha, and BJP core committee would be asked to do the same in forthcoming elections also, he added.However, Shettar refused to comment on statements by Umesh Katti and Sonia Gandhi. On community spread "Covid-19 infection is spreading to various localities including villages, mainly due to those who returned from other states. As community spread is also possible, people should have self-restriction, while the government is also doing its best. Guidelines should be followed in day-to-day activities," Shettar said.This infection is not sparing anybody, including police, medical staff and minister's family. To boost the morale of government employees, instructions are given for speedy throat swab collection, testing and treatment, along with providing safety equipment, he noted. No lockdown in Dharwad district Unlike Bengaluru, which has more Covid-19 cases and the vulnerable areas are ordered to be completely lockdown, such a step would not be taken in the Dharwad district, as the virus spread here is less compared to other districts, said Shettar, who is also Dharwad's district in-charge minister. Guidelines are being followed to contain the virus spread, and self-regulation is most important though the lockdown is relaxed, Shettar emphasised. "Sealing down a 100-metre area from the house of the Covid-19 patient is correct here," he said. 202 positive cases have been reported in the district so far, 76 are discharged, while the number of negative cases is 22,245 out of 22,439 tests. A total of 23,636 persons in the district are under observation, while 68 results are awaited, and 123 are active cases, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jagadish-shettar-responds-to-d-k-shivakumar-on-karnatakas-covid-19-model-no-lockdown-in-dharwad-852851.html
23-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: D K Shivakumar sheds tears as Congress gears up for coronation||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar turned emotional on Tuesday when he oversaw a dry run of his grand formal coronation scheduled for July 2.  The 3-hour-long exercise unveiled what promises to be a made-for-television event on July 2 that will be held across 7,831 locations in the state. While Shivakumar will take charge as the party president in the party’s Bengaluru headquarters, party workers across the state will join him simultaneously in lighting a lamp, singing Vande Mataram and reading the Constitution’s preamble. The entire event will be streamed live. "This is the lamp that took shape when I was in jail," an emotional Shivakumar said, pointing at a lamp that he lit along with other senior leaders.  "I started off as a student leader and I’ve been loyal to the party ever since. I’ve carried out so many responsibilities without any power. The party has now identified Shivakumar as someone who did time in jail and despite the uncertainty of when I’ll be out," he said, thanking his supporters. "Sonia Gandhi came to jail and spent one hour with me. She instilled power in me and appointed me to this position,” he said while his voice wavered because of the emotions.  Shivakumar was appointed as KPCC president on March 11, but the Covid-19 lockdown kept him from taking formal charge of the party's affairs.  On the occasion, Shivakumar vowed to revamp an otherwise rundown party. "We must become a cadre-based party. Through this event, we must send a message of unity to the entire country.” He also sought to invoke the Congress’ legacy. “The BJP doesn’t have the strength to wear the tricolour, neither do the Janata Dal, communist parties and others. You should be proud of being a Congressman, because Congress was the first national party formed for the sake of the country,” he said.  Shivakumar has appointed some 400 coordinators for the July 2 event. "All of you will be given a tracker with which we’ll know where you sit and sleep," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-d-k-shivakumar-sheds-tears-as-congress-gears-up-for-coronation-852964.html
23-06-2020||National||2,909 fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi take tally to over 62K; death toll mounts to 2,233||Delhi recorded 2,909 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the tally in the city over the 62,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 2,233, authorities said. From Friday to Sunday, 3,000 or more fresh cases were being reported per day in the national capital. Fifty-eight fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department bulletin said on Monday. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 2,175 on Sunday. The bulletin said, the death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 2,233, and the total number of cases has mounted to 62,655. Meanwhile, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain was on Monday shifted out of the ICU of Max hospital here, two days after he was administered plasma therapy, sources said. The minister had tested positive for the disease on June 17. Also, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Monday directed officials to implement all directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, including re-mapping of containment zones and aggressive contact-tracing, to effectively fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital.    Sources said that in his directions to Principal Secretary (Health) Vikram Dev Dutt and Divisional Commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar, the chief secretary also asked them to ensure enhanced testing and patient-friendly medical care. According to the bulletin, 36,602 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while the number of active cases stood at 23,820. It added that 3,84,696 tests have been conducted in the city. The number of containment zones in the city on Monday stood at 262.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2909-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-62k-death-toll-mounts-to-2233-852645.html
23-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 23, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-23-2020-edition-852673.html
23-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 23||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 4.50 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:    Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths) - 4,55,113 as of June 23 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 14,466 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 2,38,212  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-23-852678.html
23-06-2020||National||DH Toon: Manmohan Singh tells Modi how words work?||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be “mindful of the implication of his words” as a controversy raged over his “no intrusion” remark about the violent face-off with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-manmohan-singh-tells-modi-how-words-work-852679.html
23-06-2020||National||2 militants, CRPF jawan killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama||Two unidentified militants and a CRPF jawan were killed in an encounter in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Bundzoo in  Pulwama, in South Kashmir, on Tuesday morning after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police officer said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated. Two militants have been killed so far, the official said, adding that the operation was still in progress. One CRPF jawan was also killed in the exchange of firing with the ultras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-militants-crpf-jawan-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-852682.html
23-06-2020||National||Alert! State Bank of India warns 20 lakh users of cyber attacks in major cities||State Bank of India has issued a warning to its 20 lakh customers about phishing attacks in major Indian cities. In an advisory, SBI said, "Attention! It has come to our notice that a cyber attack is going to take place in major cities in India. Kindly refrain yourself from clicking on emails coming from ncov2019@gov.in with a subject line Free COVID-19 Testing." The advisory added that the phishing email with the subject line "Free Covid-19 Testing" would be sent to all residents of Delhi, Mumbai Hyderabad, Chennai and Ahmedabad. The warning came after the government security agency asked all the business establishments and individuals to be extra careful about fake emails, social media posts, or text messages that promise free Covid-19 testing across India. Amidst massive cyberattack in many countries including Australia for the past two days, Indian Cybersecurity agency, on Sunday, had warned individual and business establishments about the possible large-scale phishing campaign in the guise of free Covid-19 tests. The government’s cybersecurity agency - Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) in its advisory said that in the guise of a free Covid-19 test, cyber warriors could carry out massive phishing campaign with cyber attackers using email IDs such as "ncov2019@gov.in". The attackers are likely to send malicious emails under the pretext of local authorities or government agencies that are in charge of dispensing government-funded Covid-19 support initiatives. "Such emails are designed to drive recipients towards fake websites where they are deceived into downloading malicious files or entering personal and financial information," Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) said in its latest advisory dated June 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alert-state-bank-of-india-warns-20-lakh-users-of-cyber-attacks-in-major-cities-852685.html
23-06-2020||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for 17th straight day||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the 17th straight session on Tuesday by 20 paise per litre and diesel by 55 paise as the oil companies increased prices that took the cumailative increase to a steep Rs 8.5 and Rs 10.1 per litre respectively. In Bengaluru, petrol will be costlier by 20 paise per litre at Rs 82.35 per litre, while diesel will cost 53 paise more per litre at Rs 75.51 per litre. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or value added tax. The government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each and then again on May 5 by a record Rs 10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. The two hikes gave the government Rs 2 lakh crore in additional tax revenues. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers, adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of a decline in international oil prices to two-decade lows. The 17th daily increase in rates, since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus in rate revision, has taken diesel prices to fresh highs. Petrol price too is at a two-year high. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-17th-straight-day-852686.html
23-06-2020||National||8 Delhi University students, teachers detained during protest against open book exams||Eight students and teachers protesting outside the Delhi University's Arts Faculty against the varsity administration's decision to conduct online open book exams were detained on Monday, police said. They were taken to Maurice Nagar police station and released after some time, they said. A group of around 10 protesters had gathered outside the Arts Faculty. They carried placards reading "Say No to Online Exams" and "DU Against OBE". A senior police officer said eight protesters were detained and later released. They were taken to the Maurice Nagar police station in the North district. Prasenjeet Kumar, president of Left-affiliated All India Students' Association (AISA), said the students and teachers were detained but were released after being made to sign an undertaking that they won't violate the prohibitory orders imposed in the city under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Delhi University is conducting online open-book exams in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Students and teachers have been opposing the move citing lack of internet connectivity at many places, among other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-delhi-university-students-teachers-detained-during-protest-against-open-book-exams-852687.html
23-06-2020||National||State govt making strenuous efforts to bring economy back on track: Dushyant Chautala||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday said that the state government was making strenuous efforts to bring the economy of the state back on track amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that with the government allowing several relaxations, the opening of industries has picked up pace in the state. "The state government is making massive efforts to bring the economy of the state back on track,” Chautala told reporters in Fatehabad. Replying to a query, the deputy chief minister said that the state government is giving financial assistance to the units being set up for crop stubble management and producing electricity from it. He said that Haryana has submitted in writing before the National Green Tribunal that the state would purchase stubble from farmers. Chautala said the process of setting up waste to energy units would soon start in the state and added that the Haryana government would extend support for all such ventures.     To another question, he said that the panchayat election is due shortly and the state government has already started preparations for it, but also added that a decision on the polls could be taken if the Covid-19 situation does not improve. He said that the tenure of panchayats would be over by July. Meanwhile, Chautala informed that a Japanese company has expressed keen interest in setting up a lithium battery manufacturing unit at Sohna in Gurgaon district by intending to invest Rs 7500 crore, which has the potential to generate employment to 15,000 youth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-govt-making-strenuous-efforts-to-bring-economy-back-on-track-dushyant-chautala-852688.html
23-06-2020||National||One positive in latest Premier League Covid-19 tests, total now 18||The Premier League said on Monday that there was one more positive result from the latest round of Covid-19 tests of players and staff conducted last week, taking the total number of cases to 18 since testing began last month. The English top-flight restarted its season last week after a 100-day hiatus due to the pandemic. "The Premier League can today confirm that between Wednesday 17 June and Sunday 21 June, 1,829 players and club staff were tested for Covid-19," it said in a statement. "Of these, one person has tested positive." The league did not reveal the club or the name of the individual who tested positive. Since players returned to contact training last month, tests have been carried out twice a week since May 17 and the league has conducted 10 rounds of testing so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-positive-in-latest-premier-league-covid-19-tests-total-now-18-852689.html
23-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on Puri Jagannath Yatra||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted people on the occasion of Lord Jagannath Yatra, hoping that it brings good health and prosperity. "My heartiest greetings on the auspicious occasion of Lord Jagannath's Rath Yatra," the prime minister tweeted in Hindi. भगवान जगन्नाथ की रथ यात्रा के पावन-पुनीत अवसर पर आप सभी को मेरी हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। मेरी कामना है कि श्रद्धा और भक्ति से भरी यह यात्रा देशवासियों के जीवन में सुख, समृद्धि, सौभाग्य और आरोग्य लेकर आए। जय जगन्नाथ! He wished that the occasion brings happiness, prosperity, good luck and health to the lives of the people.  "Jai Jagannath," he said. The Supreme Court had on Monday allowed holding of the historic Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra at Puri with certain conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-puri-jagannath-yatra-852717.html
23-06-2020||National||Gujarat High Court's 2 am order: No Rath Yatra on road in Ahmedabad in view of Covid-19 outbreak||In a dramatic turn of events in Ahmedabad, the Gujarat High Court in a hearing held at midnight rejected petitions filed by various parties including by the state government seeking permission to hold a "symbolic" Rath Yatra procession of Lord Jagannath on Tuesday. Hours after the order was passed, the annual event was held inside the temple premises where Chief Minister Vijay Rupani performed the rituals under tight police security.The division bench of the High Court of Chief Justice Vikramnath and Justice J B Pardiwala passed an order at 2 am rejecting all the pleas which had sought permission to take out a symbolic Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad citing Supreme Court's order which allowed Rath Yatra in Puri, Odisha. This would have been the 143rd Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad which over the years has become one of the biggest religious events in the state where lakhs of people participate. The bench led by Justice Vikramnath ordered, "There may not be denial about the order passed by the Supreme Court today, but the situation in Ahmedabad on account of pandemic of Covid-19 cannot be compared with the situation in Puri or in the State of Orissa. Despite the fact that assurance being given by the State and all other applicants, we still do not find any good ground to recall or modify our order dated 20.06.2020. All the Civil Applications are accordingly rejected." The order mentions, "We make it clear that on account of paucity of time and the urgency of the order being made available to the parties, we have not dealt with the reasons in detail." The court also directed the administration to circulate this order to each lawyer who was part of the litigation through WhatsApp and email. The court also directed this order to be sent to the print, digital and electronic media through similar means which the administration followed. Earlier on June 20, the Gujarat High Court had allowed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by a journalist, Hitesh Chavda, seeking cancellation of yatra in view of the rising Covid-19 cases and death rate being the highest in the country. The petitioner had submitted that the yatra covers 16 to 18 km which would pass through three Covid-19 containment zones and one buffer zone. The route is flanked by lakhs of devotees and participants. What has puzzled the court is the fact that the Jagannath Mandir Trust, the organiser, had sought permission for the event from Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and police commissioner through a letter dated May 18. However, no decision was taken by them. While deciding the PIL on June 20, the High Court sought explanation from the government for this "inaction." As a matter of fact, the state government didn't take any decision till Monday evening when the Supreme Court allowed Rath Yatra in Puri. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani visited the temple premises for evening ritual and announced the government would move the High Court to seek permission for taking out conditional procession. Earlier in the day, a similar application had been rejected by the High Court which was filed by an NGO. Meanwhile, in the evening first two applications had been filed in the court on behalf of Mahant Akhileshwardasji Ramlakhandasji, the representative of Gopal Lalji Ramji Mandir Moti Salavivad Saraspur Mosad (uncle) of Lord Jagannath and another was filed by Nilay Patel on behalf of Krutesh Samir Patel praying for being impleaded as party respondent and permitting the Rath Yatra with shortest possible route. Before the court could pass any order, four more pleas were filed including on behalf of an NGO Hindu Yuva Vahini by 7.17 pm. Court received another application filed by the state Government at 9:35 pm. The bench was constituted and the hearing finally commenced at 00:45 hours and concluded at 2 am. The court rejected all the pleas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-high-courts-2-am-order-no-rath-yatra-on-road-in-ahmedabad-in-view-of-covid-19-outbreak-852733.html
23-06-2020||National||Has China occupied Indian territory? Rahul Gandhi asks government||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked the government whether China has occupied Indian territory. "We are standing united against Chinese aggression. Has China occupied Indian territory?" Gandhi tweeted along with a photograph of the Pangong Tso lake clicked by his father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. Rahul Gandhi has been attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his statement at an all-party meeting last week that neither is anyone inside India's territory nor has anyone captured its posts while referring to the Ladakh face-off. Earlier too, the Congress leader had asked the government whether China has occupied any Indian territory. The Prime Minister's Office has already clarified Modi's comments, and said attempts are being made to give a "mischievous interpretation". Firing a fresh salvo at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gandhi on Monday asked as to why China is "praising Mr Modi during this conflict".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/has-china-occupied-indian-territory-rahul-gandhi-asks-government-852740.html
23-06-2020||National||Nine new cases push Arunachal Pradesh COVID-19 tally to 126||Nine more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, raising the state's coronavirus count to 126, an official said on Tuesday. Arunachal Pradesh now has 44 active cases, while 22 patients have recovered from the disease, State Surveillance Officer L Jampa said. Six fresh cases were reported from worst-hit Changlang district, two from Longding and one from Leparada. All of them had recently returned from other states -- Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, and New Delhi, he said. "Arunachal Pradesh is still in the green zone as all COVID-19 cases have been reported from government quarantine facilities," Jampa added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-new-cases-push-arunachal-pradesh-covid-19-tally-to-126-852746.html
23-06-2020||National||Covid-19 cases in India climb to 4,40,215, nearly 11,000 recoveries in single day||With 14,933 people testing positive for coronavirus in a single day, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 4,40,215 on Tuesday while the death toll rose to 14,011 with 312 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country has witnessed a spike of 2,49,680 infections from June 1 till date, with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh contributing to almost 70 per cent of total cases. The number of recoveries also continued to surge with 2,48,189 patients cured so far, while there were 1,78,014 active cases, according to the updated official figures at 8 am.One patient has migrated.  During the last 24 hours, a total of 10,994 COVID-19 patients have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 56.38 per cent amongst coronavirus infected patients, an official said.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 71,37,716 samples have been tested up to June 22 with 1,87,223 samples being tested on Monday. Of the 312 fresh fatalities reported till Tuesday morning, 113 were from Maharashtra, 58 from Delhi, 37 from Tamil Nadu, 21 from Gujarat, 19 from Uttar Pradesh, 14 from West Bengal, 9 from Haryana, seven each from Rajasthan and Telangana, six from Madhya Pradesh, five each from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, three from Jammu and Kashmir, two each from Bihar and Punjab and one each from Chhattisgarh, Goa, Odisha and Uttarakhand.   India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is at the eighth position in terms of the death toll. Of the total 14,011 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 6,283 fatalities, followed by Delhi with 2,233 deaths, Gujarat with 1,684, Tamil Nadu with 794, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh with 569 each, Madhya Pradesh with 521, Rajasthan with 356 and Telangana with 217 deaths. The COVID-19 death toll reached 169 in Haryana, 142 in Karnataka, 111 in Andhra Pradesh, 101 in Punjab, 85 in Jammu and Kashmir, 55 in Bihar, 28 in Uttarakhand, 21 in Kerala and 15 in Odisha. Chhattisgarh has registered 12 deaths, Jharkhand 11, Assam nine, Himachal Pradesh and Puducherry eight each, Chandigarh six, while Goa, Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said.  Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,35,796, followed by Delhi at 62,655, Tamil Nadu at 62,087, Gujarat at 27,825, Uttar Pradesh at 18,322, Rajasthan at 15,232 and West Bengal at 14,358, according to ministry data. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 12,078 in Madhya Pradesh, 11,025 in Haryana, 9,399 in Karnataka, 9,372 in Andhra Pradesh and 8,674 in Telangana. It has risen to 7,825 in Bihar, 6,088 in Jammu and Kashmir, 5,586 in Assam and 5,303 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 4,235 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 3,310 cases.       A total of 2,402 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 2,303 in Chhattisgarh, 2,137 in Jharkhand, 1,237 in Tripura, 898 in Manipur, 864 in Goa, 847 in Ladakh and 727 in Himachal Pradesh.           Chandigarh has recorded 411 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry has 383 cases, Nagaland has 280, Mizoram has 141 and Arunachal Pradesh has 139.        Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 91 COVID-19 cases. Sikkim has recorded 78 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands registered 48 infections, while Meghalaya has recorded 44 cases.       "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research)," the ministry said, adding 8,015 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-india-climb-to-440215-nearly-11000-recoveries-in-single-day-852762.html
23-06-2020||National||Critically ill COVID-19 patients 10 times more likely to develop heart rhythm disorders: Study||COVID-19 patients who are admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU) may be ten times more likely than others hospitalised with the viral infection to suffer cardiac arrest or heart rhythm disorders, according to a new study that may help better protect those most vulnerable to the disease. Researchers, including those from the University of Pennsylvania in the US, said cardiac arrests and heartbeat rhythm disturbances suffered by some patients with COVID-19 are likely triggered by a severe, systemic form of the disease, and are and not the sole consequence of the viral infection. The findings, published in the Heart Rhythm Journal, differ significantly from early reports which showed a high incidence of arrhythmias among all COVID-19 patients, according to the scientists. They said the results provide more clarity about the role of the novel coronavirus, SARS-COV-2, and the disease it causes, COVID-19, in the development of arrhythmias, including irregular heart rate, slow heart rhythms, or rapid heart rate that stops by itself within 30 seconds. "In order to best protect and treat patients who develop COVID-19, it's critical for us to improve our understanding of how the disease affects various organs and pathways within our body -- including our heart rhythm abnormalities," said study senior author Rajat Deo from the University of Pennsylvania. "Our findings suggest that non-cardiac causes such as systemic infection, inflammation, and illness are likely to contribute more to the occurrence of cardiac arrest and arrhythmias than damaged or infected heart cells due to the viral infection," Deo said. Earlier studies had suggested that COVID-19 is associated with a high incidence of cardiac arrhythmias, particularly among critically ill patients with early reports indicating that 44 per cent of patients admitted to the ICU suffered heartbeat rhythm disturbances. According to the researchers, heart rhythm problems occur when electrical impulses that coordinate heartbeats don't work properly, causing the heart to beat too fast, too slow, or irregularly. If left untreated, they said cardiac arrhythmias can lead to serious medical conditions, including stroke and cardiac arrest -- the abrupt loss of heart function. In the study, the scientists evaluated the risk and incidence of cardiac arrest and arrhythmias among 700 hospitalised patients with COVID-19. They assessed the clinical records for patient demographics, and medical comorbidities such as heart disease, diabetes, and chronic kidney disease, and recorded patient vitals, test results, and treatment. According to the study, the patients had a mean age of 50 years.  The researchers identified a total of 53 arrhythmic events -- nine patients who suffered cardiac arrest, 25 patients with atrial fibrillation who required treatment, nine patients with clinically significant slow heart rhythms, and 10 people who had a rapid heart rate that stopped by itself within 30 seconds. Of the 700 patients hospitalised, they said about 11 per cent were admitted to the ICU. None of the other hospitalised patients suffered a cardiac arrest, the study noted. On controlling for underlying demographic and clinical factors, the scientists found that cardiac arrest and arrhythmias were more likely to occur among patients in an ICU compared to the other hospitalised patients. Citing the limitations of the study, they said the analysis was conducted from a single centre serving a large urban population. "More research is needed to assess whether the presence of cardiac arrhythmias has long-term health effects on patients who were hospitalised for COVID-19," Deo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/critically-ill-covid-19-patients-10-times-more-likely-to-develop-heart-rhythm-disorders-study-852763.html
23-06-2020||National||Ahead of Rath Yatra, Puri temple servitor tests COVID-19 positive||One of the servitors of Shree Jagannath Temple here tested positive for COVID-19 during mandatory testing of priests and police personnel ahead of the annual Rath Yatra on Tuesday, a senior official said. The servitor will not be part of any ritual related to the Rath Yatra, he said. Samples of 1,143 servitors were tested on Monday night, as per directives of the Supreme Court. "Except one, reports of all the others came out negative. The servitor who tested positive has been shifted to a COVID-19 hospital," the official said, adding that contact tracing has been initiated. Modifying its earlier order, the apex court on Monday gave the go-ahead for the Rath Yatra after taking note of the Odisha government's assurance that it "can be held in a limited way without public attendance". Each chariot would be pulled by not more than 500 people and all of them have to test negative for coronavirus, the top court said. It also directed that those engaged in pulling the chariots shall maintain social distancing before, during and after the Rath Yatra.  The rituals involve three chariots -- Lord Jagannath's Nandighosh, Lord Balabhadra's Taladwaja and Devi Subhadra's Darpadalan. 'Pahandi' (procession where the deities are carried from the temple to the chariots) was carried out in the morning by servitors who tested negative for COVID-19, a temple official said. "All entry points into Puri -- airports, railway stations, bus stands -- shall be closed during the period of Rath Yatra festival," the Supreme Court had said in its order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-rath-yatra-puri-temple-servitor-tests-covid-19-positive-852773.html
23-06-2020||National||Covid-19: Indian pilgrims will not travel to Saudi Arabia for Haj 2020, says Naqvi||The government has decided that Muslims from India will not travel to Saudi Arabia for Haj 2020 after the kingdom conveyed that pilgrims should not be sent this year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Tuesday. The decision was taken after Saudi Arabia's Haj and Umrah Minister Mohammad Saleh bin Taher Benten telephoned last night and suggested not to send pilgrims from India for Haj this year, Naqvi told reporters. Saudi Arabia on Monday said it has barred international visitors from making the Islamic pilgrimage, in a bid to control the coronavirus pandemic. It said only a very limited number of people currently living in the kingdom may take part. "This decision was taken to ensure haj is performed in a safe manner from a public health perspective," a Saudi government statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-pilgrims-will-not-travel-to-saudi-arabia-for-haj-2020-says-naqvi-852777.html
23-06-2020||National||Two Covid-19 cases in secluded Panju Island, off Mumbai||Nearly three months ago, the Panju Island off Mumbai, went into self-quarantine mode, virtually cutting itself from the outside world.   "Two persons have been found positive for Covid-19 and the villagers need to take precautions otherwise there is a big danger ahead," two villagers told DH. The only way to reach Panju Island is by boat - and the ferry services were shut during lockdown. When the unlocking started - ferry too started but now it is shut again.Located within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Panju Island is located in the estuarine creek off Vasai in Palghar district. When one passes through the Western Railway bridge between Bhayander and Naigaum, they can see the old bridge and below it an island. This is the same Panju Island that is cut off from the mainland and like Mumbai, it has a unique history. The village is spread over 600 acres has huge patches of salt pans and fishing boats dotting the elliptical coast. Villagers own over 100 boats – mainly used for sand dredging or fishing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-covid-19-cases-in-secluded-panju-island-off-mumbai-852780.html
23-06-2020||National||Delhi violence: HC grants time to school owner to file reply on plea by police||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted time to the owner of a private school to file a reply on a plea by the city police challenging bail granted to him in a case related to communal violence in north east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Faisal Farooq, owner of the Rajdhani School in Shiv Vihar locality was among the 18 arrested, for alleged involvement in burning and damaging property of the adjacent DRP Convent School. Justice Suresh Kait, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, said the response be filed within four days and listed the matter for further hearing on July 1. The court on Monday had put a stay on the trial court’s bail order, saying “till further order, if the respondent/accused (Farooq), pursuant to order dated June 20 (of trial court) is still in custody, he shall not be released.” At the outset when Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi started his arguments on behalf of the Delhi Police, the judge sought to know whether the controversy, which erupted on Monday, on who will represent the state has been resolved and why there was unnecessary interference. On Monday, the hearing had seen exchange of words between Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and the Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra who submitted that the Central Government has no power to file this petition against the June 20 order of the trial court. Later, Lekhi had appeared in place of the Solicitor General who submitted that in this situation, out of disgust, he seeks permission to withdraw his name from the petition. On the court’s query on Tuesday, Lekhi said he was appearing for the Delhi Police and whatever happened on Monday was avoidable and unwarranted. “I had the instructions to appear in the case which is why I appeared yesterday. It must have donned on him (Mehra) and he is not present in the hearing today which shows his objections were not well founded,” Lekhi said. He contended that the police has challenged the trial court’s June 200 order by which Farooq was granted bail as the decision was ex-facie unwarranted. During the hearing, senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Farooq, said that on Monday the police arrested the school owner in another case and took him to custody. He sought time to file his reply to the petition. The police, in the petition filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, have challenged the trial court’s June 20 order granting bail to Farooq on the ground that it was prima facie not established that he was present at the spot at the time of incident. The Delhi Police had on June 3 filed a charge sheet before the court against Farooq and 17 others in the incident in which the building of a private school was burnt down in North East Delhi. The trial court, in its bail order, had noted that the charge sheet filed against him in the case was bereft of material showing his alleged links with the Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group and Muslim clerics. The trial court has said the accused would be released from jail on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 50,000 along with two sureties of the like amount. It had directed Farooq to surrender his passport and not leave the National Capital Region without permission of the court. He should mark his attendance on every alternate Wednesday at the police station concerned. It also asked him not to tamper with evidence or influence the witnesses. The Crime Branch of the Delhi Police had filed the charge sheet against the accused for allegedly conspiring with the Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination Committee and Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz for creating riots, in and around his school. It has also been alleged that protestors against the CAA had received funds from the PFI, formed in 2006 in Kerala as a successor to the National Democratic Front (NDF). Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students. In 2015, the Jamia Millia Islamia University had issued a notice restricting female students from staying out after 8 pm. When the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) questioned the Jamia administration on it, a group of women students decided to protest against the restrictions not only in Jamia but other universities in Delhi. Later named as Pinjra Tod, the group mobilised people around several issues faced by women residents of hostels and PGs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-hc-grants-time-to-school-owner-to-file-reply-on-plea-by-police-852784.html
23-06-2020||National||Telangana HC issues notices to Twitter, Centre, State govt on communal tweets||The Telangana High Court has issued notices to social networking site Twitter, the Centre and the state government seeking an explanation as to why some of the posts allegedly linking COVID-19 to the Muslim community and a religious event held in Nizamuddin in the national capital in March, have not been removed. A bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen was hearing a PIL petition filed by advocate Khaja Aijazuddin seeking direction against the social networking site to stop the alleged "illegal" trending of some posts which were linked to religion and the pandemic. The petitioner requested the court to direct the state government to register criminal cases against Twitter and the users who were allegedly spreading hatred messages under Chapter XV-Offences Relating to Religion of Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws prevailing. The petitioner also urged the court to direct the Cabinet Secretary and the Telangana Home Secretary to restrain all online social media networks operating in India from carrying any "Islamophobic" posts or messages hurting or insulting the feelings of the community. The petitioner alleged that posts under #Islamiccoronavirusjihad, #Coronajihad,#Tablighijamat, #Nizamuddinidiots, #TablighiJamatVirus, were allegedly trending in social media. The court posted the matter on July 20 for hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-hc-issues-notices-to-twitter-centre-state-govt-on-communal-tweets-852787.html
23-06-2020||National||Mayawati demands high-level probe into Kanpur shelter home case||BSP president Mayawati on Tuesday said the developments at a state-run shelter home in Kanpur have once again shown the "indifferent attitude" of the Uttar Pradesh government towards the protection of women as she demanded a fair probe and action against errant officials. Fifty-seven girls living in the shelter home were tested positive for the coronavirus over the last week. Five of the girls were found to be pregnant. Referring to the "worrisome" developments, she said on Twitter, "This again proves that the UP government is indifferent, careless and irresponsible in protecting women, leave alone respecting them." "It is the demand of the BSP that the UP government should not cover up the incident of Kanpur shelter home but take strict action against the culprits by conducting a high-level and fair investigation. Also, it is better if proper humanitarian reforms are brought in the system of all such protection homes," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-demands-high-level-probe-into-kanpur-shelter-home-case-852790.html
23-06-2020||National||China-India Galwan Valley clash – Both sides mutually agree to disengage from friction areas in Ladakh||India and China have agreed to disengage their troops from the friction areas in eastern Ladakh, making a fresh step towards peaceful resolution of the tense face-off prevailing along the disputed boundary between the two neighbours since the last one and half months. Led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military Region, the crucial meeting began around 11.30 AM on Monday and continued for nearly 11 hours. “The Corps Commander level talks between India and China on June 22, 2020 were held at Moldo (opposite to Chushul) in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere. There was a mutual consensus to disengage,” Army sources said in Delhi. “The modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in Eastern Ladakh were discussed and will be taken forward by both the sides,” they added. From the very beginning, India’s demand was complete withdrawal of the Chinese troops from the contentious areas in the Galwan valley such Patrol Point-14, PP-15 and PP-17A as well as restoration of the status quo ante on the northern banks of the Pangong lake where China heavily enhanced its presence. The breakthrough is announced on a day when Army Chief Gen M M Naravane visits Ladakh for an on-the-spot assessment of the security scenario and congratulate the soldiers who put up a gallant fight with the PLA troops on the bloody Monday when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a brutal hand-to-hand combat with the Chinese troops. Accompanied by the GOC Northern Command Lt Gen Y K Joshi, the Army Chief met the soldiers at the Military Hospital at Leh. A day before, Gen Naravane reviewed the security scenario and operational readiness of the Army with his top commanders in an emergency conference in Delhi. Notwithstanding the peace formula concluded at the marathon meeting, India remains jittery because of the Chinese People’s LiberationArmy’s track records. A similar plan to resolve the stand-off at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh was agreed upon by the two armies on June 6 but when it came to implementation, the Chinese Army threw the agreement and other bilateral accords out of the window and attacked the Indian troops who went to the clash site to ensure the mutually agreed plan’s implementation. Last Monday’s clash resulted in the killing of 20 Indian soldiers including an officer and injuring 76 others. Ten others including four officers were in Chinese captivity and were released after three days. According to the Union Minister and former Army Chief Gen V K Singh, 43 PLA soldiers were also killed in the clash making it the bloodiest confrontation on the LAC since the 1962 war. The bloody battle frayed ties between the two countries, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi sending a strong message to China that “India wants peace but if provoked, India is capable of giving a befitting reply”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-india-galwan-valley-clash-both-sides-mutually-agree-to-disengage-from-friction-areas-in-ladakh-852794.html
23-06-2020||National||CRPF jawan from Maharashtra killed in encounter in J&K||The CRPF jawan killed in an encounter with militants in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday hailed from Solapur in Maharashtra and authorities were working to bring his mortal remains to his native place. An official from Solapur confirmed that CRPF jawan Sunil Kale, a resident of Pangaon village in Barshi tehsil of the district, was killed in the encounter in Pulwama. He joined the service in 2000 and was posted in Jammu and Kashmir for some time, the official said. "The process to bring his body to Solapur is being worked out with the authorities concerned," he added. Besides the CRPF jawan, two unidentified militants were also killed in the encounter, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Bundzoo in Pulwama district of South Kashmir on Tuesday morning after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-jawan-from-maharashtra-killed-in-encounter-in-jk-852797.html
23-06-2020||National||CBSE to take final decision on holding Class 12 exams by June 24, SC informed||The Centre, as well as the CBSE, on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that the discussion on whether to conduct the remaining Class XII examinations was at an advanced stage and would be finalised by Wednesday evening. A bench led by Justice A M Khanwilkar put a PIL for quashing the notification to conduct the examinations, for consideration on June 25, at 2 pm. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the CBSE, made the submissions regarding holding of discussion on the subject. He said a final decision would be taken by June 24. Meanwhile, the court also directed the ICSE to take its own informed decision on holding of its examinations, following the CBSE's stand. In their plea, Colonel Amit Bathla and other parents asked the court to quash the May 18 notification and direct the CBSE to declare the results on the basis of examination already conducted and to calculate it on an average basis with the internal assessment marks of the remaining subject. They contended that ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards in Covid-19 situation in 15,000 exam centres spread over the length and breadth of the country, including in rural sectors, would not only be risking health and life of children but also would be an exercise in futility and an eyewash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-take-final-decision-on-holding-class-12-exams-by-june-24-sc-informed-852800.html
23-06-2020||National||Govt says 1,340 'Made-in-India' ventilators delivered to states||The Centre delivered 275 ventilators each, procured through PM-CARES fund, to Maharashtra and Delhi, the worst-hit states by the Covid-19 pandemic. It has also placed orders for procuring 50,000 ventilators from domestic manufacturers, of which 1,340 machines that keep critically ill patients breathing have been delivered to six states, including Karnataka. Karnataka has received 90 ventilators that were procured through PM-CARES Fund, while Gujarat received 175, Bihar got 100 and Rajasthan 75.Last month, the PM-CARES Fund had allocated Rs 2000 crore for supply of 50,000 ‘Made-in-India’ ventilators to government-run Covid hospitals in all states and union territories. Of the 50,000 ventilators for which the order had been placed, 2,923 have been manufactured and 1,340 delivered. The Centre had placed orders for supply of 30,000 ventilators with Bharat Electronics Limited. The remaining 20000 ventilators are being manufactured by AgVa Healthcare (10,000), AMTZ Basic (5,650), AMTZ High End (4,000) and Allied Medical (350).   By the end of June, the Centre aims to deliver 14,000 ventilators to all states and union territories. Besides ventilators, the PM-CARES Fund had allocated Rs 1,000 crore for welfare of migrant workers. The funds were allocated taking into account the population of the state and the number of positive Covid-19 cases. This assistance was to be used for arranging accommodation, food, medical treatment and transportation of the migrants. The main recipients of the grant are Maharashtra (Rs 181 crore), Uttar Pradesh (Rs 103 crore), Tamil Nadu (Rs 83 crore), Gujarat (Rs 66 crore), Delhi (Rs 55 crore), West Bengal (Rs 53 crore), Bihar (Rs 51 crore), Madhya Pradesh (Rs 50 crore), Rajasthan (Rs 50 crore) and Karnataka (Rs 34 crore). Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat are the worst-hit states by the Covid-19 pandemic which account for more than 65% of the total infections in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-says-1340-made-in-india-ventilators-delivered-to-states-852803.html
23-06-2020||National||ED raids several locations in Delhi in probe against AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in Delhi riots case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday conducted raids at multiple locations including at the premises of suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in connection with its money laundering probe in the Delhi riots case, officials said. They said at least six premises in Delhi, Noida and few other locations in the national capital region are being searched. The raids are aimed at collecting additional evidence in the case, they said. The ED, in March, had booked suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Hussain, Islamist group PFI and some others on charges of money laundering and alleged funding of the riots in Delhi in February. The criminal case was filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the raids are being carried out under these provisions, officials said. Offices of Hussain located in north east Delhi are also being searched by the central investigative agency as it is probing the allegation that Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs 1.10 crore funds, by using purported shell or dummy companies, to fuel the anti-CAA protests and the riots. The Delhi Police last week had filed two charge sheets against Hussain in a case related to communal violence during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in north east Delhi in February and another in the murder case of Intelligence Bureau (IB) official Ankit Sharma. The family of Sharma (26), who was found dead in a drain near his home in riot-hit Chand Bagh area, has accused Hussain of being behind the killing. The corporator had said he was falsely implicated in the case and had denied wrongdoing. The ED is understood to have gone through these police charge sheets before launching the raids. Hussain has also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to alleged conspiracy in the riots. Communal clashes broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.  Hussain, an AAP corporator for ward number 59, under the Mustafabad assembly seat in Delhi, is in judicial custody at present. Similar charges to probe the money laundering angle in the riots were pressed by the ED in March against the Popular Front of India (PFI) which is already facing a separate PMLA probe.  The earlier money laundering case against the PFI was for allegedly routing about Rs 120 crore funds to fuel anti-CAA riots in the country and the agency has questioned about half-a-dozen of its office bearers in the past. This case is being probed as part of a 2018 ECIR (enforcement case information report), equivalent of a police FIR, against the PFI and some associated organisations. The Islamist organisation had denied any wrongdoing in this case, saying their financial transactions were transparent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-raids-several-locations-in-delhi-in-probe-against-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-in-delhi-riots-case-852809.html
23-06-2020||National||Scrap system requiring Covid-19 patients to visit govt facility for clinical assessment: Sisodia to L-G||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday requested Lt Governor Anil Baijal to scrap the system requiring every COVID-19 patient to visit a government-run centre for clinical assessment. Addressing an online media briefing, Sisodia said he has written to Baijal, saying that the new system will only add pressure on the government machinery. The deputy chief minister demanded that the previous system should be implemented wherein teams of the district administration visit the house of an infected person for his or her clinical assessment. He said that the national capital is reporting nearly 3,000 cases every day and it is not feasible for every COVID-19 patient to undergo a clinical assessment at government-run centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scrap-system-requiring-covid-19-patients-to-visit-govt-facility-for-clinical-assessment-sisodia-to-l-g-852811.html
23-06-2020||National||Delhi violence: HC grants bail to Safoora Zargar||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Safoora Zargar, a Jamia Milia Islamia student, in a Delhi riots case after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta agreed for it "purely on humanitarian grounds" as she was said to be six-months pregnant. Zargar was arrested in a case registered under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act following the riots in North-East Delhi in February, 2020, triggered after the massive protest against the CAA-NPR-NRC. Justice Rajiv Shakdher allowed regular bail to Zargar, a member of the Jamia Coordination Committee, on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 10,000 and fulfilling other conditions, such as not indulging in any activities for which she was being investigated. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Delhi police, did not object to the plea purely on humanitarian grounds, without conceding to factual or legal assertion on her bail plea. Taking his plea into consideration, the court said, "the order is based on concession and should not be treated as a precedent in any other case". Among conditions imposed on her, the court directed her to not influence, hamper or interfere with the ongoing investigation in any manner. The Court also ordered her to not go out of Delhi, without permission from the trial court. The 27-year-old activist was arrested by Delhi police's Special Cell on April 10. Earlier, Delhi police, in an affidavit, opposed her plea for bail on the grounds of pregnancy asserting that 39 births took place in prisons in Delhi over the last 10 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-hc-grants-bail-to-safoora-zargar-852818.html
23-06-2020||National||Nadda will not dare to ask PM Modi to explain 2,264 Chinese incursions since 2015: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday hit back at BJP chief J P Nadda for raising the issue of 600 Chinese incursions under the UPA rule, saying the saffron party chief will not dare to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to explain the "2,264 Chinese incursions since 2015". In a series of tweets, Chidambaram said BJP president Nadda asked ex-prime minister Manmohan Singh to explain the 600 Chinese incursions into India between 2010 and 2013. "Yes, there were incursions but no Indian territory was occupied by China and no lives of Indian soldiers were lost in violent clashes." "Will J P Nadda please ask the present PM to explain the 2,264 Chinese incursions since 2015? I bet he will not dare to ask that question," the former home minister said. Chidambaram's attack came following Nadda's remarks on Monday criticising Manmohan Singh after the former PM took aim at his successor over his handling of the ongoing stand-off with China. Nadda had said Singh and his party should stop "insulting our forces" repeatedly and questioning their valor. "One only wishes that Dr. Singh was as worried about Chinese designs when, as PM, he abjectly surrendered hundreds of square kilometres of India's land to China. He presided over 600 incursions made by China between 2010 to 2013!" Nadda had tweeted. To attack the government, Chidambaram also cited a media report on Tuesday which quoted official sources as saying that the Commander-level talks are aimed at "restoration of status quo ante". "It (the report) also says that 'China has moved up to Finger 4 and has undertaken a major build up between Finger 4 and Finger 8'," Chidambaram said on Twitter. "All these are in Ladakh. Do these not point to Chinese incursions into and occupation of Indian territory?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-will-not-dare-to-ask-pm-modi-to-explain-2264-chinese-incursions-since-2015-p-chidambaram-852823.html
23-06-2020||National||Alleged ISIS operative claims developing Covid-19 symptoms, seeks treatment in Tihar||The application on behalf of Asif Ali submitted that 18 jail inmates have developed symptoms like cough, cold and fever. The plea, moved by advocate M S Khan on behalf of Asif Ali, urged the court to direct Tihar Jail authorities to provide him proper medical treatment or send him to a hospital. The plea is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday.  Ali was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a case lodged in December 2015 for allegedly conspiring to carry out terror attacks in various parts of the country. “He said that 18 jail inmates, including Ali, have developed symptoms, i.e. cough, cold and fever and no efforts have been made by the jail administration for the medical checkup of the inmates. That given the current scenario, it is imperative for the jail authorities to get the accused persons treated well and get their Covid-19 tests done,” the application said. It added that if no timely action is taken, the situation can get worse as the chances of developing Covid-19 may be on the higher side. “It is, therefore, most respectfully and in the interest of justice prayed that necessary directions may kindly be issued to jail superintendent, Tihar to provide better/proper medical treatment to the accused persons,” it said.  The NIA had filed a charge sheet against 16 suspected ISIS operatives, arrested from across the country allegedly on the charges of recruiting and financing people to join the terror group. The probe agency had outlined the role of all the accused in a larger conspiracy of ISIS to further its ideology. It had claimed that members of the banned terror group -- Islamic State (IS) or Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) or Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL) -- in connivance with a few resident and non-resident Indians, have been indulging in identification, radicalisation, recruitment, training. Some Indian youths were transferred by the accused to countries like Syria, Lybia and Iraq for terror acts, it said. The accused were arrested from different parts of the country for allegedly recruiting and financing people to join the terror organisation. They were arrested under several sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alleged-isis-operative-claims-developing-covid-19-symptoms-seeks-treatment-in-tihar-852832.html
23-06-2020||National||No Indian pilgrims for Hajj this year: Naqvi||Muslims from India will not be allowed to fly to perform Hajj this year following a request from Saudi Arabia due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Minorities Affairs Minister Mukthar Abbas Naqvi said on Tuesday. Naqvi told reporters that he received a phone call from Saudi Hajj and Umrah Minister Dr Mohammad Saleh bin Taher Benten on Monday suggesting India do not send Hajj pilgrims this year due to the pandemic. He said they discussed the matter at length and agreed that the entire world was facing challenges amidst the virus outbreak and Saudi Arabia has also been adversely affected by the pandemic. “The process to refund the full amount deposited by the applicants was started immediately without any deduction. The money will be refunded through online DBT mode into bank accounts of the applicants,” Naqvi said. He said, “2,300 women who applied to perform Hajj without Mehram (without a male companion) will be allowed to go to Haj 2021 on the basis of their application for Haj 2020. Besides, women who file new applications to perform Hajj without Mehram, will also be allowed to go to Hajj next year.” Last year, around two lakh Indian Muslims had performed Hajj, which included around 50% women. A total of 3,040 women have performed Hajj after the Government ensured Muslim women can perform Hajj without Mehram (a male companion) in 2018. Late Monday night, Saudi's Ministry of Hajj and Umrah issued a statement which said, “due to Covid-19 pandemic and the risks of Coronavirus spreading in crowded spaces and large gatherings, it has been decided that Hajj for this year (1441 H/ 2020 AD) will be held whereby a very limited number of pilgrims from various nationalities who already reside in Saudi Arabia, would be able to perform it. This decision is taken to ensure Hajj is performed in a safe manner from a public health perspective while observing all preventative measures and the necessary social distancing protocols.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-indian-pilgrims-for-hajj-this-year-naqvi-852836.html
23-06-2020||National||S Jaishankar stresses on need to respect international law in presence of Chinese Foreign Minister at RIC meet||Amid continuing military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday took a subtle dig at the communist country, stressing on respect for international law. Jaishankar on Tuesday joined his Russian and Chinese counterpart Sergey Lavrov and Wang Yi in a trilateral video-conference. The RIC video-conference was the first multilateral event where both Jaishankar and Wang participated after the June 15 clash between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the Line of Actual Control – the disputed boundary between the two nations - at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. “This Special Meeting reiterates our belief in the time-tested principles of international relations. But the challenge today is not just one of concepts and norms, but equally of their practice,” Jaishankar said in his opening remarks. “The leading voices of the world must be exemplars in every way. Respecting international law, recognizing the legitimate interests of partners, supporting multilateralism and promoting common good are the only way of building a durable world order,” he said, sending out a tacit message to Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but the government of the Communist country did not officially confirm the number. Jaishankar spoke to Wang on June 17 and conveyed to him that the “premeditated” attack by the Chinese PLA soldiers on the Indian Army personnel at Galwan Valley would have “a serious impact” on the relations between the two nations. The RIC Foreign Ministers held the trilateral meeting on Tuesday to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the conclusion of the Second World War, as well as the foundation of the United Nations. “The victory over Nazism and Fascism was achieved through sacrifices across many theatres by many countries. India made a significant contribution, with 2.3 million of its citizens under arms and 14 million more participating in war production,” Jaishankar said. He said that Indian blood had been shed at the battlefields of the world, from Tobruk, El Alamein and Montecassino, to Singapore, Kohima and Borneo. “We helped keep key supply lines open to both your countries, one through the Persian corridor and the other over the Himalayan hump.” “If Indian personnel were conferred the Order of the Red Star, the medical mission led by Dr. D S  Kotnis was a legend in China,” he said. “So tomorrow, when our military contingent marches through the Red Square (in Moscow), it would be an affirmation of the difference that we made.” A contingent of Indian Army, Navy and Air Force will participate in a commemorative parade in the red Square in Moscow on Wednesday. “When the victors met to fashion the ensuing global order, the political circumstances of that era did not give India due recognition. This historical injustice has stood uncorrected for the last 75 years, even as the world has changed,” said the External Affairs Minister. “Therefore, on this momentous occasion, it is important for the world to realize both the contribution that India made and the need to rectify the past.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-stresses-on-need-to-respect-international-law-in-presence-of-chinese-foreign-minister-at-ric-meet-852845.html
23-06-2020||National||Centre hikes MSP for dehusked coconut to Rs 2,700/quintal||The Centre on Tuesday fixed the minimum support price for dehusked coconut at Rs 2,700 per quintal for the 2020 season, a 5.02 per cent increase over the previous season. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the move will help small coconut farmers, who are unable to hold the produce and have inadequate facilities for supplying milled coconuts. “Coconut being a small holder’s crop, aggregation and arranging copra making facility at farmer’s level is not common,” Tomar said adding that a higher support price for de-husked coconut will ensure immediate cash transfer to small farmers. In March, the MSP for Fair Average Quality (FAQ) of milling copra was increased to Rs 9,960 per quintal for the 2020 season from Rs 9,521 per quintal in 2019. The support price for ball copra had been increased to Rs 10,300 per quintal for the 2020 season from Rs 9,920 per quintal in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hikes-msp-for-dehusked-coconut-to-rs-2700/quintal-852865.html
23-06-2020||National||Covid-19 fatalities in Karnataka far less compared to other major states: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said Covid-19 related fatalities in the state was far less compared to other major states, as he called on people and front line corona warriors infected by the virus not to lose courage. The Chief Minister made the statement following the alleged suicide of a constable attached with the Karnataka State Reserve Police after he tested positive for Covid-19. "The total number of COVID related deaths in the state is very less compared to other major states. There is no reason for any infected citizen or government employees to lose courage. The government is always with you," a tweet on the Chief Minister's official twitter handle said. Of the total of 14,011 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest with 6,283 fatalities, followed by Delhi with 2,233, Gujarat with 1,684 and Tamil Nadu with 794. Acknowledging that police form the frontline of corona warriors and were working putting their lives at stake, he said a special Covid-19 testing center is being set up for them and all measures will be taken to provide the best treatment for those infected. As of June 22 evening, cumulatively 9,399 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 142 deaths and 5,730 discharges. The constable, aged about 50 years, was attached with the Karnataka State Reserve Police and was said to be depressed after getting tested positive for Covid-19, sources said. Expressing condolence over his death, another tweet on the Chief Minister's handle said he has directed officials to to provide all necessary compensation and facilities to the family of the deceased at the earliest. Bengaluru has in the last few days has seen a spike in the number of police personnel getting infected by the virus. At least 74 of them have tested positive in the city and are undergoing treatment, while three have died so far, official sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fatalities-in-karnataka-far-less-compared-to-other-major-states-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-852876.html
23-06-2020||National||51% decline in average weekly claims under Ayushman Bharat scheme during COVID-19 lockdown: Report||There was a 51 per cent decline in the average weekly claims under the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, according to an analysis done by a group of researchers. Also, there was a steeper decline in utilisation of services in public hospitals than private hospitals during the lockdown, from March 25 to June 2, stated the National Health Authority  (NHA) publication titled 'PM-JAY Under Lockdown: Evidence on Utilization Trends PM-JAY'. The NHA is the apex  body responsible for the implementation of health insurance scheme -- Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojna (AB PM-JAY). Among procedures, planned surgeries such as cataract operations and joint replacements suffered a decline of over 90 per cent, while hemodialysis declined by only 6 per cent.  There was also a sharp fall in cardiovascular surgeries. Of particular concern are significant decline in admissions for child delivery and oncology, the report stated. Overall, claims per week on an average for surgical procedures fell down to 27,167 during the lockdown from 62,630 being recorded before the lockdown started, registering 57 per cent decline. There was a larger decline in utilisation of surgical procedures (57 per cent) than medical cases (46 per cent) . This is to be expected, since surgeries are more commonly planned in advance, whereas medical cases are not, the researchers said.  Another area where the trend in claim volumes raise some concerns is child delivery. Across PMJAY, there was a 26 per cent decline in child deliveries during the lockdown and this applied almost equally to both normal deliveries and caesarian sections and was also quite consistent across both public and private hospitals, the report stated. Among demographic groups, women, younger and older populations (under 20 and over 60) reduced their utilisation more than men, young adults or the middle-aged.    According to the report, the weekly nationwide PMJAY claim volume during the first week of the lockdown was 64 per cent lower than just two weeks earlier, the analysis showed. "The decline in average weekly claim volume was 51 per cent if the 10-week lockdown period (March 25 to June 2) is compared to the 12 weeks that preceded lockdown (January 1 to March 24)," the report said.  "There was a steeper decline in utilisation of public hospitals (67 perccent from week 11 to 13) than private hospitals (58 perccent), resulting in a shift in the private share of total volumes from 47 per cent before the lockdown to 51 per cent after the lockdown," it stated. This trend, which became even stronger late in the lockdown, may reflect several factors, researchers stated. First, beneficiaries might be avoiding public hospitals due to a perception that they are becoming 'COVID hospitals', since government facilities have been the focus of preparedness efforts for a potentially increasing COVID-19 caseload.  Secondly, government hospitals might be too busy with these preparations to carry out tasks related to pre-authorisation and claim submission as required by PM-JAY.  Third, the shift towards private hospitals might reflect their case mix -- in particular, hemodialysis care accounts for a large share of PM-JAY claims and is predominantly provided in the private sector, and the decline in claim volumes for these packages was far lower than for other types of care, the report stated.  Also, there was wide variation in claim volume trends across states, with the steepest declines (over 75 per cent) in Assam, Maharashtra and Bihar, while much smaller declines (about 25 per cent or less) were observed in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/51-decline-in-average-weekly-claims-under-ayushman-bharat-scheme-during-covid-19-lockdown-report-852880.html
23-06-2020||National||Elgar case transfer: HC seeks response of NIA, Centre and Maharashtra||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday sought responses from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Central and Maharashtra governments on a petition filed by two accused challenging transfer of the Elgar Parishad case probe from the Pune police to the NIA. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Abhay Ahuja directed the Union government, the NIA and the state government to file their affidavits, and posted the petition for further hearing on July 14. The petition was filed by human rights lawyer Surendra Gadling and activist Sudhir Dhawale who are lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. In their petition filed last week through advocate S B Talekar, Gadling and Dhawale had alleged that the transfer of the probe was done by the Central government, after the BJP lost power in Maharashtra and that the decision was "politically motivated". "The transfer order is arbitrary, discriminatory, unjust and violative of the fundamental rights of the accused persons in the case," the petition said. "The then BJP-led state government with Hindutva agency used the incident of violence at Koregaon Bhima in Pune in December 2017- January 2018 to target influential Dalit thinkers by showing theElgarParishadmeeting as part of a Maoist movement," the petition said. It added that "political expediency" cannot be a ground to invoke powers of the NIA Act and transfer probe. The petition further claimed that the NIA Act, 2008, does not permit transfer of a case after completion of investigation and commencement of trial, particularly when there are no compelling circumstances necessitating such a transfer. The case, in which several other rights activists have been arrested and accused of having Moist links, was transferred from the Pune police to the NIA on January 24 this year. Gadling and Dhawale were arrested in June 2018 and are currently lodged at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. Apart from Gadling and Dhawale, the other arrested accused include Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Shoma Sen, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira and Sudha Bharadwaj. They have been accused of having Maoist links and were booked under the stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to prosecution, inflammatory speeches and provocative statements made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017 triggered caste violence at Koregaon Bhima the next day. Police suspect that the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-case-transfer-hc-seeks-response-of-nia-centre-and-maharashtra-852882.html
23-06-2020||National||Centre stops Patanjali from advertising Covid-19 'medicine'||Shortly after the launch of its 'medicine' for Covid-19, yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved was on Tuesday asked by the Modi government to stop advertising the claims due to lack of requisite approvals. In a statement, the AYUSH Ministry that governs the Indian systems of medicine, said it was unaware of the claims made by Patanjali Ayurved regarding ‘Coronil’, the anti-Covid-19 drug that was unveiled at a function in Haridwar. “Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has been asked to provide at the earliest details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed for Covid-19 treatment; site(s)/hospital(s), where the research study was conducted for Covid-19; protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, CTRI registration and results data of the study (ies) and stop advertising/publicizing such claims till the issue is duly examined,” the Ministry said in a statement. The ministry has also requested the concerned State Licensing Authority of Uttarakhand Government to provide copies of license and product approval details of the Ayurvedic medicines being claimed for the treatment of Covid-19. The Ministry also referred to a notification issued on April 21 that makes it mandatory for any institution conducting research under the Indian systems of medicines to inform the government about its developments, timelines and outcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-stops-patanjali-from-advertising-covid-19-medicine-852885.html
23-06-2020||National||NCP hails CRPF trooper from Maharashtra killed in J&K encounter||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and other NCP leaders paid homage to CRPF jawan Sunil Kale who was killed in an encounter with militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Tuesday. Kale hailed from Solapur district of Maharashtra. "Today, CRPF jawan Sunil Kale, a brave son of Maharashtra (Solapur) got martyred in a clash with militants near Pulwama in Jammu & Kashmir. Heartfelt tribute to him!" Pawar tweeted. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted, "#CRPF jawan Sunil Kale from Pangaon in Solapur district was martyred in combat against terrorists at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir. A heartfelt tribute to this brave soldier and deepest condolences to his family." Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil tweeted that Kale's sacrifice will not go in vain. NCP Lok Sabha MP Supriya Sule said on Twitter, "Jawan Sunil Kale from Barshi, Solapur lost his life at Pulwama while protecting our borders. My heartfelt condolences. May he rest in peace." Kale had joined the force in 2000 and was posted in Jammu and Kashmir for some time now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncp-hails-crpf-trooper-from-maharashtra-killed-in-jk-encounter-852898.html
23-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: India-China take steps towards peace; Rath Yatra commences in Puri amid Covid-19||From the Newsroom, in today's episode, Fresh step towards a peaceful resolution of face-off along Line of Actual Control,  Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri commences, Trump suspended H-1B visas, Shafoora Zargar gets bail,  Muslims from India will not be allowed to fly to perform Haj, Kumaraswamy demands 20-day lockdown in Bengaluru and Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar's wife and daughter test positive for Covid-19.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-china-take-steps-towards-peace-rath-yatra-commences-in-puri-amid-covid-19-852902.html
23-06-2020||National||Saffron outfit blackens signboards on Chinese restaurant in PM Modi's constituency, warns shops selling Chinese goods||Amid call for boycott of Chinese products following martyrdom of 20 Indian soldiers, a saffron outfit on Tuesday blackened the signboards at a Chinese restaurant in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of prime minister Narendra Modi. The outfit, Vishwa Hindu Sena (VHS) also warned that they would not allow sale of Chinese products in the town and asked the shopkeepers to refrain from doing so lest they should be ready to face the consequences. According to the eye witnesses, around a dozen VHS workers led by its president Arun Pathak raided a Chinese restaurant in Ravindrapuri area in the town and blackened the signboard displaying 'dragon'. They also asked the owner not to sell Chinese items. The VHS has also pasted posters on the walls in the town warning those selling Chinese products with serious consequences.  Local restaurant owners and traders lodged strong protest with the administration against the incident and said that it would be difficult for them to operate in such a situation. They also demanded stern action against the saffron activists. Saffron outfits have been holding demonstrations and urging the government to ban the Chinese products. BJP member of the state legislative council Yashwant Singh on Tuesday embarked upon a 'yatra' (march) from Lucknow to Ballia to what he said create 'awareness' among the people on the issue. ''We will encourage the people to boycott Chinese products,'' Singh said. The 'yatra' would pass through Azamgarh, Mau, Faizabad towns before ending at Ballia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saffron-outfit-blackens-signboards-on-chinese-restaurant-in-pm-modis-constituency-warns-shops-selling-chinese-goods-852911.html
23-06-2020||National||India has 1 COVID-19 death per lakh population as against 6.04 globally: Health ministry||As against the global average of 6.04, India has one Covid-19 death per lakh population which is one of the lowest in the world, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, and credited timely detection of cases, extensive contact tracing and effective clinical management for the low mortality rate. Till date, 14,011 people have died in India due to the viral infection with 312 fatalities reported in 24 hours till Tuesday 8 am, while 14,933 new instances of the disease took the total caseload to 4,40,215. Citing WHO Situation Report 154 dated June 22, the ministry said the United Kingdom has registered 63.13 coronavirus-related fatalities per lakh population, while in Spain it is 60.60, Italy 57.19, the US 36.30, Germany 27.32, Brazil 23.68 and Russia 5.62. "In India, early detection of cases, timely testing and surveillance, extensive contact tracing coupled with effective clinical management have helped to check case mortality," the ministry said in a statement. This is also a testimony to the graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach the Centre along with the states and Union Territories have taken for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19, it said. "The recovery rate continues to improve and it is 56.38 per cent as on date," the ministry said. So far, 2,48,189 patients have recovered from the disease leaving 1,78,014 active cases, according to updated official figures on Tuesday 8 am. One patient has migrated.  During the last 24 hours, a total of 10,994 Covid-19 patients have recovered. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 71,37,716 samples have been tested up to June 22 with 1,87,223 samples being tested on Monday. The number of government labs has been increased to 726 and private labs to 266, summing up to a total of 992. India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is at the eighth position in terms of the death toll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-1-covid-19-death-per-lakh-population-as-against-604-globally-health-ministry-852912.html
23-06-2020||National||CBSE to take final decision on holding Class XII exams by June 24, SC informed||The Centre as well as the CBSE on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that the discussion on whether to conduct remaining Class XII examinations was at advanced stage and a decision would be finalised by Wednesday evening. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna deferred hearing a PIL for quashing the notification to conduct the examinations, on June 25, at 2 pm. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the CBSE, made the submissions regarding holding of discussion on the subject. He said a final decision would be taken by June 24. "Solicitor General has informed us that the expert body is in the process of taking final decision in the matter very shortly and hopefully by tomorrow i.e. June 24, 2020. In the  circumstances, we defer the hearing of these matters to June 25, 2020 at 2.00 p.m," the bench said. Meanwhile, the court also adjourned a similar plea against the Indian School Certificate Examination (ISCE) on a request made by senior advocate Jaydeep Gupta for holding of its examinations. On June 17, the CBSE told the court it was in the process of taking an "appropriate decision" "very shortly" on May 18 notification for conducting examinations for the remaining subjects of class XII between July 1 and 15, in view of health risk posed to millions of students due to Covid-19 pandemic. In their plea, Colonel Amit Bathla and other parents asked the court to direct the CBSE to declare the results on the basis of examination already conducted and to calculate it on an average basis with the internal assessment marks of the remaining subject. They contended that ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards in Covid-19 situation in 15,000 exam centres spread over length and breadth of the country, including in rural sectors, would not only be risking health and life of children but also would be an exercise in futility and an eyewash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-take-final-decision-on-holding-class-xii-exams-by-june-24-sc-informed-852919.html
23-06-2020||National||India asks Pakistan to withdraw half of high commission staff from New Delhi as it moves to lower diplomatic relations||India on Tuesday moved to downgrade its diplomatic relations with Pakistan, asking the government of the neighbouring country to withdraw half of the personnel working at its High Commission in New Delhi within the next seven days. New Delhi cited involvement of the officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in espionage against India as well as their “dealings” with terrorists as reasons for its decision. It also decided to withdraw 50% of its personnel currently posted at the High Commission of India in Islamabad, protesting against the attempt by the security and intelligence agencies of the neighbouring country to intimidate its diplomats and consular officials. Islamabad in August 2019 made New Delhi withdraw India’s High Commissioner to Pakistan, Ajay Bisaria, in the wake of the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganize the state into two Union Territories. Pakistan also did not send its newly-appointed High Commissioner to India, Moin-ul-Haq, to New Delhi. The High Commissions of India and Pakistan in each other’s capitals were headed by acting envoys over the past few months. India had in December 2001 last asked Pakistan to withdraw half of the personnel posted at its High Commission in New Delhi. It had also cut down the staff of its High Commission in the capital of Pakistan by 50%. The move had come in the aftermath of the December 13, 2001 attack on Parliament of India in New Delhi by the terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammad, both based in Pakistan. Syed Haider Shah, the Charge d’Affaires (acting envoy) of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, was summoned to the South Block on Tuesday. The senior officials of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) once again conveyed to him New Delhi’s concern over the activities of the officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in India. They cited the recent example of the two officials of the Pakistan High Commission being caught red-handed in New Delhi while being engaged in espionage against India, the MEA stated in a press-release. Abid Hussain and Muhammad Tahir, both undercover agents of the Inter Services Intelligence, had been living in New Delhi under the guise of consular officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in the capital of India. India had on May 31 declared both Hussain and Tahir as “Persona Non Grata” and asked Pakistan to withdraw them from India within 24 hours. They had crossed over from India to Pakistan the next day. Pakistan retaliated on June 15 by arresting two officials of the High Commission of India in its capital – allegedly for hurting a pedestrian in a road mishap and for possessing fake currencies. The two officials were released after being detained in a police station for over 10 hours. India accused Pakistan of making baseless allegations against its officials and violating the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. They returned to New Delhi on Monday and narrated with graphic details the “barbaric treatment” they had to experience while being held by the agencies of Pakistan, the MEA officials conveyed to the acting High Commissioner of the neighbouring country. “The behaviour of Pakistan and its officials is not in conformity with the Vienna Convention and bilateral agreements on the treatment of diplomatic and consular officials,” the MEA stated on Tuesday. “On the contrary,” it added, “it is an intrinsic element of a larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism”. Islamabad reacted by summoning India’s deputy envoy to Pakistan, Gaurav Ahluwalia, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and dismissed the allegation against the officials of its mission in New Delhi. “Pakistan completely dismisses allegations of any violation of the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations by officials in New Delhi and reiterates that they always function within the parameters of international law and diplomatic norms,” Aisha Farooqui, spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government, said in a statement. “The Indian Government’s smear campaign against Pakistan cannot obfuscate the illegal activities in which the Indian High Commission officials were found involved in,” she said. “India would be better advised to focus on its internal and external issues, rather than creating diversions at the cost of peace and stability in South Asia.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-pakistan-to-withdraw-half-of-high-commission-staff-from-new-delhi-as-it-moves-to-lower-diplomatic-relations-852923.html
23-06-2020||National||US Consulate, Vikas Khanna help out Mumbai's dabbawalas||The Unites State Consulate General in Mumbai has joined hands with Michelin-starred chef Vikas Khanna and the #FeedIndia initiative in support of Mumbai's famed dabbawalas. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, there are many who cannot meet their basic needs, including the dabbawalas, those whose livelihood is ensuring Mumbaikars get their midday meals. US Consul General David J. Ranz will assist in handing over food and other items to support 2,000 dabbawalas and 3,000 television industry staff through CINTAA. The total food donation is more than 1 lakh kilograms of supplies. The event will be hosted by the Hyatt Regency in Mumbai on 26 June and will include representatives from the dabbawalla community, along with the CINTAA members joining others who have taken the responsibility of distributing vitally needed on behalf of the community. The event is curated by Maximus Collabs, who has been associated with chef Vikas Khanna for all major drives under the #FeedIndia campaign. In a press communique, U.S. Consul General David J. Ranz said, “I am immensely proud to be part of such a wonderful campaign, which has brought food and other basic supplies to so many people during this tough time. chef Vikas Khanna's #FeedIndia initiative is providing vital support to thousands of families in need.” "I started this initiative two months back and I am glad the U.S. Consul General has joined us so we can reach out to more people. I am very thankful to him for extending and helping dabbawalas and TV industry staff. We hope to work together for this initiative and serve meals to those in need," said Khanna. In order to lift the spirits of people and help them during these tough times, Chef Vikas Khanna started the #FeedIndia movement in April 2020, which so far has been able to benefit people with more than 14+ million meals. The Michelin star chef has distributed meals and food kits across 135 cities including Varanasi, Bengaluru, Mangalore, Kolkata, and Mumbai, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-consulate-vikas-khanna-help-out-mumbais-dabbawalas-852930.html
23-06-2020||National||India exploring establishment of 'bilateral bubbles' with US, UK, France and Germany for air travel||India is in talks with US and European nations for bilateral arrangements to operate passenger flights as demand for travel to these nations remained high even after the evacuation of a significant number of stranded Indian nationals. The Civil Aviation Ministry said it was exploring prospect of establishing "bilateral bubbles" with countries such as the US, Germany, France and the UK, even as the US barred Air India from operating Vande Bharat flights without prior approval. The US administration’s Department of Transportation had said Air India’s repatriation flights created a “competitive disadvantage” for US airlines, which had sought permission from India to operate similar flights. “As we contemplate further opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles, India-US, India-France, India-Germany, India-UK. These are all destinations where demand for travel has not diminished,” Civil Aviation Ministry spokesman Rajeev Jain said in a statement here. He said final decisions pursuant to negotiations were expected to be taken soon. The ministry had received requests from travel authorities of several countries including the US, France and Germany requesting their air carriers to participate in transportation of passengers along the line of Air India’s Vande Bharat mission, he said. He said one round of discussions have already been held with the US Department of Transportation and the US Embassy officials in India. “They were invited to present precise proposals in this respect,” Jain said, adding that the ministry has received requests on June 19. India had launched Vande Bharat flights on May 7 which had flown in more than one lakh stranded Indian nationals to the homeland from across the world. On Saturday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had announced phase 4 of the Vande Bharat mission involving 1,050 flights, of which 750 were offered to private airliners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-exploring-establishment-of-bilateral-bubbles-with-us-uk-france-and-germany-for-air-travel-852934.html
23-06-2020||National||Railways cancels all tickets booked for trains on or before April 14, effects refunds||The Indian Railways has announced that all tickets booked for the regular trains on or before April 14 stand cancelled and the refunds will be processed soon. “It has been decided that all train tickets booked on or prior to April 14 for the time-tabled trains should be cancelled and full refunds generated,” the Railways said in its order on June 22. The railways had suspended the operation of passenger, express and mail trains from March 24 after nationwide lockdown announced. The railways is currently operating 100 pair of regular time tabled trains and 15 pair of Special Rajdhani trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-cancels-all-tickets-booked-for-trains-on-or-before-april-14-effects-refunds-852955.html
23-06-2020||National||Spurt in cyber attacks from China in India, over 40,000 cases in 5 days: Maharashtra Police's cyber wing||Hackers based in China attempted over 40,000 cyber attacks on India's Information Technology infrastructure and banking sector in the last five days, a top police official in Maharashtra said on Tuesday. The spurt in online attacks from across the border was noticed after tensions rose between the two countries in eastern Ladakh, said Yashasvi Yadav, Special Inspector General of Police of the Maharashtra Police's cyber wing. `Maharashtra Cyber', the state police's cyber wing, collated information about these attempts and most of them were found to have originated in Chengdu area in China, he said. "According to our information at least 40,300 cyber attacks were attempted in the last four-five days on the resources in Indian cyberspace," he said. The attacks aimed at causing issues such as denial of service, hijacking of Internet Protocol and phishing, Yadav added. Indian Internet users should pay attention to the threat of such attacks, create robust `firewalls' and conduct cyber security audits, the IGP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spurt-in-cyber-attacks-from-china-in-india-over-40000-cases-in-5-days-maharashtra-polices-cyber-wing-852956.html
23-06-2020||National||US suspending work visas to have limited impact, say sources||US President Donald Trump temporarily suspending entry of foreign workers such as IT professionals into the US will have a limited impact on India with a maximum of 30,000 visas being at stake during the six-month restriction period, sources said on Tuesday. Indian government, they said, will take all steps to reinstate the visas to ensure movement of skilled workforce across the globe. Trump issued a presidential proclamation to block the entry of foreign workers for the rest of the year on H-1B visas for skilled employees, and L visas, for managers and specialized workers being transferred within a company. Tata Consultancy Services, Wipro and Tech Mahindra are among the top companies that used the H-1B programme to send IT professionals to the US to service clients. The US issues around 85,000 H-1B visas every year, and on an average, Indian professionals get about 60,000 of these. The sources said that since the restriction is for six months, the number of visas that would be impacted in the best case would be 30,000. "However, in view of the rising unemployment and weak economic conditions due to coronavirus, the US would have issued much lesser visas (say around 5,000-10,000) and due to this, proclamation would have limited effect. However, the government will take all steps required to reinstate the visas and ensure mobility of labour across the world," they added. One of the sources said currently, there are more than 3 lakh Indian H-1B visa holders in the US and the new policy is not going to impact the existing H-1B visa holding Indians in America. "In fact, this may turn out to be more beneficial to them. This policy can result in the shortage of skilled workforce, especially in the STEM related fields, and the existing H-1B visa holding Indians can benefit from the same in the form of higher remuneration and result in higher remittances," the source said. India is also likely to benefit from the return of skilled manpower as these individuals are in huge demand in science and technology sectors and they can contribute to the country's progress by staying back. This proclamation will impose new challenges and possibly force more work to be performed offshore as local is talent not available. Further sources said that according to different studies, non-immigrants have contributed significantly to the economy of the US. As per the promulgation, non-immigrant visas (NIVs) like H-1B, H-2B, L-1A, L-1B, J-1 and dependents have been temporarily suspended till December 31 this year and individuals receiving these visas, or seeking entry into the US for the first time from June 24 till December 31, 2020, would not be allowed. Professor Biswajit Dhar of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said, "This is just a posturing by the US. The proclamation would have not much impact on India. Currently all international flights are suspended and no professionals would like to travel this time". An industry expert also said that the move would have limited impact on India because during this Covid-19 pandemic, international flights are suspended and no professional would like to visit any foreign country during this crisis time. The development comes at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted businesses globally. IT companies have had to enable work from home for a significant portion of their workforce to ensure business continuity for clients. Industry body Nasscom has termed the proclamation as "misguided" and "harmful to the US economy" and said this could possibly force more work to be performed offshore since the local talent is not available in the country. Indian IT companies get over 60 per cent of their revenues from the North American market, about 20 per cent from Europe and the remaining from the other economies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-suspending-work-visas-to-have-limited-impact-say-sources-852970.html
23-06-2020||National||India-China clash: Rajnath Singh, Chinese defence minister Wei Fenghe not to meet in Moscow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will not be meeting his Chinese counterpart in Moscow, even though both ministers will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the victory day parade in the Russian capital on Wednesday. "Indian Defence Minister will not be meeting the Chinese Defence Minister,” confirmed the Defence Ministry spokesperson, scotching reports in the Chinese media that such a bilateral meeting might be on the cards. Singh’s visit to Moscow is the first official tour by an Indian political leader ever since the Narendra Modi government announced a nation-wide lock-down on March 24 due to the Covid-19 pandemic The government's decision to stay away from a bilateral meeting, sources said, could be a reflection of the Centre’s hardened position on the Ladakh clash in which the PLA troops violated all bilateral pacts and a mutually agreed peace plan to attack Indian soldiers who were there to ensure implementation of the plan. New Delhi repeatedly conveyed to Beijing that Chinese PLA troops need to vacate the posts in the Galwan valley, which is within the Indian territory besides restoring the status quo ante in relations to the positions held by India till early May. The same was conveyed to the Chinese side once again by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, GOC, 14 Corps in the 11 hour long meeting that he held with his Chinese counterpart on Monday. Following the marathon meeting between the military leaders, Global Times – a State-backed Chinese media – reported that a meeting between Singh and Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister Wei Fenghe in Moscow is expected. Singh on Tuesday met his Russian counterpart and Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov to discuss bilateral cooperation and regional issues. Quicker delivery of military platforms like the S-400 missile defence system and assurance on the supply of critical spares was on the agenda of bilateral talks. “My discussions were very positive and productive. I have been assured that ongoing contracts will be maintained and not just maintained, in a number of cases will be taken forward in a shorter time. All our proposals have received positive responses from the Russian side,” Singh said in a statement without disclosing the specifics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-clash-rajnath-singh-chinese-defence-minister-wei-fenghe-not-to-meet-in-moscow-852973.html
23-06-2020||National||Telangana government employees to get full salaries this month||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao has decided to pay the government employees and pensioners full salary for the month of June. Part pay deferments were in effect in the state for the last three months i.e., March, April and June because of the pandemic affected revenue loss. The Rao government has, last week, also brought in an ordinance allowing for the deferment of salaries and pensions. While the All India Services officers like the IAS, IPS were taking 60 per cent less salary, all other gazetted and non-gazetted employees including those working in the PSUs were getting only half of their salaries. Employees of the health, police, sanitation departments, operating in the forefront to control Covid-19, were however exempted from the slash. “Since the state economy is getting better to some extent, the CM has decided that salaries of the state government employees and pensioners will be paid in full for this month,” a statement from the CMO on Tuesday said. As the lockdown was lifted earlier this month, employee unions were demanding the government to restore their original salaries. “We express our gratitude to the CM for the decision. We request that the deferred salary of three months is also paid at the earliest,” said V Mamatha, president, Telangana Gazetted Officers (TGO) association and secretary general of employees’ JAC. Mamatha along with other JAC leaders, had on Tuesday morning, submitted a representation to excise and tourism minister Srinivas Goud to reinstate their full salaries and pensions. Goud (who was earlier TGO president) spoke to minister K T Rama Rao who assured that he would discuss the matter with the CM, Mamatha told DH. Pensions were also cut by half, prompting some pensioners to approach the Telangana High Court questioning the government move. The court questioned the basis for such deferments. The government later enhanced the pensions to 75 from 50 per cent. In a huge fallout of the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, Rao had at the end of March announced a deep cut in all salaries, pensions paid by the state government. 75 per cent is the cut in the salaries of the CM, all the ministers, legislators, chairpersons of state corporations and local body representatives. A government order in this regard had clarified the cut as a deferment i.e., to be paid later. However, it was not specified as when. The reduction in the case of Grade-IV, contract outsourcing workers’ salaries, pensions – the lower rung in state employee’s formation – was 10 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-government-employees-to-get-full-salaries-this-month-852977.html
23-06-2020||National||Manipur political crisis: NPP MLAs 'leave' opposition camp; flown to Delhi||The Congress' efforts to topple the BJP-led government in Manipur received a jolt on Tuesday after four MLAs of National Peoples Party (NPP) reportedly left the new Opposition front and were flown to Delhi for discussion with senior BJP leaders. Sources said that the development took place after BJP's crisis manager and Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held meetings with the MLAs on Tuesday at Imphal. NPP chief and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma was also in the meeting. "They had raised some issues which I cannot address on my own. So they wanted a meeting with senior leaders," Sarma told reporters at Imphal airport. The four MLAs of NPP, an ally of BJP in the Northeast, and five others had resigned from the three-year-old N Biren Singh government on June 17 and joined the Congress-led front, Secular Progressive Front (SPF), the next day. They had decided to support the efforts to topple the government. A team of the SRF led by former chief minister and veteran Congress leader Okram Ibobi Singh including the NPP MLAs met Governor Najma Heptulla on Thursday and staked claim to form their government. They claimed the support of 26 MLAs in the house of 52 and also demanded a floor test by BJP-led government. As NPP MLAs remained firm with the Ibobi Singh camp, the BJP rushed Sarma to Imphal on Sunday. Conrad Sangma had also visited Imphal with Sarma but they could not break the ice with the disgruntled MLAs. Sarma is also the convenor of North East Democratic Alliance, a forum of BJP's regional allies in the region. Sarma on Monday claimed in Guwahati that everything was under BJP's control and a positive solution would come out in the next two-three days. The development happened hours after CBI summoned Ibobi Singh in connection with a corruption case registered against him in November 2019. But a BJP leader in Imphal insisted that the CBI action had nothing to do with the political development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-political-crisis-npp-mlas-leave-opposition-camp-flown-to-delhi-852985.html
23-06-2020||National||India-Russia ties are one of 'special and privileged strategic partnerships': Rajnath Singh||The relations between India and Russia are one of "Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership" and the ongoing military contracts between the two sides will be maintained and in a number of cases will be taken forward in a shorter time, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday. Singh, who arrived here on a three-day visit on Tuesday at the invitation of the Russian Ministry of Defence to attend the 75th Anniversary of Victory Day Parade, said his visit to Moscow is the first foreign visit from India of an official delegation after the Covid-19 pandemic.  "This is a sign of our special friendship. Despite all the difficulties of the pandemic, our bilateral relations are keeping good contacts at the various levels," Singh said while addressing the media here.  “India-Russia relations are one of Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership. Our defence relationship is one of its important pillars," he said. The minister reviewed bilateral defence relationship with Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov who visited him in his hotel, despite the restrictions of the pandemic. "My discussions were very positive and productive. I have been assured that ongoing contracts will be maintained and not just maintained, in a number of cases will be taken forward in a shorter time. All our proposals have received positive responses from the Russian side. I am fully satisfied with my discussions," Singh said, indicating the timely delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems to India. In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions.  Last year, India made the first tranche of payment of around USD 800 million to Russia for the missile systems. Moscow was to begin the delivery of the system by the second half of next year. Russia has been one of India's key suppliers of arms and ammunition. However, it has been a long-standing grievance of armed forces that supply of critical spares and equipment from Russia takes a long time affecting maintenance of military systems procured from that country. “I can say with confidence that the traditional friendship between India and Russia remains strong. Our mutual interests are solid and we look to future cooperation in the spirit of our special friendship,” Singh said. Meanwhile, the Chinese media on Tuesday speculated that Chinese Defence Minister Gen. Wei Fenghe "will very likely meet" his Indian counterpart Singh in Moscow over border tensions between the two countries. Sources familiar with the matter confirmed to the Global Times that since Wei and Singh are attending the Russian military parade in Moscow on Wednesday, the two leaders may meet. However, a Defence Ministry spokesperson said that Singh will not meet his Chinese counterpart in Moscow. Singh's visit to Russia comes in the midst of the escalating border standoff between India and China, particularly after the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley on June 15. Russia has been in touch with both India and China following their border row and officials did not rule out discussion on the matter during Singh's meetings in Moscow. Singh said he was looking forward to participating in the 75th Victory Parade wherein an Indian Military contingent will be marching in the Red Square on Wednesday. "It is a great honor…This is a sign of everlasting friendship between the armed forces of both our countries,” the minister said. "I convey my greetings to the friendly people of Russia, especially the veterans, who have contributed so much to our common security," Singh said as he paid tribute to the sacrifice of the Russian people for victory in the Second World War. He said Indian soldiers participated in the war effort in the millions and suffered immense casualties. “Many of them were part of the war efforts to provide assistance to the Soviet Army,” he added. Singh also said that he was looking forward to the visit of President Vladimir Putin to India at the invitation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi later this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-ties-are-one-of-special-and-privileged-strategic-partnerships-rajnath-singh-852993.html
23-06-2020||National||Congress behaving irresponsibly, weakening soldiers' morale: BJP chief J P Nadda||The Congress is behaving "very irresponsibly" and weakening the morale of soldiers by its statements at a time when the country is in the midst of a stand-off with China in Ladakh, BJP president J P Nadda said on Tuesday. Addressing party workers in Assam digitally from Delhi, Nadda claimed that the BJP had always stood with the government on issues of national security when it was in opposition. "It is sad that the opposition is only indulging in mud-slinging. It is very irresponsible. We were also in opposition for a very long time, but we stood by (Jawaharlal) Nehru in 1962, (Lal Bahadur) Shashtri in 1965 and Indira Gandhi in 1971. "But now you see. Kargil or Ladakh -- they are only busy in mud-slinging. The Congress is weakening the morale of the soldiers by their statements," he said. Without naming anyone, Nadda alleged that a Congress leader had secretly met the Chinese Ambassador to India during the Doklam stand-off between the two neighbours. In a tweet earlier, Nadda had accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of secretly going to the Chinese embassy during the Doklam stand-off. "You ask for proof of surgical strikes, air strikes -- what is this? How can a country run like this? We need to give a befitting reply to them (Congress) and our party workers need to expose them in front of the people," he added. The BJP chief alleged that India was infamous on the world stage for corruption during the six decades after Independence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi “finished the incomplete works of 60 years in just six years. He has been able to bridge the gap of 60 years in six years”, Nadda said. "There was policy paralysis. Nobody knew who the PM was -- was he operating from 7 Race Course Road (Prime Minister's official residence) or from somewhere else," Nadda said in an apparent reference Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. The BJP leader asserted that Modi has been praised world over for his effective management of the COVID-19 pandemic and implementing bold decisions like imposing lockdown in a country of 135 crore people. "It was a bold and timely decision, which helped India prepare to fight the coronavirus. In March, India was not producing a single personal protective equipment, but today we are making 4.5 lakh kits every day. "At that time, our doubling rate was three days, but it is 17 days now. We had only 1,500 daily testing capacity, but we now have 1.5 lakh capacity," Nadda told the party workers. The senior BJP leader slammed the Congress for allegedly questioning "every decision" of the Centre regarding the lockdown and other COVID-19 related decisions. "During the lockdown, you asked why it was implemented, why it was extended and then why it was withdrawn. Your own party-ruled states imposed lockdown before (the Centre did it). They even sought to withdraw it later," he said. Nadda said the BJP-led government at the Centre is fighting a two-front battle under Modi's leadership -- one against the COVID-19 virus and the other on the economic front. He also highlighted the features of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by the Centre. He also emphasised on the advantages of the unique products of Assam like bamboo, tea, petroleum, muga silk and jute, and appealed to the people of the state to leverage these. Praising Assam on its fight against the coronavirus, Nadda said the BJP-led government in the state managed the situation very well and helped poor people financially. On the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, he said the Centre has exempted its application from states with inner-line permits and for sixth schedule areas. "It is our duty to bring the religiously persecuted people into the mainstream. (Mahatma) Gandhi, Nehru, Manmohan Singh -- all spoke about it, but they could not do it. Only Narendra Modi did it," Nadda stressed. The BJP president also spoke about solving various problems of the Northeast such as Bodo insurgency and Bru settlement among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-behaving-irresponsibly-weakening-soldiers-morale-bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-853007.html
23-06-2020||National||VHP slams Vijay Rupani govt for 'hurting Hindus' over HC order rejecting Rath Yatra||Hours after Gujarat High Court refused to grant permission to take out Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad, state unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Tuesday lambasted Chief Minister Vijay Rupani-led BJP government for not making "positive efforts" to make the annual religious event happen in the city like it did in Puri, Odisha. The annual religious event was held on Tuesday, which was restricted to the temple precinct where Rupani and other ministers performed rituals. The VHP issued a statement saying that "VHP respects the decision of the high court but the whole episode make it clear that had the state government taken efforts positively, the result would have been different. There are many important facts related to Rath Yatra that has hurt the Hindu society...the Hindu Society will never forgive this government." "The state government lacked the will power and remained indecisive. They should have approached the high court early but kept waiting just like the temple trustees, which also didn't approach the court. We had asked the government and the temple trustees to allow the yatra by imposing janta curfew along the route but they didn't listen to us," Ashok Raval, the president of the state VHP, told DH. He claimed that "The government was scared that such an event will increase the coronavirus cases which will dent its image in the country. If the government was so adamant then why did it go to the high court and that too in the last few hours. It happened only after Vijay Rupani came to the temple last evening and announced that the government will move high court for permission subject to certain conditions," Raval said while adding that it was nothing but "face saving gesture". As a matter of fact, the temple trust had sought permission from the state government to permit it for taking out the annual procession. But the government did not respond. This was also highlighted in the high court where a public interest litigation was filed to stop the yatra in view of rising pandemic in Ahmedabad. On June 20, the court was "astonished" to see government's inaction and issued order to explain this "inaction" while staying the yatra. VHP officials said that after temple trustees did not move court against the order, it asked an NGO to file a review petition, which was also rejected on June 22 since the NGO had no locus standi. By the evening, nearly a dozen petitions were filed one by one till late Monday night including one by state government seeking conditional permission. The hearing started at 12:45 AM and the court passed an order at 2 AM, rejecting all the petition citing rising coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-slams-vijay-rupani-govt-for-hurting-hindus-over-hc-order-rejecting-rath-yatra-853013.html
23-06-2020||National||JD(U) announces names of 3 candidates for Bihar Legislative Council polls||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United) on Tuesday announced the names of three candidates for the upcoming state legislative council polls. The elections to nine legislative council seats, which fell vacant after the expiry of tenures of respective members a month ago, will be held on July 6. "The party had authorised the chief minister, our national president, to take a call on the matter. He has approved the names of Ghulam Gaus, Kumud Verma and Bhishma Sahni," JD(U) national general secretary RCP Singh told reporters here. Ghulam Gaus, a relative of former assembly speaker and late RJD leader Ghulam Sarwar, had quit the Lalu Prasad-led party and joined the JD(U) in 2014. His candidature is expected to recompense for denial of a second term to JD(U) leader Haroon Rashid who was also the officiating chairman of the council until the expiry of his term. Kumud Verma hails from a political family in Jehanabad and her candidature seems to be yet another attempt by the ruling party to project a women-friendly image ahead of the assembly elections due in a few months. Not much is known about Bhishma Sahni, except that he is an EBC grassroots-level worker from East Champaran district. Party sources said state minister Ashok Choudhary, a Dalit, who is among the members whose tenure has ended, might be accommodated as a member nominated by the Governor on the state government's recommendation. A former Congress leader, Choudhary had joined the JD(U) in 2018. JD(U) ally BJP, which would be contesting two seats, is yet to announce its candidates. BJP sources said it was almost certain that Sanjay Mayukh, party national media co-convener, would be considered for another term. The decision on the second candidate was hanging fire. The last date for filing nominations is June 25. All the nine seats in the 75-member upper house which fell vacant were held by the JD(U)-BJP combine. However, four of these may go to the RJD and the Congress due to the rise in their tallies after the 2015 assembly elections. The JD(U) has, however, more than made up for the loss with five sitting MLCs of the RJD crossing over to the party earlier in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jdu-announces-names-of-3-candidates-for-bihar-legislative-council-polls-853014.html
23-06-2020||National||Fresh guidelines to check coronavirus in armed forces issued||A revised protocol has been issued to contain spread of coronavirus in the armed forces which included exemption of 14-day quarantine period on specific conditions like commuting from one duty station to another without any stay in between and reporting back to units travelling by official transport, officials said on Tuesday. The revised protocol, issued by the Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS) also recommended avoiding short duration duties of up to seven days unless deemed crucial for the interest of the services, they said. The officials said the revised protocol has been issued in view of the evolving pattern of the pandemic, new evidence emerging from new research as well as response of the government on dealing with the infection. Under the previous guidelines, all personnel coming to any military station from home or other stations were mandated to go for a 14-day quarantine period if they did not fulfil certain conditions, they said. According to the new protocol, 14-day quarantine period will be exempted for people travelling to the duty stations utilising official transport or self-driven vehicles or travelling from one duty to another without any stay in between. The exemption will be applicable for individuals who do not have any history of coming in contact with a high or low risk confirmed case or suspected COVID-19 case in the preceding 14 days of travel, the officials said. They said no testing will be required for individuals before or after quarantine if he or she is symptomatic. The armed forces had issued detailed guidelines to insulate their personnel from the infection. In March and April, the Army headquarters issued a series of directives with an aim to insulate the 13 lakh strong force from the coronavirus. In April, the Army decided to classify all its personnel reporting back from leave, temporary duties and training courses into three categories of green, yellow and red as part of measures to check the spread of coronavirus. The Army also placed all ranks of the operationally-critical Northern Command and personnel belonging to Army Medical Corps, Army Dental Corps and Military Nursing Service under "top priority" bracket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-guidelines-to-check-coronavirus-in-armed-forces-issued-853027.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||Crisis along LAC attributable to mismanagement of Narendra Modi govt: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said mismanagement by the Modi government had left the country on the brink of a terrible economic situation, a pandemic of huge proportions and a full-blown crisis on the border with China. Addressing a meeting of the Congress Working Committee, third in as many months, Gandhi accused the Modi government of being in denial on the border stand-off with China, passing the buck to state governments in handling the coronavirus pandemic and announcing a hollow economic package. “It is said ‘misfortunes do not come singly’,” the Congress President said adding that the cumulative effect of the “wrong policies” pursued by the government has led to “widespread misery, fear, hunger, and danger to the security and territorial integrity of the country.” The CWC trained its guns on the Modi government over the border stand-off with China, accusing it of allowing the situation to deteriorate that led to the killing of 20 Indian soldiers. “The Prime Minister was called out when he announced that ‘no one had intruded into Indian territory in Ladakh’,” Gandhi said in reference to Modi’s remarks at an all-party meeting on June 19. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the crisis on the border, if not tackled firmly, can lead to a serious situation. Rahul Gandhi accused the Prime Minister of betraying the Army by accepting the Chinese position that they had not occupied Indian territory. The three-hour meeting also saw Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and a few other leaders demanding that Rahul return as Congress President. Rahul had quit as Congress President in July last year accepting responsibility for the party’s second successive defeat in the Lok Sabha elections. It is learnt that Rahul did not reject their demand outright, as had been the case on earlier occasions. “This is definitely a sentiment of each Congress worker. But today the discussion was on three important issues. I am confident that Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party will address these sentiments at an appropriate time,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala to questions on suggestions at the CWC on Rahul’s return as Congress President. The CWC adopted resolutions on transgressions by China, the Covid-19 pandemic situation and increase in the prices of petrol and diesel. The Congress also said it would launch a nationwide agitation against the petrol and diesel price hikes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/crisis-along-lac-attributable-to-mismanagement-of-narendra-modi-govt-sonia-gandhi-852778.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||China's actions show 'complete failure' of India's foreign policy under Modi govt: Rahul Gandhi||Stepping up his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the border standoff with China, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused him of "destroying" India's position and "betraying our Army" by accepting Beijing's stand that it did not occupy any Indian land. Addressing the meeting of the Congress Working Committee, he said there has been a "complete and total failure" of foreign policy under the Modi government. "The established institutional structure of diplomacy has been demolished by the PM. Our relations with our once friendly neighbours lie in tatters. Our time tested relationship with our traditional allies has been interrupted," he said. Gandhi suggested that India should build a good relationship with the United States and other countries and must also maintain its ties with its old friends. "China has brazenly occupied our territory. The PM has destroyed our position and betrayed our army by accepting their position that they occupied no Indian land." "The Chinese can't be permitted to get away with this unacceptable usurpation of our land," he said, adding that everything needs to be done to ensure that sacrifice of our martyrs is not in vain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chinas-actions-show-complete-failure-of-indias-foreign-policy-under-modi-govt-rahul-gandhi-852854.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||TMC slams PM Narendra Modi over fuel price hike||Kolkata, DHNS: The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Tuesday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for repeated hikes in petrol and diesel prices. Senior TMC leaders used the hashtag '#ModiBabuPetrolBekabu' in their tweets to criticise the prime minister for fuel price hikes and termed it as “disgraceful.” “And yet again, @narendramodi ji unleashes a new planned disaster on his dear countrymen. Since 2014, the duties on petrol & diesel have seen a rise of nearly 247.89% & 794.10% respectively. Yes, you read that right and no, @narendramodiJi does not care #ModiBabuPetrolBekabu,” tweeted TMC secretary general and Education Minister Partha Chatterjee. Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accused the Prime Minister of “snatching” the benefits of low crude oil prices at a time when people are facing hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “While people are facing severe economic distress during #COVID19, @narendramodi Ji decided to snatch the benefit of low crude oil prices by imposing record duty hikes. However, when it's rising again, he passes on the hardship to common man. Disgraceful! #ModiBabuPetrolBekabu,” tweeted Abhishek. Chandrima Bhattacharya, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, asked whether the prime minister was playing some game with people by increasing the difficulty level for them every day. “When all of us are fighting a pandemic together,@narendramodi ji decided to throw another challenge at us by hiking the oil prices. Is this some game for the citizens of the country where you keep increasing the difficulty level with each passing day? #ModiBabuPetrolBekabu,” tweeted Bhattacharya. Petrol prices were hiked by 20 paise per litre and diesel prices by 55 paise on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-slams-pm-narendra-modi-over-fuel-price-hike-852922.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||After notice to retract tweet, Priyanka Gandi targets Yogi Adityanath on Covid-19 deaths||Undeterred by the notice sent to her by the district magistrate of Agra asking her to retract her tweet, that claimed 28 people had died from cornavirus within 48 hours in the town, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday sought to ridicule the 'Agra Model' of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and said that Covid-19 death rate in the Taj city was even more than Mumbai and Delhi. Priyanka had on Monday cited a news report in a Hindi daily saying that 28 people had died in Agra from coronavirus infection within 48-hours. Agra district magistrate Prabhu Narain Singh sent a notice to Priyanka claiming that the statistics cited by her was 'incorrect' and asked her to retract the tweet immediately. Singh said that 79 people had died from Covid-19 in the district in the past 109 days. ''The post has created confusion...it has also creates fear and adversely impacts the people, Corona fighters...ensure retraction of the post within 24-hours,'' he said in his notice to Priyanka.  The Congress leader, however, doubled down and tweeted that the death rate from coronavirus infection in Agra was even more than in Mumbai and Delhi. She also said that the state government tried to flaunt its failed 'Agra Model' to tackle the pandemic. Priyanka also seized upon reports that the officials were 'fudging' the data regarding deaths from Covid-19 in UP to attack the latter. Priyanka has been taking on the state government on various issues  through the social media. She had a few days back accused the UP government of ''ignoring the plight of the migrant workers'' after it rejected her offer of buses to send them home.  Priyanka has been striving hard to revive her party in the state, where assembly polls are due in two year's time. Congress could win only one seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-notice-to-retract-tweet-priyanka-gandi-targets-yogi-adityanath-on-covid-19-deaths-852925.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||Congress drawing sadistic pleasure by showing India has lost land to China: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday accused the Congress of deriving "sadistic pleasure" by "showing" that India has lost land to China in the ongoing military standoff in Ladakh and asserted that not an inch of Indian territory has been seized by the neighbouring country during the current crisis. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra hit out at Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi, alleging that they are "conspiring" to lower the Indian Army's morale, as he took exception to the Congress Working Committee meeting and its criticism of the Modi government on a day the Army chief was visiting Ladakh. Everyday, Congress leaders keep saying that India is not performing well, India is losing, Indian Army has surrendered, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is weak and has surrendered, Patra alleged. The Congress has surrendered its shame, he added, noting that it has become a policy of the opposition party to speak lies and mislead people over the issue. "The Congress is deriving sadistic pleasure," he said, adding that the Congress should not use misfortunes like COVID-19 or the standoff with China, falling on our country as a "launch pad" for the falling career of its "clown prince", Patra said, in a reference to Rahul. Rahul has been attacking Modi over the border standoff, alleging that China has captured Indian territory. He recently taunted the prime minister by calling him "Surender Modi", seen as a play on the word "surrender". The prime minister has asserted India has not lost its territory to China during the current standoff. Patra likened the criticism of the government by Gandhis to "Saas, bahut and saajish", saying the daily attack on the Centre by these top two Congress leaders was like "Maa, beta and saajish". The Congress president on Tuesday said the current border crisis is attributable to the "mismanagement" of the BJP-led government and the "wrong policies" pursued by it. "Misfortunes do not come singly. India has been hit by a terrible economic crisis, a pandemic of huge proportions and, now, by a full-blown crisis on the borders with China. Much of each crisis is attributable to the mismanagement of the BJP-led NDA government and the wrong policies pursued by it," she said. Hitting back, Patra questioned if Modi was responsible for the coronavirus and claimed that the Congress was lowering the morale of "corona warriors", a reference to health and emergency workers engaged in dealing with the pandemic, in the same way it was demotivating the Army over the border row. India will not tolerate politics on the issue of national security, and everyone should stand with the Army, he said. Patra said India had legacy issues with China like the capture of its 43,000 sq km land (Aksai Chin) by the neighbouring country, but it has not ceded any new territory in the current crisis. "We are afraid that China has captured the mind of mother and son due to the 2008," he said. The Congress and the Communist Party of China had signed a memorandum of understanding in 2008 to facilitate high level exchange between them and consult each other over important regional and international issues. The BJP has referred to it to target the Congress over its alleged proximity to the Chinese leadership. Stepping up his attack on Modi on the border standoff with China, Rahul on Tuesday accused him of "destroying" India's position and "betraying our Army" by accepting Beijing's stand that it did not occupy any Indian land. Addressing a meeting of the Congress Working Committee, he said there has been a "complete and total failure" of foreign policy under the Modi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-drawing-sadistic-pleasure-by-showing-india-has-lost-land-to-china-bjp-852927.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||'Mismanagement' of Covid-19 situation one of Narendra Modi govt's 'most disastrous' failures: Sonia Gandhi||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Centre of abandoning its responsibilities in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis and passing the buck to the states, with party chief Sonia Gandhi saying the "mismanagement" of the pandemic is one of the "most disastrous" failures of the Modi government. The Congress Working Committee (CWC) passed a resolution on the Covid-19 situation after a meeting, which was attended by the party's top brass, including Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former party president Rahul Gandhi. It is shocking that the country has registered the last one lakh positive cases in just eight days and there is a nationwide spike of about 15,000 new cases daily, the resolution noted. In her opening remarks at the meeting, Sonia Gandhi said the pandemic hit India in February and the party offered its total support to the government and to "lockdown 1.0". Phase one of the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 and subsequently there were three phases of the shutdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. 'Unlock-1' was initiated in the country from June 8 under which lockdown rules were relaxed to a great extent. "Within weeks, it was apparent that the government was totally unprepared to manage the fallout of a lockdown. The result was the greatest humanitarian crisis witnessed since 1947-48. Millions of migrant (guest) workers, daily wage earners and self-employed were devastated. One hundred and thirty million jobs are estimated to have been lost," the Congress chief said. "Crores of MSMEs have been shut, perhaps forever. Despite the assurances of the prime minister who centralised all authority in his hands, the pandemic continues to rage," she said. Expressing deep concern over India’s Covid-19 infection curve rising exponentially, instead of flattening, the CWC said health experts suggest that peak of the infection has not even been reached. The grave deficiencies in the health infrastructure have been exposed and the promised "peak" is nowhere in sight, Sonia Gandhi said. "Actually, the people have been left to protect themselves as best as possible. The mismanagement of the pandemic will be recorded as one of the most disastrous failures of the Modi government," she said. In the resolution, the CWC said the Union government seems to have abandoned its responsibilities and passed the buck to the states, without offering adequate support. "Four months into the pandemic, it is astonishing that the Modi government has not unveiled a coherent strategy on reducing fatalities, increasing testing, contact tracing and ensuring social distancing and safety for the most vulnerable population," the resolution said. There is no nationwide data on available hospital beds and ventilators, and no clarity on future capacity planning, it said. There is absolutely no sense of urgency or a credible plan to expand the beleaguered health workforce with quick recruitment of young doctors, nurses and other health workers, the resolution said. Attacking the government, the Congress also alleged that the PM CARES fund continues to be "woefully under-utilised" and administered without any transparency whatsoever. Asserting that extraordinary times require extraordinary measures, the CWC urged the Centre to provide immediate relief for those paying exorbitant prices for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals by capping the price. Claiming that the testing protocols set by the ICMR keep changing, it said the recent introduction of antigen testing with lower sensitivity than RT-PCR tests has only added to the policy confusion. Neither is there consistency nor transparency on testing data, the party alleged. "To be 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) as a nation and to combat Covid-19, the Modi government must draw upon this great nation’s strength, not undermine it," the Congress said. In another resolution, the CWC also expressed shock and concern over the repeated and "unjust" increase in petrol and diesel prices as also excise duty over the last three months of the lockdown. "The central government is profiteering by fleecing the people of India. This is illustrated starkly by the fact that the central government has increased the excise duty on petrol from Rs 9.20 per litre and on diesel from Rs 3.46 per litre in 2014 to an additional Rs 23.78 per litre on petrol and an additional Rs. 28.37 per litre on diesel," the resolution said. The CWC condemned these hikes and reminded the government of its "Raj Dharma", the resolution said. The party also urges the central government to consider a direct cash transfer to the poorest of the poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mismanagement-of-covid-19-situation-one-of-narendra-modi-govts-most-disastrous-failures-sonia-gandhi-852974.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||Hindu Sena activists deface Chinese embassy signboard||Hindu Sena workers on Tuesday defaced a signboard outside the Chinese embassy here, expressing anger against the aggressive Chinese behaviour on the border and the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes with PLA troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last week. "Today, in protest against People's Republic of China’s aggression on the LAC, Hindu Sena activists pasted protest poster stating 'Cheen Gaddar Hai, Hindi Cheeni Bye Bye’ (China is a traitor, India-China Bye Bye) on Chinese embassy’s signboard,” Hindu Sena president Vishnu Gupta said. The police, however, said no formal complaint has been received in this regard. "Someone pasted a piece of black paper on the board. CCTV cameras installed in the area are being scanned to identify them. No action has been taken yet in this matter," a police official said. The police also said the poster was later found removed, but could not tell who took it down. According to officials of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), which maintains signages in the area, their field staff did not find the board defaced when they visited there. This is not the first time the right-wing outfit has blackened the road signs in the national capital. In May 2015, signboards of roads named after Muslim rulers Akbar and Feroz Shah were defaced, and posters of the right-wing group Shiv Sena Hindustan were pasted on them. Last year, the Babar Road signboard in Bengali Market area in Delhi was blackened by Hindu Sena workers, demanding that the name of the road be changed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hindu-sena-activists-deface-chinese-embassy-signboard-852981.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi 'disrespecting, demoralising' Army: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday alleged that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was "disrespecting and demoralising" the Army with his comments over the Indo-China border conflict at Galwan Valley in Ladakh. He also accused Gandhi of indulging in "dirty politics" at the time of the stand-off between the two countries. Hitting out, former chief minister and Congress veteran Kamal Nath said that Chouhan should have the courage to accept "failure" of the Central leadership in handling the entire issue. "He (Gandhi) is disrespecting the Army, demoralising it. The way he is commenting, I feel ashamed and it is also very painful. He is a citizen of India. He is trying to demoralise the Army," Chouhan told reporters. He was asked about some comments of Gandhi on the violent clash in the Galwan Valley last week in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. The entire country stands in unity whenever there is tension on the borders, Chouhan said at the state BJP office after taking part in a programme to pay tribute to Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his death anniversary. "Whenever such a situation occurred in the country in the past, the BJP always stood with the government. But to what level the former chief of the party (Congress) has fallen. In such a situation also, he is doing dirty politics," the chief minister alleged. He should have attacked China, but he is unable to see anyone else other than (Prime Minister) Modiji. What can we say to such a leader," Chouhan said. The country will not tolerate disrespect of our forces, Chouhan further said. "On one hand, our soldiers are making supreme sacrifices. Because of them the head of Bharat Mata is held high. But I feel ashamed saying this that a national party which ruled the country for many years and a leader who was its president, despite that Rahul Gandhi is discouraging them," the CM said. Meanwhile, Nath said Gandhi, as a responsible leader of Opposition, was only requesting the PM to tell truth to the nation. "Entire country knows that the Congress party has been warning the Centre about a Chinese intrusion in our territory but the government remained negligent and kept issuing misleading statements," he said. While the prime minister is saying in the all-party meeting that no Chinese intrusion had taken place, the statements of ministers of defence and external affairs were contrary to what Modi had said, the former CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-disrespecting-demoralising-army-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-852984.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||BJP feels sting of Congress' 'surrender' jibe towards PM Narendra Modi||Stung by Rahul Gandhi’s ‘Surender (Surrender) Modi jibe BJP on Tuesday reasserted that “India has not surrendered an inch of its land” during the current stand-off at the LAC and accused the Opposition party of drawing “sadistic pleasures” during times of misfortunes. “Every Congressman should hear this with both ears open that India has not surrendered an inch of its land, but Congress has surrendered its shame. There has been no capture by China on our land (hamare desh par China ne koi kabja nahin kiya hai). If there has been capture, it has been perhaps on the heart of mother and son (kabja hua hai ma-beta ke man par) after the MoU on 2008,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said. BJP has sought to turn the table on the Congress on the issue of “surrender of land” by alleging that 43,000 kilometres of Indian land was captured by China during the tenure of Congress and accused former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of presiding over 600 Chinese incursions. Congress has seized on the remarks, seeking to pay back the government in the same measure as the latter had done to it in the past over Sam Pitroda’s “Hua to Hua” remark in response to a question on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots made before 2019 Lok Sabha polls. BJP is keen to do everything to ensure that the “surrender” jibe of Rahul does not get the traction like his earlier “suit boot ki Sarkar” jibe against the PM, which the Congress President had taken up latching on to the Modi’s “pin striped suit” in 2015, a jibe which had also used to corner the government on its controversial land bill, alleging that the government cares only for corporates and not the poor. It remains to be seen whether the BJP manages to turn the table this time on the Congress like had it done prior to 2019 by countering the Congress’ “Chowkidar Chor Hai’ campaign with an electrifying “Main Bhi Chowkidar” campaign that appealed to the poor or the “surrender” campaign manages to dent NDA’s nationalistic electoral pitch like the “suit boot ki sarkar” campaign in 2015 had done, forcing a number of course corrections by the government including withdrawal of the controversial land bill and renaming of the Agriculture Ministry as Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. By repeatedly raking up the 1962 Indo-China war, Modi govt tried to take the wind out of Congress campaign. With 1962 being a thing of distant past and yielding as much traction especially with the young voters, the party is now dusting off a 2008 between to the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between the party and the Communist Party of China in 2008. BJP chief JP Nadda tweeted “first, Congress signs MoU with Chinese Communist Party. Then, Congress surrenders land to China. During the Doklam issue, Rahul Gandhi secretly goes to Chinese embassy. During crucial situations, Rahul Gandhi tries to divide the nation & demoralise armed forces. Effects of MoU? Tagging what he called a “timeline” under the caption “"Then story of an MoU and its effects", Nadda went on to allege that that right after the signing of the MU in 2008, the Chinese army occupied 640 square kms in three Ladakh sectors and also flagged that Rahul had in 2017 also met met the Chinese envoy during the Doklam crisis". Drawing the allegory of a popular television serial “Saas Bahu aur Saazish,” Patra said while this is aired in the noon, If you switch on the television at 9 AM in the morning you see maan beta aur saazish, maa beta aur China”. He was alluding to Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul. “The Congress party should not use the misfortunes falling on our country like Corona or even stand-off with China as a re-launching pad of falling career of Congress clown prince Rahul Gandhi,” he further said in remarks that came on a day the Congress Working Committee slammed the government on its handling of the LAC issue, alleging that Modi's wrong policies led to the China crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-feels-sting-of-congress-surrender-jibe-towards-pm-narendra-modi-852988.html
23-06-2020||National Politics||Congress fires salvo at PM Narendra Modi: Sonia Gandhi says crisis on LAC attributable to Modi government's 'mismanagement'||Lambasting the Modi government over the border standoff with China, the Congress on Tuesday asked as to what steps it was taking to ensure that the earlier status is restored in eastern Ladakh as party chief Sonia Gandhi blamed the Centre's "mismanagement" and "wrong policies" for the crisis. Deliberating on the issue during a four-hour virtual meeting, the Congress Working Committee said the party has consistently raised the issue but the only replies by the government and its allies were in the form of "denials, disinformation and diversions". It urged the prime minister to uphold his promise that the sacrifice of Indian soldiers would not go in vain. At the meeting, Rahul Gandhi, who has been firing salvos daily at the Modi government over the Ladakh situation, said there has been a "complete and total failure" of foreign policy and accused the prime minister of "destroying" India's position and "betraying our Army" by accepting China's stand that it did not occupy any Indian land. Adopting a resolution that expressed grave concern on the issue and posed several questions to the government, the CWC noted that the PM's statement denying Chinese intrusion has had far-reaching implications. "The Prime Minister cannot allow his words to be used by the Chinese as a vindication of their position, when it is clear that the brazen transgressions into our territory were committed by them and our armed forces were, and are, steadfastly defending our territorial integrity," the resolution said echoing former prime minister Manmohan Singh's remarks made on Monday that the PM should be "mindful of his words". The crisis on the border, if not tackled firmly, can lead to a serious situation, Manmohan Singh said at the meeting of the Congress' apex body on the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) -- the 3,500-km de-facto border with China. The CWC in its resolution observed with grave concern reports of brazen Chinese transgressions into the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Tso Lake Area and the Hot Springs. "Let no one, including the Chinese, be in doubt that these are inalienable and integral parts of India's sovereign territory," it said. The CWC asserted that India's territorial integrity is non-negotiable and noted that it remains firmly committed for building a strong national consensus to defend India's national interest and defeat the nefarious designs and agenda of China. "What steps will the government take to ensure restoration of status quo ante," the apex body of the Congress asked in its resolution. "For China to make audacious claims over our territory, including the Galwan Valley, by resorting to unilateral and unprovoked acts of transgression and incursion, simply cannot be tolerated or accepted," it said. The central government is duty bound to protect every inch of India's territory and repulse every intrusion firmly and decisively, it said. The CWC also passed two other resolutions criticising the government over its handling the COVOD-19 crisis and the raising petrol prices for 17 consecutive days. Targeting the Modi government, Rahul Gandhi said India's relations with once friendly neighbours lie in tatters. "The established institutional structure of diplomacy has been demolished by the PM. Our relations with our once friendly neighbours lie in tatters. Our time tested relationship with our traditional allies has been interrupted," he said. "China has brazenly occupied our territory. The PM has destroyed our position and betrayed our army by accepting their position that they occupied no Indian land. "The Chinese can't be permitted to get away with this unacceptable usurpation of our land," he said. Noting the Congress has consistently raised the issue, the CWC said the only replies by the government and its allies were in the form of denials, disinformation and diversions. "The facts emerging now are in direct contrast to the narrative that the government is seeking to propagate to the people, it said. Chairing the meeting which also discussed the situation due to coronavirus, Sonia Gandhi said that the "mismanagement" of the COVID-19 pandemic will be recorded as one of "most disastrous failures" of the Narendra Modi government. She also hit out at the government for "mercilessly" raising petrol and diesel prices for 17 consecutive days, even when global prices of crude oil were falling. "Misfortunes do not come singly. India has been hit by a terrible economic crisis, a pandemic of huge proportions and, now, by a full-blown crisis on the borders with China. Much of each crisis is attributable to the mismanagement of the BJP-led NDA government and the wrong policies pursued by it," she said. On the LAC standoff, Gandhi said, "The future is yet to unfold but we hope that mature diplomacy and decisive leadership will inform the government's actions in protecting our territorial integrity." "Undeniable fact is that since April-May, 2020 till date, Chinese troops have committed brazen transgressions into our territory in Pangong Tso area and the Galwan Valley, Ladakh. True to its character, the government is in denial," she said. Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a six-week standoff in several areas of eastern Ladakh. The ties between the two countries came under severe strain after Chinese military killed 20 Indian Army personnel and injured around 76 in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. Sonia Gandhi said though the Congress party was the first to offer its total support to the armed forces and the government, there is "a growing feeling among the people that the government has gravely mishandled the situation". "We urge the government that peace, calm and the restoration of the status quo ante along the LAC be the only guiding principles in our national interest. We will continue to closely watch the situation," she said. On the COVID-19 pandemic, Gandhi said, "The grave deficiencies in the health infrastructure have been exposed. The promised 'peak' is nowhere in sight. The Centre has passed the buck to the state governments, but given them zero extra finances. Actually, the people have been left to protect themselves as best as possible." Despite assurances of "the prime minister, who centralised all authority in his hands, the pandemic continues to rage", she said. Endorsing Gandhi's remarks, Manmohan Singh said, "The pandemic is not being tackled with the courage and magnitude and effort needed to tackle the crisis. Another instance is the crisis on the border, which if not tackled firmly, can lead to a serious situation." As the coronavirus-induced lockdown halted economic activities, the Congress president said the economic crisis has only become worse. "The Modi government refuses to listen to good advice." "I am afraid there will be high unemployment, falling incomes and wages, and lower investment. Recovery is likely to take a long time, and that too only if the government corrects its course and adopts sound economic policies," she said. The meeting of the CWC, the highest decision-making body of the Congress, started by paying homage to Col B Santosh Babu and the brave soldiers who laid down their lives in the clash with Chinese troops. At the meeting, Former defence minister A K Antony briefed on the border situation and Leader of Opposition and former health minister Ghulam Nabi Azad on the COVID pandemic. Former finance minister P Chidambaram briefed the CWC on the economy and the impending recession.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-fires-salvo-at-pm-narendra-modi-sonia-gandhi-says-crisis-on-lac-attributable-to-modi-governments-mismanagement-852990.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: CPI(M) suspends MLA Balwan Poonia from party for disobeying Rajya Sabha poll directions||The Communist Party of India (M) in Rajasthan on Monday suspended its MLA Balwan Poonia from the party for a year for disobeying party directions in the recent Rajya Sabha polls in the state. In the RS elections on three seats from the state, Congress’ KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, and BJP's Rajendra Gehlot won, while the BJP's second candidate Onkar Singh Lakhawat lost. The CPI (M) had asked its both MLAs -- Balwan Poonia and Girdhari Lal -- to vote against the BJP during the June 19 polls only if there are chances of the victory of its second candidate, CPI (M) sources said on Monday. “But our MLA Balwan Poonia cast his vote though it was apparent that both Congress candidates are going to win comfortably and BJP's extra candidate is going to lose. In such a situation, there are was no need for Poonia to cast his vote,” a party source said. Poonia, the MLA from Bhardra (Hanumangarh) constituency, voted in support of the Congress candidate, while Girdhari Lal did not cast his vote. "Despite knowing well that they do not have the numbers to win a second seat, the BJP fielded an extra candidate. We had asked our MLAs not to vote for any party unless the second BJP candidate seemed to be in the competition," the source said. Poonia has been suspended from the party for one year on charges of disobeying party directions, the source added. "A showcause notice has been issued to him, seeking explanation in seven days," the sources told PTI. When contacted, Poonia said he will submit his reply to the party. "The party has suspended me for one year and has sought explanation which I will submit. They have found my conduct as disobeying. The Congress had sought my support against the BJP so I voted. How would I know in advance that how much votes BJP's second candidate is going to get?" he said. As many as 198 MLAs out of 200 had cast their votes. Apart from Girdhari Lal, Congress’ Bhanwar Lal Meghwal, who is hospitalised, did not cast vote. Of the 198, Congress party's both the candidates got 123 votes in all and the BJP candidates got 74 votes. One vote of BJP got rejected. The Congress, which has 107 MLAs, got the support of all 13 independents and the legislators of other parties including one of CPI (M) MLA, while the BJP has 72 MLA and support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cpim-suspends-mla-balwan-poonia-from-party-for-disobeying-rajya-sabha-poll-directions-852640.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Case against AAP MLA:Court grants bail to co-accused as father tests positive for Covid-19||A Delhi Court Monday granted interim bail to Kapil Nagar, arrested along with AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal in connection with a case of alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi last month, noting that his father has been tested positive for Covid-19. Special Judge Sanjay Bansal granted the relief for one month to the accused, saying the “severity of the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be underestimated”, as he was told that the wife of the accused was also showing symptoms. “The family circumstances of the applicant cannot be ignored. His father has tested positive for Covid-19 and his wife is also showing symptoms. “There are minor children of applicant who will definitely need care and protection if something wrong happens with the wife,” the judge said. He further noted that the accused himself had undergone treatment for vocal cord. As on date, the accused has suffered 42 days of custody, the judge said, adding that “the investigation was definitely going to take substantial time.” “Considered so, without expressing any opinion on the merits, this court is inclined to grant interim bail the applicant/accused. It is ordered that applicant/accused Kapil Nagar be released on interim bail for a period of 30 days,” the judge said. The relief was granted on furnishing a personal bond in sum of Rs  25,000 with one surety of the like amount. Rajendra Singh, 52, allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18. In his suicide note, the doctor held Jarwal responsible for his death. According to police, a water tanker mafia was being run by Jarwal, who was being assisted by Nagar and others. The accused had requested for regular bail and in the alternative for interim bail in view of his health condition and that of his family. Police had opposed the bail application, saying that the investigation was still going on, and pointed out that one witness has been influenced and there is possibility of other witnesses being also influenced. The prosecution opposed the application pointing out that there were various phone calls exchanged between accused persons themselves and between accused and deceased as well. “There are some call recordings which are being examined. Voice samples will be taken and sent for expert opinion,” the prosecution said. The bail application of Jarwal was dismissed by the court. Like Jarwal, the deceased was also involved in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007, and police alleged that the MLA and his associates were extorting money from other water-tanker owners, including the doctor. Jarwal, who represents the Deoli assembly constituency, was arrested on May 9 along with Nagar, after a case of extortion and abetment to suicide was filed against him and others based on a police complaint by the doctor''s son -- Hemant. The FIR says Singh had been threatened and intimidated by Jarwal, Nagar and others. "During investigation it was found that there was a big nexus between water-tanker owners and the accused person," the police said in the remand application. Police said they have found a WhatsApp group in the name of tanker-owners whose administrator is Kapil Nagar. Jarwal is one of its members. The chat details clearly show the direct involvement of both the accused in running the tanker mafia in Sangam Vihar and Tigri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-against-aap-mlacourt-grants-bail-to-co-accused-as-father-tests-positive-for-covid-19-852651.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||UP first to use Covid-19 isolation coaches; pedestal fans, hay ready at Mau station to battle heat||Uttar Pradesh has become the first state to use the Railways’ coronavirus isolation wards with coaches deployed at Mau station receiving 59 suspected Covid-19 cases in two days, officials said on Monday. They said eight of them have already been discharged and 51 are housed in these non-air conditioned coaches, modified to work as Covid care cantres. The admitted cases include women and children, the officials said. On June 20, 42 patients were admitted to the isolation coaches at Mau railway station, while 17 the next day, they added. As per official figures, Uttar Pradesh has reported over 18,000 coronavirus cases, while the number of deceased due to the disease stands at 569. The coaches are laced with basic amenities that a patient would require -- handheld showers, mosquito nets, bio-toilets, power sockets, oxygen cylinders and more. However, one of the major challenges for the Railways is to keep the temperature inside these “metal boxes” down so that patient can feel comfortable during the summer heat, when mercury may go several notches beyond normal levels. At Mau railway station, officials have kept industrial size pedestal fans and stacks of hay ready to be deployed for cross-ventilation and cover the roofs of the isolation coaches if the temperatures soar. The Railways is now experimenting with a variety of options to bring down the temperature inside the coaches. These include bamboo blinds on windows and bubble-wrap on the roof as well as heat-resistant coating and portable coolers. It has also used cover-sheets over the coaches to keep the heat out and the interiors cool. These measures will, however, bring the inside temperature down by up to one degree Celsius only, an official said. The Northern Railways has also coated the roof of isolation coaches with heat-reflective paint as a trial and found that the temperature inside can be reduced up to 2.2 degrees Celsius using this method. Trials are being planned for another coating developed in association with IIT-Bombay. A trial has been carried out by placing portable coolers inside the coaches as well, the Railways said, adding that temperature reduction of up to three degrees Celsius was achieved using them. While efforts are underway to cool things down, officials said they are praying for rain. As of now, the national transporter has deployed a total of 960 "Covid Care" coaches in five states -- Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. In Uttar Pradesh, as many as 372 such coaches have been stationed at 23 locations -- Lucknow, Varanasi, Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction, Agra, Bhadohi, Kanpur, Saharanpur, Faizabad, Mirzapur, Jhansi, Jhansi Workshop, Nakha Jungle, Subedarganj, Gonda, Bhatni, Nautanwa, Bahraich, Manduadih, Farrukhabad, Varanasi City, Mau, Bareilly City and Kasganj. In an effort to augment the government's efforts to build infrastructure to deal with the spread of Covid-19, the Railways has converted 5,321 non-AC sleeper class ICF (older design) coaches and developed them into Covid Care Level 1 centres for patients with mild symptoms or those suspected to have the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-first-to-use-covid-19-isolation-coaches-pedestal-fans-hay-ready-at-mau-station-to-battle-heat-852654.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||J&K LG approves Rs 10 lakh assistance to next of kin after 2 die during cremation of coronavirus victim||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu on Monday approved a financial assistance for the next of kin of the two men who had died during last rites of their COVID-19 infected relative here last week, officials said. Vimal Zadoo (42) and Vipin Zadoo (35), the two cousin brothers, had died due to dehydration and suffocation during cremation of their uncle who had succumbed to the coronavirus, forcing the administration to order a magisterial probe. The lieutenant governor approved the financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each in favour of next of kin of Vipin and Vimal, who were both residents of Jammu, the officials said. Terming the death of her husband and brother-in-law during cremation of their uncle as "murder", Vimal’s wife Sandhu Zadoo had questioned the LG as to how she will bring up her children. Their family had demanded registration of FIR for murder of the duo against the administration and police.  Sandhu had alleged that the two men died on their way to cremation in high temperature, while pleading the officials and police for water. No one provided them with water and the officials left them to die, she had alleged. Meanwhile, financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh was also approved in favour of NoK's of Kamal Kumar of Chapati Kalan, residents of Hiranagar in Kathua district, who had died in a quarantine centre in Kathua, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-lg-approves-rs-10-lakh-assistance-to-next-of-kin-after-2-die-during-cremation-of-coronavirus-victim-852683.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Army Chief to visit Ladakh to take stock of ground situation||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane will visit Ladakh on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss with ground commanders the six-week standoff with Chinese military, Army sources said. The Chief of the Army Staff will visit forward locations and interact with troops on the ground, they said. The visit comes a week after 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in a brutal assault by the Chinese military in Galwan Valley which escalated the border tension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-chief-to-visit-ladakh-to-take-stock-of-ground-situation-852736.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Nadda attacks Rahul Gandhi citing 2008 MoU between Cong, China's Communist Party||Accusing Rahul Gandhi of trying to "divide the nation" and "demoralise" the armed forces during crucial situations, BJP president J P Nadda asked on Tuesday if it was the "effect" of the MoU the Congress had signed with the Communist Party of China. "First, Congress signs MoU with the Chinese Communist Party. Then, Congress surrenders land to China. During Doklam issue, Rahul Gandhi secretly goes to the Chinese embassy. During crucial situations, Rahul Gandhi tries to divide the nation and demoralise armed forces. Effects of MoU?" Nadda said in a tweet. First, Congress signs MoU with Chinese Communist Party. Then, Congress surrenders land to China. During Doklam issue, Rahul Gandhi secretly goes to Chinese embassy. During crucial situations, Rahul Gandhi tries to divide the nation & demoralise armed forces. The two parties had signed a memorandum of understanding in 2008 to facilitate high-level exchange between them and consult each other over important regional and international issues. The BJP has cited this to attack the Congress as the opposition party has become increasingly aggressive against the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the border standoff with China. In 2008, Rahul Gandhi, then a Congress general secretary, and Xi Jinping, then a senior functionary of his party and now China's president, had signed the MoU. As many as 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops in Galwan valley in Ladakh last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nadda-attacks-rahul-gandhi-citing-2008-mou-between-cong-chinas-communist-party-852741.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Bailey bridge near India-China border in Uttarakhand collapses||A bailey bridge in this district of Uttarakhand, nearly 50 km from the Sino-India border, collapsed when a truck carrying a JCB machine was crossing it, an official said on Tuesday. The truck driver and the JCB machine operator were injured as the 40-feet-long bridge, built in 2009, crashed on Monday under the combined weight of the truck and the JCB machine, SDM of Munsyari A K Shukla said. The weight-bearing capacity of the bridge was 18 tonne while the combined weight of the JCB machine and the truck was 26 tonnes, he said. The SDM said the truck driver and the JCB machine operator have been admitted to a hospital in Munsyari. Around 15 border villages of Johar Valley have been cut off. Legal action will be taken against the truck driver, the official said. Construction of another bridge will take at least 15 days, the SDM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bailey-bridge-near-india-china-border-in-uttarakhand-collapses-852744.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||People testing Covid-19 positive through rapid antigen method will be examined on site in Delhi: SOP||It also said the assessment made by the medical officer shall “effectively constitute as the assessment made at the Covid-care centre". The SOP also states that in the case of those who have tested positive in RT-PCR tests, a team of district surveillance officers will contact these patients on telephone to assess the category of illness.  For cases that need to be shifted to hospitals or Covid healthcare centres, the transfer will be made by ambulances, it said. For effective contact tracing, a dedicated team of callers will record details of the people who were in contact with COVID-19 positive cases since the onset of symptoms. The guidelines come after an order on home isolation by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal was modified. In view of the surge in the coronavirus cases, the Lt Governor had last week ordered mandatory institutional quarantine. The move was opposed by the AAP government. However, according to the order, all individuals who are positive will be referred to Covid care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities. Simultaneously, physical assessment will also be done whether adequate facilities for home isolation like minimum of two rooms and a separate toilet exists so that family members and neighbours are protected, and a cluster of cases does not develop in that locality, the order said. “All cases who test positive by the rapid antigen test will be examined by the medical officer on duty at the testing site to assess the severity of the illness that is pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic/ moderate or severe,” the SOP stated. “The assessment made by the medical officer on site shall effectively constitute as assessment made at the Covid-care centre,” it stated As per guidelines, pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic patients, unless they have co-morbid conditions, can be placed under home isolation if they have residence of two rooms with a separate toilet for the patient. The patient will also be provided with a pulse oximeter by the medical officer at the testing centre. The use of the oximeter and other protocols for home isolation will be explained by the medical officer.  “Mild or pre-symptomatic cases who do not have the facility of a separate room or a toilet will be transferred to a Covid care centre. All cases of moderate, severe illness will be transferred to the hospital. “All cases of mild symptoms with co-morbid conditions will be shifted to Covid care centres or hospitals,” the SOP said. It added that patients in home isolation will be discharged from treatment as per the discharge policy of the Union Health Ministry which mandates discharge from home isolation after 10 days. In case of the RT-PCR test, a team of district surveillance officers will contact patients on the telephone to assess the category of illness, it said “For cases who are mild/ pre-symptomatic the patient will be shifted to Covid-care centre to assess eligibility for home isolation. If as per the assessment of the home isolation sent by the DSO, if the patient has a residence of two rooms with a separate toilet for the patient, he will be sent back home to continue home isolation,” the SOP said. The patient will be provided a contact number for any consultation required by him or her along with the details of the CATS ambulance number for transfer to hospital in case symptoms develop. In case his residence is not found fit for home isolation, the patient will be admitted to Covid care centre for isolation as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-testing-covid-19-positive-through-rapid-antigen-method-will-be-examined-on-site-in-delhi-sop-852760.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Tea seller's daughter flies high, becomes IAF officer||Obstacles cannot stop a person from realising dreams if one has the determination, and this has been proved by 24-year-old Anchal Gangwal, a tea seller's daughter who recently joined the Indian Air Force as Flying Officer. She was commissioned into the Indian Air Force (IAF) a few days back, but it was not an easy journey for her as sometimes her father did not even have the money to pay for her education fees. He said his daughter dreamt of joining the IAF after seeing the bravery of its personnel in helping people during the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. It was not easy for Anchal and the family to make her realise this dream, but she was determined, he said. "She was a bright student and also a basketball player. She first wished to join the Air Force after seeing the IAF personnel helping people during the Kedarnath tragedy. And, now her dream has come true, the proud father said. He said after getting inspired by the bravery of IAF personnel, his daughter collected information from bookstalls on how she could get into the defence force and started preparations in that direction. "She was determined and got success in the sixth attempt, he said. But, it has not been an easy journey for her and her father, who has been selling tea for the past 25 years in Neemuch, located around 400 km from Bhopal. "One can understand my financial condition. At times, I faced problems in depositing her school or college fee. I had to borrow money from others on many occasions to deposit the fee. Sometimes I had to pretend to be out of town to delay fees deposition, said Suresh Gangwal, who has studied till Class 10. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulated Anchal Gangwal for making the state proud and extended best wishes to her. Anchal, daughter of Suresh Gangwal, who runs a tea shop in Neemuch, will now fly the fighter plane in the Air Force. Daughter Anchal, who made Madhya Pradesh proud, will now fly in the heights of the infinite sky to protect the pride and honour of the country. Congratulations, blessings and best wishes to the daughter, Chouhan tweeted on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tea-sellers-daughter-flies-high-becomes-iaf-officer-852782.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Clean toilet, colour-coded dustbins in Railways isolation coaches but mosquitoes a concern, say first patients||"I am used to travelling by trains, but when I entered this one I was taken aback at the sight of the modifications. The stay was comfortable, except for the mosquitoes which were everywhere. The mosquitoes came from under the beds and they should spray repellent under the seats,” said Krishnakant Sharma, contacted by PTI on phone from Mau in Uttar Pradesh. He and five members of his family, including his wife Neetu and their 11-month-old daughter Vanshika, were among the first group of 59 suspected Covid-19 patients to be admitted to any of the 960 modified coaches deployed as Level 1 Covid care centres across five states. In Uttar Pradesh alone, 372 such coaches have been deployed. Krishnakant and his family were sent to one such isolation coach after they returned from Mumbai. Their samples were collected at a centre in Mau and they were asked to spend the night of June 20 in the isolation coach to await the results. But all six members of the family tested negative and they were discharged the next day. Two other people were also discharged from the coach.  Equipped with hand-held showers, mosquito nets, bio-toilets, power sockets, oxygen cylinders and more, the Covid-care coaches have it all to keep patients comfortable. But controlling the heat in the steel-bodied non-air-conditioned coaches has been a huge challenge, officials said. Still, the occupants’ fears of being roasted in the heat were unfounded as the night was pleasant, and industrial-sized pedestal fans and hay on the roof kept the temperature down. "I don't know what we would have done if the temperature had soared. But I have to say that unlike the reputation of the toilets in trains, the bathroom as well as the toilets in these coaches were clean and it was very convenient to use, even for my elderly mother," said Krishnakant. Nothing, however, could be done about the swarms of mosquitoes that came in through doors that were kept open, nullifying the effect of the netting that the Railways had fixed on the windows. "I spent the entire time worrying that if not coronavirus, my daughter will definitely contract malaria or dengue. Her face and her feet are covered with bites and she was crying all the time," said Neetu, 32. "There is no point in getting one disease while you are being treated for another right? With rains just around the corner, the railways need to address this issue as soon as possible, otherwise, they will have to start testing for malaria and dengue before they release patients from here,” she told PTI by phone. She said while there were three colour-coded dustbins in the coach, no one came to clean them when they got stuffed with food plates and leftovers. Krishnakant noted that the food arrangements were made by the local administration and not the Railways. “It was okay since I cannot demand home food, but just one-and-a-half litres of milk for four babies is definitely not enough. An 11-month-old baby cannot survive on this. At the time we were there, there were three more babies in the coaches. The only thing that they managed to eat was biscuits,” he said. Krishnakant, who works at a furniture store in Mumbai's Virar area, also had a suggestion for the state government -- please serve more food for the adults and arrange for more milk for the babies.  The Sharmas had to get milk from their home in Ranipur, a two-hour drive from Mau. However, he said they all give full marks to the Railways for managing to turn around the coaches and provide so many amenities. In an effort to augment the government’s efforts to build infrastructure to deal with the spread of coronavirus, the Railways has converted 5,321 non-AC sleeper class ICF (older design) coaches and developed them into Covid Care Level 1 centres for patients with mild symptoms or those suspected to have the infection. Suspected and confirmed cases will be kept in separate coaches, officials said. The 960 coaches already deployed include 503 coaches in Delhi and 372 in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/clean-toilet-colour-coded-dustbins-in-railways-isolation-coaches-but-mosquitoes-a-concern-say-first-patients-852786.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi's cleaner air during lockdown may have helped produce more solar power: Study||Based on data collected in Delhi, scientists report that the reduction in air pollution due to lockdown measures enforced in the country may have led to more sunlight reaching solar panels, resulting in the production of more clean energy. The findings, published in the journal Joule, noted that in late March, the amount of sunlight reaching the solar panels in Delhi increased about 8 per cent, compared with data from the same dates from 2017 to 2019. According to the researchers, including those from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the US, Delhi is one of the most polluted cities on the planet, with the sudden implementation of lockdown in India at the start of the pandemic improving the air quality drastically. "That means that reductions in air pollution happened very suddenly, making them easier to detect," explained study first author Ian Marius Peters from Helmholtz-Institut Erlangen-Nurnberg for Renewable Energies in Germany. Peters and his colleagues had earlier assessed how haze and air pollution impact the quantity of sunlight reaching the ground, and the effect of air pollution on the output of solar panels in Delhi. The photovoltaic (PV) solar energy system they had installed in Delhi for the previous work was still in place, and they could use it to collect data on the amount of solar radiation reaching the PV installation, called the level of insolation. The scientists found that the insolation at noon increased by about eight per cent. Based on the information on air quality and particulate matter, they suggested that reduced pollution levels were a major cause for the rise in energy levels. "The increase that we saw is equivalent to the difference between what a PV installation in Houston would produce compared with one in Toronto," Peters said. "I expected to see some difference, but I was surprised by how clearly the effect was visible," he added. Combined with their earlier results, the scientists believe the new findings provide a solid foundation to further study the impact of air pollution on solar resources. They also hope to find increased output of power from solar panels in other areas where air was cleaner due to lockdown measures. "The pandemic has been a dramatic event in so many ways, and the world will emerge different than how it was before," Peters said. He said the lessons learned from the different measures implemented during the pandemic may provide an opportunity to "flatten the climate curve." "I believe solar panels can play an important role, and that going forward having more PV installations could help drive a positive feedback loop that will result in clearer and cleaner skies," Peters added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-cleaner-air-during-lockdown-may-have-helped-produce-more-solar-power-study-852791.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Inequality gap in India to narrow down post-Covid-19: SBI report||At all-India level, per capita income (PCI), which is a measure of the earnings per person in a nation or geographic region, will decline by 5.4 percent in FY21 to Rs 1.43 lakh, the report said. “We expect that the inequality gap in India will narrow down post-Covid-19 pandemic as a decline in income of rich states will be much greater than the decline in income of poor states,” the SBI's research report said.  A similar type of experience of decline in inequality was witnessed in Germany after the collapse of the Berlin war (1989), it said. The report said this decline in PCI is higher than the nominal GDP decline of 3.8 percent. Globally also, the fall in per capita GDP of 6.2 percent in 2020 is significantly greater than the 5.2 percent decline in the world GDP. The rich states (whose per capita income is greater than all India average) will be most affected in per capita income terms. “In Delhi (-15.4 percent) and Chandigarh (-13.9 percent), the decline in PCI is almost thrice than the decline at all India levels (-5.4 percent),” it said. A total of eight states and Union Territories are supposed to witness a decline in PCI in double digits in FY21 and that is most alarming, the report said. These states constitute as much as 47 percent of the country's GDP. “This is due to the fact that these are the urban areas (and red zones also) where lockdown was implemented most severely. The closure of markets, shopping complexes and malls adversely affected the income of these areas,” it said. Even after the opening of markets (in a staggered manner), the number of customers is still 70-80 percent less than the normal times, the report said. In the current fiscal, states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana, and Tamil Nadu are expected to witness a decline of 10-12 percent in PCI. However, in the relatively less well-off states like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha (where per capita income is below the national average) the decline in PCI is less than 8 percent, the report said.  “The possible reasons are a larger number of green zones, prominence of agricultural activity and already low levels of income,” it added. The report projects a GDP decline of 6.8 percent for FY21. “We believe that the country will clearly have a 'statistical V-shaped recovery / Swoosh' in FY22 primarily due to the favourable base effect,” it said. Beyond such base effect, it would, however, take at least till FY24, if the country replicates the best case example in history, if not more before it gets back to the pre-pandemic level growth rate, the report noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inequality-gap-in-india-to-narrow-down-post-covid-19-sbi-report-852802.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||HC declines to entertain PIL for framing rules on stoppage of all types of trains||The Delhi High Court Tuesday declined to entertain a PIL seeking stoppage of passenger trains between Badli and Narela stations here, construction of a railway terminal at Holambi Kalan and drafting of rules for stoppage of all types of passenger trains, saying it was a policy decision of the government. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the reliefs sought in the plea are policy decisions to be taken by the Centre or the Railways and therefore, "we see no reason to entertain the petition for issuance not any order". "Nonetheless, we direct concerned respondent to decide the petitioner's representation in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case," the court said. It further said the decision be taken as early as possible and practicable and disposed of the petition. The petitioner, Rajesh Sonthalia, had also sought directions to the Railways to set up a reservation counter at Badli station. He said his several representations in the past have gone unanswered. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-declines-to-entertain-pil-for-framing-rules-on-stoppage-of-all-types-of-trains-852804.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Lt Governor's 5-day mandatory quarantine order done away with: AAP govt to Delhi High Court||Taking note of the submission, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the grievances raised in the plea have been brought to an end by the latest Delhi government order of June 20 which replaced the L-G's June 19 direction for mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. The court said if the petitioner, Nancy Roy, was aggrieved by the latest order she can challenge it before the appropriate forum and disposed of her plea.  The petition had challenged L-G Anil Baijal's June 19 order for a five-day institutional quarantine for all asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms in place of home isolation. The petition had termed as a "harsh direction" the L-G's order and said it amounts to forcing patients to undergo five-day institutional quarantine, especially when the government is unable to provide an adequate number of beds and nurses to patients who are in dire need of hospitalisation. Baijal had also ordered that after the five-day institutional-quarantine, asymptomatic patients will be sent for home isolation. On June 20, the L-G's direction was substituted by the Delhi government's order which did away with the mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for asymptomatic patients. According to the June 20 order, all persons testing positive for coronavirus would be referred to Covid care centres where their clinical condition, the severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities would be assessed. At the same time presence of an adequate facility for home isolation of such individuals would also be assessed, the order said. It further said that if home isolation facility is available, there are no co-morbidities and patient does not require hospitalisation, he or she will have the option to either stay at the Covid centre or at home. However, others who have comorbidities and/or lack home quarantine facility will have to stay at the Covid care centre, the June 20 Delhi government order also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lt-governors-5-day-mandatory-quarantine-order-done-away-with-aap-govt-to-delhi-high-court-852808.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Odisha: 2 more deaths take Covid-19 toll to 17; 167 fresh cases detected||Two more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Odisha, taking the death toll due to the contagion to 17 in the state, while 167 fresh cases increased the infection tally to 5,470, a health department official said on Tuesday. The two deaths were reported from Cuttack district. "Regret to report the demise of two Covid-19 positive cases of Cuttack while under treatment in hospitals. Both were males. One was 71-year-old and the age of the other was 53 years," the official said. Both suffered from pre-existing ailments. Meanwhile, an 80-year-old Covid-19 patient from Cuttack, who was suffering from "intestinal obstruction with sepsis and multiple organ dysfunction syndromes", also died in a hospital. "The reason of his death was non-Covid," the official said. Of the fresh cases, 150 are from different quarantine centres where returnees are lodged for preliminary observation, while 17 others were detected with the infection during the contact-tracing exercises, he said. Gajapati topped the list of new infections with 41 cases, followed by Ganjam at 30. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state now stands at 1,583, while 3,863 patients have recovered from the disease. The state health department on Monday conducted 3,496 tests, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/odisha-2-more-deaths-take-covid-19-toll-to-17-167-fresh-cases-detected-852813.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan sees 199 fresh COVID-19 cases; infection tally reaches 15,431||Rajasthan reported 199 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the state's total number of such cases to 15,431, officials said. With no death reported in the state on Tuesday, the death toll due to the disease stands at 356, they said. Of the fresh cases, 89 were reported from Jaipur, followed by 49 from Dholpur, 14 from Bharatpur, 10 each from Bhilwara and Sirohi, seven from Alwar, six from Barmer, four from Jhunjhunu, three each from Ajmer and Jhalawar, two from Kota, one from Dausa besides a patient from other state, an official report said here. Jaipur has recorded maximum 150 deaths due to Covid-19, and 2,988 positive cases followed by Jodhpur where 34 deaths and 2,459 cases have been reported. A total of 11,794 Covid-19 patients have been discharged, officials said, adding the state has 3,035 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-sees-199-fresh-covid-19-cases-infection-tally-reaches-15431-852820.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Rs 25,000 penalty imposed on Madhya Pradesh revenue official for avoiding response to RTI query||The Madhya Pradesh Information Commission has imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 against an Under Secretary of the state government’s Revenue Department for alleged malafide and willful intention of not sharing the information sought by an RTI applicant related to a corruption case. While hearing an appeal filed by RTI applicant Achal Kumar Dubey, Information Commissioner Rahul Singh in a recent order slammed the officer concerned for adopting dilatory tactics to avoid responding to the desired information. Dubey, had in 2017, filed an RTI application with the urban development and housing department, seeking a copy of charge sheet issued to the then chief municipal officer (CMO) Vidisha, on the basis of a complaint of alleged irregularities filed by him. He had also sought a copy of the response given by the accused officer on the departmental charge-sheet issued to him. Aggrieved over the lack of response to both his application and first appeal from the department, Dubey moved the transparency watchdog. During the hearing, the Under Secretary and Public Information Officer (PIO) pleaded not guilty saying that he had made all efforts to access the file, but he could not as the file was with another department. The PIO, however, failed to provide any documentary proof in support of his claim. Information Commissioner Rahul Singh said the PIO faulted on many counts as he did not transfer the RTI application to other departments whom he thought was having the information for providing the response. Besides this, he also remained incommunicado despite being approached by Dubey several times. Singh, in his order, listed documents which prove that the PIO was in fact part of the investigation done against the then CMO and he had details sought by the applicant but chose to withhold the information. The information commissioner also said that jurisprudence should be used while addressing such RTI applications. The applicant has every right to know the status of its complaint as the department had found merit to launch an investigation on the basis of his complaint, according to the Commission's order issued last week. Singh also imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on the Under Secretary of the Revenue Department, who was then with the urban development and housing department, the order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-25000-penalty-imposed-on-madhya-pradesh-revenue-official-for-avoiding-response-to-rti-query-852843.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Security agencies alert personnel about potential Chinese cyber attack||Beware of emails promising free Covid-19 tests in Indian metros as it could be a "potential cyber offensive attack from the Chinese Army", security agencies have warned its personnel. The warning was issued after CERT-in issued an advisory that "malicious actors are planning a large-scale phishing attack campaign against Indian individuals and businesses (small, medium and large enterprises)". The security agencies alert came against the backdrop of tensions at the India-China border after a "violent face-off" left 20 Indian soldiers killed. In the alert, the agencies said the phishing attack from the Chinese cyber warriors -- a "malicious group" claiming to have two million individuals' email addresses -- could be in the guise of a free Covid-19 test. "Watch out for IDs like 'ncov2019@gov.in'. Beware of malicious phishing e-mails/ SMS/messages on social media inciting you to provide personal and financial information," it said. Phishing campaign is expected to impersonate government agencies, departments and trade associations who have been tasked to oversee the disbursement of the government fiscal aid and could use a spoofed email with "free Covid-19 testing for all residents of Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai and Ahmedabad" in the subject line, it said. "It is seen that a well educated/aware person is likely to be less prone in falling prey to such kind of cyber attacks," the alert said adding security personnel should be educated about the possible cyber attack. The alert also advised personnel not to open or click on attachment in unsolicited e-mail, SMS or messages through social media, exercise extra caution in opening attachments, even if the sender appears to be known and beware of e-mail addresses, spelling errors in emails, websites and unfamiliar email senders. One should not submit personal or financial details on unfamiliar or unknown websites or links, check the integrity of URLs before providing login credentials or clicking a link and consider using safe browsing tools, filtering tools (antivirus and content-based filtering) in antivirus, firewall, and filtering services. Update spam filters with latest spam mail contents. The users should also try to encrypt sensitive documents to avoid potential leakage, the alert said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-agencies-alert-personnel-about-potential-chinese-cyber-attack-852846.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Mentally-challenged woman raped, impregnated by elderly neighbour||A mentally-challenged woman was allegedly raped and impregnated by a 65-year-old man under the Zafarganj Police Station area here, police said on Tuesday. The man has been arrested, they said. According to a complaint filed by the victim’s younger sister, the accused raped the woman four to five months ago and made her pregnant. She said her sister (25) lived alone in the house and their neighbour took advantage of this fact and sexually abused her, Rakesh Kumar Singh, SHO, Zafarganj said. An FIR was registered in this regard and the accused was arrested, he said. The victim has been sent for medical examination, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mentally-challenged-woman-raped-impregnated-by-elderly-neighbour-852847.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi asked to withdraw claim about Covid-19 deaths in Agra within 24 hours||Terming it "misleading and false", the Agra administration has asked Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to withdraw the claim regarding coronavirus deaths in the district within 24 hours. Tagging a media report, the Congress leader had on Monday tweeted that 28 coronavirus patients died within 48 hours of hospitalisation in Agra. She had described it as a “matter of shame” for the Uttar Pradesh government, accusing it of suppressing the truth. In an e-mail to the Congress leader on Monday, Agra District Magistrate Prabhu Narain Singh told her to take back the claim within 24 hours, saying the allegations are “baseless and misleading”. "The Twitter post prima facie has created doubts and sent a message among people that 28 corona patients have died in 48 hours,” The DM said in the letter to Priyanka Gandhi, shared by the Adviser to the Chief Minister, Mrityunjay Kumar. The DM said such reports will “serve to demoralise” the corona warriors working round the clock to check the spread of the virus and also have an “adverse impact" on the common man. “The reality is that in the past 109 days, Agra has reported 1,139 cases, of which 79 have succumbed to the virus. The report of 28 deaths in 48 hours is completely false," he said. Therefore, in public interest, ensure the denial of misleading/false claim in 24 hours so that all people could get the knowledge of the right situation, the DM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-priyanka-gandhi-asked-to-withdraw-claim-about-covid-19-deaths-in-agra-within-24-hours-852863.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops violate ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district on Tuesday by firing mortar shells towards Indian positions, army officials here said. "On June 23, in the afternoon hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Machil sector by firing mortars and other weapons," the officials said. They said the Indian Army gave a befitting response to the ceasefire violation. However, there were no casualties reported in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-violate-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-852864.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||BJP MP Pragya Thakur faints at party event in Bhopal||BJP's Lok Sabha member from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur fainted during an event organised at party office here on Tuesday to pay tributes to Bharatiya Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookherjee on his death anniversary. The incident occurred when Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other senior BJP leaders were paying tributes to Mookherjee at the event held at the party's state headquarters here. Former Bhopal MP Alok Sanjar told PTI that Thakur has been undergoing treatment for her ailments and was taking heavy doses of medicines, which could have caused dizziness. Following the incident, Thakur (50) was taken to her home, where she is currently recuperating, he said. Earlier on Sunday, Thakur had attributed her health issues, including "loss" of vision, to "torture" she had suffered under the Congress regime. "I sustained several injuries due to torture by the Congress for nine years. Many injuries resurface due to this torture. There was formation of pus and swelling in my eyes and brain. "I have blurred vision in the right eye and I can't see at all from the left one," she had said, apparently referring to her imprisonment in the 2008 Malegaon blast case in which she is an accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-faints-at-party-event-in-bhopal-852869.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Bhojpuri musician Pramod Kumar hopes to heal the world with his songs in times of coronavirus||Music can help motivate and heal people in times of the coronavirus pandemic, says Bhojpuri musician Pramod Kumar who hopes to build a bridge between people and the government through his songs.   Kumar, who hails from Buxar district in Bihar, is a seasoned musician from the Bhojpuri music industry and specialises in the Chutney Music, an amalgamation of English and Bhojpuri, which is quite popular in the Caribbean countries having a huge Indian diaspora. Ever since the coronavirus-forced lockdown started, the 44-year-old journalist-singer has been continuously coming up with new songs to spread awareness about the disease. So far, he has posted 50-60 songs on his social media platforms.   The aim, Kumar said, is to motivate, uplift and help people get through this difficult phase. "I want to console people through my music and bring them healing in these tough times. I wanted to act as a messenger of people's voices to the government and vice versa. I want them to not lose hope," he told PTI in an interview. His songs cover a range of issues like unemployment, hunger, poverty and migrant exodus in the country since the lockdown was announced on March 24. "There were a number of stories being done about migrant labourers and it is a well-known fact that majority of them belong to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. So I thought I should interact with them in their own language. "I wanted to make them aware of the disease and also to tell them that they should not panic as this phase too shall pass." Kumar, who has been primarily working as a journalist for a national daily for over 20 years, said though his songs highlight the issues faced by the people, he has never taken a swipe at any government. "I was absolutely clear about one thing when I started this -- I won't criticise anyone through my work, neither the central government nor the states. This pandemic is unprecedented and no one has expertise in how to deal with it. Everything is working on a trial and error basis. "However, through some of the songs, I have spoken about how things are not good and governments should pay attention to people." As a journalist, Kumar said tries to keep abreast of the state of affairs in the country, which in turn helps him in his music. "There is no dearth of material for a song since I'm a journalist first. We are well aware of the facts as it is a part of our job. From morning to 7.30 in the evening, I do my work as a journalist and during this period, I figure out the topic for my song of the day.  "My effort everyday is to bring something new for the listeners. In my songs, you will find everything, be it coronavirus awareness messages or stories about common people and their struggles. I dedicated two songs to Mahatma Gandhi since we celebrated his 150th birth anniversary last year." In his upcoming songs, Kumar will be touching upon the Indo-China relations, which have come under severe strain after Chinese military killed 20 Indian Army personnel and injured around 76 in a violent clash in Ladakh's Galwan Valley on June 15. As for the Bhojpuri music, which has often been criticised for crude and misogynistic lyrics in songs, the singer said the problem is about what people are being offered. "Criticising is not a solution to a problem. The Bhojpuri music is on autopilot mode today as there is no experiment happening. Listeners are being given the same type of content that they have been getting for the past few years. "But they are now starting to get bored of it. People have liked the Bhojpuri music whenever something new is offered to them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhojpuri-musician-pramod-kumar-hopes-to-heal-the-world-with-his-songs-in-times-of-coronavirus-852870.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal writes to Amit Shah seeking doctors and nurses from ITBP, Army to run 10,000-bed COVID facility||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, demanding doctors and nurses from the ITBP and the Army to run a 10,000-bed Covid-19 care facility being set up in south Delhi, sources said. They said the chief minister has also invited Shah to visit the facility being set up on the sprawling campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB). Kejriwal has sought doctors and nurses from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Army to run the centre, the sources said. The lush green RSSB campus is located near the Delhi-Haryana border. The Covid-19 facility, which will be 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide, will have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each. This makeshift Covid-19 care facility will be the largest in the city so far. The work is expected to be completed by the end of June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-amit-shah-seeking-doctors-and-nurses-from-itbp-army-to-run-10000-bed-covid-facility-852878.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||India-China Border: Army Chief M M Naravane visits Ladakh; takes stock of ground situation||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Tuesday reviewed India's military preparedness in eastern Ladakh as he began a two-day visit to the region where a border clash last week left 20 Indian soldiers dead in the midst of a tense standoff with the Chinese People's Liberation Army. Soon after arriving in Leh, Gen Naravane visited an Army hospital where 18 soldiers injured in the clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 are undergoing treatment, Army officials said. The Chief of the Army Staff interacted with almost all the injured soldiers and complimented them for their bravery, they added. A surveillance post set up by the Chinese Army on a narrow mountain trail in violation of an agreement was the trigger for the clash in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. After visiting the hospital, Gen Naravane reviewed the overall security situation in the region with the ground commanders, and is learnt to have directed them to keep a high-level of alertness to deal with any Chinese misadventure, people familiar with the issue said. The Chief of the Army Staff is scheduled to visit a number of forward areas during his two-day visit to the region. Last week, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a quiet visit to Ladakh and Srinagar air bases to review the Indian Air Force's preparedness to deal with any eventualities in the region. Before leaving for Leh, Gen Naravane attended the final session of a two-day conference of top Army commanders. The commanders extensively deliberated on the situation in eastern Ladakh. In Leh, Gen Naravane was also scheduled to hold an extensive meeting with Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the 14 Corps that takes care of the sensitive border with China. On Monday, Lt Gen Singh held a nearly 11-hour meeting with Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj Gen Liu Lin. In the meeting, the two sides arrived at a “mutual consensus” to "disengage" from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. The first round of the Lt Gen talks were held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation along the border deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the 3,500-km de-facto border. On Sunday, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army has already sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border in the last one week. The IAF has also moved a sizeable number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft and Apache attack helicopters to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar following the clashes. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. Prior to the clashes, both sides had been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it was necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-border-army-chief-m-m-naravane-visits-ladakh-takes-stock-of-ground-situation-852891.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Arvind Kejriwal writes to Amit Shah seeking doctors, nurses from ITBP; Army to run 10,000-bed COVID-19 facility||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, demanding doctors and nurses from the ITBP and the Army to run a 10,000-bed COVID-19 care facility being set up in south Delhi, sources said. They said the chief minister has also invited Shah to visit the upcoming facility on the sprawling campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB). Kejriwal has sought doctors and nurses from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Army to run the centre, the sources said. The lush green RSSB campus is located near the Delhi-Haryana border.  The COVID-19 facility, which will be 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide, will have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each. Last week, the Delhi government had said the RSSB campus was being converted into the world's largest temporary COVID-19 care facility to help the city deal with the surging coronavirus cases. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had said that it would be used as an isolation centre for COVID-19 asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms who may have problems in being home quarantined.  Delhi would need 1.5 lakh beds in healthcare facilities by July 31 once people start coming to the city for treatment from other states, Kejriwal had said, adding that his government had "unprecedented challenges" ahead as data showed that COVID-19 cases would rapidly increase in Delhi in the coming days. On Monday, Delhi recorded 2,909 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city over the 62,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 2,233. From Friday to Sunday, 3,000 or more fresh cases were being reported every day in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-amit-shah-seeking-doctors-nurses-from-itbp-army-to-run-10000-bed-covid-19-facility-852896.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Amit Shah counters Arvind Kejriwal, says decision on 10,000-bed Covid care centre taken 3 days ago||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday countered Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's claim over a new Covid care facility being set up in the national capital, saying a decision for a 10,000-bed care centre to be operationalised by June 26 was taken three days ago. In a series of tweets, Shah also said that a 1,000-bed full-fledged hospital with 250 ICU beds is being developed for Covid-19 patients and the facility, to be manned by armed forces personnel, will be ready in the next 10 days. "Dear Kejriwal ji, It has already been decided in our meeting 3 days back and MHA has assigned the work of operating the 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi to ITBP. The work is in full swing and a large part of the facility will be operational by 26th Jun," he said. Shah's counter came after Kejriwal wrote to him inviting him to inspect the 10,000-bedded centre and requested him for deployment of doctors and nurses from ITBP and Army at the Centre. "I would also like to inform the people of Delhi that a 1,000-bed full-fledged hospital with 250 ICU beds is being developed for Covid patients. DRDO and Tata Trust are building the facility. Armed forces personnel will man it. This Covid Care centre will be ready in next 10 days," Shah said. He also said the armed forces personnel have been detailed for providing medical care and attention to Covid-19 patients housed in railway coaches in Delhi. A total of 8,000 additional beds have already been placed at Delhi government's disposal for making Covid care centres, as per requirement, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-counters-arvind-kejriwal-says-decision-on-10000-bed-covid-care-centre-taken-3-days-ago-852946.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh's COVID-19 growth rate 1.43 % is lowest in India: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said his state had the lowest growth rate of COVID-19 infection in the country at 1.43 per cent, and the recovery rate was over 76 per cent. As on Monday, MP has 12,078 COVID-19 cases, 521 people have died of the infection, while 9,215 have recovered. After chairing a review meeting, Chouhan tweeted, "The growth rate of COVID-19 infection is the lowest at 1.43% in Madhya Pradesh while the recovery rate among the epidemic's patients is over 76%." An MP public relations department official said the average growth rate of the infection in the country was 3.63 per cent. The growth rate of Gujarat was 2.10 per cent, Rajasthan 2.31 per cent, Maharashtra 2.96 per cent, West Bengal 3.23 per cent, Uttar Pradesh 3.82 per cent and Tamil Nadu 4.21 per cent, Chouhan said in the meeting. Three districts in the state, namely Datia, Alirajpur and Umaria, have no active cases, the meeting was informed. Chouhan also said the state's testing capacity, with 24 laboratories, was now 6,000 samples per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradeshs-covid-19-growth-rate-143-is-lowest-in-india-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-852960.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||National Information Centre fails to provide video links with accused, upsets Babri trial court||A special court hearing the Babri mosque demolition case on Tuesday expressed concern over National Informatics Centre’s failure to arrange video links to record the statements of the accused, including former deputy prime minister L K Advani. The CBI court here also sent a letter to Uttar Pradesh’s principal secretary (law) on this. The court had asked the NIC, a central government body, to make arrangements at the homes of 10 of the 32 accused who had opted to record their statements through video conferencing. The court was set to record the statement of Ram temple trust head Mahant Nritya Gopal Das through video conferencing from Ayodhya on Tuesday. But there was no video link in place. Others in the list include former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh and former Union minister M M Joshi. "This court had directed the NIC to make arrangements for video links at the residence of 10 accused, but no response has come so far,” Special Judge S K Yadav said in his order. “The court will wait till June 24 and even then if no response comes, the NIC will be sent a reminder," he added. The statements are being recorded under section 313 of the CrPC, a stage in the trial after the examination of prosecution witnesses. The Supreme Court on May 8 had permitted the CBI court to use video conferencing. The special court offered the video link option to the accused, keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic and government guidelines on social distancing. On Tuesday, the judge recorded the statement of the 15th accused, Dharmadas, who denied his involvement in the demolition of the Babri Masjid and the alleged conspiracy. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by “kar sevaks” claiming that a Ram temple had stood at the same spot in Ayodhya before the mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-information-centre-fails-to-provide-video-links-with-accused-upsets-babri-trial-court-852963.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi court dismisses interim bail plea of Apoorva Shukla, Rohit Tiwari's wife||A Delhi court Tuesday dismissed an interim bail application of Apoorva Shukla, arrested in connection with the alleged murder of her husband Rohit Shekhar Tiwari, the son of former Uttarakhand chief minister N D Tiwari. Shukla had sought interim bail for two months on the ground that she suffered spinal column injury in Tihar jail where she is currently lodged. Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Yadav directed the Tihar Jail Superintendent to ensure her medical treatment at Safdarjung Hospital here, said her lawyer. In her interim bail application, filed through advocate Mehmood Pracha, she said that she suffered slip disc injury by slipping in jail. The court had earlier directed the jail authorities to provide treatment to Shukla at a good hospital other than the jail dispensary and Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital for her psychological problems which include depression and sleep disorder. Rohit's mother Ujjwala Tiwari had alleged before the court that Shukla had married Rohit as he was the son of the late veteran politician and she believed she would get a ticket to contest elections at Indore after marrying him. Ujjwala, who was represented by advocate Tariq Nasir, had alleged that relations turned tense between Rohit and his wife immediately after their marriage and she fought with him on trivial issues. Shukla, a lawyer, was arrested on April 26 last year on charges of Tiwari''s murder. Rohit was smothered to death on the intervening night of April 15 and 16, the autopsy report had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-dismisses-interim-bail-plea-of-apoorva-shukla-rohit-tiwaris-wife-852969.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi's coronavirus tally crosses 66,000-mark with record 3,947 new cases; death toll at 2,301||Delhi's tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 66,000-mark on Tuesday with the biggest single-day jump of 3,947 fresh infections, while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 2,301, authorities said. From Friday to Sunday, 3,000 or more fresh cases were reported per day in the national capital. On Monday, 2,909 cases were recorded. Sixty-eight fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, a Delhi health department bulletin said on Tuesday. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection has risen to 2,301, and the total number of cases has mounted to 66,602, it said. The death toll due to Covid-19 stood at 2,233 in Delhi on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-coronavirus-tally-crosses-66000-mark-with-record-3947-new-cases-death-toll-at-2301-852987.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: Delhi Police constable becomes a rage on social media with ‘Teri Mitti’ song for coronavirus warriors||A 22-year-old Delhi Police constable is winning hearts on social media after his song 'Teri Mitti' for coronavirus warriors went viral, with many popular personalities praising the song and the singer. Constable Rajat Rathore, who joined the police service at the age of 19 years, says he wants to make a career in Bollywood. “People related to the song and congratulated me. Azeem Dhyaani sir, music supervisor, commented on my post and B Praak sir, the singer of the song, messaged me on Instagram. My favourite singer is Arijit Singh and I want to become a playback singer in Bollywood,” he says. ‘Teri Mitti’ is a patriotic Hindi song, written by Manoj Muntashir, and sung by B Praak. It was released in March 2019 and featured on the soundtrack of the 2019 film Kesari, starring Akshay Kumar and Parineeti Chopra. Rathore also got a word of praise from actor Akshay Kumar. “Teri Mitti is a song which always gives me goosebumps, no matter how many times I hear it, this time was no different. Thank you Rajat ji for sharing. #CopThatSings,” Kumar tweeted. Rathore says he is happy that the actor acknowledged him. “I am happy that finally Akshay Kumar tweeted the video. I am eagerly waiting for a chance to make a career in Bollywood. I want to sing songs for Akshay Kumar and Emraan Hashmi,” he says enthusiastically. Rathore’s father, who was also a Delhi Police constable, died in 2015. Rathore left his graduation at Ramjas College of Delhi University in 2017 and joined Delhi Police at the age of 19 years. He is posted at the Second Batallion of the Delhi Police. He says that his life has changed after he uploaded the video of his song on social media on April 27. “Earlier, I had 500 followers on Instagram, but now 7,500 people are following me. There were 100 people who were following me on Twitter, but after Akshay Kumar tweeted the video, the number has gone up to 1,000. “I will try to strike the balance between music and my job. I got a good response from my senior officers as well. I always wanted to pursue music as my career and I practice it during my leisure time,” Rathore adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-delhi-police-constable-becomes-a-rage-on-social-media-with-teri-mitti-song-for-coronavirus-warriors-853004.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir administration launches 'One Nation One Ration Card' scheme on pilot basis in Jammu||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday launched the 'One Nation One Ration Card' scheme at two fair shops here on pilot basis, a spokesperson said. Advisor to J&K Lieutenant Governor, Farooq Khan launched the scheme at the fair price shops in Bhagwati Nagar area of Jammu, the spokesperson sid. Khan said under 'One Nation One Ration Card' initiative, eligible beneficiaries from any state and union territory would be able to get their entitled food grains under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from any fair price shop in the country with interstate portability. The scheme was announced last year by the government of India, but it has recently gained momentum on account of migration during the COVID-19 lockdown, the official spokesperson said. The system will enable any individual or migrant worker and their family member to access Public Distribution System (PDS) from any fair price shop in the country, Khan said. During the inaugural function at a fair price shop, Khan distributed ration among two beneficiaries from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh who were already registered with the NFSA in their home states, the spokesperson said. These two beneficiaries also became first non-native beneficiaries of Jammu and Kashmir to receive ration under this initiative, he said. The identified beneficiaries were authenticated through their Aadhar numbers, the spokesperson said. The migrant labourers would hugely benefit from this scheme as they can purchase their allotted rations from fair price shops on subsidized rates, Khan said. After implementation of this scheme there will only be one type of ration card across the entire country and adequate food grains would be provided to poor sections at subsidized rates, he added. The Department of Food and Civil supplies plans to roll out the scheme in a phased manner by end of August this year, the spokesperson said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-launches-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-on-pilot-basis-in-jammu-853016.html
23-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt hospital guard beaten up by neighbour for 'spreading coronavirus'||A security guard of the Delhi government-run GTB hospital was injured when his neighbour allegedly beat him up after accusing him of spreading the coronavirus, police said on Tuesday. The victim was identified as Vijay Kumar, a resident of Harsh Vihar. He works as a security guard at the GTB Hospital, they said. The incident took place in northeast Delhi's Harsh Vihar area on June 19, when Kumar and his neighbour, Vikas Gautam, were at the terrace of their apartment. An argument broke out between them after Gautam accused Kumar of "spreading the coronavirus because he was working at a hospital", a senior police officer said. Following the argument, Gautam allegedly beat up the guard, who was taken to a nearby hospital, he said. On the complaint of the guard, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said a case was registered and the accused was arrested. The allegations made by the victim are being verified, he said, adding further investigation is underway. Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital is a dedicated COVID-19 facility in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-hospital-guard-beaten-up-by-neighbour-for-spreading-coronavirus-853017.html
23-06-2020||Opinion||The making of Gandhi in South Africa and after||As the Black Lives Matter protests have spread, statues of prominent figures have been defaced or brought down for their racist pasts. It is unfortunate that amidst this, some have also pointed fingers at M K Gandhi.   Here, lawyer-historian Anil Nauriya charts the evolution of Gandhi’s attitude on the race question as well as his views on the African struggle for rights during the latter's stay in South Africa that spanned 21 years.    It was in 1893 that M K Gandhi (1869-1948) went from India to Natal in South Africa as a young lawyer, not even 24 years of age. He was not yet 45 when he left in July 1914. Except for a few interludes, mainly in India and England, Gandhi's stay in South Africa spanned 21 years. The widening of Gandhi’s outlook on racial matters goes back to his South Africa years and was not merely a later occurrence as is sometimes erroneously assumed. The purpose of the struggle against racism is to get people to shed any ethnic or related prejudices they might have. Gandhi is an example of a person who not only shed his earlier ethnocentric ideas but went on to become an inspiration for African struggles and, as stated by the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons on his assassination in 1948, became during his lifetime "the bearer of the torch of liberty of oppressed peoples." As a subject of the British Empire, as the young Gandhi then saw himself, he sought non-discrimination by the European but resented the reduction in Indian rights whereby educated sections of Indians were clubbed with the ‘raw native’. But with increased interaction with Africans, Gandhi's concern for African causes became increasingly visible. Though Gandhi’s struggles in South Africa were organised around the Asian causes that more immediately affected Indians, his long-term vision for a non-racial South Africa was by now clear enough, as evidenced by his speech in May 1908, referred to below. By 1910, Gandhi took voluntarily to third class travel. One of the reasons for this, according to him was that he “shuddered to read the account of the hardships” faced by Africans in the third-class carriages in the Cape. “I wanted to experience the same hardships myself,” he wrote in a letter to M P Fancy, an associate in South Africa, on March 16, 1910. The practice of third-class travel that he would continue in India evidently had this African origin. For such Europeans, as were able to rise above colour prejudice, he usually had a word of praise. A remarkable change in Gandhi had thus come in South Africa itself. By May 1908, moving beyond expressing his concern merely over Indian issues, Gandhi rejected the policy of segregation and envisioned a South Africa in which the various races “commingle”. It is in this 1908 speech, made at the YMCA in Johannesburg on May 18, that Gandhi puts forth his vision for future South Africa: “If we look into the future, is it not a heritage we have to leave to posterity, that all the different races commingle and produce a civilisation that perhaps the world has not yet seen?” A citizen of the British Empire Even as a young Indian Gandhi had a nationalist pride. Queen Victoria's proclamation of 1858 (made a year after the Great Indian Rising of 1857) had committed the British Crown: "We hold ourselves bound to the natives of our Indian territories by the same obligations of duty which bind us to all our other subjects... It is our further will that, so far as may be, our subjects, of whatever race or creed, be freely and impartially admitted to offices in our service, the duties of which they may be qualified by their education, ability, and integrity, duly to discharge." To appreciate Gandhi's evolution in South Africa it is necessary to understand that he treated this Proclamation as a Magna Carta for India and Indians and for many years this Proclamation and the British Constitution were his points of reference.  He expected to be treated in South Africa the same way as he was when he lived in England while studying law. When confronted with the harsh realities of racial discrimination in South Africa, he insisted on legal equality for Indians with Europeans. Laws in South Africa, however, tended repeatedly to deny the equality that Gandhi believed Indians were entitled to under the Proclamation and the British Constitution.  Asserting citizenship of the Empire, he understood this also to carry obligations. This is what led him on two occasions to volunteer nursing and paramedical service to the British side in the South African War of 1900 and the Bambatha Rebellion of 1906. Although Gandhi participated in the latter, he ended up nursing the Zulu victims and also came to see the justice of the African cause. Positive attitude on expansion of African rights Racists seek to restrict the rights of other communities or peoples. Gandhi even in his South African years had a positive attitude on the expansion of African rights. As I have shown in my work, The African Element in Gandhi (2006), Gandhi welcomed African franchise rights as early as in 1894. Gandhi and his paper, the Indian Opinion, extolled outstanding African achievements. Gandhi supported and welcomed industrial training and general educational efforts among the Africans. While in South Africa, Gandhi reached out to African leaders like John Langalibalele Dube (1871-1946) who was later to be the first president-general of the African National Congress. Dube who, like Gandhi, admired the African American educationist, Booker T Washington, ran an industrial school, the Ohlange Institute, in Inanda near Phoenix. Gandhi set up his Phoenix Settlement close to the Ohlange Institute. "There was frequent social contact between the inmates of the Phoenix settlement and the Ohlange Institute," writes E S Reddy in Gandhiji's Vision of a Free South Africa (1995). Reddy writes that John Dube's paper, Ilange lase Natal,  an African weekly in English and Zulu, used to be printed in the Indian Opinion press until the Ohlange Institute acquired a press of its own. Gandhi commended Dube's work as he did that of the leading African editor John Tengo Jabavu to set up a college for Africans.  As early as in 1905, Gandhi had supported Africans’ rights in land. He and his journal welcomed the Transvaal Supreme Court judgement in the case of Edward Tsewu (b. 1866), another future founder of the African National Congress, upholding the Africans’ right to hold land. Gandhi’s paper severely condemned the Natives Land Act, 1913, as an “Act of confiscation” and supported John Dube’s criticism of the Act.  Gandhi’s notions on race benefited from his intellectual exposure to influences such as those of Olive Schreiner and Jean Finot. Soon after Gandhi's release from prison in 1908, an article by the writer Olive Schreiner in 1908 in The Transvaal Leader arguing against racial prejudice and envisaging a non-racist South Africa, was reprinted with some editorial appreciation in Gandhi’s journal. Gandhi would repeatedly refer to her lack of racial prejudice and made a specific reference to it at the session of the Indian National Congress in Kanpur in 1925. She was clearly one of the vital influences that entered into the transformation and broadening of outlook that Gandhi experienced in South Africa on the question of race, particularly from mid-1908.   Similarly, Jean Finot’s work, Race Prejudice, is another formative but unjustly neglected influence on Gandhi from this period. Gandhi referred to Finot’s work a few months before the Universal Races Congress was held in 1911. The Polish-born Finot had become a French citizen in 1897. In France, he founded and edited La Revue des Revues which brought him into contact with writers like Tolstoy. Finot’s work against race prejudice, Les Prejuge des Races, was published in Paris in 1905. The English language translation appeared the following year. It is this work which was noticed and commended in Indian Opinion in September 1907.  Gandhi’s criticism of the South African Constitution of 1909-1910 was also based on his vision of non-racial nationhood. Gandhi had vital insights into the emerging South African nation and stressed the need for a non-racial conception of it. Gandhi criticises the 1909-10 Constitution for its racist content. In 1910, Gandhi criticised the racially-based constitutional set-up in South Africa under which an African leader like Walter Rubusana, a future founder of the ANC, was not considered entitled to contest for Parliament although he could be a member of the Provincial Legislature in the Cape. Earlier, in 1904, Gandhi had endorsed Rubusana’s interrogation of Sir Gordon Sprigg in East London and Rubusana’s criticism of discriminatory pavement regulations in that Eastern Cape city.  Supporting political organisations among Africans Gandhi supported the growth of political organisations among Africans. Gandhi’s paper, Indian Opinion, welcomed the establishment in January 1912 of the African National Congress (then named the South African Native National Congress) as an “awakening”. Six months before the ANC was formed, Gandhi’s paper carried a report about the likely formation of such an organisation. The report cited Pixley Seme (1881-1951), who would reputedly be the main driving force behind the establishment of the organisation, and would later become its fifth President-General.    John Dube, the African leader from Natal and Gandhi’s neighbour in Inanda, near Durban, was chosen to be the first President-General of the African National Congress; Walter Rubusana became Vice-President. Gandhi’s paper welcomed the choice of John Dube, “our friend and neighbour” and published in detail the ‘manifesto’ issued by  Dube.  At least seven years earlier, in 1905, Gandhi had met John Dube and heard him speak. He had then praised John Dube and wrote in favour of African land rights. In the following year in 1906, Gandhi’s paper praised a ‘manifesto’ issued by John Dube against colonial policies that displayed unfairness towards Africans.   When Gopal Krishna Gokhale visited South Africa at Gandhi's invitation, Gandhi took him to meet John Dube on November 11, 1912, at the Ohlange Institute near Phoenix and discuss “matters of politics”. The historic significance of the meeting is immense. John Dube had been chosen as the first President of the African National Congress at the beginning of the year. Gokhale had been President of the Indian National Congress in 1905. After his return to India, Gandhi too would be President of the Indian National Congress – in 1924. Dube’s paper, Ilanga lase Natal, reported that Gokhale, accompanied by Gandhi and others “was received by our boys and girls who greeted him with cheers and gave him an exhibition of band and vocal music.” The same issue, dated November 15, 1912, carried an editorial on Gokhale’s visit to South Africa. It observed:   “The reception and attention that are being given by the Government and people of South Africa to the Hon. G. K. Gokhale, and the hearing he has received on all sides when he has touched upon the unsatisfactory relations existing between the European and Indian population of the Union, convey a lesson of importance to the Native population. We have seen and heard a great man whose knowledge and experience is equal to that of the foremost statesmen of our day, and he is a black man….We Natives of South Africa have not been given the opportunity of taking part in the affairs of our fatherland, and consequently cannot boast of such leaders as are Messrs Gokhale and Gandhi…. The Natives have taken the most important step in establishing a representative Congress of their own. They should perfect that organisation and support their Congress and men they have chosen to office by every means in their power. Let them speak as those having authority, and the claims of the Natives to attention will at least always have a hearing.”  Gandhi enjoyed the trust of leading figures in the African National Congress. Selby Msimang consulted Gandhi on legal matters in the absence of Pixley Seme with whom Msimang was associated. Pixley Seme himself had called on Gandhi at Tolstoy Farm near Johannesburg in 1911. An account of this has become available from the memoirs of Pauline Podlashuk, a future medical doctor who was active in the suffragette movement in South Africa as secretary of the Women’s Enfranchisement League. Gandhi’s paper welcomed the African women’s anti-pass struggle in the Orange Free State, South Africa in 1913 with a full front-page article on August 2 emblazoned with the banner heading, “Native Women's Brave Stand" in capital letters. In the 1906 Rising, Gandhi had wanted to do what he saw as his duty by the settlers. By 1913 his sympathies had moved to the Africans so long as the struggle was non-violent. One reason for some misunderstanding of Gandhi's position has been his anxiety that struggles ought to be nonviolent and his reluctance to endorse an amalgamated struggle involving all communities until he had satisfied himself that this condition would be met.  Seeing the justice of the African cause Racial prejudice would be seen in the fact that Gandhi and other Indians who were imprisoned in the passive resistance campaign resented being classed with Africans, especially those convicted for criminal offences. Various reasons contributed to this and while some of these were of a racial nature, Gandhi was particularly irked by the fact that "...this thoughtless classification has resulted in the Indians being partly starved...." (Indian Opinion, March 7, 1908, in Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi, Vol 8, p.120)  Yet even this resentment was mixed with some introspection by Gandhi: "It was however as well that we were classed with the Natives. It was a welcome opportunity to study the treatment meted out to Natives, their conditions [of life in gaol]  and their habits. Looked at from another point of view, it did not seem right to feel bad about being bracketed with them." (Indian Opinion, March 7, 1908, in Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi, Vol 8, p.135)  In an interview given to D A Rees after his release from prison, Gandhi remarked: "Asiatic prisoners are classed with Natives. I do not object to this, but I claim that they should be supplied with food according to their customs."   Gandhi also spoke out on public health issues in favour of the African people. He criticised racist policies on public health which had “meant death and destruction  to the Native people of this country.” Gandhi spoke out against segregation even in the context of a smallpox outbreak. He supported African civic rights and critiqued the jury system for its bias against Africans.  Although Gandhi offered his nursing and paramedical services to the British in the  1906 Rebellion, he came to see the justice of the African cause. It is on seeing this that  Gandhi commended passive resistance as a method to the African people. The methods of struggle envisaged by Gandhi were becoming more intensive and defiant. He had reached the end of the petitioning road. In a note Gandhi sent in Gujarati, for his journal of August 28, 1909, he wrote:  “I see the time drawing nearer everyday when no one, whether black or white, will succeed in obtaining a hearing by merely making petitions. If I am right, then no force in the world can compare with soul force, that is to say, satyagraha. I, therefore, wish that Indians should fill the gaols if, by the time this letter is published, there has been no decision or solution.”   He recommends passive resistance to Africans in June 1909 and to the Coloured People. In line with this, he also supported the protest made by the Coloured community at the time of the Prince of Wales visit to Cape Town in 1910.  Arriving at the interconnectedness of struggles Gandhi had resented the use of the term "coolie" for Indians, particularly the educated sections. He had, however, regrettably himself used the term "kaffir", then current in South Africa, for the Africans. Gandhi’s own vocabulary improved with time in South Africa itself and not merely upon leaving it. Despite kaffir being an expression that had to some extent entered South African usage, Gandhi discarded using it for the Africans before he left South Africa. Gandhi in South Africa gradually grew out of the tendency to use the word kaffir, taking its usage towards the end of his stay there (1913-14) to a vanishing point. Kaffir was essentially an Arabic term for non-believers. The term, having acquired a special meaning in South Africa as a dismissive synonym for the Africans, had also entered South African laws of the time. Some of the Christian missions of the time also adopted it. The term was also adopted to connote African language(s) and Lovedale Press published a "Kaffir-English Dictionary" at least as late as in 1915.  Many Africans used the term themselves. John Knox Bokwe, wrote a "Kaffir Wedding Song" the second edition of which was published in 1894, a year after Gandhi's arrival in South Africa. In the United States, ‘Negro’ has now been discarded as an expression, but so many African American writers in the early years had used it themselves even in titles of books they wrote.  Gandhi understood the interconnectedness of struggles for freedom. In July 1926 Gandhi emphasised a vital axiom about the struggle against racial discrimination which set limits to how far Indian demands could be expected to be met in South Africa without a forward movement in that country as a whole: “I do not conceive the possibility of justice being done to Indians if none is rendered to natives of the soil”. (Young India, July 22, 1926, in Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi, Vol 31, p. 182)    The same thought recurs here: “Indians have too much in common with the Africans to think of isolating themselves from them. They cannot exist in South Africa for any length of time without the active sympathy and friendship of the Africans.” (Gandhi in Young India, April 5, 1928, in Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi, Vol 36, p. 190).  Extending the methods he had adopted in India, in 1926 Gandhi commended worldwide nonviolent non-co-operation against exploitation. Following the economic boycott of foreign cloth that Gandhi had encouraged and sponsored in India, he had been recommending the same course to other Asians and to Africans. He had declared in 1926: “There is however no hope of avoiding the catastrophe” (of increased racial bitterness) “unless the spirit of exploitation that at present dominates the nations of the West is transmuted into that of real helpful service, or unless the Asiatic and African races understand that they cannot be exploited without their co-operation, to a large extent voluntary, and thus understanding, withdraw such co-operation.” (Young India, March 18, 1926, in Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi, Vol 30, pp. 135-136) Support to other African leaders In addition, Gandhi offered his encouragement to African leaders in other parts of Africa, such as Kenya. As early as in 1924 Gandhi had commented on the case of the African leader Harry Thuku, an early organiser of Kenya's African workers. Thuku, who had protested against the flogging to death of some of his countrymen and against forced labour by African unmarried girls on plantations of white settlers, was detained without trial and deported. Gandhi described Thuku as the victim of  “lust for power” and wrote that if Thuku “ever saw these lines, he will perhaps find comfort in the thought that even in distant India many will read the story of his deportation and trials with sympathy.”  During his visit to England in 1931, Gandhi had a meeting with  Jomo  Kenyatta, the future leader of Kenya. Jeremy Murray-Brown, Kenyatta's biographer, writes about the meeting: "Kenyatta met the Indian leader in November 1931, and Gandhi then inscribed Kenyatta’s diary with the words: 'Truth and nonviolence can deliver any nation from bondage'."  As early as in 1931, Gandhi extended support for the independence of the Gold Coast (the later Ghana). With Gandhi already committed to Indian independence, and to full Egyptian independence, his commitment to all of Africa could be no less. While visiting London, Gandhi was asked, on 31 October 1931, a question about the country that the world would later know as Ghana: “For some years Britain would continue certain subject territories like Gold Coast. Would Mr. Gandhi object?” Gandhi replied: “I would certainly object.” When recently the authorities in Ghana decided, under pressure from a university faculty swayed by some recent writings, to remove Gandhi's statue from the campus in Legon, they in fact removed one of the earliest supporters of Ghana's independence. From Mohandas to Mahatma In a deeper and more complex way than most, Gandhi understood, as we have seen, the interconnectedness of struggles. Interestingly, so indeed did many of the protagonists who would in the first instance be affected by his struggles, such as the European settlers in Africa. As in Kenya in later years, so in South Africa, there was a general apprehension voiced by the European Press during Gandhi's  African years that whatever was conceded to the relatively minuscule community of Indians would sooner or later have to be conceded to the Africans. Hence the stout resistance to conceding Indian civil and political rights.  The Indian struggle was apparently a struggle only on behalf of Indians. Yet it was far wider in its consequences. This was noted for example by the APO, the journal of the Colored people of South Africa, (organised under the banner of the African People’s Organisation) on Gandhi’s departure from South Africa. Much of  the evolution in Gandhi's ideas took place while he was yet in South Africa. This is what Nelson Mandela seemed to refer to when he said in effect: “You gave us Mohandas Gandhi, we returned him to you as Mahatma Gandhi" (Anil Nauriya studied economics and is counsel at the Supreme Court of India. He has been writing since the 1970s and has focused frequently on secularism and the state and on struggles for freedom. His writings in the last two decades include The African Element in Gandhi (2006))||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-making-of-gandhi-in-south-africa-and-after-852712.html
23-06-2020||Opinion||Why it’s important to tend to the mental health of the elderly during Covid-19||Health effects on the elderly Although many may be in good health, older adults are at a risk of developing mental health issues even during the normal course. While this risk is not specific to retirement years, stressors experienced by senior citizens may be unique, such as ongoing loss in functional abilities, reduced mobility and health problems that require long-term care. Covid-19 brings additional challenges, especially with regard to the mental health of the elderly. Learning from evidence to help the elderly Within the short but intense six-month time frame of the Covid-19 outbreak, early evidence from geriatric psychiatry in China and Italy is already indicating that older adults in hospital-based settings may experience a worsening of psychiatric symptoms under lockdown measures. There is a need to examine such corresponding trends in India as well. The importance of documenting the myriad of ways that Covid-19 will affect Indians, of varying age groups and economic status, cannot be overstated. Feelings of loneliness and of being socially isolated rank high on the list of risk factors for poor mental and physical health. Isolation can cause health effects such as increased incidence of depression, anxiety symptoms and cognitive decline, which can outlast the duration of isolation itself. Thus, it seems important at this time to address social isolation in the elderly by finding ways to offer support and emotional connection. At present, most of the studies examining effects of isolation in the elderly are conducted abroad. We urgently need studies within India to estimate the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on India’s senior citizens and other vulnerable groups. More information through such studies will allow us to develop evidence-based interventions and policies to address mental health concerns in the elderly. (Avantika Bhatia is an Assistant Professor of Psychology at Ashoka University. Reeteka Sud is a neuroscientist, working at NIMHANS, Bengaluru. Both are members of Indian Scientists Response to COVID19 (ISRC)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-it-s-important-to-tend-to-the-mental-health-of-the-elderly-during-covid-19-852770.html
23-06-2020||South||12-year old wild elephant dies of mouth injury caused by twig in Tamil Nadu||A 12-year old wild elephant died on Monday after battling an injury caused by a twig that got stuck in its mouth a week ago and made it to virtually starve despite undergoing treatment in a forest area in this district in Tamil Nadu. On receiving information about the injury to the male elephant in the Periyanaickenpalayam forest range, Forest department officials and a veterinarian started treating it, by giving medicine, including antibiotics and painkillers placed in soft fruits like bananas. It was said to be recovering near Jambukandi village on the outskirts. However, the pachyderm died around 5.30 AM today, Forest department sources said. The incident comes closes on the heels of the death of two elephants in Kerala after they sustained severe wounds after allegedly chewed fruits stuffed with explosives. However, unlike the Kerala incident which was alleged to be a man-animal conflict, this was an accidental injury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/12-year-old-wild-elephant-dies-of-mouth-injury-caused-by-twig-in-tamil-nadu-852652.html
23-06-2020||South||With two Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu bus, other passengers dash in panic||As the conductor broke the news in panic, other passengers deboarded the bus and ran helter-skelter. The driver and conductor also panicked, while the couple waited for Health Department officials to come and take them for treatment. The bizarre incident took place in Cuddalore district on Monday after a 57-year-old man and his wife, who gave their swab samples on Saturday, got to know that they have tested positive for Covid-19 while travelling from Panruti to Vadalur in the same district. The couple had jumped quarantine and decided to visit their relatives. However, their journey was cut short after they got a call from officials on their test results. “The man is a TB patient and was discharged from a hospital only on Sunday. Ignoring the advice to be under home quarantine, he and his wife locked their house and went out. When officials from the department went to their residence to convey the news, they found the house locked,” an official said. The officials then called the 57-year-old man to inform them of the test results. “As the man panicked, the official on the other line asked the patient to give the phone to the conductor. When the official conveyed the news to the conductor, he was so shocked that he let out a scream. By then the bus had come to a halt,” the official said. On coming to know that their travellers tested Covid-19 positive, the passengers, who were about 15 in number, ran helter-skelter. After a few minutes, health officials came to the spot and took the couple in an ambulance. Officials said that the driver and conductor of the bus were taken for testing and the bus was immediately disinfected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-two-covid-19-patients-in-tamil-nadu-bus-other-passengers-dash-in-panic-852816.html
23-06-2020||South||Andhra reports 8 Covid-19 deaths, toll up to 119; 462 fresh cases take tally to 9,834||Eight patients died of coronavirus in the last 24 hours in Andhra Pradesh, the highest in a day, taking the toll to 119 on Tuesday, the State government said. As many as 462 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 9,834. Three patients each succumbed to COVID-19 in Kurnool and Krishna districts while Guntur and Kadapa reported one death each in the last 24 hours. Kadapa, in fact, registered its first coronavirus death. In the last 24 hours, East Godavari reported the highest number of new cases with 87 infections, followed by Anantapuramu with 68. Kurnool added 53 fresh cases. The latest COVID-19 bulletin said 129 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 4,592. The state now has 5,123 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-reports-8-covid-19-deaths-toll-up-to-119-462-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-9834-852817.html
23-06-2020||South||60-year old woman succumbs to Covid-19 in Puducherry, 19 fresh cases reported in Puducherry||A 60-year old woman succumbed to the Covid-19 infection here taking the toll in Puducherry to nine, while 19 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The woman, hailing from neighbouring Mudaliarpet died on Monday evening at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college (IGGMC) hospitalhere, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. During the last 24 hours ending 10 am, 19 fresh cases (15 in Puducherry and 4 in Karaikal) were reported taking the tally of coronavirus cases in the union territory to 402, he added. The total active cases in Puducherry stood at 228. As many as 165 patients have been treated and discharged so far, he said. Rao said one of the 15 people who tested positive for the virus in Puducherry was a staff nurse working in the Government General Hospital here. She was working in the ward where Covid-19 patients were being treated, he added. The Health Minister also said region-wise Watchdog Committees would go on stream in the next few days in all the four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam to monitor inter-State movement of people. He said these committees would comprise youth, women, government staff and members of voluntary organisations. "The committees would keep a close vigil on the people moving out of the union territory to neighbouring States and also on those stepping into Puducherry from other States," he said. The purpose of forming the committees was to ensure there was no spread of Covid-19 because of people moving between Puduchery and other states, he added.  Rao, elected from Yanam, an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh, said such a panel was already functioning informally in Yanam and this would be taken as a model for the whole union territory. "Once the committees find intrusion of people or exit of people they would inform the Health or police authorities for follow-up action," Rao said. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar said 13,037 samples were tested so far and 12,426 samples tested negative while the result of the remaining samples was awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/60-year-old-woman-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-puducherry-19-fresh-cases-reported-in-puducherry-852822.html
23-06-2020||South||Covid-19: 200 Indian evacuees from Maldives arrive in Tamil Nadu||As many as 200 stranded Indian nationals were repatriated by the Indian Navy from the Maldives as part of the Samudra Setu mission of the Government of India. Indian Navy Ship Airavat arrived here from the Maldives with 200 Indian nationals at the VOC Port this morning, officials said. As many as 64 people who arrived today hailed from Kanyakumari district while the rest were from many other districts, they said. Upon arrival, the passengers were screened by the Port Health officials and their luggage were sanitised as part of COVID-19 health protocols. On the issue of PPE kits by the Port authorities to all passengers, the latter boarded waiting for buses and transited to the passenger terminal. Later, before proceeding to their respective destinations in designated buses, self-declaration forms were obtained from the passengers and they were also asked to download and configure the 'Aarogya Setu' app in their smartphones. The Indian Navy had earlier repatriated over 3,000 stranded Indians from Sri Lanka and the Maldives while making earlier port calls here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-200-indian-evacuees-from-maldives-arrive-in-tamil-nadu-852825.html
23-06-2020||South||Miraculous escape for baby drowning in Kerala||A one-and-a-half-year-old child, had a miraculous escape from drowning in Kerala's Kottayam district on Monday. Baby Tressa, fell into a stream near her house at Mallikaserry, about 30 kilometres from Kottayam town. The child was washed away by the water's flow. About 200 metres from the spot where she fell, two children of the locality, Seena and Princy, who were taking a bath in the stream, noticed the minor and screamed for help. Subsequently, some locals jumped into the stream and rescued the kid and rushed her to a nearby clinic. The child did not respond to treatment and was referred to a hospital in Pala town. Since an ambulance was not available immediately, local MLA Mani C Kappan who happened to be at the clinic at the time rushed the child to the hospital in his personal vehicle. The child was given emergency care and after sometime the child started responding and recovered. The parents were unaware that their child had fallen into a stream. Some locals who recognised the child alerted the family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/miraculous-escape-for-baby-drowning-in-kerala-852842.html
23-06-2020||South||Kerala's fight against Covid-19 brightens overseas job prospects of healthcare workers||NORKA-Roots, the Kerala government agency involved in overseas recruitment, is now receiving enquiries mainly from Gulf countries and also starting an express recruitment process. NORKA-Roots chief executive officer K Harikrishnan Namboothiri said that a boom in the demand for nurses as well as other para-medical staff was being witnessed now. Most of the enquiries were for recruitment in Covid care centres for six months to one year. But efforts were being made for long term contracts of up to one-two years since most candidates preferred at least two years in the same job. He said that owing to the global Covid-19 scenario, many candidates were not only considering the financial prospects but other factors like easy options of returning as well as the Covid-19 scenario in destination countries. Even then over 250 responded to an express recruitment to a hospital in Saudi Arabia. Kerala Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac said that even as there were serious concerns over overseas job losses owing to the virus and a mass exodus of NRIs, Kerala saw a positive trend on increasing demand for healthcare workers for overseas jobs. Kerala's health sector's brand value is now at its peak owing to the effective resistance against coronavirus, he said in a social media post. Since foreign language knowledge was required for healthcare jobs in European countries, foreign language training programmes were being initiated as part of the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme by the Kerala government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-fight-against-covid-19-brightens-overseas-job-prospects-of-healthcare-workers-852861.html
23-06-2020||South||One dies as earth caves in during tunnel restoration in Kasargod||A youth died after earth caved in at a water tunnel ('Suranga') at Puthige in Kasaragod district. Harshit, 25, of Kattukukke in Kasaragod died, while two others escaped. The mishap occurred on Monday while Harshit was trying to restore a tunnel made in hilly areas from where water used to come out. Harshit, along with two others were involved in the work at a private land. They used earth movers to find the opening of the Suranga. Later, the three went inside to clear mud that had accumulated there. During this, the loose earth caved in. Rescue personnel could save the two others as they did not go deep into the tunnel, but Harshit had died by the time rescue workers spotted him by evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-dies-as-earth-caves-in-during-tunnel-restoration-in-kasargod-852931.html
23-06-2020||South||Father, son die after being 'tortured' in police custody in Tamil Nadu||Tension gripped the Sathankulam town in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district on Tuesday after a father-son duo, who were allegedly tortured while in police custody for two days, died within hours of each other. 60-year-old P Jeyaraj and his son 31-year-old Fenix were taken into custody by police on June 19 over an argument after they kept their mobile phone shop open beyond the permissible time of 9 pm. Two days later, they were shifted to Kovilpatti sub-jail in the district from where they were shifted to the Government Hospital after their health worsened. While the son died on Monday night, the father breathed his last around 8 am on Tuesday. Relatives, family members and traders in the town alleged that police mercilessly beat up the father-son duo on June 19 before taking them into custody following the argument. They also alleged that the two were subjected to torture while in police custody. Traders said the son was shifted to the hospital on Monday evening following bleeding, while the father was rushed to the hospital after he developed respiratory problems. While police said that previous medical conditions were responsible for the deaths of the father-son duo, relatives and traders came onto the streets in Sathankulam and protested against the "custodial deaths". They demanded immediate action against police officers involved in the incident. The protest was called off only after District Collector Sandeep Nanduri gave an assurance that action would be taken against the policemen. Two sub-inspectors of the Sathankulam police station were placed under suspension. Local media reported that the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court has ordered that the post-mortem proceedings of the father-son duo be video recorded. Opposition Leader M K Stalin, his half-sister and Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran, and other political party leaders condemned the incident and demanded answers from the government. The Tamil Nadu Traders Association, while condoling the death of the traders in Sathankulam, announced that shops in the state will remain closed on June 24 as a mark of protest against “police brutality.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/father-son-die-after-being-tortured-in-police-custody-in-tamil-nadu-852937.html
23-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Covid-19 patients in bus, other passengers run helter-skelter||All hell broke loose on board a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus in Cuddalore district on Monday after it emerged that two of the passengers have tested positive for novel coronavirus. As the conductor broke the news in panic, other passengers deboarded the bus and ran helter-skelter. The driver and conductor also panicked, while the couple waited for Health Department officials to come and take them for treatment. The bizarre incident took place in Cuddalore district on Monday after a 57-year-old man and his wife, who gave their swab samples on Saturday, got to know that they have tested positive for Covid-19 while travelling from Panruti to Vadalur in the same district. The couple had jumped quarantine and decided to visit their relatives. However, their journey was cut-short after they got a call from officials on their test results. “The man is a TB patient and was discharged from a hospital only on Sunday. Ignoring the advice to be under home quarantine, he and his wife locked their house and went out. When officials from the department went to their residence to convey the news, they found the house locked,” an official said. The officials then made a call to the 57-year-old man’s mobile phone to convey that he and his wife have tested positive for Coronavirus. “As the man panicked, the official on the other line asked the patient to give the phone to the conductor. When the official conveyed the news to the conductor, he got panicked and screamed inside the bus which had by then come to a halt,” the official said. On hearing that they travelled with Covid-19 positive people, passengers who were about 15 in number ran helter-skelter. After a few minutes, health officials came to the spot and took the couple in an ambulance. Officials said while the driver and conductor of the bus were taken for testing, the bus was also immediately disinfected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-patients-in-bus-other-passengers-run-helter-skelter-852943.html
23-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 tally now at 64,603 with 2,500 new cases||The COVID-19 tally in Tamil Nadu mounted to 64,603 on Tuesday as 2,516 more people tested positive while 39 died of the disease taking the toll to 833, the state government said. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for the maximum of 1,380, followed by neighbouring districts of Chengelpet (146), Tiruvallur (156) and Kancheepuram (59), a health department bulletin said adding the rest were scattered in other districts. This is the seventh successive day that the state has reported 2,000 plus cases and third day over 2,500 cases. The active cases stood at 28,428. Chennai's share in the state count was 44,205. Those dead include a 43-year old woman and a 45-year old man while 36 had co-morbidities and three others none, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-tally-now-at-64603-with-2500-new-cases-852948.html
23-06-2020||State||Karnataka minister K Sudhakar's wife, daughter test Covid-19 positive||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar's wife and daughter have tested positive for COVID-19, a day after his father was confirmed to have been infected with the virus. "Test results of our family members have come. Unfortunately, my wife and daughter have tested positive for #Covid19 and are undergoing treatment," the minister tweeted on Tuesday. He said he and his two sons have tested negative. Sudhakar's father P N Keshava Reddy tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. He was admitted to the hospital with a cough and fever. Earlier, the domestic help of the minister had tested coronavirus positive and was admitted to a hospital. In April, Sudhakar was quarantined along with three other ministers for coming in contact with a journalist who was coronavirus positive. Karnataka reported 249 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths on Monday taking the total number of cases in the state to 9,399 and the death toll to 142.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-minister-k-sudhakars-wife-daughter-test-covid-19-positive-852704.html
23-06-2020||State||Head constable of Karnataka State reserve Police, who tested Covid-19 positive, ends life||The deceased constable allegedly hung himself on the grills, using his lungi, inside the KSRP mini-bus, dedicated to carrying infected policemen, while being taken to the CV Raman Hospital in Indiranagar at around 10.30 pm. The policemen taking him to the hospital learned about the incident only after the vehicle reached the premises of CV Raman Hospital. The police suspect that the deceased has taken the extreme step mainly because he tested positive for the virus. A senior officer of KSRP said the constable was very scared and panicked soon after his result came positive when he was told about it around 8.30 pm. The commandant and assistant commandant of KSRP counselled him and sent him to the hospital. Alok Kumar, Additional Director General of Police (KSRP) said the constable was alone in the vehicle. He spoke to the driver for a few minutes and later took the extreme step. Other staff were following the mini-bus, on a two-wheeler and in a jeep. The constable was under quarantine and was part of the security force in lockdown-hit areas. Alok Kumar said there were several policemen infected by the virus and due to treatment and mental strength, they were recovering.  In Shivamogga, Hassan and Bengaluru, several infected policemen have recovered. It is very important for everyone to take preventive measures to avoid the infection, he said. "In case of infection, they should be mentally strong and be positive that they will be cured. Taking such extreme steps is not the solution," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/head-constable-of-karnataka-state-reserve-police-who-tested-covid-19-positive-ends-life-852792.html
23-06-2020||State||One injured in tree mishap in Mysuru||A person, riding a two-wheeler, got injured as a branch of a huge tree by the roadside fell on him on New Sayyaji Rao Road in Agrahara on Tuesday. He was rushed to a nearby hospital by bystanders. Personnel of the Abhaya task force of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) were deployed to clear the snapped branch of the damaged tree. Meanwhile another branch of the tree snapped and fell down. Fortunately, the workers of Abhaya moved away, hearing the sound. Later, the road was blocked from both sides and the tree was cut and cleared. Officials said, the tree was over 50 years old and it had become weak due to various reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-injured-in-tree-mishap-in-mysuru-852857.html
23-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka war room projects 25K Covid-19 cases by mid-August||While the Karnataka Covid-19 War Room has projected that the number of cases in the state is likely to touch 25,000 by mid-August, officials say that public responsibility, more than institutional measures, will be crucial going forward.  The war room led by IAS officer Munish Moudgil has projected that the cases in Karnataka are expected to reach anywhere between 20,000 and 25,000 by mid-August. The projection came with a word of caution that it was “extremely difficult” to make accurate projections beyond 15-20 days as it was dependent on the behaviour of individual citizens post the lifting of the lockdown. “...the projections are so sensitive that if daily growth rate is 3% then active numbers reach 17,000, but if daily growth rate is 4% then active numbers reach 25,000 in 50-60 days,” Moudgil said. The positive side of this is that every successful effort to reduce growth rate will exponentially reduce numbers. Conversely, any slip up makes us pay heavily, he added. The official also emphasised on people’s responsibility in wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distance. Tracing all contacts of patients within 24 hours, effective quarantine for people with interstate travel for 14 days and high testing will be crucial too, he said.  Speaking to DH, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who is the minister in charge of Kalaburagi and Bagalkot districts, said public accountability would be crucial in the coming weeks. With border districts facing the additional challenge of regulating interstate movement, Karjol said the government had put in place all institutional measures possible. “Both the district administration and the police force are doing their best to monitor the situation and ensure quarantine of people. However, there are some people who escape from the quarantine facility and others who fail to take basic precautions like wearing masks or maintaining social distance. Coming up with more restrictive measures may not be practical. I urge the public to complement the institutional measures with their cooperation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-war-room-projects-25k-covid-19-cases-by-mid-august-852642.html
23-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 treatment at Karnataka's private hospitals to cost a minimum of Rs 1.7 lakh||According to the notification issued by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar on Tuesday, 50% of the beds in private hospitals having facilities to treat Covid-19 patients shall be reserved for the treatment of patients referred by public health authorities. This will include the high-dependency unit and ICU (intensive care unit) beds both with and without ventilators. The hospitals may utilise the remaining 50% of Covid beds for admitting Covid-19 patients privately. The package rates are inclusive of PPEs and other consumables but do not include high-end drugs and treatments like plasma therapy. Package rates for Covid-19 patients referred by public health authorities are Rs. 5,200 for general ward, Rs. 7,000 for high dependency unit (ward with oxygen), Rs. 8,500 for isolation ICU without ventilator, and Rs. 10,000 for isolation ICU with ventilator. The ceiling price for Covid-19 treatment for patients directly admitted by private health providers making cash payment (non-insurance) is Rs. 10,000 for general ward, Rs. 12,000 for high-dependency unit, Rs. 15,000 for isolation ICU without ventilator, and Rs. 25,000 for isolation ICU with ventilator. The state's average time for recoveries is 17 days. That means patients paying by will be shelling out a minimum of Rs. 1.7 lakh for a 17-day stay in the general ward. Many patients have taken as many as 22 days. This will cost patients making cash payments 2.2 lakh. There are very few who have recovered in ten days or less so far. These rates will not be applicable for patients subscribing to insurance packages as well as for agreements/Memorandum of Understanding entered into between hospitals and corporate entities. While calculating 50% of the beds to be utilised by the  government patients, the number will be counted irrespective of the fact that the beds are located in general wards wards, sharing wards or in private wards. The ceiling rate for private hospitals' patients are for general wards and multi-sharing wards. An additional 10% may be charged for twin sharing wards and 25% more for single rooms. There will be no ceiling price for suites. The requisitioning of hospitals for sending government patients will be done by the BBMP Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners of Bangalore Urban and Rural districts, and Deputy Commissioners in respect of other districts. With respect to unforeseen complications, surgeries, other co-morbid conditions, and pregnancy of Covid-19 patients, additional packages under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka will apply. All Covid-19 patients including those belonging to BPL (below poverty line) and APL (above poverty line) categories, migrant labourers, and interstate returnees, not possessing public distribution system (PDS) card shall be considered as eligible in view of the unprecedented pandemic situation. Malini Aisola, co-convener, All India Drug Action Network, who has been closely following the treatment package rates in various states including prices fixed in Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal told DH, "Karnataka excludes insurance patients from the ceiling and that is a big chunk. Maharashtra made exclusive provisions for insurance patients who ran out of package coverage. Also, other states have uniform package rates for whether it is single rooms, twin sharing or group wards. Also, this clear distinction between patients who are referred by public authorities and those who are not could get very messy. How will they enforce this? Who are the patients referred by the government?" Some private hospital managements felt the ceiling fixed by the state government is very low and will this result in endangering doctor and patient safety. "These package rates are ridiculously lower -- anywhere from one fourth to one-fifth of the packages submitted by the hospital associations. Those prices won’t even cover the consumable cost and will seriously jeopardise patient and doctor safety," said Viren Shetty, Executive Director and Group COO, Narayana Health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-treatment-at-karnatakas-private-hospitals-to-cost-a-minimum-of-rs-17-lakh-852829.html
23-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No other PM has lied as much as Narendra Modi did: Siddaramaiah||No other Indian prime minister has told “lies” as much as Narendra Modi did, Congress leader Siddaramaiah charged Tuesday, in a scathing attack on the BJP and the RSS.  “Perhaps, in the history of India, no other PM has lied as much as Narendra Modi did. He has also cheated people,” Siddaramaiah said, while making a speech at a preparatory event for Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, DK Shivakumar’s formal coronation scheduled on July 2.  “The Modi government has ruined both health and economy in this country,” the former chief minister said, referring to the Covid-19 pandemic and the economic slowdown.  “PM Modi announced an economic stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore. Stimulus for who? They said it’s 10 per cent of the GDP, but the cash outgo from the treasury is less than Rs 2 lakh crore. So, it’s not even 1 per cent of the GDP,” he said. “Other countries have given 10-40 per cent of their GDP to tackle Covid-19. But Modi has done only drama by saying ‘bhaiyo, beheno’. He won't say anything apart from that. And, Mann Ki Baat, which is nothing but RSS Baat. They're spoiling the country.”  Siddaramaiah also attacked the Modi administration over the Covid-19 lockdown. “The first case was reported on January 30 in Kerala. On March 24, a lockdown was announced by the PM without any preparation. Then, it was just banging plates, clapping hands and lighting lamps when people’s lives had to be saved. Look at how he instigates people emotionally and misleads the country! Flights should’ve been stopped in February itself. Now, we have over 4.30 lakh cases and it could keep increasing till September. Now is when we need the lockdown,” he said.  Accusing the BJP of “disrespecting” the Constitution, Siddaramaiah said it is only the Congress that can “protect, respect and follow” the Constitution. “They believe in Manusmriti. The RSS and Sangh Parivar don’t believe in the Constitution, let alone democracy,” he said.  Training his guns on Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya, Siddaramaiah said his name should have been different. “He should’ve been named as Amavasya instead of Surya,” he said. “He called for the destruction of Ambedkar’s statues and burning of his literature. If Modi respected the Constitution, would this have been tolerated?”  No BJP leader condemned former Union minister Ananthkumar Hegde’s controversial remarks on the Constitution, he said. “No action was taken. It means that they indirectly support such statements," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-other-pm-has-lied-as-much-as-narendra-modi-did-siddaramaiah-852952.html
23-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 322 new COVID-19 cases and 8 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 322 new cases of coronavirus and eight fatalities, pushing the infection count to 9,721 and death toll to 150. The day also saw 274 patients getting discharged in the state after recovery. As of June 23 evening, cumulatively 9,721 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 150 deaths and 6,004 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 3,563 active cases, 3,443 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 120 are in ICU. Among the eight dead- six are from Bengaluru urban and one each from Dakshina Kannada and Ballari. All are with the history of either Influenza-like illness (ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Those from Bengaluru are- four men between the ages of 40-81, and two women, aged 47 and 85. The other two deceased are a 70-year-old man from Dakshina Kannada and a 85-year-old woman from Ballari. Out of 322 new cases 64 are returnees from other states, while 5 are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients who tested positive earlier and those with history of SARI and ILI, among others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 107 cases, followed by Ballari 53, Bidar 22, Mysuru 21, Vijapura 16, Yadgir 13, Udupi 11, Gadag nine, eight each from Dakshina Kannada and Kolar, Hasan seven, Kalaburagi six; five each from Chikkaballapura and Shivamogga, four each from Dharwad, Tumakuru, Koppal and Chamarajanagara, three each from Raichur and Uttara Kannada, two each from Mandya, Belagavi, Davangere and Haveri, and Kodagu one. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 1,505 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,232 and Udupi 1,088. Among discharges Udupi tops the list with 969 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 779 and Yadgir 567. According to the bulletin, 5,26,538 samples have been tested, out of which 10,569 were tested on Tuesday alone. It said 5,03,734 samples have reported as negative so far, with 9,813 reporting negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-322-new-covid-19-cases-and-8-deaths-852954.html
23-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||On eve of SSLC exam, chorus for putting it off grows||With just a day left for the SSLC examinations, several people, including elected representatives, experts from medical field and parents have expressed concerns as over 8.5 lakh students are appearing for the exams amid a spike in Covid cases.  Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, in a series of tweets on Tuesday, urged the government to postpone the SSLC exams at least till October. He said, “If anything happens to children appearing for the exams, the government will be held responsible for it. Instead of playing with the lives of 8.5 lakh students, it is better to postpone exams.” Reacting to it, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “I have spoken to former chief minister Kumaraswamy and explained about all the safety measures taken for safe conduct of the examinations. I have even convened a meeting with an expert committee involving medical professionals. Parents and students need not worry about the exams.” Several parents also urged for postponement or cancellation of exams. A group of parents have come out with a declaration form for the primary and secondary education minister and urged him to sign it. The copy of the form, which is in circulation on various social media platforms, reads: Ultimatum by parents of SSLC students to S Suresh Kumar: The sharply rising cases, unceasing deaths claimed by Covid-19 and the unending potential risk that it carries has fallen deaf on the government’s ears. However, if the government wishes to go ahead with SSLC exams, we demand the minister to give his assent to the form below. The form below reads: “I Suresh Kumar, the minister for primary and secondary education in the government of Karnataka hereby take full responsibility for the safe conduction of SSLC exams which are slated to begin on June 25th.” Failing my responsibility, if any student/parent/guardian/teacher/staff/official/policeman contracts the virus due to the procedures involved in conducting SSLC exams: I will tender immediate resignation, pay the entire amount for their treatment and provide quarantine facilities and I will publicly apologise. In case of death due to the virus, I will pay remuneration of Rs 5 lakh to the family of the deceased. I will stop the remaining exams. I am ready to face legal action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/on-eve-of-sslc-exam-chorus-for-putting-it-off-grows-852997.html
23-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Land reforms: Farmers set for protests, experts caution govt||While farmers have readied themselves for a statewide protest on Wednesday over the proposed amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, experts have cautioned the government against it.  On Wednesday, farmers led by the Federation of Farmers’ Associations, Karnataka, decided to take up a statewide protest against the government’s decision. The protest comes in the wake of the government announcing its decision to throw open ownership of agricultural land in the state to non-agriculturists, apart from increasing the ceiling on the extent of land ownership per individual.  Speaking to DH, Federation leader Kuruburu Shanthakumar said the government’s move was clearly prompted by vested interests. “It’s just a move that will make it easier for corporates to take over agriculture. This will leave many small farmers landless and will force them to work as labourers in big cities,” he said, adding that the government’s move was the last nail on the coffin after successive governments diluted the land reforms legislation without taking farmers’ welfare into consideration.  Venkatesh B T, an advocate, termed this decision a “heinous crime.” He opined that this was nothing but a “money-churning venture” for cash-strapped companies and the government. At a time when global markets have crashed, knowing well that agriculture was the only sector with a promise of growth, the corporates now want a piece of this pie, he alleged. The Land Reforms Act was revolutionary in ensuring that agricultural land remained for the purpose of agriculture.  Scientist T V Ramachandra from the Indian Institute of Science further elaborated on how corporate intervention in ecologically-sensitive regions could bring unforeseen environmental crisis. “On one hand, if people start converting agricultural land for other purposes in ecologically-sensitive pockets, the land in the surrounding regions will also be lost in the name of development. On the other, the moment the land is purchased for non-agricultural purposes, regulating industrial pollution becomes a huge issue. Varthur and Bellandur are examples in this case, where the water is contaminated with heavy metals and the vegetables grown here also have heavy metals. This decision coming from a chief minister who claimed to be pro-farmers is ironic,” he said.   However, the government has stuck by its stand amid the brewing backlash. Revenue Minister R Ashoka told DH in a recent interview that the land reforms were crucial for the growth of the agricultural sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/land-reforms-farmers-set-for-protests-experts-caution-govt-852998.html
23-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar tells cadre to get cracking for triumph||Vowing to convert Congress in Karnataka into a cadre-based party, its state president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday asked its frontal organisations and block units to immediately begin work for victory in the next assembly election. Signalling sweeping changes in the party, he said, "If anyone wants to be a party office-bearer, he or she must be a booth-level worker first." The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief said there cannot be factions in the party and asked leaders and workers to be accountable. "We must convert this party from mass-based to cadre-based," Shivakumar said. Addressing party workers and leaders here, he said, "The Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah has given me advice that we need to strengthen the Congress at booth- level, and we will. We must also send a message of unity to the entire country." Shivakumar said the party would plan a strategy to fight against BJP's alleged attempt to destroy the federal structure. Calling the frontal organisations - Seva Dal, Youth Congress, Mahila Congress - the backbone of the party, he said, "If they are not strengthened the party cannot grow." Similarly, he said, if only the block units are strong can the party become strong." Further, he said there would be no factions in the party, there would be only one faction, that is, the Congress. The KPCC chief called upon party workers to work together from now itself so that party wins in all 224 assembly seats in the next elections and comes to power on its own. A meeting of party leaders, office-bearers was called for today to discuss the preparation for Shivakumar's formal take over as the party state president on July 2. The function for the takeover was planned for June 14 after being postponed thrice in the past due to the COVID-19 restrictions. After remaining in a virtual vacuum for nearly three months, the party high command had on March 11 appointed Shivakumar, the six-time MLA, known to be the Congress's chief troubleshooter in crisis situations, in the place of Dinesh Gundu Rao as the KPCC chief. Rao had quit the post in December after the party's dismal show in the bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-chief-d-k-shivakumar-tells-cadre-to-get-cracking-for-triumph-853019.html
23-06-2020||West||Fire breaks out in godown in Mumbai's Mankhurd slum||A massive fire broke out at a big slum cluster in the Mankhurd suburbs of Mumbai on Tuesday. No casualties were reported so far. Fire tenders and tankers were rushed to the spot. Thick black smoke could be seen billowing out from the area. According to initial information, the fire broke out in the scrap godown, where huge amounts of plastic were stored "Fire brigade is carrying out operations. People are being evacuated," said local corporator Samiksha Sakare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-in-godown-in-mumbais-mankhurd-slum-852699.html
23-06-2020||West||8,900 labourers arrived in Pune in last few days: Collector||Over 8,900 labourers arrived in Pune in last few days and the labour department is monitoring the movement of migrant workers who are returning to the city, district Collector Naval Kishore Ram said. After the lockdown was enforced in March and COVID-19 cases started increasing in Maharashtra's Pune district, scores of migrant labourers working here in various industrial belts, construction sites, hotels and othercommercial establishments went back to their native states. Following the resumption of rail services recently on some key routes, total 144 trains crossed the Pune railway station and nearly 23,000 passengers deboarded here, the collector told reporters on Monday. "Of the 23,000 passengers who deboarded at the Pune station, over 8,900 were identified as labourers belonging to various states," he said. "Even if the numbers are not that big, the labour departmentis keeping a close watch on the movement of migrant labourers who are returning to the city," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8900-labourers-arrived-in-pune-in-last-few-days-collector-852727.html
23-06-2020||West||Khwaja Yunus case: Contempt plea in HC against Mumbai top cop||A contempt petition has been filed in the Bombay High Court against Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh over the reinstatement of four policemen who are facing trial for the alleged custodial death of Ghatkopar blast case suspect Khwaja Yunus. Asiya Begum, mother of Khwaja Yunus, filed the petition on Monday through senior counsel Mihir Desai, saying the reinstatement of the policemen amounted to wilful and intentional defiance and non-compliance of the directions and orders passed by the high court" in April 2004. By its orders passed in April 2004, the high court had directed the state government to suspend the four policemen immediately and start disciplinary inquiry against them as they have been prima facie found to be involved in the offence, the petition said. Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and constables Rajendra Tiwari, Sunil Desai and Rajaram Nikam are currently facing trial on various charges, including murder and destruction of evidence, for the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus in 2003. Earlier this month, a review committee under the chairmanship of the police chief ordered for them to be reinstated in the police force, pending preliminary departmental inquiry and judicial trial. Asiya Begum in her petition said till date no departmental inquiry was initiated against the four policemen, or if initiated, no report has been submitted. As per the plea, the four policemen were under suspension since 2003-2004, and Vaze had in fact also tendered his resignation in 2008 and joined the Shiv Sena. In 2019, the said political party Shiv Sena came to power in Maharashtra and in June 2020, the review committee purportedly reviewed the decision of suspension and recommended revocation of the same, the petition said. Apart from the Mumbai police chief, the petition has also sought contempt action to be initiated against Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary in the state Home department. The petition has sought the court to direct the state government and police to withdraw the reinstatement order dated June 5, 2020, and place the four under suspension. It has also sought a direction to the police to initiate a departmental inquiry against the four personnel and submit a report expeditiously. It also sought the court to impose a cost of Rs one lakh on the respondents to the petitioner. Yunus (27) was arrested on December 25, 2002, under the now repealed Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) along with three others in connection with a blast that took place on December 2 in suburban Ghatkopar. He was last seen on January 6, 2003, by the men arrested with him, who later informed a special POTA Court that Yunus was severely tortured by the police in lockup. The police, however, claimed Yunus had escaped from the lockup.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/khwaja-yunus-case-contempt-plea-in-hc-against-mumbai-top-cop-852745.html
23-06-2020||West||Covid-19 pandemic sinks monsoon plans around Maharashtra||Come monsoon and people in India's financial capital rush to weekend getaways in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) to enjoy nature, bird watching, do some trekking and hiking, hit the beaches, rappel in waterfalls and visit old forts. However,  this time around, the situation is not the same. Despite being referred to as a concrete jungle, the MMR has many things to offer including the Sanjay Gandhi National Park,  Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary,  Yeoor Hills,  Karnala Bird Sanctuary, Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary and other green patches. "We don't see anything happening this monsoon. For three months I have not done any trekking. We need to follow the instructions and protocols," said Amit Samant of Dombivli-based Trekshitij,  who had covered most of Maharashtra's forts. "The visits to forts,  jungles and waterfalls would not happen. Rappelling along the waterfalls is a big activity and that would not happen," added Samant,  also a prolific writer. "In fact,  some groups over the last couple of weekends were prevented by locals from going to beaches. Health is important,  we need to understand this," said Kiran Bhoir of KMC Holidays & Offshore Pvt Ltd. In fact, many tour operators are themselves advising people not to step out as people are more vulnerable health-wise during the monsoon, generally. "Physical distancing has to be followed," said Virar-based Bhoir,  pointing out that the MMR comprising the districts of Mumbai City,  Mumbai Suburban, Thane and parts of Palghar and Raigad have maximum cases. "We are in the hotspot so stay indoors and step out only when necessary," said Badlapur-based MP Joshi. There is also no booking for hotels in Matheran, a popular hill station about 100 kms away from Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pandemic-sinks-monsoon-plans-around-maharashtra-852761.html
23-06-2020||West||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari donates Rs 1 lakh to postal staff for Covid-19 treatment||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday donated Rs 1 lakh for the treatment of postal staff infected by coronavirus, an official here said. As per an official release, the amount includes a prize money won by the Governor in the Department of Posts' letter writing competition apart from personal contribution. "Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari today made a personal donation of Rs 1 lakh to the Maharashtra Post for the treatment of postal staff infected by COVID-19," the release stated. The Governor handed over a cheque of Rs 1 lakh addressed to the Maharashtra Postal Circle Welfare Fund to Chief Post Master General of Maharashtra Harish Chandra Agarwal, the statement issued by the Raj Bhavan read. The amount includes Rs 25,000 the Governor had won in a letter writing competition and his personal contribution of Rs 75,000, it was stated. The Governor had won the first prize in the Department of Posts' letter writing competition for his essay in Hindi 'Bapu, Aap Amar Hai'. The competition named 'Dhai Akhar', organised on the occasion of the 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, was held in November 2019 with more than 80,000 participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-donates-rs-1-lakh-to-postal-staff-for-covid-19-treatment-852840.html
23-06-2020||West||17-year-old's Covid-19 relief efforts in Mumbai make him the youngest Rotaract president||In the testing times of the pandemic, many individuals and organisations have come together to help by providing food, ration kits grains, PPE kits and masks to daily wage earners, slum dwellers, government and private hospitals.One such helping hand is a 17-year-old Husain Zakir who is distributing meals and food grains using his pocket money to the underprivileged in his area and around the city. Acknowledging his efforts and contribution to help the needy during the pandemic, young Husain became the charter president of Rotaract Club of Bombay Mid-Town. The Rotaract Club of Bombay Mid-town was chartered recently where Husain took oath as one of the youngest Rotaract Presidents of a community-based Rotaract Club at the age of 17,  according to a press statement.He recently gave his HSC Board Exams and is now awaiting the results. Speaking on this achievement Husain said, “Working with Rotaract gives me immense pleasure of serving the community, making it enjoyable and also help in my overall development. I would like to include many more youngsters in our club. Together we want to address community problems by finding appropriate solutions. I await working on more such social welfare projects in the near future.” The Club, whose objective is to help others, is growing in many folds and has a membership of 26 individuals from different walks of life. Since April 2020 the Club has been actively supporting and organizing Relief programs for Covid-19 by distributing food grains & means to the economically challenged people, the labourers, and the daily wage-earners of Mumbai. Also PPE kits, sanitizers, mattresses, masks have been donated to private & government hospitals, and police stations. Lauding the work undertaken by youngsters like Husain, Rotarian Vicky Punjabi, President-Elect of Rotary Club of Bombay Mid-Town said, “these young boys & girls who have taken this initiative of rising up to meet the challenge of this crisis will definitely make a positive difference in their own lives and also in the world around them.” This generation of youth is finding its purpose in this moment of crisis and inspiring others to hope and act,” Punjabi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/17-year-olds-covid-19-relief-efforts-in-mumbai-make-him-the-youngest-rotaract-president-852868.html
23-06-2020||West||Centre's economic package not helping poor much: Ajit Pawar||The special Rs 20 lakh crore relief package announced last month by the Centre to bring back on track the economy hit by coronavirus lockdown is not helping the poor much, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday. Pawar, who also holds the finance portfolio, said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has raised the issue before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and pushed for transferring monetary assistance directly into the bank accounts of the poor hit by the lockdown. The NCP minister said the state government has given guarantee to banks to ensure farmers who were eligible for loan waiver get new crop loans in view of the kharif season. He said the state government is focusing on containing the spread of Covid-19 in Maharashtra and bringing the mortality rate down after easing of the lockdown. The economy is not back on track yet. To some extent, it is coming back on track in a staggered manner. It is not like that the package will help immediately...the package does not help daily wage earners, Pawar told reporters here. A big section of such people needs to be given help directly in their bank accounts. The chief minister is discussing this issue with the prime minister, he said. Pawar made the remarks during a press conference held to inform about the relief work the NCP's Welfare Trust carried out during the lockdown period. Maharashtra Ministers Jayant Patil and Nawab Malik and NCP MPs Supriya Sule and Sunil Tatkare, too, were present on the occasion. Pawar added he, too, has sent a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the issue. But I dont think the package is helping enough, the state finance minister said. Pawar said private hospitals were not sharing information regarding deaths of Covid-19 patients immediately with municipal corporations or the state government. Hence, the mortality is not reflected immediately in the government reports, he added. The matter is being probed. Things will be clear after the inquiry, he added. On the crop loan issue, Pawar said the state government has given guarantee to banks so that peasants get new debts as the kharif season gets underway. He said 11 lakh farmers are eligible for the loan waiver initiative which would cost Rs 8,000 crore to the government. However, the outbreak of Covid-19 disrupted the process as the state government stopped getting taxes during March and April. Hence, we told banks to give new crop loans to farmers. We told the banks that the state government will give Rs 8,000 crore and interest on that, he said. Pawar said the state cooperative and district banks have already started giving new crop loans to farmers after the government gave them guarantee. Among others, the NCP leader also sought to downplay reports of bickering within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi, claiming the Congress was unhappy over not having enough say in decision-making process of the government. The Congress and the NCP are constituents of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centres-economic-package-not-helping-poor-much-ajit-pawar-852873.html
23-06-2020||West||Thane civic body under-reporting Covid-19 deaths: BJP||A BJP delegation under former Lok Sabha MP Kirit Somaiya and MLC Niranjan Davkhare met Thane Municipal Commissioner Vijay Singhal on Tuesday to complain about the mismanagement of efforts to combat the coronavirus outbreak in the city. Somaiya and Davkhare told reporters after the meeting TMC was under-reporting COVID-19 deaths and this had been brought to the notice of the civic chief. They claimed Singhal promised to look into the matter. At 22,567 cases as on Monday night, Thane district has the second-highest number of COVID-19 cases in the state after Mumbai, with TMC limits accounting for 6,443 cases. A total of 771 people have died of the infection in Thane district so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-civic-body-under-reporting-covid-19-deaths-bjp-852938.html
23-06-2020||West||NCP wanted to join hands with BJP two years ago: Devendra Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed the NCP wanted to join hands with his party two years ago and asserted this is not the time to talk about fall or change of government in Maharashtra which is battling the coronavirus pandemic. Addressing a press conference here, the former Chief Minister claimed the Sharad Pawar-headed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) wanted to be a part of the BJP-led government in Maharashtra two years ago. The leader of opposition in the assembly said "This is not the time to do any valuation of the government. This is the right time to raise questions (regarding the COVID-19 management), this is the time to point out shortcomings. "But this is not the time to evaluate the government on the basis of its shortcomings. This is not the time to say change CM or there is no need of this government." As the main opposition party, the BJP is highlighting shortcomings of the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP government, he said. "All we need to see is how can the shortcomings can be removed and how can they be put forth before the government and that is what we are doing," said Fadnavis. To a question, he clarified that no new political equation is evolving in the state, where the BJP lost power late last year. "There is no new equation. To change the government or (push for) fall of the government is not our agenda...everyone is seeing how the government is running and there is no need for me to see it differently," the former chief minister said. Replying to a question regarding his interview to a Marathi news channel, Fadnavis said the NCP wanted to join hands with the BJP in the state two years ago when he was the chief minister. "They wanted to come with us two years ago. There were meetings in this regard but our senior leaders made it clear that the BJP will not sever ties with the Shiv Sena. So developments later hit a roadblock," he claimed. Fadnavis was here to review the COVID-19 situation in Pune city and the adjoining and Pimpri-Chinchwad. He said COVID-19 testing capacity needs to be ramped up in the city||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-wanted-to-join-hands-with-bjp-two-years-ago-devendra-fadnavis-852941.html
23-06-2020||West||Low-intensity earthquake hits Maharashtra||An earthquake of 3.3 magnitude was experienced in Maharashtra's Akola district on Tuesday evening but there were no reports of casualties or loss of property, officials said. According to the Akola district collector's office, the earthquake measuring 3.3 was felt at around 5.30 pm. The epicentre of the low-intensity earthquake was 129 km south of Akola district in adjoining Hingoli district, said Jalindar Sable, in-charge of the local meteorological department. The epicentre was reported at 19.5 north latitude and 77.1 latitude east and at a depth of 5 km, he said. The district administration did not report any loss of life or damage to property due to the earthquake. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar appealed to people not to panic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/low-intensity-earthquake-hits-maharashtra-852989.html
23-06-2020||West||Covid-19 infections in MMR cross one lakh-mark, record 248 deaths reported||The Covid-19 positive infections in the Mumbai metropolitan region crossed the one-lakh mark on Tuesday. The first two Covid-19 cases in Mumbai was reported on 11 March when two persons tested positive while the first death was reported on 17 March. The total Covid-19 positive cases in the MMR now stands at 1,01,496 and deaths at 4,781. The MMR comprises of five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad.  In Maharashtra, the total cases now stands at 1,39,010 and deaths at 6,531, according to the data of the Public Health department. In the last 24 hours, 3,214 positive cases and 248 deaths were reported. The figure of 248 deaths is the highest in a day's time but of which 75 were reported in last 48 hours and rest 173 before that. A total of 1,925 patients were discharged in last 24 hours taking the total to 69,631.So far, 8,02,775 tests were conducted of which 1,39,010 have tested positive - 17.31 per cent. The recovery rate in the state is 50.09 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state is 4.69 per cent. Currently, 6,05,141 people are in home quarantine and 26,572 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-infections-in-mmr-cross-one-lakh-mark-record-248-deaths-reported-852992.html
23-06-2020||West||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region cross one lakh-mark||The Covid-19 positive infections in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) crossed the one-lakh mark on Tuesday. The first two Covid-19 cases in Mumbai was reported on March 11 when two persons tested positive, while the first death was reported on March 17.  The total Covid-19 positive cases in the MMR now stands at 1,01,496 and deaths at 4,781. The MMR comprises of five districts of Mumbai City,  Mumbai Suburban,  Thane,  Palghar and Raigad.  In Maharashtra, the total cases now stands at 1,39,010 and deaths at 6,531, according to the data of the Public Health department.  In the last 24 hours, 3,214 positive cases and 248 deaths were reported.  The figure of 248 deaths is the highest in a day's time, of which 75 were reported in last 48 hours and rest 173 before that.  A total of 1,925 patients were discharged in last 24 hours, taking the total to 69,631. So far,  8,02,775 tests were conducted, of which 1,39,010 have tested positive. Four new municipal commissioners brought in Amid rising cases in the Mumbai metropolitan region, the Maharashtra government brought in four new municipal commissioners in the area, including Thane city. Dr Bipin Sharma was appointed Thane municipal commissioner replacing Vijay Singhal. Abhijit Bangar has been posted as Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner, while Dr. Raj Dhayanidhi has been posted as Ulhasnagar municipal commissioner. Dr. Vijay Rathod has been posted as Mira Bhayender municipal commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-cross-one-lakh-mark-852994.html
