24-06-2020||Comment||Deterrent message to China||While the opposition is busy claiming that the government has somehow capitulated to China, all the facts verifiable through satellite imagery tell us quite the opposite story. What happened at Galwan on June 15 can now be extrapolated as a fairly deep incursion into the Chinese side of the LAC in order to force the demolition of a dam. Far from pusillanimity, it was in fact a calculated escalation by the Indian side in 50 years. The picture across the Ladakh front show us three clear but separate actions – aggressive action in Galwan to prevent the weaponisation of water; proactive construction in Gogra to cut off Chinese patrols and a formalisation of the status quo in Pangong that has been fait accompli at least since 1999. Most crucial is what happened in Galwan. By June 2, satellite imagery had revealed an obstruction on the Galwan river, 650 to 700 m on the Chinese side of the LAC where the river runs south to the north till it turns sharply westwards and joins the Shyok 5 km away. Sometime around the first week of May, the Chinese crossed over some 100 m across the LAC at Galwan and set up two tents housing approximately 40 troops. By the fourth week of May, India had pushed back the Chinese, dismantled the Chinese tents and constructed an Indian tent there. However, almost simultaneously, the Chinese blocked this fast-flowing river, some 650 m into their side of the LAC. The nature of the blocking structure remains undecipherable from the available images: it wasn’t a dam because it covered only one-third of the valley and there were no signs of either a divert or a reservoir there. What was undeniable was that the rest of the Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC was bone dry, with no visible signs of residual moisture indicating that the Indian side of the Galwan basin had been dry for at least a few days. The implications for India were dire, given its status as lower riparian to China not just for the Galwan but a whole host of Northern Indian rivers fed by glacial flows from China. When the disengagement talks happened on June 6, both sides agreed to move back 2 to 3 km respectively, the Chinese had refused to dismantle this structure which was a violation of the status quo even if on the Chinese side. “Across the LAC” This is the “structure” the external affairs minister and PM (June 19) spoke about - the PM obviously having viewed the intelligence being much more precise refusing to state which side of the LAC the structure was on. Remarkably, even the clarification issued on June 20 cleverly sidesteps whose side of the LAC the dam was on stating merely “across the LAC”, not mentioning across whose side of the LAC. It was precisely to ensure that this structure was in fact demolished that troops went in on the night of the June 15. Fanciful and overdramatised accounts that have emerged of the Chinese having “opened the dam” to wash away our troops that night are not just patently wrong, but also untenable based on the satellite imagery of the afternoon of June 16, put out by Reuters & Planetlabs. The main reason was that there was no reservoir, nor was there a dam that spanned the entire valley to create the necessary flash flood. Moreover, the images of June 16 show that the rest of the valley remained as bone dry after the alleged “manmade flash-flood”, as it was on June 14. Furthermore, there is no visible debris/detritus characteristic of a flash-flood to be seen. In short, the imagery is unequivocal - no flash-flood could have been created even if desired, and no-flash-flood was created. Yet, images taken on June 17 show the offending structure dismantled and the Galwan in full flow right up to the Shyok. By June 19, the flow of the river had turned torrential and the Chinese were bringing up remnants of the dismantled structure right up to the LAC presumably to demonstrate compliance with the disengagement agreement. In short, what our soldiers achieved on the night of June 15 was some significant systemic shock that forced the Chinese to stop this highly dangerous weaponisation of water. It is, therefore, safe to say the status quo ante has indeed been restored in Galwan, but more importantly, a clear deterrent message has been sent to China. Hot Springs Gogra or the “hot springs” continue to be tense due to a significant armour and artillery build up on the Chinese side. However, given an Indian forward base has been built in a record 2 months in a valley used by Chinese troops to regularly patrol into the Indian side of the LAC, all further avenues of such intrusion have been stopped. By no stretch of logic or imagination can patrols into territory be equated with “control” of the said territory. Indeed, they are anachronistic – having served a purpose in the 1960s through the 1990s for reconnaissance, this role has been subsumed by drones. The only measure of control today is infrastructure, and by that measure, India has thwarted any further Chinese intrusions in this region. This brings us to Pangong where the Chinese have undeniably set up massive infrastructure from Finger 4 to Finger 8. But here again one confuses the issue that patrols somehow equate to “control”. The only proof of control is infrastructure and at least till 2014, China had an enormous lead. In 1999, the Chinese built a 24 km track from the international border to Finger 4. By 2004, the track was converted to a two-lane asphalted road. By 2006, the Chinese built a formidable naval base at the foot of Finger 6 and by 2018, an artillery fort at the base of Finger 8. Contrast this with India. Till 2014, our position at Finger 4 was two small huts with no proper road. By October 2014, India had significant upgraded these two huts a full-fledged base, and built an asphalted two-lane highway. This one Indian construction stopped Chinese patrols west of Finger 4 while successive Chinese constructions had vastly reduced the freedom of patrol that India had east of Finger 4, which has finally come to an end in 2020 with the latest constructions. Patrols not a response All of this begs the question what territory has been ceded, and what has been irretrievably lost in 2020, when for 21 years, the Chinese have been building infrastructure right up to Finger 4? Indeed, what was done to dismantle or destroy these bases in the 21 years that this Chinese infrastructure existed? Patrols are not a response to infrastructure, and parroting this line equating fleeting walks with permanent structures to score rhetorical points, shows all that as wrong with India’s policy. What happened on the night of June 15 has not just set a precedent that India will not tolerate the weaponisation of water but also shown the way to South East Asian countries that suffer the same anxieties with regards to China’s upper riparian control of rivers like the Mekong. By demonstrating that some Chinese actions will result in a violent Indian reaction, we have reached a new phase in the bilateral relationship. However, the high-risk, high-yield actions India has taken, cannot and must not be acknowledged at the official level, and that is the way it will be. (The writer is Senior Fellow at the Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/deterrent-message-to-china-853074.html
24-06-2020||First Edit||Surge in Covid-19 cases worrisome||The Covid-19 situation in Karnataka in general and Bengaluru in particular is a reason for concern. The number of new infections per day is growing at a rapid rate. On Tuesday, Karnataka recorded 322 new Covid-19 cases taking the state’s total tally to 9,721. Bengaluru alone saw 107 fresh cases on Tuesday bringing the city’s total tally to 1,505. The surge in new cases has been sudden and sharp. In recent days, new cases have entered triple-digit figures: 138 on June 19, 94 on June 20, 196 on June 21 and 249 on June 22.  Karnataka’s Covid-19 War Room has made some dire predictions. It has projected that the state could see 20-25,000 Covid-19 cases by mid-August. Some would argue that there is no need for worry. The number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka is after all small compared to that of other states, with populations of similar size. Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, for instance, recorded 3,000, 1,242 and 2,532 new cases, respectively, on Sunday. Bengaluru’s daily surge is smaller in comparison. However, we cannot afford to remain complacent. If Karnataka does not act to prevent the surge in cases now, it could end up going the way of other states. It is therefore imperative that the Karnataka government takes the surge in infections seriously. The increase in new cases has been attributed to Unlock 1.0. Between June 8 and 21, Bengaluru registered 796 fresh Covid-19 cases, which means that 62% of the city’s total tally emerged over the past two weeks. Unlock 1.0 increased contact among the people. Those from other states poured in, leaving people here open to infection. Health officials say they are facing problems in tracing infections. Of the 796 new Covid-19 cases over the past fortnight, the source of infection is not known in 522 cases. It appears that most inter-state travellers do not come forward to inform authorities and this is standing in the way of efficient contact tracing. Whatever the reason, community transmission appears to be happening, a fact that Task Force members have acknowledged. Karnataka must tailor its strategies accordingly. The government is said to be considering imposing lockdowns again. More importantly, it needs to step up the availability of ICU beds, ventilators and quarantine centres. Such facilities need to be in place before the state is overwhelmed with Covid-19 cases. Karnataka’s already creaking public health infrastructure will come under additional strain with the rains ushering in water-borne diseases like gastroenteritis and cholera as well. So far, Karnataka and Bengaluru have been held up as models for their relative success in containing the pandemic. We must not allow that to change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/surge-in-covid-19-cases-worrisome-853066.html
24-06-2020||First Edit||H-1B visa: November Polls behind Donald Trump's order||US President Donald Trump’s order suspending the issuance of new work visas for foreign nationals is in line with the restrictive policy followed by him on immigration and work permits. The order covers H-1B visas for skilled workers and other types of visas for work in the US. It has come into force and will be valid till the end of the year. The entry of foreigners in the US has already been restricted from April as part of the fight against Covid-19.  The blanket nature of the latest order and its timing show the special political purpose behind it in an election year. Trump will make the order a major issue in the campaign for the Presidential election in November. Protectionist, anti-immigrant and anti-foreigner sentiments and policies have been an important feature of his politics. The "America First’ slogan will get shriller now.  The Trump administration has said that the decision has been taken to help American workers who have lost their jobs, and unemployed persons looking for jobs, at a time when the economy has been disrupted by lockdowns and closures. It has also claimed that 20 million American jobs were lost between February and April in important industries, and employers were planning to offer many of these to foreign workers. But the bans and restrictions will only hurt American business and industry and delay its recovery because most of the jobs done by immigrant workers are those that American workers are unwilling or unable to do. The ban will lead to many jobs that require special skills, remain unfilled, and American companies will be disadvantaged by this. Many companies will also lose their competitiveness if they shut the door on immigrant workers and decide to recruit only American workers. Therefore, it is American companies which will have reasons to worry more than Indian companies that undertake work in the US or Indians with special skills who want to work there. Over a half of the H-1B and L1 visas are held by Indians, but the present order will not affect those visa-holders who are already in the US. American companies have expressed their disappointment over the order with Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai openly expressing it. The idea of America is built on its rainbow character and immigrants have contributed greatly to its economic success. By allowing short-term political and electoral considerations to drive the nation’s policy Trump has done a great disservice to America. India should also convey its concern to the US administration, though that may have little impact on Trump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/h-1b-visa-november-polls-behind-donald-trumps-order-853399.html
24-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||KLE Society plans to install compost making machines in their premises||KLE Society, which has several educational institutes on sprawling campuses that have canteens, gardens and hostels also in Hubballi, has planned to purchase a modern compost making machine manufactured by a Bengaluru-based company. "A large quantity of organic waste including waste vegetables, food and garden waste is generated on our campus. This machine would help to convert them into organic compost in short time. We have a few kalyan mantaps also, and major institutes in Belagavi too. We are planning to purchase it after the lockdown ends and complete normalcy returns," said KLE Society director Shankaranna Munavalli. Hotels, kalyan mantaps and others such establishments, where a large amount of waste is generated, can also use this, and compost in accordance would be given to them without any profit for us, he added. On Wednesday, Green RecykloPlast company demonstrated its compost making machine at KLE’s Smt C I Munavalli Polytechnic premises at Vidyanagar in Hubballi using waste food, vegetables and other biodegradable waste material. "This is a 100 Kg capacity machine, costs Rs 7.5 lakh and it gives 25 to 30 Kg of compost. Making compost in the traditional manner takes 18 to 21 days, but this machine gives compost within a day. Water, metal and plastic should not be put in it, while straw dust used in this machine removes moisture and give odourless organic compost. We have already sold this machine to two marriage halls in Bengaluru," explained Green RecykloPlast partner M D Ravi. To create awareness about eco-friendly solid waste management, a similar demonstration would be conducted in Belagavi and other places, he added. Polytechnic Principal Veeresh Angadi, BVBCET Principal Prakash Tevari and other staff observed the demonstration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/kle-society-plans-to-install-compost-making-machines-in-their-premises-853155.html
24-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Lockdown also sealed down seed-ball activity this year||In pre-monsoon and monsoon seasons, preparing seed-balls and placing them at various places where forest and fruit trees can be grown was a popular activity in recent years. However, the Covid-19 lockdown this time has hit that activity too, which is aimed at increasing greenery. Since last four years, seed-ball preparation and placing them in various places to increase the forest cover through this had gained momentum in the region, and the result was also not bad. Several thousands of seed-balls were prepared by the Forest Department through school students, while families, and various organisations were also engaged in this activity, along with sapling plantation, especially in the months of June and July. However, the situation is totally different now, due to Covid-19 situation. The number of seed-balls being prepared has come down to almost nil at most of the places, and some are thinking to prepare it and try to increase greenery only after total normalcy returns, probably when monsoon will be at its peak or receding. Forest Dept says no Since last three years, the Dharwad division of the Forest Department used to prepare around 10,000 seed-balls through school children every year, and it had a tie-up with Navodaya Vidyalaya in this regard. Now, as the children are not coming to schools due to the lockdown and its aftermath, the preparing of seed-balls has come to a complete stand-still. "We have no plan for seed-balls this time, not just due to Covid-19 scare and lockdown, but there is also a research finding that the seeds naturally grow fast than if placed inside seed-balls. It was just an awareness activity, and we have not received any instruction about seed-ball activity this time," said Deputy Conservator of Forest (DCF) Yashpal Ksheerasagar. The Dharwad forest division has grown seven lack saplings in seven nurseries this time, but the demand from people is comparatively less. "Two lakh saplings are meant to be distributed to people at reasonable rate. We home deliver them if people contact the regional forest officer. The demand is more for sandalwood, silver oak, hebbevu, and curry leaves saplings," Ksheerasagar added. Dull at Eco Village The Nature First Eco Village on Haliyal Road near Dharwad was a pioneer organisation in collecting forest seeds, and preparing seed-balls using cocopeat, vermicompost, and soil. In previous years, it used to offer training in seed-ball preparation for visitors including families, and school and college students, and how to use them. This time, only a few seed-balls have been prepared there now, and it is waiting for visitors for distribution. "Instead of seed-balls, we have planted a few fruit-bearing trees on the banks of the lakes this time. We used to train people to prepare over 20,000 seed-balls every year since 2016," said Nature First Eco Village proprietor Panchakshari Hiremath. Organisations, schools The Samarth Bharat organisation, which used to prepare and distribute nearly one lakh seed-balls every year, and was also distributing in rural areas too in last two years, has not prepared seed-balls this time, due to lack of volunteers and Covid-19 situation. "We wanted to prepare 50,000 seed-balls later this year," said Samarth Bharat trustee Sandeep Boodihal. According to Gouramma Kalkur, principal of Government High School at Hosur, preparation of seed-balls is not possible now, as students are not coming. "We teachers symbolically planted a few saplings on the occasion of the World Environment Day. When the school reopens, it is mandatory for students to plant saplings and nurture them, and they could be made to prepare seed-balls too," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/lockdown-also-sealed-down-seed-ball-activity-this-year-853249.html
24-06-2020||In Perspective||Galwan Valley incident is a failure of India's intelligence system||The Galwan incident of June 15/16 and the killing of 20 army personnel has shocked both the army and the nation. Indeed, China undertook a premeditated attack on Indian troops. The question however is, why was the army taken by surprise? That the Chinese are masters in surprise, deception, obfuscation, speak with a forked tongue and cannot be trusted, have always been well known. Clearly, India was unprepared for such deception. Though the government had sanctioned a mountain strike corps seven years ago, the move was scrapped in 2019 due to lack of funds. The army, if media reports are credible, is low on 20 types of ammunition, the current stocks of which are barely enough for 10 days of intensive fighting. Now, the government has sanctioned emergency funds for the armed forces and urgently ordered 21 MiG-29 and 12 Sukhoi-30 fighter aircraft. Evidently, this suggests that India was not ready to take on China despite adequate indications of military hostility earlier. Lt Gen BC  Khanduri (retd), veteran BJP leader and member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence had pointed out  several shortcomings in India’s defence preparedness which had embarrassed the government. Today, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval is not visible in the media to articulate the government’s position on the emergent crisis. Did the external intelligence agency, Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) and the domestic Intelligence agency, Intelligence Bureau (IB), apprise the PM, NSA and the military chiefs of the gathering storm across the Line of Actual Control? Importantly, did the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) which was specifically formed after the Kargil hostilities, equip itself with adequate assets such as satellites, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and signal intelligence (SIGINT) facilities, and forewarn the national leadership about the impending crisis? What inputs did the Director-General, Defence Intelligence Agency (DGDIA) and the Director-General Military Intelligence (DGMI) provide the government?  Did the National Security Council (NSC) which reports to the NSA, collate information from these agencies and come to any worthy conclusion and present it to the national security decision-makers? The Kargil hostilities in mid-1999 had offered the government a good opportunity to reform the country’s intelligence architecture which unfortunately did not happen. The Girish Saxena sub-committee on ‘reforming national intelligence’ lost a wonderful opportunity to do so. No one in the committee listened to the single Major General, who represented the armed forces. The failure to institute a national commission of enquiry after 26/11 to assess the terrorist action including the failure of intelligence was yet another lost opportunity. Intelligence failed the country then and it has apparently failed it again. It is time for greater oversight of national intelligence agencies like the US Senate Intelligence Committee. General Bipin Rawat who was the army chief until recently, now heads the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) in the Ministry of Defence, upon his elevation to the post of the first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) of India.  This is probably the most significant military reform in the past few decades. He is now the single point military adviser to the government and will have the responsibility to better synergise the operations, training, logistics and acquisitions of the three services. The Galwan incident and other developments that may emerge in the days and months ahead will be a significant challenge for the institution of the CDS. Institutional opposition General Rawat must use this opportunity to test concepts such as the Integrated Battle Group (IBG) and endeavour to overcome institutional opposition to his concept of five theatre and joint commands. Demarcation of responsibilities between the CDS, NSA and the Defence Secretary will need greater clarification if they are to work seamlessly. Home Minster Amit Shah has a multitude of responsibilities and is a busy man even without the Corona crisis. It is time we have a separate minister for internal security who could report to the HM and thus ease his burden. It is also time that the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), which come under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), whose total manpower is equal to the army, air force and navy put together or perhaps even more, takes full responsibility for counter-terrorism and internal security leaving the army free to concentrate on external threats. India’s overpaid and often arrogant diplomats may never have spent even a single a day in the icy heights of the hostile Himalayas. Yet, it is they who sign pacts with countries such as China and override the generals, admirals and air marshals, some of whom may have served several tenures in the area. Did the Indian Foreign Service diplomats lull security decision-makers into complacence? It is only in India that diplomats and police officers become NSAs, unlike other developed democracies which mostly have armed forces officers as NSAs and intelligence chiefs. This, of course, is not the right time to question the army which is stretched along two borders. The army cannot and should not be giving a ball by ball account of the action as it occurred. The Galwan incident was after all a ‘snapshot event’ and one can be sure that the army and the nation with the support of the people will come out triumphant in the next round against China.   (The writer is former Principal Director Naval Intelligence and former Director, Cabinet Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/galwan-valley-intelligence-fails-india-once-again-853067.html
24-06-2020||In Perspective||Is it safe to reopen schools?||Administrators in both Central and state governments are taking stock of the current Covid-19 situation on a daily basis on the issue of reopening of closed schools either by July-end or by the beginning of August 2020. Recently, Beijing reopened schools but closed them again in the backdrop of the second wave of Covid-19 in the city. The Beijing authorities restarted schools after taking all possible precautions and brought the whole situation under full control but all these ended up being futile. The Beijing experience will be a lesson to the Indian authorities on the issue of reopening of schools, be it in July, August or September 2020. Similar cases were reported from countries like France and Israel when they had decided to restart schools after lockdown. Historically, pandemics have always had a second wave. Beijing and Wuhan, where the virus is said to have originated from, have experienced the same. In the absence of a life-saving vaccine, all stakeholders of Indian school education should seriously have a second thought about the safety of children. It is important when states like Haryana have resolved to reopen the schools from July onwards (in phases). Needless to say, India at present is the fourth hardest-hit country by the virus after the USA, Brazil and Russia. Let me stress on contradictions in the last year’s (2019-20) assessment and results. Though the new academic calendar year has commenced, few states are yet to complete their previous year’s class X (SSLC) and XII (PUC) examinations. For example, the education department of Karnataka is preparing a ground for the commencement of Class X (SSLC) examinations from June 25 and to be completed within 10 days. Karnataka just completed second year PUC exams last week (June 18). At the same time, states like Gujarat, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh etc, have already published their 10th and 12th board results. A few more states are expected to declare their board results by the end of next week. Similarly, Central Boards such as CBSE and CISCE are waiting for the Supreme Court’s verdict expected to be delivered shortly about the future of their X, XII pending examinations. The CISCE has given a novel option to their examinees of writing the examination or not writing it. The CISCE will make the result based on students’ internal assessment and its proportions. The pass mark for class X (ICSE) examinations is 35% (80% written examination and 20% internal assessment by affiliated schools). It is an untold fact that the affiliated schools normally award entire 20% marks for their own candidates in most subjects and 50% for a few skill-based subjects like physical education, computer application etc. Schools never share this assessment chemistry with the parents and students. They think pre-board exams and internal assessment conducted by schools are little tougher than the board examinations. A similar option was there for the CBSE students, that is, a school could go for school-based or board-based examinations. But the CBSE has discontinued this option. India has the second-largest student population in the world of 30 crore from 12 classes enrolled in about 16 lakh schools. Some of them are overseas students studying in Indian schools abroad or pursuing foreign curriculums like IB, Edexcel, IGCSE etc. About 71% of Indian students are enrolled in government schools (Central and state) or schools aided by the government. Private or independent schools in India draw the remaining 29% of schoolgoers. One-fifth of schools are located in and around Covid-19 hotspots or cantonment zones in cities such as Mumbai, Surat, Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Jaipur and Kolkata. It was on March 18 that the Central Board of Secondary Education rescheduled the remaining examinations for Class X and XII to later days. The number of positive cases reported in India as on March 18 was only 153 and the reported death toll was less than a dozen. The cases reported on June 20 was more than four lakh. For a single day, the figures are shocking - 14,740 cases and 365 deaths. This means, in the beginning, stage of Covid-19, schools were closed for summer vacations and were taken care of by their parents at home. Students from residential schools and international schools moved away to different destinations to join their parents. Reopening schools means calling these migrated students from different locations back to schools. Is such a step safe for the students? That brings us to the question – is 2020-21 a zero academic year or a gap year? Debates are happening across the country to declare 2020-21 season a zero academic or assessment year or a break (gap) year for formal learning and testing. Let the present distance learning or informal learning in isolation (online) continue for the current year until the right formula of a life-saving vaccine come up. This is the way most Indian parents, education activists, environmentalists and human rights activists respond to the question, “is it safe to reopen the Indian schools now?” (The writer is a former Principal and Inspector of CISCE Board, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-it-safe-to-reopen-schools-853401.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rape accused tests positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi; police panic||The 20-year-old accused, a resident of Dhuttargoan in Aland taluk, had forced himself on a 10- year-old minor girl at a village in Kalaburagi taluk on June 17 and was absconding.  Based on the complaint registered by the parents of the rape survivor, the police of women police station here arrested the accused on June 18. He was remanded to judicial custody after registering a case under the POSCO Act. However, the accused (P9372) tested positive for the virus on Tuesday evening.   Confirming the Covid-19 infection to the rape accused, Deputy Commissioner of Police D Kishorebabu said, as the police maintained social distancing and followed all safety measures, there is no need to seal down the police station. All ll staffs of the station will be subjected to Covid-19 testing, he stated.  Thirteen police including a sub-inspector of women police station have gone into home quarantine after the news broke. There is no need to panic as the accused was lodged in a separate barrack in the jail also. Throat swab samples of the rape survivor girl and her parents have also been collected and sent for testing, sources revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rape-accused-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-police-panic-853130.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||This auto rickshaw in Udupi is equipped with hand wash, sanitiser to fight Covid-19||The autorickshaw owned by Basheer Ahmed of Udupi has modified his auto to equip it with a hand wash facility and also a sanitiser dispenser. Ahmed, who owns two autorickshaws, has equipped one of the autos to suit the present situation in Udupi, which saw a surge in Covid-19 cases in the recent past. He is ensuring that his passengers wash their hands before boarding the vehicle. “A six-litre water tank has been fixed to the right side of my autorickshaw. While the hand wash tap has been fixed on the left side of the auto and the sanitiser container is kept below the fare meter,” said Ahmed to DH. “I am also taking precautions such as wearing a mask while at work. As several cases are being reported in the country are asymptomatic, we do not know who has the symptoms of the Covid-19 while boarding the auto to travel to various destinations. I also take several patients in my auto to various hospitals for treatment. Hence, I decided to take all preventive measures,” added Ahmed.  He turns on the tap himself for passengers to wash their hands, reducing the chances of contamination. “With this handwash setup, I intend to keep my passengers and myself safe,” he added. Having 25 years of work experience in the Gulf country, Ahmed had returned to his native one-and-half-years ago and purchased autorickshaws to eke out a living. He is the native of Rajiv Nagara in 80 Badagabettu in Udupi and passengers have lauded his initiative. “I want my fellow brothers to follow this initiative so as to take maximum precautionary measures to check the spread of Covid-19,” he said. “I use six-litre water per day for a hand wash facility. I fill water from the well after cleaning the tank thoroughly daily in the morning,” he explained. As part of practicing social distancing, Ahmed has compartmentalised his vehicle with a cloth screen separating the driver and passengers. “Presently, only my vehicle has this handwashing facility. I am planning to make this facility available in my other autorickshaw. Though I had to spend over Rs 1, 000 for modifying the auto, I have no regrets. It is for my safety,” he said with a smile on his face. Similarly, many autorickshaws in Mangaluru too have started keeping sanitisers in the vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-auto-rickshaw-in-udupi-is-equipped-with-hand-wash-sanitiser-to-fight-covid-19-853165.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||3 students cannot appear for SSLC examination in Belagavi due to Covid-19||A total of 3 students, 1 who tested Covid-19 positive and 2 in quarantine for being primary contacts of those tested positive, cannot appear for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination commencing from Thursday, while 58 students from containment zones will have to appear for the examination in the regular examination centre with separate room being made available for them in Belagavi Educational District.  SSLC examinations are going to commence from Thursday after prolonged delay due to Covid-19 crisis. A student from Kittur taluk who had arrived from Chennai in Tamil Nadu to attend the examination tested positive and has been admitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital for treatment and cannot appear for the examination, while 2 other students in quarantine for being primary contacts of Covid-19 positive patient from Ramdurg taluk cannot appear for the same. Deputy Director of Public Instructions, Belagavi Educational District A B Pundalik informed DH that the three students cannot appear for the examination. They could appear for the supplementary examination, one after recovering and two after their quarantine period. Among them, one Covid-19 positive is from Kittur and two in quarantine from Ramdurg.  A total of 58 students from containment zones have been allowed to appear for the examination of whom 44 are from Belagavi taluk, 3 from Kittur and 11 from Savadatti. Separate room has been arranged for them and N95 face masks have been made available. Students have been counselled and asked to appear for examination with confidence, he said.  All preparations have been made for the examination. Health screening of the students will be conducted at entrance. Students need to report to examination centre ahead of time to complete the procedures, Pundalik stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-students-cannot-appear-for-sslc-examination-in-belagavi-due-to-covid-19-853219.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Private hospitals reluctant to treat Covid-19 patients||Private hospitals, especially the ‘specialised hospitals,’ which are selected by the State government for providing Covid-19 treatment, are ‘reluctant' to provide treatment as they fear that their institutes do not have the required facilities to treat a Covid-19 patient. The State government, without consulting majority of the 22 private hospitals of Hubballi-Dharwad, have enlisted them for providing Covid-19 treatment. In the list, the government has included a few ‘specialised hospitals’, including eye care and cancer hospitals, which do not have the required human resources and intensive care facilities required to treat a Covid-19 patient. The doctors and management of such hospitals fear that ‘forcing them to treat Covid-19 patients would turn out to be a disaster’. Speaking to DH, HCG NMR Cancer Hospital Radiation Oncology HOD Sanjay Mishra said, neither the district administration nor the State government had any consultation with our hospital before selecting it for treatment of Covid-19 patients. 'Limited resources' “We have limited resources in terms of beds, and majority of them will be occupied by the cancer patients, whose mortality rate is much higher than Covid-19 patients. Cancer patients immunity levels will also be very low, and housing Covid-19 patients with cancer patients would only turn into a disaster for the cancer patient,” Mishra said, and added that treatment of Covid-19 patient requires pneumologist, intensive care experts, and other specialists, which is not available with the hospital. He also said that the hospital has only one entrance which has to be used by both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients. Similar sentiments were also expressed by Dr Shrinivas Joshi of M M Joshi Eye Institute. “Our institute do not have an ICU or ventilator facilities, which is a must to treat a respiratory illness like Covid-19. Moreover, 75% of the patients who come for eye treatment are either children below the age of 13 years, or senior citizens. Both are vulnerable to Covid-19,” he said. Several doctors requesting anonymity said, the government should have applied its mind before selecting the hospitals. No clarity yet Sources in the district administration and Health Department informed DH that the 22 private hospitals in Hubballi-Dharwad have been selected as a contingency plan, in case there is an outbreak of the disease. “As preparatory measures, these hospitals have been asked to stay prepared for providing treatment,” said District Health Officer Yeshwanth Manekar, and added that soon a meeting of all the selected institutes will be called to discuss the grievances of these hospitals. These hospitals will be asked to provide treatment as per the guidelines issued by the government. Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said, the patients will have the choice of selecting the hospitals for treatment, and even the private hospitals will have the choice to reject the patients if they do not have the required facilities. “Under the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, and orders issued, the government can acquire 50 per cent of the beds at these hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” she said, and added that at a time of emergency, even the private hospitals have to join hands with the government to provide treatment to the sufferings. She also said, the private hospitals will be asked to provide facilities only after the KIMS and other government facilities run out of resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-hospitals-reluctant-to-treat-covid-19-patients-853297.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||AITUC, CITU stage protest against fuel price hike in Hubballi||Members of All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and other organisations staged a protest in front of Mini Vidhan Soudha in Hubballi on Wednesday, opposing the hike in petrol and diesel prices. Submitting a memorandum to the Prime Minister through the tahsildar’s office, they stated that petrol and diesel prices are being increased continuously since 15 days, putting extra burden on common people who are already in trouble due to Covid-19 lockdown. “Union government should have controlled price rise, but it has maintained silence. Instead of extending better helping hand for unplanned lockdown-hit people, it is trying to loot money from them by hiking petrol-diesel price,” they charged. When the crude oil price at the international market is low, petrol and diesel prices are increased through more tax and cess in India. This would make transport and essential goods costly, further creating hardships for people. To increase its revenue, the government should impose wealth tax on super-rich, but should reduce the prices of petrol and diesel, they demanded. N A Khaji, Devanand Jagapur, Basir Mudhol, Mahesh Pattar, B S Soppin, Rajashekhar Menasinkai, and members of other organisations took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aituc-citu-stage-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-in-hubballi-853304.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Have to live with Covid-19, says Suresh Angadi||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said "We have to live with Covid-19, hence, there is no need for extension of lockdown in the state." Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Angadi said, there is no need for the people to fear or panic, but all should take necessary precautions to prevent from getting infected.  Covid-19 virus has been created to spread fear, he said without naming China.   Many epidemic diseases have been witnessed in the country earlier and we have been living with some diseases too. Covid-19 is not an infection that could not be treated, but we have to take precautionary measures like social distancing, wearing of masks and maintaining hygiene, he said.  Patients affected with Covid-19 have been recovering and there was no need to fear, Angadi stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/have-to-live-with-covid-19-says-suresh-angadi-853309.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||No closure of temples: Kota Srinivas Poojary||Muzarai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Wednesday said that there is no plan to close the temples again, in the wake of increase in Covid-19 cases in the state. Speaking to reporters here, the minister said that as of now, the government has no plans to close the temples in the state. The government has allowed to open the temples for the public darshan as a part of lockdown relaxation and it is the temple authorities who have to ensure that safety measures are in place. The devotees must maintain social distance, as a precautionary measure. However, the state and the Union government will take further decision in this regard. Poojari also claimed that Covid cases are on the rise in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada, as a large number of people from foreign and others states returned to the districts. The people who were under quarantine tested positive, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-closure-of-temples-kota-srinivas-poojary-853337.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC exams: Testing time for students, authorities||The Department of Public Instruction has made all arrangements for the safe conduct of SSLC exams, amid the fear and anxiety of Covid pandemic. The exams will be held from June 25 to July 4. SSLC exam, which was earlier scheduled to be held form March 27 to April 9, was indefinitely postponed, due to the pandemic. The district administrations will ensure that the students abide by the guidelines, by wearing masks and maintain social distance. The respective district administrations in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar have made all arrangements for the safety of students, by sanitising all exam centres. Each exam centre will have two Health department personnel, police personnel and volunteers from Scouts and Guides. The exam will begin at 10.30 am. However, the students are told to reach the exam centres before 8.30 am, as they have to undergo thermal screening. Around 21,257 students will appear for the exams in Hassan district, at 89 exam centres. Around 254 students, who had gone to other districts, in the wake of Covid, will write the exams at their nearby centres. Similarly, 501 students from other districts will appear for the exam in Hassan district. In Mandya district, 21,260 students will appear for the SSLC exams at 82 centres. All exam centres have CCTV cameras, and there will be no chance of any kind of malpractices, said DDPI R Raghunandan. No exam centre comes under containment zone. The students will be made to sit at a distance of a minimum of three feet. Each classroom will have 18 to 20 students. The students have been instructed to wear masks. In case, they forget or misplace it, additional masks would be available at the centres. In all, 11,839 students will appear for the exam in Chamarajanagar district, at 54 examination centres. While 46 will be main centres, eight centres are additional, in case they have to accommodate students with any symptoms. All centres will have speakers and awareness would be created through announcements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-exams-testing-time-for-students-authorities-853338.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Major markets to remain closed for four days||As cases of Covid-19 are on the rise in the city, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde ordered the closure of five major markets for four days, for sanitisation work. Devaraja Market, Shivarampet, Santepet, Mannars Market and Boti Bazar will remain closed from Thursday. Apart from sanitisation, marking of boxes, to ensure social distance, placing of sanitisers and measures for thermal screening for customers will be done during the closure. The markets will be opened after all the precautionary measures are taken. The commissioner said that the vendors in the market have to ensure the safety of customers and the trade licence will be canceled, if any of them fail to follow the guidelines issued to combat the spread of Covid-19. Mysuru City Police started to register cases against the people, who fail to wear mask and maintain social distance at public places. As per the guidelines, it is mandatory for every individual to wear mask and to maintain social distance in public places. Despite the warnings, people are reluctant to follow the guidelines. The police have registered 15 cases and have taken legal action against 19 persons on Tuesday. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta said that the drive will be intensified and continued until further orders. He asked the people to follow the guidelines without fail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/major-markets-to-remain-closed-for-four-days-853339.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||All safety measures in place for SSLC exam: DC||The district administration and Primary and Secondary Education department are all set to conduct the SSLC examination across the district from Thursday up to July 4. As many as 39,822 students have enrolled to appear for the exams, scheduled to be held at 139 centres.  Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “All arrangements and precautionary measures are in place to ensure the safety of students. The students and parents need not worry.” SSLC examination is important in a student’s life and thus, the government has decided to conduct it, following the success of PUC examination of English. Except for overcrowding in some parts, PUC examination was largely successful, the DC said.    The officials of the Education department, Zilla Panchayat, Police department, and Health department are fully prepared to conduct the examination. It will commence at 10.30 am and the students can reach the centres by 7.30 am. The students can sit in their respective place, soon after their arrival, he said. The Education department has deputed 2,700 staff members to conduct the examination and the centres will be open by 7 am. The authorities have made all arrangements to ferry the students from their houses or villages to their respective centre. KSRTC and private school vans will ferry the students. While 1,500 students depend on private school buses, nearly 5,000 depend on KSRTC regular route buses. Another 1,500 students have requested for bus facility and KSRTC will offer services. The transport facility for the students is totally free and department will pay Rs 5,000 to specially arranged buses, the DC said.    All 139 examination centres have been sanitised and all they will be provided sanitisers. Every student will be thermal screened before entering the examination hall. The authorities have procured sufficient thermal scanners and 40,000 masks are ready for the students. The Health department has deployed staff to take care of the students, Sankar informed. The students, with health issues such as flu or cold, will be made to write the examination at separate rooms. Each centre has special rooms, the DC said. The DC informed that as many as 22 students are residents of containment zones and all arrangements have been done for them. Such students will write the exams in separate rooms. Ambulance and private vehicles are kept ready to attend to emergency cases, he said. The examination centre from Avila Convent in the city has been shifted to Maharani’s Composite PU College as the convent is located at the border of a containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/all-safety-measures-in-place-for-sslc-exam-dc-853340.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shanthala Talkies in Mysuru to close permanently||Shanthala Talkies, one of the iconic theaters of the city, is history now. The contribution of the 44-year-old theater for Kannada film industry is immense and significant.   The theater was opened in 1976 and turned as one of the favorite talkies, not only for audience, but for movie directors and actors. Well-known Kannada actors like Dr Raj Kumar, Ambareesha, Vishnuvardhana, and Shankar Nag enjoyed movies on the screen of the theatre. The theatre is also a favorite for Yash and Darshan Thoogudeepa and Director Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar. Chandrashekar, who spent his student life in Mysuru, said, he watched many movies, including his own, at the theatre.    According to the authorities, the its lease period ended with Anathalaya Trust. The authorities are paying minimum electricity bill and other expenses during the lockdown. Besides, a few more theaters of the city, like Padma in Agrahara, are on the verge of closure due to various reasons, including the lockdown and after effects of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shanthala-talkies-in-mysuru-to-close-permanently-853341.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru district reports first Covid-19 fatality||Mysuru district reported its first Covid-19 death on Wednesday. An 83-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, succumbed to the virus, confirmed an officer. According to the authorities, the deceased is from K R Nagar taluk. He was undergoing treatment for respiratory complications at the private hospital for the last few days. He died on Wednesday, and the last rites were performed as per ICMR protocol. It may be mentioned that a man, who had recovered from Covid-19, died after being discharged from the hospital. Meanwhile, the district recorded seven fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. A member of the third gender community, aged 54, with a travel history to Maharashtra, and a family of three at Neelkant Nagar in Nanjangud are among the new cases. The district's Covid case count increased to 196. Of which, 86 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-district-reports-first-covid-19-fatality-853392.html
24-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt has failed to contain Covid-19,says Kumaraswamy||Alleging that the State government has failed to contain the coronavirus spread in Karnataka, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday appealed to the people to remain indoors to stay safe from the disease. In a series of tweets, the JD(S) leader slammed the state government for not making adequate arrangements to prevent the spread of the pandemic in Bengaluru and various parts of Karnataka. "The state government has failed to provide proper treatment for the coronavirus disease.There are inadequate beds and ventilators in hospital for just 3,000 to 4,000 patients. In this situation, voluntary lockdown is the only way out," Kumaraswamy said. The JD(S) leader requested people to stay indoors. "You can somehow survive if your lives are somehow saved. Your life in your hands," Kumaraswamy said. He said the only vaccine for the disease is to remain indoors and claimed the state government was also indirectly saying the same. Kumaraswamy said the poor and middle class will find it difficult to meet the rates in private hospitals for coronavirus treatment which has been capped at Rs 10,000-Rs 15,000. "If four or five members of a family get affected, it will require at least Rs 5 to 6 lakh as per the rates fixed by the state government. How will the poor and middle class afford it?" Kumaraswamy sought to know. Coronavirus cases exceeded the 10,000 mark on Wednesday with the addition of 397 new cases and 14 fatalities, taking the toll to 164 in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-has-failed-to-contain-covid-19says-kumaraswamy-853344.html
24-06-2020||Main Article||India, China's attempts to reset bilateral relations suffering from trust deficit||The India-China border after the June 15/16 killing of 20 Indian soldiers now resembles the India-Pakistan border synonymous with violent killings. China has, since the 1962 border conflict with India, periodically attempted to transgress into Indian territory which have led to violent patrol clashes most notably at Nathu La in 1967 and Tulung La in 1975. Clearly, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army aims to test the Indian Army’s resolve to cope with their intrusions.     The latest Chinese transgression in the Galwan Valley, to force its claim to a portion of the area beyond India’s Line of Actual Control (LAC), aims to dominate the area where India has built a 65-metre bridge on the Shyok river. This had reportedly triggered the confrontation with China which claims sovereignty over Galwan Valley. China’s larger objective is to assert its political stature through military means in Asia to make India subservient to Beijing’s terms. The three Asian countries that concern China are Vietnam, India and Japan. Interestingly, China has settled its land borders with all its 14 neighbours except India. The last major military standoff between India and China took place at Doklam for 73 days only three years ago. While the military confrontation was only visible over the land borders, there was a maritime dimension to this muscle-flexing with a Chinese naval detachment, which conducted live-fire exercises in the Indian Ocean in July-August 2017. In the 1990s, India’s response to Chinese LAC incursions was to sail a naval flotilla into the troubled South China Sea that rattled Beijing.     Earlier too in the Ladakh sector, they had had a face-off in 2013 in Depsang that lasted 21 days, and in Chumar, Ladakh in 2014 for 16 days. Even in the Doklam crisis of 2017, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson urged India to abide by the “1959 LAC” which was a Chinese term that India does not accept which implies the line till where   China exercised administrative and jurisdictional control. The reality is that, the LAC then was only a vague concept. In 1960, the officials of both countries met to describe their boundary alignments. It was not a success. After the 1962 war, the Colombo Proposals was that both sides pull back 20 km from the “so called 1959 LAC”   – it is not agreed upon by the two countries. In subsequent efforts after restoration of diplomatic ties between the two countries in 1976, efforts to identify a LAC have been made. This exercise has not met with success. Thus the LAC is neither described or delineated on a map and so cannot be demarcated on the ground. Former Indian diplomat Shivshankar Menon has explained in his book ‘Choices: Inside the Making of India’s Foreign Policy’ that the LAC was “described only in general terms on maps not to scale” by the Chinese. The LAC is the demarcation that separates India-controlled territory from China-controlled territory. India considers the LAC to be 3,488 km long, while the Chinese consider it to be only around 2,000 km. It is divided into three sectors: the eastern sector which spans Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim, the middle sector in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, and the western sector in Ladakh. Divergent perceptions between New Delhi and Beijing of the LAC creates problems along the border in every sector. Given that these are disputed areas both sides attempt to assert their administrative and military control over them. This results in territorial transgressions in the border areas between India and China. The historical background to these irredentist claims by China date back to maps of the Qing Dynasty from 1840-1919. Also, Chinese leader Mao Tse Tung’s Five Finger Theory, that Tibet is China’s palm and its five fingers are: Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh (earlier NEFA or North-East Frontier Agency), Sikkim, Bhutan and Nepal. The other aspect has to with India’s British colonial legacy associated with Sir Henry McMahon after whom the McMahon Line was named in 1914 where the two sides have minor disputes about the positions on the ground as per the principle of the high Himalayan watershed. While India and China ceased their hostile fire over the Himalayas after the 1962 war, patrol clashes take place at least once a year or more, along the disputed border especially over the last decade. The psyche of the Indian Army, which guards the borders with China, is scarred with the Himalayan humiliation of 1962 which breeds animosity and mistrust towards their Chinese counterparts. India’s earlier major military clashes with China were in 1967 at Nathu La. At Tulung La, in the Tawang region of Arunachal Pradesh on October 20, 1975, the Chinese ambushed an Assam Rifles patrol without and provocation killing eight soldiers, as a reminder to the 1962 war --- the day that China attacked India. In 1986-87, the two Asian neighbours India and China deployed militarily, but peacefully at Sumdorung Chu, also in the Tawang region of Arunachal Pradesh, which eventually led to summit diplomacy between then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping in 1988 in Beijing. Since the two countries signed the 1993 “Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas”, no soldier’s blood has been shed along their disputed border. Despite these, military stand-offs occur due to divergent perceptions over their shared borders, but largely driven by suspicion of the other’s intentions. India and China have attempted to re-set their bilateral relations through innumerable rounds of diplomatic dialogues during the Cold War through the 1980s and post-Cold War periods since the 1990s but have failed to do so due to trust deficit. (The writer is former Professor of International Relations and Strategic Studies, Christ Deemed to be University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/india-chinas-attempts-to-reset-bilateral-relations-suffering-from-trust-deficit-853400.html
24-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 24, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-24-2020-edition-853073.html
24-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 24||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 4.70 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 4,72,599 as of June 24 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 14,879   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 2,38,212  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-24-853075.html
24-06-2020||National||DH Toon: When US President Donald Trump endorsed Atmanirbhar Bharat||The United States brushed aside New Delhi’s repeated pleas and went ahead to suspend issuing of the H-1B and other work visas for the rest of the year – notwithstanding the bonhomie between President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-when-us-president-donald-trump-endorsed-atmanirbhar-bharat-853078.html
24-06-2020||National||Diesel now dearer as price hiked for 18th straight day||Diesel prices were hiked for the 18th straight session on Wednesday.  In Delhi, the petrol price will remain static at Rs 79.76 per litre. However, diesel will cost 48 paise more per litre at Rs 79.88 per litre.  Even in Bengaluru, petrol prices today will remain unchanged at Rs 82.35 per litre, while diesel will cost 45 paise more per litre at Rs 75.96 per litre. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or value added tax.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diesel-now-dearer-as-price-hiked-for-18th-straight-day-853089.html
24-06-2020||National||12 trainee sailors of INS Shivaji test coronavirus positive||At least 12 trainee sailors of the Lonavala-based INS Shivaji, one of the premier training establishments of the Indian Navy, have so far tested positive for coronavirus, officials said. The first case was found on June 18 and the infected cadet was part of a batch of 157 trainee sailors who had reported back after leave following the easing of lockdown earlier this month, a release issued by the naval station on Tuesday said. "With the easing of lockdown as per Unlock 1.0 in the first week of June, a batch of 157 trainee sailors who were undergoing training at this establishment and were on extended leave in view of the lockdown, reported back and all were quarantined for 14 days in one of the institutional quarantine facilities prepared in the unit," it said. One of the trainee sailors from the batch was found to be symptomatic during the quarantine period and tested positive for coronavirus on June 18, it said. "Further, all the other high-risk contacts who are staying in that particular quarantine facility are being tested as per the extant procedure and necessary medical support is being provided. A total of 12 out of157 trainee sailors have been found coronavirus positive as on date," the release said.  Since the infection is contained to one particular quarantine block, the possibility of the spread of infection to other areas/personnel of the establishment is negligible. However, all precautions have been instituted to obviate further spread, it said. All precautions, instructions and directions issued with respect to COVID-19 by the Government of India and the Indian Navy, from time to time, are being strictly adhered to, the release said. All personnel in the base are already maintaining the required precautions against COVID-19, it added. INS Shivaji is an Indian Naval station located in the hill-town of Lonavala in Maharashtra's Pune district. It houses the Naval College of Engineering which trains officers of the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-trainee-sailors-of-ins-shivaji-test-coronavirus-positive-853112.html
24-06-2020||National||TMC MLA Tamonash Ghosh who tested positive for Covid-19 dies at Kolkata hospital||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA Tamonash Ghosh who tested positive for Covid-19 died at a private hospital on Wednesday morning. According to sources in the hospital, Ghosh died following multi-organ failure. He was 60 years old. He is the first MLA in West Bengal to die of Covid-19. Condoling his death Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that Ghosh was with TMC since 1998 and has been a co-worker for 35 years. “Very, very sad. Tamonash Ghosh, 3-time MLA from Falta & party treasurer since 1998 had to leave us today. Been with us for over 35 years, he was dedicated to the cause of the people & party. He contributed much through his social work,” tweeted Banerjee. He has left a void that will be difficult to fill. On behalf of all of us, heartfelt condolences to his wife Jharna, his two daughters, friends and well wishers. (2/2)  “He has left a void that will be difficult to fill. On behalf of all of us, heartfelt condolences to his wife Jharna, his two daughters, friends, and well-wishers,” she stated in another tweet. Ghosh was hospitalized with Covid-19 for about a month. He did not pay much heed to his sickness in the beginning and was in a critical condition when finally admitted to a hospital. Hospital sources said that his condition was improving a bit but again deteriorated in the last three to four days. They also said that since Ghosh was diabetic it made his condition even more critical. Some of his family members were also infected by the virus but all of them have been cured. Recently the Chief Minister also ruled that Ghosh should have consulted a doctor much earlier. Earlier Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Bose tested positive for Covid-19. But he was cured and discharged from hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-mla-tamonash-ghosh-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-dies-at-kolkata-hospital-853118.html
24-06-2020||National||Rejected and ejected family: JP Nadda slams Congress over Ladakh face-off||In a stinging attack on the Gandhi family of the Congress, BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday said a dynasty and its courtiers have "grand delusions" of the opposition being about itself and stated that a "rejected and ejected" family is not equal to the entire opposition. One ‘royal’ dynasty and their ‘loyal’ courtiers have grand delusions of the Opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the the Opposition asking questions to the Government. In his tweets, Nadda said it was the time for unity and solidarity, and the "relaunch of the scion for the nth time can wait", an apparent dig at Rahul Gandhi, who has been aggressive in his attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his handling of the border row with China. Nadda said India lost thousands of square kilometres of land due to the "misadventures of one dynasty" and claimed that the Siachen glacier, where the Indian Army has a strong presence, was almost gone. No wonder India has rejected them, he said.' It is the Opposition’s right to ask questions. The All Party Meeting saw healthy deliberations, with several Opposition leaders giving their valuable inputs. They also fully supported the Centre in determining the way ahead. One family was an exception. Any guesses who? The BJP president posted a news report to back his assertions about Siachen. "One 'royal' dynasty and their 'loyal' courtiers have grand delusions of the Opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. The latest one relates to the Opposition asking questions to the Government," Nadda said. Though he did not directly name the Gandhi family or any of its members, the reference was clear. He said it was the opposition's right to ask questions and added that the all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi saw healthy deliberations, with several opposition leaders giving their valuable inputs. A rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal to the entire Opposition. One dynasty’s interests are not India’s interests. Today, the nation is united and supportive of our armed forces. This is the time for unity and solidarity. Relaunch of ‘the scion’ for the nth time can wait. They also fully supported the Centre in determining the way ahead, Nadda said. "One family was an exception. Any guesses who," he asked. Due to the misadventures of one dynasty: We lost thousands of square kilometers of our land. The Siachen glacier was almost gone. And much more. Targeting the Gandhis, the BJP president said, "One rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal to the entire Opposition. One dynasty's interests are not India's interests. Today, the nation is united and supportive of our armed forces. This is the time for unity and solidarity. Relaunch of 'the scion' for the nth time can wait."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rejected-and-ejected-family-jp-nadda-slams-congress-over-ladakh-face-off-853119.html
24-06-2020||National||Record single-day spike of 15,968 COVID-19 cases in India||India saw record single-day spike of 15,968 Covid-19 cases and 465 fatalities, pushing the infection tally to 4,56,183 and the death toll to 14,476 on Wednesday, the Union health ministry data said. The number of active cases in the country stands at 1,83,022, while 2,58,684 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the updated figures at 8 am. "Thus, around 56.71 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases also include foreigners. India registered over 14,000 cases for the fifth day in a row. Of the 465 new deaths reported till Wednesday morning, 248 were in Maharashtra, 68 in Delhi, 39 in Tamil Nadu, 26 in Gujarat, 19 in Uttar Pradesh, 11 in West Bengal, nine each in Rajasthan and Haryana, eight each in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, four each in Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, three in Telangana, two each in Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha and Uttarakhand. Kerala, Bihar, and Puducherry have reported one Covid-19 fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-single-day-spike-of-15968-covid-19-cases-in-india-853122.html
24-06-2020||National||Don't visit Puri, 'darshan' of trinity not allowed: Odisha DGP||A day after the chariots of Lord Jagannath and his celestial siblings were pulled in Puri in adherence to the Supreme Court guidelines, Odisha Police on Wednesday appealed to people not to visit the pilgrim town as "darshan" of the deities is not allowed. Lord Jagannath, his elder brother Lord Balabhadra and sister Goddess Subhadra are currently seated on their respective chariots and will be carried inside the Shree Gundicha Temple in the evening. No one is allowed to congregate near the 'raths' and the temple. In order to avoid any congregation, restrictions have been imposed in some parts of the pilgrim town, the police said. Odisha Director General of Police (DGP) Abhay said though the Puri district administration has withdrawn the curfew-like shutdown, some restrictions are still in force in a few areas. "In view of curfew in some parts of Puri, all are requested to avoid going to Puri today. It is again reiterated that Darshan of Trinity for devotees is NOT allowed," the DGP said in a tweet. Meanwhile, Puri Collector Balwant Singh has said barring some areas in Puri town, the restrictions have been relaxed across the district. He said the restrictions will remain in force where the chariots are kept near the Sri Gundicha Temple. It has been decided to continue the imposition of restrictions along the stretch from Badasankha to Matiapada bus stand in Puri town. However, there will be no restriction across the district, officials said. The administration had earlier imposed a curfew from 9 pm on June 22 to 2 pm on June 24 to stop the entry of people and vehicles into the district during the mega festival, in accordance with a Supreme Court order. In a message, Gajapati Maharaja of Puri Dibyasingha Deb has said: "In absence of general devotees, the world-famous Shree Gundicha Jatra in Puri was successfully performed by the extraordinary 'seba' (service) of the 'sreemandir sevaks' (servitors), the efficient arrangements made by the state government and the temple administration within a very short time and the cooperation of all devotees, especially in Puri town." Chief Secretary A K Tripathy, who has been camping in Puri along with the DGP and other senior officers, also thanked the servitors for their dedicated service and the people of Puri for their discipline. All the three chariots of the Trinity (Lord Balabhadra, Lord Jagannath and Devi Subhadra) reached Shree Gundicha Temple before time, he said. All arrangements were made within 12 hours of the Supreme Court allowing conditional conduct of the Rath Yatra in Puri, Tripathy said, adding that hardly any elaborate preparations were made earlier due to the pandemic situation. The team could convince the people of Puri about the importance of discipline to be maintained during the Rath Yatra, he said. ADGP (Law and Order) Soumendra Priyadarshi said the servitors' determination to conduct the Rath Yatra in a disciplined manner and the local people's cooperation helped in the smooth conduct of the festival. "The chariot pulling was totally done by the servitors whose corona tests were performed earlier. No police personnel or administration officials joined the pulling of the chariots," said Krishan Kumar, chief administrator of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-visit-puri-darshan-of-trinity-not-allowed-odisha-dgp-853135.html
24-06-2020||National||12 more COVID-19 cases in UP’s Shamli; total cases rise to 100||Twelve more persons have tested positive for coronavirus in Shamli district, taking the total number of cases to 100, an official said. District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said 12 samples tested positive for coronavirus in Shamli on Tuesday. The total number of cases in the district stands at 100, she said. Kaur said there are 49 active patients, while 51 people have recovered from the disease in Shamli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-more-covid-19-cases-in-up-s-shamli-total-cases-rise-to-100-853138.html
24-06-2020||National||India urgently seeks Russian missile system after China clash||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen and Henry Meyer  India is pushing Russia to speed up the delivery of a missile defence system as ties with China deteriorate following the worst military clash between the Asian nations in four decades.The request comes as China and India’s foreign ministers met on Tuesday in their first face-to-face interaction since a fight along their disputed Himalayan border killed 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops. India and China agreed to deescalate the situation along their un-demarcated boundary, Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said at a regular news briefing Tuesday in Beijing. Last week’s clashes -- along with revelations that China held 10 Indian soldiers in military custody for days afterwards before releasing them -- came amid rising nationalism stoked by both governments as they jostle for regional influence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keen for an early resolution of the border dispute as he risks a drop in popularity if the army suffers more losses. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov hosted the virtual trilateral meeting with China’s Wang Yi and India’s Subrahmanyam Jaishankar after Moscow emerged as a key player in thawing relations between the two neighbours. “India and China have every means to solve any problems that arise in their relationship,” Lavrov said after the meeting. “I don’t think that India and China need any help.” Yet another meeting between Defense Minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart in Moscow could prove just as important for India as it looks to increase its defence capabilities. They are expected to discuss the India-China border tensions and New Delhi’s desire to ensure unimpeded and early supply of military spares from Russia, long one of the country’s top defence suppliers. Singh plans to seek the advanced delivery of the Russian S-400 anti-aircraft missile defence system -- currently due in December 2021 -- and the purchase of Russian-made jet fighters Su-30Mki and MiG-29, people familiar with the details said. India and Russia signed the S-400 deal worth than $5 billion in 2018. Balancing Act The missile system will provide heft to the country’s otherwise antiquated air defences, while the additional fighters will boost the capability of the Indian Air Force. It needs 10 more squadrons of fighters to supplement the 32 currently in operation, said the people, who asked not to be named citing rules on speaking to the media. A squadron has between 16 and 18 warplanes. Defense Ministry spokesman A Bharat Bhushan Babu declined to comment before the meetings in Moscow had taken place. The US has cautioned India against buying the S-400 system, saying the purchase would have a serious impact on Washington-New Delhi defence ties. Russia’s current contracts with India amount to $14.5 billion, while with China it is about $2 billion right now, said Konstantin Makienko, deputy chief of the Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, a Moscow consultant to the defence industry, who noted it was unlikely Russia would expedite delivery of the S-400s as it did with Turkey last year. In that case, President Vladimir Putin made a political decision to send his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan systems that were already in production for the Russian defence ministry, Makienko said. “Russian military won’t be happy if this will become the routine. In the case with India, there is not yet a clear reason for expediting the delivery at the cost of the Russian army.” Maintaining Ties Russia hasn’t received an official request to speed up the supplies yet, an official with knowledge of the situation said, asking for anonymity as the information is not public. Even if India asks for it, it will be technically difficult for Russia to produce and ship the S-400 earlier than in 2021, the person said. For now, it’s becoming increasingly tricky for Russia to maintain good ties with both New Delhi and Beijing, said Alexander Gabuev, a China expert at the Carnegie Moscow Center. “It’s a very important test over all of Russia’s ability to balance its relationships amid growing dependency on China, which is becoming increasingly assertive and pushing its partners to choose sides,” Gabuev said. Still, India represents a key market and an opportunity for Moscow to diversify its relationships in Asia away from a reliance on China, he added. The sale of the S-400 and advanced fighter jets to India won’t spoil relations with China, said Igor Korotchenko, head of the Centre for Analysis of World Arms Trade in Moscow. “The Indian arms market is a top priority for us,” he said. “There’s no problem here for our ties with China”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-urgently-seeks-russian-missile-system-after-china-clash-853139.html
24-06-2020||National||Undertrial lodged in Balrampur district jail found dead inside toilet||A 30-year-old undertrial lodged in the district jail here was found dead inside a toilet on Wednesday morning, officials said. Jaipal, a resident of Tulsipur area who was lodged in jail since April 19 for allegedly killing his wife, was found hanging in the jail's toilet, they said. Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma said the victim's body has been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death and police is probing the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/undertrial-lodged-in-balrampur-district-jail-found-dead-inside-toilet-853140.html
24-06-2020||National||Mayukh, Samrat Choudhary BJP candidates for Bihar MLC polls||The BJP on Wednesday named its national media co-head Sanjay Prakash, better known as Sanjay Mayukh, and Samrat Choudhary as its candidates for the MLC polls in Bihar. Both are likely to be elected, given the strength of the BJP in the state assembly. Mayukh has been nominated for a second term by the party. Choudhary's candidature assumes significance due to the upcoming Bihar assembly elections. He is a Koeri, a numerically strong backward caste in the state, and his father, Shakuni Choudhary, is a seasoned politician who has frequently changed his political affiliations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayukh-samrat-choudhary-bjp-candidates-for-bihar-mlc-polls-853141.html
24-06-2020||National||Odisha's Covid-19 tally rises to 5,752 with 282 new infections||Odisha's COVID-19 tally increased to 5,752 on Wednesday as 282 new cases, included that of eight NDRF personnel, were reported from 17 districts of the state, a Health Department official said. Of the 282 fresh cases, 256 were reported from different quarantine centres where returnees were staying for preliminary observation and the remaining 26 cases were local contacts, the official said, adding that the contact tracing had been launched. Eight NDRF personnel, who had returned from cyclone Amphan restoration work in West Bengal, also tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 276 personnel of disaster response teams of NDRF, ODRAF and Odisha Fire Service have been infected with the highly infectious virus. The highest 76 cases were reported from Gajapati district followed by Ganjam (75), Khordha (26), and Jharsuguda (23). Meanwhile, the district administration of Ganjam in a notification said that all government offices will remain closed for senior officers for 10 days starting from Wednesday in view of the increasing COVID cases in the district. Ganjam district which has received the highest number of migrant workers since May 3, has reported 1,039 positive cases of which 680 patients have recovered, eight have died and 342 are active cases. Of the total 5,752 COVID-19 cases, 3,988 patients have so far recovered, 17 people have died and seven others succumbed to other diseases in different COVID hospitals, the official said. The state on Tuesday conducted 4,271 sample tests and the total samples tested so far is 2,35,627, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odishas-covid-19-tally-rises-to-5752-with-282-new-infections-853142.html
24-06-2020||National||In a first, diesel costlier than petrol in Delhi after 18 hikes in a row||Diesel price for the first time in living memory crossed the rate of petrol in the national capital on Wednesday when prices were raised for a record 18th day in a row. According to a price notification of state oil marketing companies, the petrol price was unchanged after 17 consecutive increases, while diesel rates were increased by 48 paise per litre across the country. Diesel now costs Rs 79.88 per litre in Delhi as compared to petrol price of Rs 79.76 a litre. Rates differ from state to state depending on the incidence of VAT. However, diesel is costlier than petrol only in the national capital where the state government had raised local sales tax or VAT on the fuel sharply last month. Petrol costs Rs 86.54 a litre in Mumbai and diesel is priced at Rs 78.22. In Chennai, a litre of petrol comes for Rs 83.04 and diesel for Rs 77.17. In Kolkata, petrol is priced at Rs 81.45 per litre and diesel costs Rs 75.06. In Bengaluru, petrol comes for Rs 82.35 a litre and diesel for Rs 75.96. In Hyderabad, petrol is priced at Rs 82.79 a litre and diesel at Rs 78.06. Traditionally, diesel was priced Rs 18-20 a litre lower than petrol due to lesser taxation. But over the years, the taxes have increased, narrowing the gap. The Delhi government had on May 5 hiked Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel from 16.75 per cent to 30 per cent and on petrol from 27 per cent to 30 per cent. Since the levy is ad valorem, the actual incidence has gone up every single time oil companies raised retail selling price in the last 18 day. The 18th daily increase in rates since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus in rate revision, has taken diesel prices to fresh highs. In 18 days, diesel price has gone up by Rs 10.49 per litre. Petrol price had risen in the past 17 days by Rs 8.5 a litre. The increase in rates since June 7 is the highest in any fortnight. When petrol and diesel pricing was deregulated in April 2002, oil companies revised rates every fortnight in line with the cost. They switched to daily price revision in May 2017 to allow cost to reflect instantaneously in retail rates. According to pricing data, the maximum rates have increased in any fortnight was Rs 4-5 per litre. Prior to the current rally, the peak diesel rates had touched was on October 16, 2018, when prices had climbed to Rs 75.69 per litre in Delhi. The highest ever petrol price was on October 4, 2018 when rates soared to Rs 84 a litre in Delhi. When rates had peaked in October 2018, the government had cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 1.50 per litre each. State-owned oil companies were asked to absorb another Rs 1 a litre to help cut retail rates by Rs 2.50 a litre. Oil companies had quickly recouped the Re 1 and the government in July 2019 raised excise duty by Rs 2 a litre. Taxes make up for nearly two-thirds of the retail selling price. As much as Rs 50.69 per litre, or 64 per cent, in petrol price is due to taxes - Rs 32.98 is the central excise duty and Rs 17.71 is local sales tax or VAT. Over 63 per cent of the retail selling price of diesel is taxes. Out of the total tax incidence of Rs 49.43 per litre, Rs 31.83 is by way of central excise and Rs 17.60 is VAT. The 82-day freeze in rates this year was imposed in mid-March soon after the government hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel to shore up additional finances. The government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each and then again on May 5 by a record Rs 10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. The two hikes gave the government Rs 2 lakh crore in additional tax revenues. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices to two decade low. International oil prices have since rebounded and oil firms are now adjusting retail rates in line with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-diesel-costlier-than-petrol-in-delhi-after-18-hikes-in-a-row-853144.html
24-06-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: 15 more BSF personnel contract Covid-19||Fifteen personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) have tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh's Kanker district, officials said on Wednesday. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in the BSF in Chhattisgarh has gone up to 26, they said. "Among the 15 new cases, reports of 14 personnel came out positive late Tuesday night, while another one tested positive in the evening, Kanker's Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Jagjivan Ram Uike told PTI. Out of these, 10 were kept at a quarantine centre in Bande village while the others were lodged at a similar facility in Antagarh, he said, adding that after their reports came out positive, they were being admitted to a hospital in Jagdalpur. With the latest cases, the overall count of infections in the BSF has reached 26 in the state. Out of these, six personnel have been discharged after recovery," a BSF official said. Out of the 15 new cases, seven personnel are from the BSF's 132nd battalion, five from 17th battalion, two from 82nd battalion and one from 167th battalion, he said. All the troopers had returned to their places of posting from different states, including West Bengal, Odisha and Bihar, after availing leave, he said. The BSF is extensively deployed in the insurgency-hit Kanker district for anti-Naxal operations. Till Tuesday, the states over the Covid-19 count was 2,385. These included 846 active cases. So far, the state has reported 12 COVID-19 deaths while 1,527 people have been discharged after recovery, as per the official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-15-more-bsf-personnel-contract-covid-19-853145.html
24-06-2020||National||Covid-19 testing should be widely available to all symptomatic individuals: ICMR||Expanding the testing criterion for coronavirus, the Indian Council of Medical Research has said it should be made widely available to all symptomatic individuals across the country. "Since ‘test, track and treat’ is the only way to prevent the spread of infection and save lives, it is imperative that testing should be made widely available to all symptomatic individuals in every part of the country and contact tracing mechanisms for containment of infection are further strengthened," it said in an advisory on 'Newer Additional Strategies for Covid-19 Testing' on Tuesday. In its revised testing strategy for Covid-19 issued on May 18, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had advised testing for all symptomatic Influenza-like illness (ILI) among returnees and migrants within seven days of illness. All hospitalised patients who develop ILI symptoms, symptomatic individuals living within hotspots or containment zones, and healthcare and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of coronavirus were also advised testing. The apex health research body has also advised authorities to enable all government and private hospitals, offices, and public sector units to perform antibody-based Covid-19 testing for surveillance to help allay fears and anxiety of healthcare workers and office employees. The earlier advisories on rapid antibody testing advisories had focused on areas reporting clusters (containment zones), large migration gatherings/evacuees centers, and testing of symptomatic ILI individuals at the facility level. Besides, the ICMR on Tuesday also recommended deployment of rapid antigen detection tests for COVID-19 in combination with RT-PCR tests in all containment zones, all central and state government medical colleges and government hospitals, all private hospitals approved by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH), all NABL-accredited and ICMR approved private labs, for Covid-19 testing. All hospitals, laboratories, and state governments intending to perform the point-of-care antigen tests need to register with ICMR to obtain the login credentials for data entry. "ICMR advises all state governments, public and private institutions concerned to take required steps to scale-up testing for COVID-19 by deploying a combination of various tests as advised," the advisory added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-testing-should-be-widely-available-to-all-symptomatic-individuals-icmr-853146.html
24-06-2020||National||Amit Shah must scrap rule related to Covid-19 care: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking his intervention in scrapping the system requiring every COVID-19 patient to visit a government-run center for clinical assessment. Addressing an online media briefing, Sisodia said he had written to Lt Governor (LG) Anil Baijal on Tuesday on the same issue, but the AAP government was yet to receive a response from the LG's office. "This is not a fight between Amit Shah's model and Kejriwal's model. We should implement a system in which people don't face problems," he said on Wednesday. The deputy chief minister said people were facing a lot of problems due to the new system and it should be scrapped immediately. He said the Union home minister himself was overseeing measures being taken to deal with the COVID-19 situation. The previous system should be implemented wherein teams of the district administration visited the house of an infected person for clinical assessment, Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-must-scrap-rule-related-to-covid-19-care-manish-sisodia-853150.html
24-06-2020||National||Modi govt has unlocked Covid-19, petrol-diesel prices: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took a swipe at the Modi government over the increase in fuel prices and the mounting COVID-19 cases in the country, saying it has "unlocked" the coronavirus pandemic and petrol-diesel prices. "The Modi government has 'unlocked' the corona pandemic and prices of petrol-diesel," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi also tagged a graph captioned, "coronavirus is not the only rising curve". The graph showed a steady rise in the daily COVID-19 cases and prices of petrol and diesel after the lockdown.  Congress has been attacking the BJP-led NDA government for increasing the petrol and diesel prices every day for the past 18 days after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. The country on Wednesday also saw the highest single-day jump of 15,968 COVID-19 cases and 465 fatalities, taking the infection tally to 4,56,183 and the death toll to 14,476, according to to the Union Health Ministry data.  India registered over 14,000 cases for the fifth day in a row and witnessed a surge of 2,65,648 infections from June 1 till June 24, with Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh remaining the top five contributors to the rising tally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-has-unlocked-covid-19-petrol-diesel-prices-rahul-gandhi-853154.html
24-06-2020||National||Plea in HC challenges ban on export of PPE kits||The Delhi High Court has sought response of the Centre and the AAP government on a plea by a private firm challenging the ban on the export of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and medical masks during the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva directed that the Delhi government be also made a party in the matter and issued notice to it as also the Centre seeking their stand on the petition which has claimed that there was a dearth of buyers for PPE kits and medical masks in the country. During the brief hearing on Tuesday, Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya and central government standing counsel told the court that the ban on the export of the PPE kits and medical masks has been imposed to prevent any shortage in the country.  They also said that according to the instructions received from the government, there is no dearth of buyers. However, the petitioner firm -- Thompson Press Services -- and other similarly situated manufacturers are wanting to export for making financial gains and not for the reason that there is any shortage of demand in the country, they said and sought time to file a detailed reply. The court granted them two weeks to file a reply and listed the matter for hearing on July 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-hc-challenges-ban-on-export-of-ppe-kits-853156.html
24-06-2020||National||Monsoon clouds reach Delhi, onset to be declared Thursday: IMD||Heavy rains drenched parts of the national capital on Wednesday as monsoon clouds reached the city. The downpour led to waterlogging and disruption of traffic movement in many areas and key intersections in the city.  "Monsoon clouds are at the doorstep of Delhi. A few places witnessed rains. As predicted, the onset of the monsoon in the city will be declared on Thursday," IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said monsoon clouds led to rains in parts of Delhi.  He said the onset of the monsoon will be declared on Thursday. Rainfall data from all weather stations for the last 24 hours ending 8:30 am is required to declare the onset, Srivastava added.  The Met department also predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in the national capital on Thursday. Normally, the wind system reaches Delhi on June 27. According to weather experts, the arrival of the monsoon in Delhi earlier than usual can be attributed to a cyclonic circulation, which moved towards southwest Uttar Pradesh on June 19 and June 20, helping the monsoon advance further. With rains expected over the next three days, the mercury is likely to hover around 36 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-clouds-reach-delhi-onset-to-be-declared-thursday-imd-853157.html
24-06-2020||National||Army Chief visits forward areas in Ladakh; takes stock of ground situation||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Wednesday visited various forward areas in eastern Ladakh and took stock of the Army's combat preparedness in the region in the wake of the bitter border standoff with China. Gen Naravane arrived in Leh on Tuesday on a two-day visit. The Chief of Army Staff reviewed the overall security situation in the region with Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Yogesh Kumar Joshi, commander of the 14 Corps Lt Gen Harinder Singh and other senior Army officials on Tuesday afternoon. "General M M Naravane #COAS visited forward areas in Eastern #Ladakh and reviewed the operational situation on the ground. #COAS commended the troops for their high morale and exhorted them to continue working with zeal and enthusiasm," the Army said in a tweet. Soon after arriving in Leh, Gen Naravane visited an Army hospital where 18 soldiers injured in the clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 are undergoing treatment. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed and 18 seriously injured in the violent clash with the Chinese military in Galwan Vally. The Army chief is learned to have directed the commanders to keep a high level of alertness to deal with any Chinese misadventure, people familiar with the issue said. The Leh-based 14 Corps is tasked to take care of the security situation along the Line of Actual Control in the Ladakh region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-visits-forward-areas-in-ladakh-takes-stock-of-ground-situation-853158.html
24-06-2020||National||India's GDP to contract by 5.3% in FY21, bounce back in FY22: Ind-Ra||India's economy is likely to shrink by 5.3 per cent this fiscal, the lowest GDP growth in Indian history and the sixth instance of economic contraction, India Ratings and Research said on Wednesday. "The disorder caused by the Covid-19 pandemic unfolded with such speed and scale that the disruption in production, breakdown of supply chains/trade channels and total wash out of activities in aviation (some activities have started now), tourism, hotels, and hospitality sectors will not allow the economic activity to return to normalcy throughout FY21," the rating agency said in a report. As a result, besides contracting for the whole year, GDP will contract in each quarter in FY21 (April 2020 to March 2021). However, the agency believes the GDP growth would bounce back in the range of 5-6 per cent in FY22 (April 2021 to March 2022), aided by base effect and return of gradual normalcy in the domestic as well as the global economy. India Ratings (Ind-Ra) said India's gross domestic product (GDP) will contract 5.3 per cent in FY21.  "This will be the lowest GDP growth in the Indian history (Indian GDP data is available from FY51) and sixth instance of economic contraction, others being in FY58, FY66, FY67, FY73, and FY80; the previous low was negative 5.2 per cent in FY80," it said. The government had announced an economic package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore (10 per cent of GDP) on May 12, 2020, to mitigate the adverse impact of Covid-19 and related lockdown. However, Ind-Ra's calculations, excluding the monetary measures and existing proposals in the union budget, show that the direct fiscal impact is only Rs 2.145 lakh crore (1.1 per cent of GDP). "The credit and liquidity enhancing measures announced in the economic package in combination with some of the earlier steps announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will certainly address the supply-side issues of the economy," it said. The Indian economy even before the Covid-19 related lockdown was suffering on the demand side, as all the demand drivers, except government final consumption expenditure (GFCE), namely private final consumption expenditure (PFCE), gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) and net exports were floundering. The lockdown and its impact on the economy and livelihoods only aggravated the sagging consumption demand. "Ind-Ra believes the government is aware of it; but, the near absence of demand-side measures in the economic package indicates the hard budget constraint facing the government," the report said. Ind-Ra saw PFCE contracting 5.1 per cent in FY21 (FY20: 5.3 per cent yoy) to reach a level lower than FY19's. Even GFCF will contract 17.6 per cent in FY21 and the investment revival will now be pushed beyond FY22 due to a combination of excess capacity, weak demand, stretched balance sheet of Indian corporates and budget constraints leading to reduced government capex. "The external environment continues to be challenging due to Covid-19 related restrictions coupled with trade friction and the protectionist policy pursued by many developed economies," it said. Ind-Ra expected merchandise exports to decline by 9.4 per cent in FY21 (FY20: negative 4.9 per cent), as all major export commodities would clock negative growth. Merchandise imports are expected to decline by 17.4 per cent in FY21 (FY20: negative 8.9 per cent). As a result, the trade deficit is estimated to decline to a four-year low of USD 97.7 billion (3.9 per cent of GDP) and current account deficit to USD 3.3 billion (0.1 per cent of GDP) in FY21. However, 1QFY21 may see a current account surplus. "From the supply side, agriculture is the only bright spot. Agricultural gross value added (GVA) is expected to grow 3.5 per cent in FY21," the rating agency said adding the Indian Meteorological Department has predicted the monsoon rainfall to be 102 per cent of long period average (1961-2010) in 2020. Ind-Ra expects the retail and wholesale inflation to come in at 3.6 per cent and 1.2 per cent, respectively, in FY21. "Fiscal deficit of the central government in FY21 is expected to more than double (7.6 per cent of GDP) the budgeted amount (3.5 per cent of GDP). The majority of the fiscal slippage will be from the revenue side," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-gdp-to-contract-by-53-in-fy21-bounce-back-in-fy22-ind-ra-853162.html
24-06-2020||National||Can't permit ICSE board exams in Maharashtra: State govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that the Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE) board cannot be permitted to conduct its pending standard X and XII exams in July in view of the current Covid-19 situation. The government said it has also decided not to conduct its own university exams for final year students in the state in the wake of the pandemic. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the state, told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde that the State Disaster Management Committee, under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, held a meeting on Tuesday where it was decided not to permit the ICSE board to conduct its exams. The state government cannot permit the conduct of ICSE exams from July 2, given the current Covid-19 situation in the state, Kumbhakoni told the court. TheICSEboard had decided to conduct its pending examinations from July 2 to 12 across the state after they could not be held in March due to the Covid-19 outbreak. A petition was then filed by city resident Arvind Tiwari challenging the board's decision, claiming that the number of Covid-19 cases was still on the rise. Hence, it would be appropriate to declare results based on gradation and assessment of the past performance of students in internal exams conducted by variousICSEschools, the petitioner said. The court on Monday directed the state government to clear its stand on the issue. Kumbhakoni told the court on Wednesday that the state government had similarly taken a decision to not conduct its own university exams for final year students due to the pandemic. The ICSE board last week told HC that it had decided to offer students an option to either take the pending exams in July or have their final results, in subjects where exams have not been held, determined on their performance in internal assessment/pre-board exams, results of which the board has already taken from the respective schools. The bench had then directed the board to present its methodology for alternative grading for those students who opt not to physically appear for the exams.  The board told the court on Wednesday that it had come up with a methodology, but similar matters pertaining to exams of both the ICSE and CBSE boards were pending before the Supreme Court. The ICSE board counsel Darius Khambata said the apex court is likely to take up the matter on Thursday, following which the high court posted the petition for further hearing on June 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-permit-icse-board-exams-in-maharashtra-state-govt-tells-hc-853166.html
24-06-2020||National||Over 73.5 lakh samples tested for Covid-19 in India till June 23: ICMR||The apex health research body on Tuesday validated the 1,000th testing laboratory, ramping up the capacity for detection of Covid-19 in the country. Currently, three lakh samples can be tested per day, an official said. "A cumulative total of 73,52,911 samples have been tested up to June 23, with 2,15,195 samples being tested on Tuesday," the ICMR said. Of the 1,000 Covid-19 testing laboratories, 730 are in government setups while 270 are in the private sector. This includes RT-PCR labs (557), TrueNat Labs (363) and CBNAAT Labs (80).   "However, in spite of these developments, access to testing still remains a huge challenge in a large country like India. There is a definite need to increase the outreach of testing by introducing rapid point of care diagnostic tests," the ICMR noted in its advisory issued on Tuesday. Also, there is value in conducting serosurvey with IgG-based antibody tests in certain situations, it said. In view of this, it is now suggested to include additional testing methods to improve access and availability of testing in various parts of the country, the health research body said. The real-time RT-PCR is the gold standard test for detecting cases of Covid-19 and the average time taken is around 4-5 hours from receipt of sample to getting the result. "The advantage of this platform lies in its accuracy of detection as well as the ability to run up to 90 samples in a single run. In view of the requirement of a specialised laboratory setup, this test cannot be performed at every district-level lab which does not have molecular virology facilities," the ICMR said. The TrueNat and the CBNAAT systems have also been deployed for diagnosis of Covid-19 in view of availability of customised cartridges. These platforms have widespread availability even at district and primary health centre levels as these are widely used for diagnosis of tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. These platforms have a quick turnaround time (30-60 minutes) but only one-four samples can be tested in one run, limiting the maximum number that can be tested to 24-48 samples per day only, the ICMR said. The ICMR recently also approved the use of rapid-antigen test for coronavirus infection that gives results in 30 minutes. It has recommended deployment of rapid antigen detection test for Covid-19  in combination with the RT-PCR test in all containment zones, central and state government medical colleges and government hospitals, private hospitals approved by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH), and all NABL-accredited and ICMR-approved private labs for Covid-19 testing.  It has also advised that the rapid antibody test for Covid-19 should be performed only for surveillance purposes, and not diagnosis, to help allay fears and anxiety of healthcare workers and employees. The IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of the infection once the individual has recovered, and these last for several months. It can be used to conduct serosurvey to understand the proportion of the population exposed to infection with SARS-CoV-2, including asymptomatic individuals, and to carry out survey in high-risk or vulnerable populations (healthcare workers, frontline workers, immunocompromised individuals, individuals in containment zones etc) to know who had been infected in the past and has now recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-735-lakh-samples-tested-for-covid-19-in-india-till-june-23-icmr-853180.html
24-06-2020||National||Govt appoints 116 senior bureaucrats as nodal officers for PM Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan||As many as 116 senior bureaucrats have been appointed as central nodal officers for achieving objectives of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, the government's ambitious employment-cum-rural public works campaign for migrant workers affected by the coronavirus pandemic. These bureaucrats of the level of Joint Secretary are drawn from different services, including the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Forest Service (IFoS) among others. “The nodal officers will work in close collaboration with state government officials and district magistrates/collectors/deputy commissioners as per the guidelines of the Abhiyaan, being issued by the Department of Rural Development separately,” an order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. It may be noted that the nodal officers would be required to discharge their duties through VCs, digital maps etc, details of which may be confirmed from the Department of Rural Development, it said. Madhya Pradesh cadre IAS officers Vivek Aggarwal and Hari Ranjan Rao have been appointed nodal officers for the state’s Bhind and Alirajpur districts. Aggarwal and Rao are posted as Joint Secretary in the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, and the Department of Telecommunications, respectively. IAS officer Partha Sarthi Sensharma has been appointed as the central nodal officer for Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi district. He is at present Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. Senior bureaucrat Abhishek Singh will be the nodal officer for Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh district. Singh is the Chief Executive Officer of MyGov India, the government's citizen-centric online platform. Subodh Kumar Singh has been made nodal officer for UP’s Ayodhya district. Singh, a 1997 batch IAS officer of Chhattisgarh cadre, is at present Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday launched the campaign to empower and provide livelihood opportunities in areas/villages witnessing large number of returnee migrant workers affected by the devastating COVID-19. The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan (GKRA) of 125 days will involve focused implementation of 25 categories of works/activities in 116 districts, each with a large concentration of returnee migrant workers in six states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. Public works to be undertaken during this campaign will have a resource envelope of Rs 50,000 crore. The 25 works or projects are related to meet the needs of villages like rural housing for the poor, plantations, provision of drinking water through Jal Jeevan mission, panchayat bhavans, community toilets, rural mandis, rural roads, other infrastructure like cattle sheds, anganwadi bhavans among others. The program will be a convergent effort between 12 different ministries/departments, namely Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Road Transport and Highways, Mines, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Environment, Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, New and Renewable Energy, Border Roads, Telecom and Agriculture, to expedite implementation of 25 public infrastructure works and works relating to augmentation of livelihood opportunities. A workshop through video conferencing is being organised on Friday, which will be addressed by the Secretary, Rural Development and secretaries of concerned ministries/departments, the Personnel Ministry order said. “All nodal officers are required to attend the workshop in which the tasks involved will be explained in detail,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-appoints-116-senior-bureaucrats-as-nodal-officers-for-pm-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-853181.html
24-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley: India, China holding diplomatic talks to ease border tension||India and China are holding diplomatic talks through video conference on Wednesday to explore ways to ease tension along the Line of Actual Control in the Ladakh region, officials said. The talks are scheduled to be held between Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs Naveen Srivastava and Director General in the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs Wu Jianghao, they said. The two sides held their first diplomatic talks in June. The talks are being held two days after Chinese and Indian armies arrived at a "mutual consensus" to "disengage" from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-india-china-holding-diplomatic-talks-to-ease-border-tension-853192.html
24-06-2020||National||Hetero set to deliver 20,000 vials of generic Remdesivir||Following the approval of Covfir, the generic version of Remdesivir, by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), Hetero Healthcare Limited is set to deliver the first set of 20,000 vials in two equal lots of 10,000 each. One set would be immediately supplied to Hyderabad, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra, a press release from the city-based drug-maker said. The other lot would be supplied to Kolkata, Indore, Bhopal, Lucknow, Patna, Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi, Vijayawada, Cochin, Trivandrum and Goa within a week to meet the emergency requirements, the release said. Managing director of Hetero Healthcare M Srinivasa Reddy said the launch of Covifor in the country is a milestone in addressing public health emergencies. Through Covifor, we hope to reduce the treatment time of a patient in a hospital thereby reducing the increasing pressure on the medical infrastructure overburdened ue to accelerating COVID-19 infection rates," he said. "We are closely working with the government and the medical community to make Covifor quickly accessible to both public and private healthcare settings across the country, Reddy said. Covifor is a generic brand of Remdesivir which is used for the treatment of COVID-19 in adults and children hospitalised with strong symptoms of the disease. The Health Ministry had, on June 13, recommended the use of anti-viral drugRemdesivirin moderate stage of COVID-19. Dr Reddys Laboratories and Hetero are among others which have separately entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with the original drug-maker Gilead Sciences Inc to register, make and sell the investigational drug Remdesivir in India and other countries. Remdesivir would be made in the company's formulation facility in Hyderabad, which has been approved by global regulatory authorities such as US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) and EU, among others, Hetero had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hetero-set-to-deliver-20000-vials-of-generic-remdesivir-853208.html
24-06-2020||National||Govt approves Rs 15,000 crore infrastructure fund for dairy, poultry and meat units||The government on Wednesday announced a new Rs 15,000 crore infrastructure fund to provide interest subvention of up to 3 per cent to private players for setting up of dairy, poultry and meat processing units.      A decision in this regard was taken in the Cabinet meeting, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.       "A Rs 15,000 crore fund has been approved by the Cabinet that will be open to all and will help in increasing milk production, boost exports and create 35 lakh jobs in the country," Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters.       Animal Husbandry Minister Giriraj Singh said that the new infrastructure fund is part of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package announced to help those affected due to the lockdown clamped to prevent the spread of COVID-19.     "For the first time, we will give interest subvention up to 3 per cent to private players for setting up of processing infrastructure for dairy, poultry and meat," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-approves-rs-15000-crore-infrastructure-fund-for-dairy-poultry-and-meat-units-853214.html
24-06-2020||National||Covid-19 pandemic may lead to 95,000 additional tuberculosis deaths in India: Study||The COVID-19 pandemic may lead to 95,000 additional tuberculosis (TB) related deaths in India over the next five years, due to disruptions to health services, and delays in diagnosis and treatment, according to a study published on Wednesday. The modelling study, published in the European Respiratory Journal, found that the Covid-19 pandemic could significantly increase the global burden of TB. It estimates at least 110,000 additional deaths from TB in India, China, and South Africa unless health services maintained and strengthened. The researchers from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) and Lancaster University in the UK noted that before COVID-19 outbreak, over 4,000 people were dying from TB every day. They estimated additional TB deaths and cases in China, India and South Africa over the next five years by examining the impact of various reductions in social contacts and on health services due to Covid-19. They hypothesised that social distancing might reduce TB incidence as Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacteria which causes the disease, is transmitted via droplets in the air -- similar to the coronavirus. However, even after taking into account this potential reduced TB transmission, the most likely scenario was estimated to result in more than 110,000 additional TB deaths, according to the researchers. In the worst case scenario where the impact of Covid-19 on health services is severe, this number could rise to up to 200,000 additional deaths, they said. The most probable scenario, based on the current information and distancing measures, suggests 6,000 additional deaths could occur in China, 95,000 in India and 13,000 in South Africa, according to the researchers. "There is concern that the Covid-19 pandemic is resulting in decreased TB clinic attendance, delayed diagnosis and treatment," said study first author Finn McQuaid, Assistant Professor in Infectious Disease Epidemiology at LSHTM. "This is especially so in low- and middle-income countries where health services, or access to them, might be substantially disrupted," McQuaid said. He noted that early anecdotal information from India, China, and South Africa suggests that the number of people being diagnosed and treated for TB has fallen significantly. The team measured the effect of these factors on TB incidence and deaths in these three countries which make up about 40 per cent of the global TB cases. The researchers modelled different scenarios with various implementations of social distancing measures and health service disruption lasting for six months to estimate the impact of Covid-19 on global TB burden. They found that if there is substantial health service disruption, such as a 50 per cent reduction in TB cases detected and successfully treated, there would be an increase in both incidence and deaths from TB over the subsequent five years, regardless of the level of social contact. However, if social distancing measures are minimal and there is substantial health care disruption -- based on 80 per cent reduction in case detection and treatment success -- the model predicts an 8-14 per cent increase in cumulative deaths from TB over the next five years. "We need to act now to ensure innovative approaches to people-centric TB care are the focus, so that the fight to end this pandemic does not overwrite the hard-won gains made against this disease,” McQuaid explained. "Given that health service disruption far outweighs the benefit of social distancing, it is crucial to maintain and strengthen TB-related health services during, and after, COVID-19," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-may-lead-to-95000-additional-tuberculosis-deaths-in-india-study-853215.html
24-06-2020||National||'Custodial death' of father-son duo sparks outrage in Tamil Nadu; HC seeks report||The death of a father-son duo allegedly in police custody in this district has caused a furore with the Madras High Court seeking a report on the matter. Shops in the district remained closed on Wednesday to protest the alleged custodial death of the two traders in Sathankulam police station, even as a judicial probe has been ordered into the matter. The Madurai bench of the High Court directed the police to submit a report on July 26 over the death of the duo. The relatives of P Jayaraj and his son J Fennix, alleged that the two, earlier picked up for questioning for keeping their mobile accessories shop open during the lockdown, were thrashed by the police personnel while in custody. Fennix was bleeding when he was brought to the prison, jail authorities said. Tuticorin Collector Sandeep Nanduri said the duo had been earlier arrested and lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail. While Fennix fell ill and died at the Kovilpatti General Hospital on Monday, his father died on Tuesday morning, he said. "There were complaints that they were killed in police assault..a judicial probe has been ordered," he said. On Wednesday, Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendi of the division bench directed the Tuticorin Superintendent of Police to submit a report on the deaths by July 26. K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran, IG South zone and Tuticorin SP Arun Balagopal were present when the case came up for hearing, although the court had directed state police chief J K Tripathy to appear, but he could not do so since he was in a meeting in Chennai. Meanwhile, the family of the deceased demanded that a murder case be registered against two sub-inspectors, since transferred, alleging they were responsible for the death of their father and brother. They said they had lost both the male members of their family. The relatives said they would not accept the bodies till their demand was heeded to, even as the post mortem was held at the Tirunelveli Government Hospital. Various political parties including the DMK wanted action those responsible for the duo's death. Party leader and Tuticorin Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi dubbed the incident as "violence" committed by the police and wanted action against two sub-inspectors for their alleged roles in the incident. In a series of tweets, she said their mere transfer to the Armed Reserve was not a punishment and added she had taken up with the District Collector the need to ensure stringent action against them. She also demanded that the state government provide compensation to the family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/custodial-death-of-father-son-duo-sparks-outrage-in-tamil-nadu-hc-seeks-report-853221.html
24-06-2020||National||TMC MLA suffering from Covid-19 infection passes away||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA Tamonash Ghosh who tested positive for Covid-19 has died at a private hospital on Wednesday(June 24) morning. According to sources in the hospital, Ghosh died following multi-organ failure. He was 60 years old. He is the first MLA in West Bengal to die of Covid-19. Condoling his death, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that Ghosh was with TMC since 1998 and has been a co-worker for 35 years. “Very, very sad. Tamonash Ghosh, 3-time MLA from Falta & party treasurer since 1998 had to leave us today. Been with us for over 35 years, he was dedicated to the cause of the people & party. He contributed much through his social work,” tweeted Banerjee. “He has left a void that will be difficult to fill. On behalf of all of us, heartfelt condolences to his wife Jharna, his two daughters, friends, and well-wishers,” she added. Ghosh was hospitalised with Covid-19 for about a month. He did not pay much hid to his sickness in the beginning and was in a critical condition when he finally admitted to a hospital. Hospital sources said that his condition improved a bit in the last three to four days but again deteriorated. They also said that since Ghosh was diabetic it made his condition even more critical.  Some of his family members were also infected by the virus but all of them have been cured. Recently Chief Minister also rued that Ghosh should have consulted a doctor much earlier. Earlier Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Bose tested positive for Covid-19. But since he promptly took medical advice and got admitted to a hospital; Bose made a recovery and got discharged from hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-mla-suffering-from-covid-19-infection-passes-away-853227.html
24-06-2020||National||Plea filed in SC for NIA probe into 2008 MoU between Congress and Communist Party of China||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking an NIA or CBI probe into 2008 agreements signed by the Congress party and the Communist Party of China, saying details of Memorandum of Understandings were not yet revealed, in violation of right to life of citizens. Petitioners advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha and journalist Savio Rodrigues, in their joint plea, sought transparency and clarify on the agreement signed on August 7, 2008 in Beijing for "exchanging high-level information and co-operation between them". The MoU also provided the two parties with the “opportunity to  consult each other on important bilateral, regional and international developments”. They named Congress party, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and the Union government as parties to the petition. This comes at a time amid tension between India and China as their troops were involved into bloody clash along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, leading to martyrdom of 20 Indian soldiers. They cited news report stating that there were about 600 intrusions and face-off on China's side of border between 2008 and 2013, making it all the more necessary to disclose details of the agreements. "Despite having a hostile relation with China, Sonia Gandhi had signed an agreement when it was heading the coalition government and hidden the facts and details from the country. The party, which passed the Right to Information Act during its rule, failed to be transparent in this matter which is of national importance," their plea said. They said the true spirit of liberty, equality, and fraternity could be achieved through medium of transparency and proper investigation, which could be achieved only if the agreement was investigated and secured by National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-nia-probe-into-2008-mou-between-congress-and-communist-party-of-china-853231.html
24-06-2020||National||Pakistan expresses disappointment over failed attempt to blacklist Indian under UNSC sanctions committee||Pakistan on Wednesday expressed disappointment over the failure of its bid to designate an Indian national as a global terrorist by the UNSC and hoped that the sanctions committee of the world body's top organ would consider its requests for sanctions on three other Indians. Foreign Office Spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said that Pakistan had asked the United Nations to designate four Indian nationals -- Venumadhav Dongara, Ajoy Mistry, Gobinda Patnaik and Angara Appaji -- as global terrorists by the UNSC 1267 sanctions committee in 2019. Islamabad, in its request to the UN, had alleged that the four persons were “financing, sponsoring and organising terrorism inside Pakistan by providing financial, technical and material support to terrorist groups including Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), Jamaat-ul-Ahrar and others”, Farooqui said. However, according to media reports, the US not only blocked the proposal and terminated it after Pakistan failed to furnish adequate evidence, it also told the UNSC members about terminating Islamabad’s proposal to impose the terror charge, which was on the technical hold last year. Reacting to the stonewalling of Pakistan’s efforts to designate the Indian national, Foreign Office Spokesperson Farooqui said: “We are disappointed that Pakistan’s proposal to designate Venumadhav Dongara as a terrorist has been objected to." “Pakistan hopes that the listing requests of other three Indian nationals will be given due consideration by the UNSC 1267 Sanctions Committee in an objective and transparent manner”. She further alleged that “these Indian nationals are now residing in India with impunity”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-expresses-disappointment-over-failed-attempt-to-blacklist-indian-under-unsc-sanctions-committee-853233.html
24-06-2020||National||Sheena Bora Murder Case: Indrani Mukerjea seeks bail citing coronavirus||Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, has filed a plea in a special CBI court here seeking interim bail citing the risk of contracting coronavirus. She is currently lodged in the Byculla women's prison in central Mumbai. The court had earlier rejected her four regular bail applications filed on medical grounds, while another one moved on the merits of the case is still pending. In her latest plea filed on Tuesday, Mukerjea sought temporary bail for 45 days citing the coronavirus outbreak and her medical history. The application claimed that given the increasing numbers of Covid-19 positive cases in the state there is no certainty when the trial or hearingfor bail (merits) will begin. It added that she has been in judicial custody ever since her arrest inAugust 2015 and she has been suffering from chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries. The application also said that she has suffered from blackouts time and again and has been on medication. Thus, considering her medical history and the guidelines issued by the high-powered committee, thecourt should grant interim bail to her, the application said. During the hearing on the plea, the special court on Wednesday asked the investigating agency to file its reply on June 26. Meanwhile, the special court also rejected the interim bail plea of Indrani's former husband Sanjeev Khanna, who is a co-accused in the case. Khanna had also sought temporary release in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Sheena (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by her mother Indrani, her driver Shyamvar Rai and Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. Former media baron Peter Mukerjea was later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sheena-bora-murder-case-indrani-mukerjea-seeks-bail-citing-coronavirus-853237.html
24-06-2020||National||Delhi High Court grants bail to AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal in extortion and suicide case||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted bail to AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal in a case related to extortion and suicide of a doctor, who used to run a business of water tankers here. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait granted bail to the sitting MLA of Deoli constituency after finding that he was no longer required for investigation after his arrest on May 9 in the case lodged in April 18 on death of 52-year-old, Rajendra Singh. The court also noted immediately prior to date of suicide, there were no allegations against Jarwal in the ‘suicide note’ and ‘diary’ recovered by the police. "Thus, it seems, there is no proximity and link in alleged commission of offence," the court pointed out. It also added that allegations of extortion of money for Delhi Assembly Election held in February, 2020 from all tanker owners were not complained by family members of deceased and those were required to be tested during the trial. The court also noted brother of petitioner, Anil Jarwal whose name was also mentioned in suicide note, has already been granted anticipatory bail on June 2 on the ground that there are different handwritings and no specific date of harassment mentioned in the suicide note. Since the trial will take substantial time, the petitioner deserved bail on personal bond of Rs 25,000, it said. The court directed that the petitioner would not contact or influence prosecution witnesses in any manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-grants-bail-to-aap-mla-prakash-jarwal-in-extortion-and-suicide-case-853268.html
24-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rahul targets Modi over fuel price; urban cooperative banks to come under RBI||In today's episode, Hetero Healthcare has said that is set to deliver 20,000 vials of its antiviral drug Covifor (remdesivir) for the treatment of Covid-19, the BMTC has tested more than 1,300 drivers and conductors in 13 depots, 13 Bengaluru hospitals have agreed to nominate one of their branches for Covid-19 care, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at the Modi government over the increase in fuel prices and all cooperative banks and multi-state cooperative banks will come under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rahul-targets-modi-over-fuel-price-urban-cooperative-banks-to-come-under-rbi-853269.html
24-06-2020||National||Transport Ministry to junk bulk data policy; To share reports on data of vehicle registrations, DLs||The Union Transport Ministry has decided to junk Bulk Data Sharing Policy and Procedure instead it will share reports generated on analysis of the data of vehicle registration and driving licenses, will be made available to stakeholders or the public in future.  "In the recent meeting attended by officials of the Road Transport Ministry, the Home Ministry and National Informatics Centre, it was decided to scrap Data Sharing Policy issued in 2019 due to possible misuse of personal information and privacy issues", an official in the Transport Ministry said. In future all data will be made available to any organisation as per Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, which is pending in Parliament, said an official in the Ministry. Instead of sharing bulk data with any company or organization on the cost basis, reports generated on the basis of analysis of the vehicular data available in the National Register on the portal will be shared for use of citizens or stakeholders, said the official. As per data sharing policy approved by the Ministry last year, the ministry shares the Vahan and Sarathi databases - which contain the details of registered vehicles, driving licenses in the country to any organisations with specific charges. Apart from law enforcement agencies, the data will be shared among firms like automobile companies, banks, financial institutions, insurance companies for specific charges. This was mainly done to monitise the data with the Ministry of Transport and state government mainly to help them to study on various iasues including  pattern of transport sector and impact on environment and purchasing capacity of public. However when policy was approved last year, several experts urged the government to relook the decision apprehending possible privacy issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transport-ministry-to-junk-bulk-data-policy-to-share-reports-on-data-of-vehicle-registrations-dls-853270.html
24-06-2020||National||India notified 24.04 lakh tuberculosis cases: Annual report||India reported 24.04 lakh cases of tuberculosis in 2019, an increase of 14 % of the disease burden over the previous year, the Annual TB Report released here on Thursday had disclosed. The increase in number of TB patients is significant as early accurate diagnosis if the disease and prompt treatment was necessary for eliminating the disease. The report, released by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan here, also highlighted the contribution of the private sector which had notified 6.78 lakh TB patients, an increase of 35% over the previous year. Vardhan said the collaborative efforts have helped reduce the number of “missing cases” to 2.9 lakh as against the 10 lakh missing cases in 2017. Due to easy availability of molecular diagnostics, the proportion of children diagnosed with TB increased to 8% in 2019 compared to 6% in 2018, the report said. It also highlighted that the provision of HIV testing for all notified TB patients increased from 67% in 2018 to 81% in 2019. The government had declared that it would make efforts to eliminate TB by 2025, five years ahead of the global target of 2030. “To end TB by 2025, expansion of TB services and addressing determinants of TB that are beyond health, through a multi-sectoral approach is necessary. All these efforts are yielding significant results,” Vardhan said. The report said that approved budgets towards the programme have increased substantially, from Rs 640 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 3,333.21 crore in 2019-20. “Expansion of treatment services has resulted in a 12% improvement in the treatment success rate of notified patients. For 2019, it is 81% compared to 69% in 2018,” the report said. The salient feature of this year is that for the first time Central TB Division (CTD) introduced a quarterly ranking on TB elimination efforts by all the states and UTs. Treatment linkage of drug-resistant TB patients, HIV testing of tuberculosis patients, nutritional assistance to in the form of NIKSHAY Poshan Yojana (DBT), Universal Drug Susceptibility Testing (UDST) coverage among notified patients, TB Preventive Therapy (TPT) coverage and financial expenditure are included in the assessment criteria, the health minister said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-notified-2404-lakh-tuberculosis-cases-annual-report-853281.html
24-06-2020||National||'Sansad TV' that integrates functioning of LSTV, RSTV, to have English, Hindi variants||A new 'Sansad TV' integrating the functioning of Lok Sabha TV (LSTV) and Rajya Sabha TV (RSTV) is likely to have two variants in English and Hindi with a "more focused" content, officials said on Wednesday. The LSTV is likely to beam programmes in Hindi while the RSTV is proposed to telecast programmes in English when the both the variants of the new 'Sansad TV' are not telecasting live proceedings of both the Houses of Parliament. The current emphasis on news programmes may go as the proposed Sansad TV's two variants will have to be "more focused and content driven and emerge as an effective option for the large number of viewers keen to know in detail about the functioning of parliamentary institutions and democracy, using such content as its USP (Unique Selling Point)". These recommendations of a six-member committee under former Prasar Bharati Chairman Surya Prakash and having Additional Secretary to the RS Secretariat A Rao and Lok Sabha Secretariat’s Ganpati Bhatt among others are presently under consideration, officials said. At present, three sub-committees are currently examining related issues like integration of technical and manpower resources of both LSTV and RSTV and space planning for relocation of RSTV. The committee under Prakash concluded that there is a need for two separate platforms to ensure live telecast of the proceedings of  the Houses and recommended an integrated channel 'Sansad TV' with two variants. Both variants could telecast "common content to a large extent" with the LSTV platform telecasting programme in Hindi while RSTV platform would do so in English. "Two language variants would enable better branding and increased viewership by overcoming the shortcomings associated with the present bi-lingual telecast format of both the channels," the committee, which submitted its report in February, said. The Committee also strongly recommended effective utilization of the available resources like relocating the RSTV from the Talkatora Stadium Annexe, for which huge rent is being paid at present, to the space available with LSTV in Parliament House and at the Mahadev Road bungalow. The panel under Prakash was set up in November last year by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla following demands that both the channels be merged for forging synergy and rationalising spending on them. The panel was tasked with examining all aspects of functional integration of the two channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sansad-tv-that-integrates-functioning-of-lstv-rstv-to-have-english-hindi-variants-853283.html
24-06-2020||National||Shiv Sena leader slams BJP for holding virtual rallies amid coronavirus pandemic||Shiv Sena leader Chandrakant Khaire on Wednesday criticised the BJP for holding virtual rallies at a time when the nation was battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The BJP has been organising virtual rallies across the country to highlight the Narendra Modi government's achievements in the first year of its second tenure. At one such rally in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions on Tuesday, Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had attributed the rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government's improper strategy for tackling the Covid- 19 outbreak. "The BJP should not indulge in politics at a time when the country is grappling with the pandemic. There is plenty of time left for that," the former member of parliament said. Reacting to Tomar's statement that half of all Covid- 19 cases and deaths in the country are from Maharashtra, Khaire said, "The pandemic is everywhere. The whole world is affected by it. The COVID-19 numbers are not only growing in Maharashtra, every state is seeing a rise in cases."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-leader-slams-bjp-for-holding-virtual-rallies-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-853284.html
24-06-2020||National||Indian military contingent participates in Victory Day Parade in Russia, makes Rajnath Singh proud||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said he was extremely proud that a 75-member Tri-service contingent of the Indian Armed Forces participated in the 75th anniversary of the Victory Day Parade at the iconic Red Square here on Wednesday. Singh arrived here on a three-day visit on Tuesday at the invitation of the Russian Ministry of Defence to attend the celebrations. "Attending the Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow today to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of Victory of the Soviet People in the great Patriotic War of 1941-1945," Singh tweeted. "I am proud that a Tri-Service contingent of the Indian Armed Forces is also participating in this parade," he tweeted. "Impressive turnout of the Tri-Service contingent of the Indian Armed Forces at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow is indeed an extremely proud and happy moment for me," Singh said in another tweet. The Tri-Service contingent of the Indian Armed Forces comprised 75 all ranks and marched along with contingents of Russian Armed Forces and 17 other countries, according to an official statement. The British Indian Armed Forces during World War II were one of the largest Allied Forces contingents which took part in the North and East African Campaign, Western Desert Campaign and the European Theatre against the Axis powers. This campaign witnessed sacrifice by over 87,000 Indian servicemen beside 34,354 being wounded, the statement said. The Indian Military not only fought on all fronts, but also ensured delivery of goods along the Southern, Trans-Iranian Lend-Lease route, along which weapons, ammunitions, spare parts for equipment and food went to the Soviet Union, Iran and Iraq, it said. On Tuesday, Singh called on Russian Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov and the two leaders held discussions on the bilateral relationship, regional issues, and reviewed the India-Russia defence cooperation. Singh also conveyed his greetings for the solemn ceremonies of the 75th Victory Day and congratulated the "friendly" people of Russia, specially the veterans, who have contributed to the common security of India and Russia, the statement said on Tuesday. The parade was reviewed by Russian President Vladimir Putin, war veterans and guests, including Defence Minister Singh. This year, 14,000 troops and several hundred military machines took part in the parade, including 30 historic T-34 tanks. Modern vehicles also participated, including AFV Terminator, T-72, and T-14 Armata tanks, 9K720 Iskander missile systems, and many other cutting-edge military hardware, Sputnik International reported. Planes and helicopters also participated in an air parade, with Su-25s colouring the sky in white, blue, and red - the colours of the Russian flag, the report added. President Putin congratulated the military and guests, saying this victory determined the future of the planet. Russia postponed its military parade traditionally held on Moscow’s Red Square on May 9 for a later date due to the coronavirus pandemic. On May 26, President Putin announced that the Victory Parade would be held on Moscow’s Red Square on June 24. He explained that this was chosen because on June 24, 1945 the legendary historic parade of victors took place, when soldiers, who fought for Moscow and defended Leningrad, who stood their ground for Stalingrad, liberated Europe and stormed Berlin, marc hed on Red Square. Singh is the first senior union minister to undertake a foreign visit in four months as international travels were restricted due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-military-contingent-participates-in-victory-day-parade-in-russia-makes-rajnath-singh-proud-853286.html
24-06-2020||National||Fake News: Sitaram Yechury referring to Chinese President Xi Jinping as his 'boss'||Furthermore, the tweet is not aligned with the profile picture as it should be.   CPI(M) called-out the misinformation on Twitter and wrote that Yechury had joined the platform on October 27, 2015. A fake tweet was shared on social media to portray CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury referring to Chinese president Xi Jinping as his “boss”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-news-sitaram-yechury-referring-to-chinese-president-xi-jinping-as-his-boss-853287.html
24-06-2020||National||Apple, other US goods from China held up at Indian ports: Sources||Apple, Cisco and Dell products are among the goods from US companies being caught up in India's border tensions with China, as Indian ports hold up imports from China, two sources told Reuters on Wednesday. Though no government notice has been issued, customs officers at major Indian port have held back containers coming from China, seeking additional clearances, government and industry sources have said. The move comes amid heightened tensions between India and China after border clashes last week that saw at least 20 Indian soldiers killed. The US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), a lobby group representing US firms, told India's commerce ministry in a letter dated June 23 that lack of clarity and delays could disrupt business and manufacturing operations. "Authorities have abruptly halted the clearance of industry consignments coming in from China (and perhaps other destinations) at most major ports and airports," USISPF said in the letter, seen by Reuters. "This will send a chilling signal to foreign investors who look for predictability and transparency," it said. The commerce ministry did not respond to a request for comment. Two industry sources said Apple, Cisco, Dell and Ford Motor Co products were among those held up. Electronics components of Taiwan's Foxconn, a contract manufacturer for Apple in India, were also affected, a third source said. It was not immediately clear which ports were holding back the goods. Apple, Cisco and Foxconn did not respond to requests for comment. A Dell spokeswoman declined to comment, while Ford said a consignment of auto parts was held up at a port in the southern city of Chennai and the company was providing information sought by the authorities. The delays come as India is restarting factory operations after a nationwide lockdown to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. Indian electronics and mobile industry group ICEA said its members had been told Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi Airports would have a new examination procedure for all consignments coming from China. Normally, goods for regular importers are cleared automatically, ICEA said in a letter to the finance ministry, urging it to intervene. India's finance ministry, which oversees the customs department, did not respond to a request for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apple-other-us-goods-from-china-held-up-at-indian-ports-sources-853298.html
24-06-2020||National||Centre opens up space sector for private companies; Creates new agency for hand-holding||The Centre on Wednesday opened up the closely guarded space sector to the private industry with the Union Cabinet approving “far reaching reforms” in the strategic area to boost private sector participation. The policy reforms will not only unlock the Indian space infrastructure for private companies foraying into the space segment, but will also open up “some of the planetary exploration missions” for the private sector, according to an official statement. For the hand-holding, the Union Cabinet approved creation of a new agency named Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Centre whose mandate will be to provide a level playing field for private companies to use the existing space infrastructure. It will also promote and guide the private industries in space activities through encouraging policies and a friendly regulatory environment. The new agency will function in tandem with the Department of Space’s new public sector enterprise New Space India Limited whose mandate is to improve industry participation in the Indian space programme. The government announcement, however, is silent on the proposed National Space Law on which the Indian Space Research Organisation was working for the last six years. Among other things, the law was meant to provide a legal support to private sector’s entry into the space programmes that comes directly under the Prime Minister’s Office. Space activities in India are completely under the government with the private sector serving as a supplier. In recent years, many proposals from private firms to launch satellites and carry out downstream applications are stuck in the ISRO for lack of policy and absence of a law. In contrast, private firms in the USA and Europe make satellites and operate launch vehicles for commercial activities, leaving the government agencies free for deep space explorations. These new reforms will allow Indian Space Research Organisation to focus more on research and development activities, innovative technologies, exploration missions and human spaceflight programme as some of the routine activities would be left for the industry. The private sector participation in the planetary exploration missions will be done through an ‘announcement of opportunity’ mechanism, says the statement. Greater participation of the private sector may also leave the government with an opportunity to slash its own budget as the industry may pick up the tab for some of the activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-opens-up-space-sector-for-private-companies-creates-new-agency-for-hand-holding-853301.html
24-06-2020||National||‘Will persuade our son to return if Jammu and Kashmir police proves he has joined militancy’||A day after Jammu and Kashmir police revealed that the missing scholar from Kashmir University has joined militant ranks, the family of the youth Wednesday rejected the police claims and offered they will persuade their son to return home “if police proves its version.” The family of Hilal Ahmad Dar, who as per Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar has joined Hizbul Mujahideen, protested at Press Enclave, here, saying they don’t accept the police claims. “Our son was never inclined towards militancy. We are not on the streets to fight but want him (Dar) to return home,” they said and added if the police claims are true then they should share his location with the family and “we will persuade him to return home.” Pertinently, Dar went missing a week ago while he along with his friends were on a trek to Gangabal lake in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district. His five other friends returned home on the same day. However, he didn't return and has been missing since then. After a week, the Kashmir police chief on Tuesday stated Dar has joined the Hizbul-Mujahideen outfit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-persuade-our-son-to-return-if-jammu-and-kashmir-police-proves-he-has-joined-militancy-853307.html
24-06-2020||National||With precautions in place, Goa Churches set to re-open||After nearly four months of closure, Goa’s Churches will soon open for prayer services, with the state’s Archbishop laying down strict guidelines for re-opening of individual church premises.  According to an advisory issued by the Archbishop of Goa Filipe Neri Ferrao, churches located Covid-19 containment zones or buffer zones, will not be allowed to open for safety reasons.  The circular issued by the Goa Church has laid down a series of cautionary steps which local parish priests are directed to follow before opening up of the Church premises for religious services. According to the advisory issued by the Archbishop, visitors to the Church would only be allowed to enter after undergoing examination with a contactless thermometer.  “Hand sanitizers should be available for the use of the faithful. Holy water stoups or fonts are kept dry,” the advisory states.  Priests have also been directed to appoint volunteers to ensure that social distancing norms and hygiene standards are maintained in the Church premises.   “The priest in charge is to make sure that thorough cleanliness and disinfection of the sacred place and of the surrounding premises have been carried out and can be assured to be undertaken regularly. The place of worship is well ventilated.The seating arrangement with physical distancing of six feet is marked out,” the advisory also states.  Individual parish priests have also been asked to petition the state Diocesan Society in writing, after putting proper infrastructure in place.  “On receipt of the petition, the Diocesan Authority will send his delegate for an on-site inspection and will grant the requested permission only if he is satisfied that the church/chapel/shrine can in fact comply with all the requirements,” the advisory states.  Catholics account for nearly 26 per cent of the state’s population of 1.5 million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-precautions-in-place-goa-churches-set-to-re-open-853315.html
24-06-2020||National||Jammu & Kashmir records 186 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 6422||Jammu and Kashmir reported 186 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory (UT) to 6422.  The new cases include several security forces personnel stationed in Kashmir and those returning to join their duties. 32 travelers also tested positive for the novel coronavirus and till date, out of the 6422 cases reported from J&K, 2120 are travelers. Officials said among new cases 28 were from Jammu while 158 were from the valley. Fresh cases were reported from all 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the tally in the division to 4998, out of which 2900 have recovered so-far. The highest jump in Kashmir was in Baramulla with 37 new cases, while Shopian recorded 35 new cases followed by Srinagar and Kupwara with 29 and 22 cases respectively. In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in eight of the 10 districts taking the division’s tally to 1424 out of which 918 have recovered. The highest jump in the division was recorded in Rajouri district with eight cases, all with travel histories followed by Jammu with seven new cases. Earlier in the day, a 48-year-old woman from Srinagar, who had contracted Covid-19, passed away at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, taking the overall death toll due to novel coronavirus in J&K to 88. Srinagar with 21 deaths has the highest fatalities followed by Baramulla (13), Kulgam (11), Shopian (10), Jammu (7), six each in Budgam and Anantnag, Kupwara five, Pulwama four while one death each has been reported from Bandipora, Doda, Udhampur and Rajouri districts. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 500 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 335. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, the Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-kashmir-records-186-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-6422-853316.html
24-06-2020||National||Daily coronavirus tests breach 2-lakh mark: ICMR||Over 73.5 lakh samples have been tested for Covid-19, of which 2.15 lakh were done on Tuesday, the highest in a day since the beginning of the pandemic, ICMR officials said on Wednesday. The apex health research body on Tuesday validated the 1,000th testing laboratory, ramping up the capacity for detection of Covid-19 in the country. Currently, three lakh samples can be tested per day, an official said. "A cumulative total of 73,52,911 samples have been tested up to June 23, with 2,15,195 samples being tested on Tuesday," the apex health research body said. Of the 2,15,195 tests conducted on Tuesday, 1,71,587 were done in government laboratories and 43,608 in private ones, the Union health ministry said, adding the private facilities have also reached the highest per-day sampling with this quantity. Of the 1,000 Covid-19 testing laboratories, 730 are in government setups while 270 are in the private sector. This includes 557 RT-PCR labs, 363 TrueNat Labs and 80 CBNAAT Lab.  "However, in spite of these developments, access to testing still remains a huge challenge in a large country like India. There is a definite need to increase the outreach of testing by introducing rapid point of care diagnostic tests," the ICMR noted in its advisory issued on Tuesday. Also, sero survey with IgG-based antibody tests can be conducted in certain situations, officials said. It is now suggested to include additional testing methods to improve access and availability of testing in various parts of the country, the health research body said. The real-time RT-PCR is the gold standard test for detecting cases of Covid-19 and the average time between receipt of sample and getting the result is around four to five hours. "The advantage of this platform lies in its accuracy of detection as well as ability to run up to 90 samples in a single run. In view of the requirement of a specialised laboratory setup, this test cannot be performed at every district-level lab which does not have molecular virology facilities," the ICMR said. The TrueNat and the CBNAAT systems have also been deployed for diagnosis of Covid-19 in view of availability of customised cartridges. These platforms have widespread availability even at district and primary health centre-levels as these are widely used for diagnosis of tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. These platforms have a quick turnaround time (30-60 minutes) but only one-four samples can be tested in one run, limiting the maximum number that can be tested to 24-48 samples per day only, the ICMR said. The ICMR recently also approved the use of rapid-antigen test for coronavirus infection that gives results in 30 minutes. It has recommended deployment of rapid antigen detection test for Covid-19 in combination with the RT-PCR test in all containment zones, central and state government medical colleges and government hospitals, private hospitals approved by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH), and all NABL-accredited and ICMR-approved private labs for Covid-19 testing.  The apex health research body has also advised that the rapid antibody test for Covid-19 should be performed only for surveillance purposes, and not diagnosis, to help allay fears and anxiety of healthcare workers and employees. IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of the infection once the individual has recovered, and these last for several months. It can be used to conduct serosurvey to understand the proportion of the population exposed to infection with SARS-CoV-2, including asymptomatic individuals, and to carry out survey in high-risk or vulnerable populations (healthcare workers, frontline workers, immunocompromised individuals, individuals in containment zones etc) to know who had been infected in the past and has now recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-coronavirus-tests-breach-2-lakh-mark-icmr-853318.html
24-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley: India asks China to strictly respect, observe its Line of Acutal Control||China’s border troops must strictly respect and observe its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India, New Delhi conveyed to Beijing on Wednesday, as the senior diplomats of the two nations held a video-conference to resolve the stand-off in eastern Ladakh. India conveyed to China its concerns over the more-than-seven-week-long military stand-off along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh, particularly the “premeditated” attack by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the Indian Army soldiers at Galwan Valley on June 15. New Delhi and Beijing on Wednesday activated the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on Border Affairs, which was instituted in 2013 to open a channel of communication between the diplomats of the two nations to avert flashpoints along the disputed India-China boundary. Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), led the delegation of the Government of India in the video-conference. The delegation of the Chinese Government was led by Hong Liang, the Director General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “The two sides discussed in detail the developments in the India-China border areas in particular the situation in eastern Ladakh,” the MEA stated in a press release. “The Indian side conveyed its concerns on the recent developments in eastern Ladakh, including on the violent face off in Galwan Valley area on June 15 that had resulted in casualties. In this regard, it was emphasized that both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control.” The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash with the Chinese PLA at Galwan Valley. The PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the numbers of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the incident. New Delhi and Beijing on Wednesday sought to build on the consensus reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, during a conversation they had over phone on June 17 – two days after the clash at Galwan Valley. The diplomats of the two nations “reaffirmed that both sides should sincerely implement the understanding on disengagement and de-escalation that was reached” during the meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on June 6. They agreed that expeditious implementation of the understanding reached during the meeting between senior military officials in accordance with the bilateral agreements and the protocols would help ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas and the development of broader relationship between the two countries. They also took note of the discussions in the second meeting of the Corps Commanders of the two armies on June 22. New Delhi and Beijing also agreed to maintain communication both at diplomatic and military levels, including under the WMCC framework, to “resolve the existing situation peacefully”, the MEA stated after the video-conference. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government said that its diplomats had exchanged "frank and in-depth views" with their counterparts in New Delhi on the recent border situation. It also said that two sides had agreed to strictly abide by important consensus Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping had reached during their informal summits at Wuhan and Chennai in April 2018 and November 2019 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-india-asks-china-to-strictly-respect-observe-its-line-of-acutal-control-853324.html
24-06-2020||National||Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh: First 5,000 cases in three months, but a fortnight for another 5,000||Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh have crossed the 10,000 mark, with a record high of 497 cases added on Wednesday. The state has confirmed its first case on 12 March from Nellore – of an Italy returned young man. The cases surpassed the 1000 point on 25 April and breached the 5,000 mark on 9 June. Thus, while it took 90 days for the first 5,000 cases, the later 5,000 were added in just 15 days - i.e. the cases doubled in one sixth of the duration it took before to reach the 5,000 mark, an analysis by DH shows. As of Wednesday morning, the total novel coronavirus infections in AP stand at 10,331. Out of this, 1,661 are those who had returned home from other states after the inter-state travel restrictions were eased last month. While active cases are 5,423, the total dead till now are 129. The state with 53.4 million population has so far conducted 7,50,234 tests, with an average of 14,049 tests per a million of population – one of the highest testing figures in the country. The positivity rate is 1.38 percent, recovery is 46.26 percent and mortality at 1.25 percent, health officials said. According to the Covid-19 nodal officers, the state has on Tuesday tested a record 36,047 samples, which revealed the highest number of positive cases in 24 hours – 497. The highest single day deaths were also on Tuesday – 10. Kurnool, which is worst hit by the pandemic, is at the top in the district wise Covid-19 charts with 1483 cases and 42 deaths. Krishna and Anantapuram are two more districts with over 1,000 cases. The Jaganmohan Reddy government took a preemptive approach in controlling the pandemic. After a few rounds of surveys to identify the infected at the earliest, the CM has now ordered the health department to carry out a comprehensive screening of all households in the state within 90 days for further detection of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-in-andhra-pradesh-first-5000-cases-in-three-months-but-a-fortnight-for-another-5000-853325.html
24-06-2020||National||Amit Shah congratulates PM Narendra Modi for cabinet's 'landmark decisions' on welfare of poor, strengthening economy||Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Union Cabinet's several "landmark decisions" which he said were "yet another manifestation" of the Central government's commitment towards self-reliance, welfare of poor and strengthening the economy in challenging times. In a series of tweets, Shah said to further strengthen the Modi government's efforts towards an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India), the union cabinet has approved Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund worth Rs 15,000 crore. "This enormous boost to the dairy sector will surely surge employment, increase milk productivity and exports," he said. The home minister said the private sector participation in space research activities has also been approved by the Modi government and this historic reform will unlock India's true space potential. "IN-SPACe will accelerate growth of the space sector by promoting and guiding private industries in space activities," he said. Shah said to alleviate financial stress of Shishu loan borrowers under Mudra Yojana, the union cabinet has approved 2 per cent interest subsidy for a period of 12 months for eligible borrowers. "This will provide a huge relief to small businesses which have been adversely affected by Covid," he said. The home minister said the cabinet has also approved an Ordinance to bring 1,482 urban cooperative and 58 multi-state cooperative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India and this will give an assurance to the bank depositors and boost their trust in the formal banking system by protecting their hard-earned money. "I thank and congratulate PM Shri @narendramodi ji, as cabinet today approved several landmark decisions. These decisions are yet another manifestation of Modi government's commitment towards self-reliance, the welfare of poor and strengthening the economy in these challenging times," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-congratulates-pm-narendra-modi-for-cabinets-landmark-decisions-on-welfare-of-poor-strengthening-economy-853328.html
24-06-2020||National||China, India agree to 'strictly abide' by important consensus reached by their leaders: Statement||China and India on Wednesday agreed to "strictly abide" by the important consensus reached by their leaders and a series of agreements, further strengthen the confidence-building measures in the military field and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas, the Chinese foreign ministry said. The senior diplomats of the two countries held "candid and in-depth" talks through video conference to explore ways to ease the tension along the Line of Actual Control in the eastern Ladakh region after the armies of the two countries clashed on June 15. The talks were held between Director General Hong Liang of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Joint Secretary (East Asia) at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Naveen Srivastava. "The two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on the recent china-India border situation and expressed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the foreign ministers of the two countries during their phone call on June 17," a statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said here. The two sides will actively cooperate with the militaries of the two countries to implement the outcomes of the two rounds of military-level talks on June 6 and June 22. The two sides agreed to strengthen communication and coordination through military and diplomatic channels and peacefully resolve relevant issues in border areas through bilateral dialogue and consultation, it said. "The two sides agreed to strictly abide by the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and a series of agreements signed by the two sides, further strengthen confidence-building measures in the military field and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border areas," the statement said. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Border Affairs between China and India was also attended by representatives from the foreign affairs, defence, immigration and other departments of the two countries. The talks took place two days after Chinese and Indian armies arrived at a "mutual consensus" to "disengage" from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. On June 15, the violent clashes in Galwan Valley left 20 Indian Army personnel dead, significantly escalating the already volatile situation in the region. Though Beijing has not revealed its casualty figure, the official media editorials have said that China too suffered casualties. The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso. The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions, and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the border row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-india-agree-to-strictly-abide-by-important-consensus-reached-by-their-leaders-statement-853334.html
24-06-2020||National||China will claim entire Ladakh if GoI fails to stop incursions: Ex-BJP leader||A former BJP leader and an ex-minister from Ladakh on Wednesday warned that China will claim sovereignty over the whole Union Territory, if the government of India fails to take measures to stop neighboring country’s incursions. Chering Dorjay, who was minister for Cooperatives and Ladakh Affairs in the previous PDP-BJP government in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, said China's sovereignty claim over Galwan Valley will have a major setback and impact over both the government and the local population. “If China agrees to go back to the earlier position it will be good and if it doesn’t then it will be a problem for India. Strategically it will be a huge setback if China claims sovereignty of Galwan Valley and if we lose the territory it will affect the local population as well,” he was quoted by a local news gathering agency as saying. Highlighting the importance of the Galwan Valley, Dorjay, who quit the BJP in April this year, said if China continues its aggressiveness then there will be a day when it will claim the entire Union Territory of Ladakh and “we can't predict what exactly will happen.” Asked about the steps initiated by New Delhi on ground level to push China back, he said, “Since the Chinese army started incursion, India has started a build-up now and India is also at a better position than China.” He said the government is taking measures and only time will tell whether they will succeed in it or not. Dorjey had quit the BJP in April this year, alleging that the Saffron party leadership was “ignoring concerns” of the people of Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-will-claim-entire-ladakh-if-goi-fails-to-stop-incursions-ex-bjp-leader-853342.html
24-06-2020||National||Congress fields Tariq Anwar for Bihar MLC polls||Congress on Wednesday fielded former Union Minister Tariq Anwar as its candidate for the legislative council elections in Bihar. Anwar, a close confidant of former Prime Minister late Rajiv Gandhi, had quit the Congress to form the Nationalist Congress Party with Sharad Pawar in 1999. Anwar returned to the Congress ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year. He contested the Katihar Lok Sabha seat unsuccessfully. Elections for the nine vacant MLC seats in Bihar will be held on July 6. The last date for filing nominations is on Thursday, June 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-fields-tariq-anwar-for-bihar-mlc-polls-853346.html
24-06-2020||National||India not war-monger but will not settle for 'peace of graveyard': Ram Madhav||The border conflict with China is partly due to India's assertion of "ownership" of its territory, BJP general secretary Ram Madhav said on Wednesday, holding that the analysis that China's recent aggression is meant to tell US President Donald Trump that it can do anything with its close ally is "valid". Participating in an interactive session on the 'India-China border issue' organised by RSS-affiliated weekly Panchjanya, he said India is not war-monger but will not settle for "peace of the graveyard". "We want peace but we don't want peace of the graveyard, we want peace with self-respect," he said. The neighbouring country has long followed a strategy of nibbling away into Indian territory, Madhav said, adding that earlier governments often did not assert the country's claim over the territory that India believed to be on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "Now we are insisting on our ownership of the LAC as we perceive. We insist on our claims on the ground. This has been our policy. We are not letting them get away with construction in areas which we believe to be our territory. Now we do not turn around. We confront and push back," he said, speaking of the assertive policy of the Modi government. China has border problems with 13-14 countries, and it believes in gaining territory with an element of "deception" while without waging a war, Madhav said. In case of peace-loving India, he said, China used to take advantage that the LAC is not demarcated and "we used to give them benefit of doubt". Policy of China is to continue to encroaching territory without waging wars, Madhav said, adding since India by nature is peace loving it only gets restless when violence occurs. "After openly encroaching our territory from 1947 to 1962, what China continues to do gradually is nibble in our territory and gradually in systematic manner little by little took away Indian territory," he said, adding that now the government asserts India's claim over its territory. It is the policy of Modi 2.0 to fight for every inch of India's land, he said. He noted that there was an analysis in 1962 that China wanted to teach the USSR a lesson. "Someone may today conclude why China is behaving like this because it wanted to tell President Trump that we call do anything to India, your close ally, close friend, and you cannot do anything. All these analyses are very valid," he said. India's priority is to engage China proactively militarily and diplomatically to ensure that recent violent incidents are not repeated. Equally, important priority will be to assert its right over the last inch of its land, he said. Madhav said unlike other countries, God gave India everything but also gave neighbours like Pakistan and China and then took a dig at the Congress to add that God also gave an opposition like it when the country got Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the helm. Taking on the Congress, he said when the party was in power it allowed "reverse Bhoodan (land donation)" by letting Pakistan and China walk away with its land. Asserting that in past several decades, previous governments did not try to understand China from its thinking, Madhav said despite governments under Rajiv Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao and HD Deve Gowda signed agreements with China, Beijing refused to acknowledge the LAC and was continually violating||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-not-war-monger-but-will-not-settle-for-peace-of-graveyard-ram-madhav-853347.html
24-06-2020||National||China claims India reneged on June 6 deal to have observation posts of both armies on either side of Galwan River estuary||India and China agreed on June 6 that their border troops would build observation posts on either side of the estuary of the Galwan Valley, but the Indian Army later asked the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to dismantle the post it had erected, Beijing alleged on Wednesday once again holding New Delhi responsible for the recent clash. China claimed that India had on June 6 promised that its soldiers would not cross the Galwan River’s estuary and the clash on June 15 had taken place because the Indian Army personnel had not kept words. “The two sides also agreed (on June 6) to build observation posts on either side of the Galwan river estuary. However, the Indian side later reneged on the consensus, wantonly demanded that China dismantle its observation post, and once again crossed the line for provocations, which triggered the conflict (on June 15),” Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. The communist country accused New Delhi of flouting international rules, alleging that the Indian Army soldiers first attacked the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel at Galwan Valley on June 15, resulting in the clash and the casualties. Beijing also brushed aside New Delhi’s protest and re-asserted its sovereignty over the Galwan Valley, amid talks between Indian and Chinese diplomats and senior military officials to resolve the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. “China has sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region and the border troops of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been patrolling and on duty in this region for many years,” said Senior Colonel Wu Qian, the spokesperson of the Ministry of National Defense (MND) of the Chinese Government. Zhao too claimed that the LAC in the western section of India-China boundary is “clear”. “The Galwan Valley lies on the Chinese side of the LAC. The Chinese border troops, who have all along been patrolling the area, know very well the situation of management and control on the ground,” added Zhao. Wu and Zhao continued the tirade against New Delhi on Wednesday even as the senior diplomats of the two nations had a video-conference to resolve the military stand-off, which has been going on along the LAC since early May. “In the early morning of May 6, the Indian border troops trespassed into China's territory, built fortification and barricades and impeded the patrol of Chinese border troops, in an attempt to unilaterally change the status quo of border control and management,” said Wu. “The Chinese border troops have been forced to take necessary responding measures and strengthen management and control in these areas.” He said that when the senior military officials of the two nations had a meeting on June 6, the Indian Army had promised that they would not cross the estuary of the Galwan River to patrol and build facilities. It had also been decided that the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA would “discuss and decide phased withdrawal of troops through the meetings between on-scene commanders”. “On the night of June 15, Indian frontline troops breached the agreement of the commander-level talks, once again crossed the LAC, and demolished the tents built by the Chinese side,” said Zhao. “When the Chinese army officer and staff came to negotiate as per customary practices on handling border-related issues, the Indian troops attacked them in an abrupt and violent manner, which led to fierce physical confrontations and casualties," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-claims-india-reneged-on-june-6-deal-to-have-observation-posts-of-both-armies-on-either-side-of-galwan-river-estuary-853353.html
24-06-2020||National||Smart machine at Indore airport to ensure social distancing||A smart machine with artificial intelligence-based sensors has been installed at the Devi Ahilyabai Holkar international airport here in Madhya Pradesh which warns people to keep a safe distance when a gap of one metre is not maintained. The machine relays messages in both Hindi and English languages like "Door Rahiye, Surakshit Rahiye and Keep Distance, Stay Safe". It also has an in-built alarm. Airport director Aryma Sanyal said the machine was developed by a private firm and is equipped with artificial intelligence-based sensors. The machine was inaugurated by Indore BJP MP Shankar Lalwani on Wednesday. "This machine will make people aware about COVID-19 threat and will also help in checking the spread of infection," Lalwani said. At present, this machine is used on an experimental basis at the departure gate of the airport where people stand in a queue before entering the main terminal building, Sanyal said. Another machine will be installed at the arrival gate, where chances of crowding are more like at the departure gate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smart-machine-at-indore-airport-to-ensure-social-distancing-853356.html
24-06-2020||National||New front opens up at Depsang, north of Galwan Valley; Heavy military presence remains in region||Worries continue on the China front notwithstanding the mutually agreed disengagement plans with the People’s Liberation Army strengthening its presence in the Depsang areas, north of Galwan Valley, while continuing to maintain a highly fortified presence in the Galwan Valley and Finger areas on the banks of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh. Satellite images show heavy military presence in the Galwan valley with both India and China injecting far more men and military hardware in the area. But Chinese troops are far more forward with their strength rising continuously. A small Chinese observational post in Galwan valley that was destroyed by the Indian troops on June 15 leading to the clash, has resurfaced. Troubles may also be brewing in the Depsang areas, closer to the Daulat Beg Oldie airstrip where the PLA significantly enhanced its troop strength. The areas used to be patrolled by Indian troops (PP-10, PP-11, PP-12 and PP-13) have now been blocked by the Chinese soldiers who created dirt tracks to enter deep inside the Indian territory. The PLA had increased its troops by nearly 30% in the Depsang area that witnessed a three weeks long face-off in 2013, said a defence analyst, adding that the PLA troops had advanced deeper into Jeevan Nullah (PP-13) and Raki Nullah (PP-12) areas. Neither the Army nor the Ministry of External Affairs have responded to these reports and satellite images so far. News agency ANI quoting government sources reported that Chinese troops were trying to create troubles for Indian soldiers in PP-10 to PP-13 areas opposite DBO. A Chinese dominance in that area will compromise the strategic advantage of the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road link that is key to maintain the supply line in far flung areas of north and east Ladakh. The same area saw a three weeks long face-off in April-May 2013, when PLA troops came 19 km inside Indian territory to pitch a camp at Raki Nullah. The confrontation, however, ended amicably when the Chinese troops were pulled back. After the brutal May 15 clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers, senior military leaders from India and China had a nearly 11 hours long marathon meeting in which they framed a mutually agreed plan to reduce the troops from all the friction areas in eastern Ladakh. Both sides agreed to take the “modalities of disengagement” forward. But the new buildup happened within days of announcing the disengagement plans, raising doubts on the PLA’s real motive. A similar road-map to reduce the tension was finalised in a previous meeting on June 6 but the mutually agreed plan was thrown out of the window by the PLA troops who attacked the Indian soldiers implementing the plan. "The build up is not a surprise as the Chinese came up with a premeditated plan with the aim of disturbing the status quo. There is now a clear trust deficit,” former Army Chief Gen Deepak Kapoor commented in a TV interview. Army sources agreed that an air of distrust now hangs on the disengagement plans. The Finger areas on the northern banks of the Pangong Tso (lake) also remains a contentious zone with the Chinese side aggressively trying to bring new areas under its control. Earlier Indian troops used to go for patrolling up to Finger 8, but now stopped at Finger 4, which is eight km ahead. Satellite images too reveal construction of enormous Chinese infrastructure on the northern banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-front-opens-up-at-depsang-north-of-galwan-valley-heavy-military-presence-remains-in-region-853357.html
24-06-2020||National||850 kg charas swept ashore recovered from Gujarat coast in two weeks||In the last couple of weeks, the Kutch West district police and security agencies have found 850 packets of charas worth nearly Rs 13 crore, said to be swept ashore along the coastline in Kutch district. Although finding packets of narcotics is not new in the region, the scale of such "recoveries" has made the state government worried. Sources said that government has ordered the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) to probe the case in detail. Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja on Wednesday said that "due to alertness of Gujarat police, 850 charas packets have successfully been recovered and role of Pakistan has been established, investigation is being carried out to find out the root of the smuggling rack." He added that special drive is being carried out to recover narcotics all along the shore. The state government is learnt to have asked the ATS officials to find out the reason behind recovery of such packets. "The sea water has been a golden route for smugglers to sneak contraband to India, middle east counties from where the consignment are smuggled to European countries, United States, among other destinations. "In 2009-2010, we saw similar cases when such packets of charas or heroin were found abandoned on the coast line in Kutch. But, this time the numbers are huge," said a senior security officer in the know of the cases. Out of 850 packets, Kutch West district police alone has recovered 450 while the rest of them have been found by Indian Coast Guard, Navy and Border Security Forces in the past couple of weeks. Each packet weighs one kg and wrapped in waterproof material. Last year, Gujarat ATS had arrested nine Iranian nationals and recovered 100 kg of heroin from their boat. Even in that case, the smugglers had tried to dump the contraband sensing their arrest. Similar incident was witnessed by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) last year when it caught a similar consignment in Indian waters off Jakhau coast. The officials had said that after seeing them, six Pakistani crew members of the fishing boat had tried to throw the packet into the sea. Both these cases had links with Pakistan and Afghanistan from where the consignments had originated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/850-kg-charas-swept-ashore-recovered-from-gujarat-coast-in-two-weeks-853359.html
24-06-2020||National||Introduction of chip-enabled e-passports will strengthen security of travel documents: S Jaishankar||The introduction of chip-enabled e-passports will greatly strengthen the security of Indian travel documents, External Affairs S Jaishankar said on Wednesday, emphasising the need to expedite their roll out. In his address via video conference on the occasion of the Passport Seva Divas, Jaishankar also said the government intends to open a Post Office Passport Seva Kendra in every Lok Sabha constituency. "We have so far been able to provide for 488 Lok Sabha constituencies," he said. Jaishankar said his ministry is working with Indian Security Press, Nashik, and National Informatics Centre for chip-enabled e-passports with advanced security features. "I am very confident that the introduction of e-passports will greatly strengthen the security of our travel documents. I understand that the procurement process for its production is currently underway and I would emphasise the need to hasten that as much as possible," he said. "I emphasise that it is necessary to roll out the manufacture of e-passports on a priority basis," Jaishankar said. He said the focus must be on how to simplify the rules and processes without compromising legitimate security concerns which are at the heart of the reforms being undertaken by the government. "We have seen a complete transformation in the passport delivery service especially over the last six years," he said. More than 1.22 crore passports were issued during 2019 by the Passport Issuing Authorities (PIA) in India and abroad, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. The total number of Passport Kendras functioning in the country is 517, comprising 93 Passport Seva Kendras (PSK) and 424 Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSK), it said. Jaishankar said the focus of MEA would be to further strengthen the outreach efforts to take passport services closer to the people by opening more POPSKs in the country. As a part of the global outreach exercise, MEA has integrated the passport issuance systems in 70 Missions and Posts abroad issuing more than 95 per cent of the passports abroad. Initiatives such as mPassport police and mPassport seva apps had led to improvements in systems and customer satisfaction, Jaishankar said. In his message on the occasion, Jaishankar also said MEA has incorporated greater use of IT and digital systems into its functioning including delivering public services. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, in his remarks, highlighted the efforts of all the Passport Issuing Authorities in India and abroad who are working to ensure transparent and efficient passport delivery systems for the benefit of citizens. Passport Seva Puraskars were announced for the best performing Passport Offices and the personnel of the service provider. The Passport Seva Divas is observed to commemorate the enactment of the Passports Act on June 24, 1967.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/introduction-of-chip-enabled-e-passports-will-strengthen-security-of-travel-documents-s-jaishankar-853360.html
24-06-2020||National||Activist Rehana Fathima booked over video of her minor children painting on her semi-nude body||Controversial activist Rehana Fathima, who made a vain bid to enter the Lord Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala in 2018, has been booked after she posed semi-nude in front of her minor children, allowing them to paint on her bare body and sharing the video on social media, police said on Wednesday. Police in Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district registered a case against her under the Information Technology Act and the Juvenile Justice Act on a complaint lodged by BJP OBC Morcha leader A V Arun Prakash on Tuesday, they said. Fathima had posted the video titled "Body and Politics" on social media, which has gone viral. Meanwhile, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Wednesday sought a report on the matter from Pathanamthitta district police chief within 10 days. Case should be registered against the woman under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, it said. After the Supreme Court allowed women in traditionally barred age group of 10-50 into the Sabarimala temple in September 2018, Fathima made an attempt to enter the hill shrine, but had to retreat following protests by Hindu activists and devotees. She was later arrested. Following an internal inquiry, Fathima was sacked from employment by the BSNL in May this year for her intentional act of outraging the religious feelings of devotees through social media posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activist-rehana-fathima-booked-over-video-of-her-minor-children-painting-on-her-semi-nude-body-853365.html
24-06-2020||National||Coronil lacks scientific basis as a cure for Covid-19 based on evidence shared by Patanjali||Patanjali Ayurved launched an ayurvedic treatment kit called ‘Coronil’ as a ‘cure’ for Covid-19. Indian media outlets ran shows on the kit, referring to it as a ‘breakthrough’ in coronavirus treatment. Ram Kisan Yadav, popularly known as Baba Ramdev, the face of Patanjali, stated that the kit was developed using “clinically controlled trial” and claimed that it was a “100% cure for Covid-19”. Further, Ramdev stated that they had all the required permissions for manufacturing and releasing the drug. 1. The previously circulating clinical trial registry document (CTRI), which was registered on May 20, 2020. 2. A letter to the AYUSH drug policy section that detailed the composition of the drug, the details of the clinical trial and where it was conducted. 3. Two links of the research articles enlisted within the composition of the drug. 4. And letters of the ethics approval committee, and two FYI letters to the Director-General, CCRAS and Additional Chief Secretary, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare.  Thus, apart from the CTRI, only the two research articles were listed as proof of efficacy that the drug provides 100% cure from Covid-19. Further, the license officer of Ayurved Department in Uttarakhand has stated that Patanjali’s application was approved for use as an immunity booster and not as a drug for Covid-19. In this sci-check, Alt News looks at the composition of Coronil kit and the two studies listed in the Patanjali document. The Coronil kit by Patanjali Ayurved is a 100% cure of Covid-19 and has been scientifically tested with clinical trials. The Coronil Kit contains three bottles of: 1. Swasari Ras tablets or (DRS) — a herb mixture tablet. 2. The herb mixture is two-part Giloy, one part Ashwagandha and one part Tulsi. 3. Anu Taila (nasal oil drops). Among the two studies, the first was related to tablet 1 (DRS) in the kit, and the second study was related to only one of the herbs in the Coronil tablet called Giloy. There were no studies in the document provided for Ashwagandha and Tulsi, the other two components of the Coronil tablet. Also, no study was provided for the third drug in the kit Anu Taila (nasal oil drops). Further, the CTRI document suggested that 120 Covid-19 infected patients received Coronil treatment and Patanjali has claimed that they were successfully cured at the rate of 100%. However, the CTRI document is only proof of registration of the clinical trial and not proof of results found within the trial. Proof of efficacy should be a published, peer-reviewed study by the research standards in a sizable population. In addition, the following two studies were referenced as the scientific evidence by Patanjali to prove the efficacy of Swasari Ras (1st drug of the kit) and Giloy (a part of Coronil tablet or 2nd drug of the kit) for Covid-19. This study evaluated the effect of Swasari Ras or Divya Swasari Ras (DSR), in mice (not humans) induced in a lab in an allergic asthma model. The drug DSR has neither been tested on inflammatory lung tissue with coronavirus nor was it tested on humans. Allergic Asthma, on which DSR was tested on as part of this study and the disease due to the novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) are completely different diseases, and the mechanisms of the diseases are different as well. Moreover, since the tests for DSR are conducted in non-human species, the study cannot be used as a 100% proof to claim the efficacy of DSR against Covid-19. The second study is a preprint (i.e. a non-peer-reviewed article), which hasn’t been reviewed by other scientists to ascertain its scientific validity. During this pandemic, there are many pre-prints available due to the speed of the information necessary to hasten the research process. This particular study released by Patanjali Ayurved as a 100% proof of efficacy for Coronil tablet is a molecular study of Giloy herb (Tinospora Cordifolia) through a computer simulation and is not a study on any living species, mice or humans. Since the Coronavirus (SARS-COV2) binds to the host cell in humans via its ACE receptor using a spike protein, the study claims that Giloy disrupts this binding by interrupting its electrostatic interactions between the ACE receptor and the receptor-binding protein (RBD) (see image). Both ACE receptors and spike protein RBD are the proteins used by SARS-COV2 to gain entry into the cell. While the study needs peer-review, it is neither a ‘clinical trial’ as claimed by Ramdev or Patanjali, nor does it explore the interactions between the two proteins in humans or any other living species Therefore, none of the scientific proofs given by Patanjali suggests that Coronil is an effective treatment for COVID-19 for the following reasons: 1. The documents provided have published research study for only one out of the three drugs in the Coronil kit, and a non-peer-reviewed study for only a part of the herbal mix (Giloy) of three-herb Coronil drug. 2. As per the manufacturing or approval of evidence-based medicine, a non-peer review study for only a part of the drug cannot be taken as proof of efficacy for the Coronil tablet. 3. The first research study for Swasari Ras (DSR) is a study on mice and not humans. 4. Also, the second research study for Giloy is a computer simulation and not a study on any living species. 5. The clinical trial registry document (CTRI) provided is only a proof of registration and not proof of results found within the trial. 6. Further, no toxicity or herbal interaction study was conducted to prove that the drug combination was safe or effective in COVID-19 patients. In fact, claiming that such untested drugs will cure a 100% of COVID-19 patients amounts to a false assumption of treatment and depletes them of the opportunity to receive proven treatment where necessary, even though they may not always treat every patient. This practice of false drug manufacturing under the garb of ancient Ayurveda endangers the lives of people during the times of a global crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronil-lacks-scientific-basis-as-a-cure-for-covid-19-based-on-evidence-shared-by-patanjali-853391.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||'Rejected and ejected dynasty' not equal to entire Opposition: J P Nadda||Keen to ensure that there is no united stand of the Opposition against the government on its handling of LAC situation, the BJP on Wednesday singled out Nehru-Gandhi family for its Opposition to the government on the issue, arguing that while several other parties fully backed the Centre in determining the way ahead, “one royal dynasty threw tantrums.” “One ‘royal’ dynasty and their ‘loyal’ courtiers have grand delusions of the Opposition being about one dynasty. A dynasty throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the Opposition asking questions to the Government,” BJP chief J P Nadda said in a statement. One ‘royal’ dynasty and their ‘loyal’ courtiers have grand delusions of the Opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the the Opposition asking questions to the Government. Maintaining that it is the Opposition’s right to ask questions, Nadda said the all-party meeting called by the prime minister to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas on June 19 saw healthy deliberations, with several Opposition leaders giving their valuable inputs and many supporting the Centre in determining the way ahead. "One family was an exception. Any guesses who? A rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal to the entire Opposition. One of dynasty’s interests are not India’s interests," Nadda said. Asserting that today, the nation is united and supportive of our armed forces and this is the time for unity and solidarity, the BJP chief took a potshot at Congress saying “relaunch of ‘the scion’ for the nth time can wait.” The attack was at Rahul Gandhi, who on Sunday attacked the government with the coinage of “Surender (Surrender) Modi” for the Prime Minister and has kept up the attack with asking “why PM is backing China and not our Army”, arguing “China took our land. India is negotiating to get it back. China says it’s not the Indian land. PM has publicly supported China’s claim.” At the virtual all party-meeting called by Modi, Congress and Left parties had raised a number of questions on how the government handled the standoff, with Sonia Gandhi taking the lead, posing questions ranging from whether it was an “intelligence failure”  to questions regarding the date of intrusion of Chinese troops and when the government found out these transgressions. The CPM also questioned the government on lapses, intelligence failures and the government not briefing the Opposition earlier. But the by and larger tone and tenor in the meeting was towards supporting the government with even some Opposition leaders preferring not to put the government in the dock. M K Stalin in his speech said his party has "no hesitation in supporting the Prime Minister while Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee hailed the meeting as "good message" to the nation that shows "we are united behind our jawans.” Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray assured the Prime Minister of support and hit out at China saying its nature is betrayal. He said the Indian government has the ability to respond appropriately. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said that issues of whether soldiers carried arms or not are decided by international agreements and the parties need to respect sensitivities involved in such matters. Pawar’s remarks were in contrivance to Rahul Gandhi’s criticism on the issue. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal from AAP on Monday spoke against "politicisation" of India-China border row after Modi came under attack for his controversial remarks. Earlier, Telangana CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy voiced concern over the "manufactured: controversy"; Sikkim CM Prem Singh Tamang said Modi’s remarks at all-party meetings were crystal clear and reassuring, while Conrad Sangma said the PM Modi's answers clearly reflected India’s strong stand.  Nadda’s target singling out the Nehru Gandhi family of Congress comes in this backdrop. Citing a written question-answer in Parliament on November 22, 2011, when the UPA was in power, the BJP chief alleged that “due to the misadventures of one dynasty: We lost thousands of square kilometres of our land. The Siachen glacier was almost gone. And much more. No wonder India has rejected them.” E Ahmed the then Minister for External Affairs had said “Pakistan has been in illegal and forcible occupation of approximately 78,000 square kilometres of Indian territory in Jammu and Kashmir. China continues to be in illegal occupation of approximately 38,000 square kilometres in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. In addition, under the so-called “Sino-Pakistan Boundary Agreement of 1963”, Pakistan illegally ceded 5,180 square kilometres of Indian territory in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir to China.” The reply also said, “Government is aware that Pakistan and China are executing projects in Indian territories under illegal occupation of those countries.”   Latching on to this Parliamentary question and answer, the BJP has sought to turn the table on the Congress on the issue of “surrender of land” by alleging that 43,000 kilometres of Indian land was captured by China during the tenure of Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rejected-and-ejected-dynasty-not-equal-to-entire-opposition-j-p-nadda-853143.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah model vs Kejriwal model: Tension building up between AAP-led Delhi and Centre||After initial bonhomie, tension is building up between the AAP-led Delhi government and the BJP-led Centre in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic as struggle to win the perception war has started. Aware of the growing perception that the AAP government has not fared well in fighting Covid-19 against an aggressive Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the field, AAP is slowly returning to the confrontation mode, saying there is an "Amit Shah model and Arvind Kejriwal model" in the fight against the pandemic in the capital. After failing to convince Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal earlier on issues like testing strategy and reserving hospital beds only for Delhi residents, AAP has managed to reverse his decision bringing in five-day mandatory institutional quarantine for all Covid-19 patients, which practically ended home isolation, but has not won fully. The bone of contention remains as Baijal has directed that all patients should be tested at a quarantine centre but AAP wants to revert to the previous mechanism where medical teams would visit Covid-19 patients to determine whether they can remain in home isolation or should be shifted to institutional quarantine, saying the "Shah model" would inconvenience people. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has not jumped into the issue but fielded Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who shot off two letters to Baijal and one to Shah, besides holding two digital addresses in the past two days. Sisodia on Wednesday said it was not a fight between two models. "It is already a difficult time and we should adopt a model that would not add to the woes of the people of Delhi. Let us not follow a model that further strains the overburdened healthcare system and adds to the woes of the people," he said. On his part, Kejriwal on Tuesday sought to win a point by inviting Shah to inspect a 10,000-bedded Covid-19 Care Centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in south Delhi's Chhattarpur and requested for deployment of doctors and nurses from ITBP and Army at the Centre. Shah appeared to take the fight back to AAP camp by tagging a news report about the invite and tweeted to "dear Kejriwal-ji” that it was already decided in “our meeting” on Sunday that ITBP would be operating the centre. Besides, he also announced that a 1,000-bedded hospital built by DRDO and Tata Trust will be operational in next ten days, besides deploying armed forces personnel at isolation coaches. Whenever a confrontation was brewing in the past few days, Kejriwal had doused the fire announcing cooperation with the Centre so far. But the belligerent stand on home isolation and invite to Shah showed that AAP has realised that it would be ceding ground to BJP, which it had decimated in the Assembly elections in February, if left unchallenged. As the situation worsened in the capital, the Centre "actively" stepped in to the Delhi scene on June 14 with Shah chairing a meeting with Baijal and Kejriwal, followed by another meeting the same evening with Mayors. He announced a series of measures, including ramping up tests by three-fold in six days, house-to-house survey in containment zones and fixing rates for treatment and testing among others. Many of the measures have been implemented as of now. Kejriwal then showed no signs of unease, at least in public, and made the right noises of "working together with the Centre" and "not the issue to play politics" in fighting Covid-19. The run up to the June 14 meeting had its share of tension. The first signs of Centre's intent not to remain a spectator came as the Kejriwal government announced reserving hospital beds for only Delhi residents. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) prompted the LG to reverse it. The Centre also did not agree with the Delhi government's assessment that there was community spread of the virus in the capital. Days before, the LG had also disallowed a move by the state government to restrict testing of Covid-19 samples. AAP was not happy with it and Sisodia, who attended the meeting in place of Kejriwal, who was in self isolation after developing Covid-19 symptoms, made the party's discontent clear in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on June 9. Kejriwal returned to action the very next day after testing negative for virus infection only to announce that he would cooperate with orders issued by the "Centre and the LG", thus, scotching speculation about intensifying confrontation. Shah had by then followed up by holding an all-party meeting of Delhi leaders and a "surprise" visit to Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital, which was streamed live on his YouTube channel. The BJP-led government further cornered AAP when the former refused to invite it to an all-party meeting on June 19 called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on India-China border situation, prompting it to field its Rajya Sabha leader Sanjay Singh to target the Centre for not inviting a "three-time elected Chief Minister" from the meeting. However, Kejriwal once again appeared to blow the air of confrontation by asking not to politicise the fight against China on the borders and Covid-19. Interestingly, he also joined four non-Congress Chief Ministers against "politicisation" of India-China border row after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came under attack for his controversial remarks that none had intruded into Indian territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-model-vs-kejriwal-model-tension-building-up-between-aap-led-delhi-and-centre-853212.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||Will govt come clean on BJP MP's claims of Chinese intrusion in Arunachal Pradesh, asks Congress||Amid a stand-off with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, the Congress on Wednesday sought to corner the BJP-led NDA government over the claims about Chinese intrusions in Arunachal Pradesh made by a BJP MP from the state and asked it to come clean on the issue. It also asked the government to give a "strong reply" to China as regular dialogues would not work, and India needs to use other means like trade to take it on. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said BJP MP Tapir Gao had in a recent TV interview claimed that China has occupied areas on both banks of the Subansiri River in Arunachal Pradesh's Upper Subansiri district and on the Indian side of the McMohan Line. Tewari said ever since of about Chinese aggression into Indian territory emerged, the NDA government has been walking the extra mile to downplay these reports and was trying to obfuscate the facts on the ground. "Will the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and his government come clean on the claims made by the BJP MP," he asked at a virtual press conference. Tewari sought to know from the government if what Tapir Gao, the former BJP chief of Arunachal Pradesh, was saying was right or not. "What is the truth behind what Tapir Gao is saying? There should be an immediate clarification from the government," he said. Another Congress spokesperson Gaurav Gogoi said India cannot afford to have another Doklam-like situation in Ladakh and needs to look at other forms of leverage like trade to have successful negotiations with China. Troops of India and China were locked in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam near Sikkim in 2017 after the Indian side stopped the building of a road in the disputed area by the Chinese Army. "We demand that the Government of India does not look at what's happening in Arunachal Pradesh or Ladakh as isolated incidents. These are grand designs and this needs to be responded strongly," Gogoi said. "China needs a strong response from India, as regular dialogues won't work. Despite all meetings, the Chinese launched a strong, premeditated attack. China has learnt one thing from the Doklam episode that the (Narendra) Modi government is willing to settle for a military disengagement," he said. Gogoi highlighted that the pattern of the Chinese Army shows they are gradually encroaching upon Indian territory across the LAC and the responsibility of protecting Indian territory solely lies with the government of India. Tewari said BJP MP Tapir Gao has claimed that the Army has set up another base called new Majha, deeper in Indian territory after Chinese aggressions. He said this is not the first time that Tapir Gao has made these revelations, as he stated the same in the Lok Sabha in November 2019, but the government has remained silent on the issue. Tewari also played a video of Gao's speech in Lok Sabha. "We do know something with regard to Galwan valley, Pangong Tso lake, hot springs area in the western sector, and with regard to Chinese intrusion in Naku la in the Central sector. But, facts continue to remain opaque on the eastern sector which is perhaps most disputed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-govt-come-clean-on-bjp-mps-claims-of-chinese-intrusion-in-arunachal-pradesh-asks-congress-853240.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||Sharad Pawar is like 'coronavirus' that has infected Maharashtra: BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar||In a shocking statement, BJP leader Gopichand Padalkar likened veteran politician and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar as "Maharashtra's coronavirus". The statement against 79-year-old Pawar has evoked sharp reactions from the NCP ranks and files. Meanwhile, leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, has condemned the act of Padalkar, a veteran Dhangar community leader. The NCP's youth wing has threatened to blacken the face of Padalkar. They also undertook protests and burnt his posters. "Sharad Pawar is nothing but coronavirus for Maharashtra. He has been misleading Maharashtra for years. Also, maligning people is always his prime role. He doesn’t have any agenda or vision. He only knows how to malign people... and do injustice,” said Padalkar, who was recently elected as an MLC. He accused Pawar of playing politics over the issue of Dhangar reservation. "Maharashtra government is playing different role in every other reservation," he said. In 2014, Padalkar, then with BJP, contested the Vidhan Sabha polls from Khanapur-Atpadi seat in Sangli and lost. Ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he joined the Prakash Ambedkar-ked Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi and unsuccessfully contested the Sangli seat. Padalkar re-joined BJP with efforts of Fadnavis and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil and took on Pawar's nephew and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar from Baramati, the bastion of the Pawar family, but his deposit was forfeited. "Pawar saheb is a senior leader, it was improper to make such remarks," said Fadnavis. "It is improper to make such comments, it is against Maharashtra's culture," added Darekar. State housing minister and close Pawar aide Jitendra Awhad said: "Pawar saheb is seniormost leader of the country...such statements are made by Padalkar to gain prominence."Besides, Padalkar also said that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should not go to Pandharpur on 1 July, on the occasion of Ashadi Ekadashi to perform the customary puja of Lord Vithoba and Rakhumai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-is-like-coronavirus-that-has-infected-maharashtra-bjp-mlc-gopichand-padalkar-853252.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi or his policies? Six years on, Congress debates its target||Six years in Opposition, Congress still continues to debate on whether to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi directly or criticise his policies. The fault lines in the Congress came to the fore at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Tuesday when a section of the leadership expressed discomfort at the aggressive personal attack on the prime minister, contending that the BJP often succeeded in benefiting from it. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who has been attacking Modi sharply, took umbrage at the remarks and told the CWC that he was not scared of the Prime Minister and that he would continue to criticise him unless the party told him otherwise. Congress leaders did not deny the different opinions voiced during the CWC meeting, pointing out that it was the forum to air views freely to enable the leadership to take decisions by consensus. “Unlike the BJP, which is completely totalitarian. The Congress is different and we are proud we are different,” Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said when asked about the differences within the CWC.  Rahul has been attacking Modi sharply and his jibe at the prime minister calling him ‘Surender Modi’ had stung the BJP, which had hit back at the Congress with a vengeance. Rajya Sabha member Rajiv Satav’s remarks about Congress lacking the fighting spirit drew a sharp reaction from former Union minister Anand Sharma who pointed out that senior leaders have been vocal against Modi and his policies both inside and outside Parliament. Another senior leader sought to bring about a consensus on the different views expressed in the meeting by noting that there was no harm in attacking the prime minister but advised against the use of reckless language. Tewari said despite the differing views expressed in the CWC, the will of the party gets reflected in the CWC resolutions which are adopted unanimously. He pointed out that the CWC resolutions were direct in its attack on the government and did not exclude the prime minister. A section of the Congress leaders also believe the party lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections due to excessive personal attacks on Modi when compared with efforts to popularise the party manifesto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-or-his-policies-six-years-on-congress-debates-its-target-853273.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||NPP will continue to support Manipur government: Himanta Biswa Sarma||BJP leader and Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday said National Peoples' Party (NPP) will continue to support BJP government in Manipur, indicating that the political crisis in the coalition governmet since June 17 was resolved. Sarma in a tweet on Wednesday evening said this was decided in a meeting of home minister Amit Shah, NPP Chief and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma and Manipur deputy chief minister and Y Joykumar Singh in New Delhi. Sarma, BJP's crisis manager and convenor of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) had accompanied the four NPP MLAs to New Delhi after he met them in Imphal on Sunday and Tuesday. The MLAs reached Guwahati on Tuesday and were flown to Delhi in a chartered flight on Wednesday. He rushed to Imphal as N. Biren Singh government slipped into a crisis on June 17 when all four NPP MLAs including Joykumar, three from BJP, one from Trinamul and one Independent resigned and joined a Congress-led front. The NPP MLAs also met Governor Najma Heptulla on June 18 and sought a floor test by Biren Singh government. The opposition front, Secular Progessive Front also staked claim to form their government. Sarma and Conrad met the four MLAs in Imphal twice since then but failed to break the ice with the disgruntled MLAs. Sarma, however, did not reveal the details of the meeting and the understanding formula that was finalised in the meeting with Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/npp-will-continue-to-support-manipur-government-himanta-biswa-sarma-853321.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||Over 7.18 crore people attended 31 virtual rallies, claims BJP||The BJP claimed on Wednesday that more than 7.18 crore people have attended its 31 virtual rallies held to mark the first anniversary of the Modi government's second term.  In a tweet, the BJP said it has engaged with people through virtual rallies and other events, including contacting over three crore households, as part of its outreach during the COVID-19 pandemic.    It said that more than 7.18 crore people participated in 31 virtual rallies held till June 22.   This means that over 23 lakh people on an average attended each of these events, often addressed by top BJP leaders, including Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda.    The party makes arrangements like installation of TV screens to expand the reach of these events.  The BJP also claimed that it has distributed over 51.11 lakh sanitisers and 1.6 crore face masks among people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-718-crore-people-attended-31-virtual-rallies-claims-bjp-853333.html
24-06-2020||National Politics||Congress to hold mass protests over fuel price hike, Chinese incursion into India territory||The Congress will hold mass protests across the country next Monday over the "unprecedented" rise in petrol and diesel prices. All India Congress Committee General Secretary, organisation, K C Venugopal said the party will also hold a mass protest on Friday over China's incursion into Indian territory by paying homage to the Army personnel killed in a violent faceoff with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley. "The Congress party will pay homage to the martyrs of Ladakh by observing June 26 as 'Shaheedon Ko Salaam Divas' across India. They will sit at 'Shaheed Smaraks' or the statues of Mahatma Gandhi or freedom fighters in their respective locations," he said in a statement. In a message to all state units, he said there will be no sloganeering while paying homage to martyrs, and silent protesters holding placards, lamps and candles with the national flag background will pay tribute to the martyrs between 11 am and 12 noon on Friday. A massive online campaign "Speak up for Our Jawans" also will be held on the same day. "On June 29, Congress workers, wearing masks and by maintaining social distancing norms, will sit on a two-hour dharna from 10 am to 12 noon at every district headquarter to protest against the unprecedented rise in the price of petrol and diesel and demand its rollback," he said. Venugopal said a memorandum addressed to the President of India will be submitted to District Magistrates or Deputy Commissioners. The same day, the party will also hold a massive online campaign 'Speak-Up on Petroleum Price hike', where leaders, party functionaries, and sympathizers will put up live videos and posts highlighting the plights of people due to the hike in fuel prices. Petrol price was unchanged on Wednesday after 17 consecutive increases, while diesel rates were increased by 48 paise per litre across the country for a record 18th day in a row. The decision to hold such protests was taken at a meeting of the party's working committee on Tuesday chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-hold-mass-protests-over-fuel-price-hike-chinese-incursion-into-india-territory-853352.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Jump from academia to insurgency new troubling trend in Kashmir||Hilal Ahmad Dar, who was pursuing PhD at Kashmir University, is the fourth scholar to join militancy in Kashmir in recent years. Police confirmed that Dar, who had gone missing according to his family and friends from Naranag (Wangat) in Ganderbal district area during a trekking and picnic outing since June 14, has joined militant ranks. He is the second scholar from Kashmir University in the last two years to have chosen the path of violence. Earlier in April 2018, Mohammad Rafi Bhat from the same University joined Hizbul Mujahideen. However, his romance with the militancy lasted just 36 hours as he was killed in an encounter with security forces just a day after his joining. Before him, Manan Wani, a research scholar at Department of Geology, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), became a new sensation among militancy circles in Kashmir after he joined the Hizbul in January 2018. However, he too was killed in an encounter later that year in October. Days after Wani’s killing another research scholar-turned-militant, Sabzar Sofi was consumed in the unmitigated violence in Kashmir. The latest joining of Hilal Dar, a resident of Bemina suburb of Srinagar, once again casts a renewed spotlight on the trend of more well-educated youth joining militancy. As the recent gunfights in Srinagar city underline, a phenomenon that seemed to have been largely confined to south Kashmir is now radiating out to Srinagar city. The trend is also creeping up the social ladder with youths who are highly educated and belong to affluent and apparently insulated families also taking the plunge. Dar’s transition from academia to insurgency is part of a troubling trend. Though today’s militancy in Kashmir is smaller and less deadly than at the insurgency’s peak in the 1990s and early 2000s, militants have been using social media to “glamorise gun culture.” Umair Gul, a doctoral student who has studied the history of the insurgency in Kashmir, says that educated Kashmiris have long been present among the militants. “But thanks to social media, such examples are gaining new prominence and serving as a recruitment tool,” he said. A senior police officer said the lure of militancy for educated local youths is a new “cause of worry.” “Militants use social media to glamorise gun culture and events elsewhere in India or around the world now reverberate in Kashmir, feeding a sense among well-educated youth that they are under attack,” he said. Those who know Dar expressed shock that he turned to militancy, but, ultimately, they were not surprised at his motives. “In Kashmir, anything is possible. It is a conflict zone and it can influence anybody,” said a scholar at the varsity, wishing anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jump-from-academia-to-insurgency-new-troubling-trend-in-kashmir-853128.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||India calls in army to run facilities in Delhi as coronavirus positive cases surge||India reported 16,000 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, its highest daily increase since the outbreak began, and the government called in the army to manage new treatment centres with thousands of additional hospital beds in New Delhi. At more than 456,000 confirmed coronavirus cases so far, India is the fourth worst hit country in the world, behind the United States, Brazil and Russia, according to a Reuters tally. Cases are expected to keep rising as state governments ease restrictions in place since lockdown was first imposed in late March. New Delhi also recorded its highest single-day increase on Wednesday, with more than 3,900 cases. Local government data showed that of the roughly 13,400 beds allocated to Covid-19 patients in the city, around 6,200 were occupied. The Union Home Ministry said the city would have around 20,000 additional beds available by next week at temporary facilities run by army doctors and nurses. These include a 10,000 bed facility hosted at a religious centre and railway coaches turned into wards. "Armed Forces personnel have been detailed for providing medical care and attention to Covid-19 patients housed in the Railway coaches in Delhi," Home Minister Amit Shah said. The city government estimates it will have 550,000 Covid-19 cases by the end of July, and will require 150,000 beds by then. Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that a new federal government order to take every positive patient to an assessment centre as opposed to evaluating them at home was stretching already limited resources. "Our ambulance system, our medical system is under pressure now. Today, we are having to take patients in buses," Sisodia said, adding that he had written to the federal home ministry. "This (rule) is creating chaos in New Delhi."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-calls-in-army-to-run-facilities-in-delhi-as-coronavirus-positive-cases-surge-853176.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Stand with Army, threat to territorial integrity will be fought with equal force: Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal||BJP MP from Ladakh Jamyang Tsering Namgyal had a meeting with Army Chief Gen M M Naravane here and asserted that the people of the Union Territory stands with the Indian Army and "any threat to sovereignty and territorial integrity will be fought back with equal force", officials said on Wednesday. The Army chief is currently on a two-day visit to Ladakh to review the overall situation in the wake of the recent violent face-off with the Chinese troops which left 20 Indian Army personnel dead. At the meeting between Gen M M Naravane and the MP on Tuesday, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, northern command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi and Leh-based 14 Corps commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh were also present. "The people of Ladakh are of peace-loving nature. But, any threat to sovereignty and territorial integrity will be fought back with equal force. The people of Ladakh will always stand with the Indian Army," Namgyal said. He expressed his gratitude on behalf of the people of Ladakh to the Army for its "befitting response" to the Chinese troops in the Galwan valley stand-off, and said, "We will never forget the supreme sacrifice made by our brave soldiers." At the meeting, the MP discussed various issues pertaining to national defence, civil-military relation, need for the establishment of a dedicated Corp for eastern Ladakh and raising of battalions in Ladakh Scout, a spokesperson said. He said Namgyal also discussed the development of border infrastructure, free movement of local civilians, especially nomads, within the territory and carrying out developmental works among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stand-with-army-threat-to-territorial-integrity-will-be-fought-with-equal-force-ladakh-mp-jamyang-tsering-namgyal-853195.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Shivraj Singh Chouhan likely to expand cabinet with tied hands on Wednesday||Much-awaited expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet is likely on Wednesday amid speculation that the BJP high command has categorically told the chief minister to induct young faces in place of his old acolytes besides six Jyotiraditya Scindia-loyalists whose defection along with 18 other MLAs had led to the fall of the Kamal Nath government in March this year. Powerful minister Narottam Mishra, who played a key role as Amit Shah’s chief aide in toppling the Congress government,  is likely to be elevated as deputy chief minister along with Scindia-loyalist Tulsiram Silawat. Swearing-in for new ministers was scheduled on June 30 but sudden developments in New Delhi on Monday evening forced the chief minister to defer it. Since July 1 is the last day considered auspicious before the gods believed to go for sleep for four months according to Hindu mythology, the BJP is unlikely to defer the proposed cabinet expansion any more. The cabinet expansion is likely to trigger a wave of dissidence in the BJP as the high command is reported to have nixed the chief minister’s list of probables which he had taken with him to New Delhi on Monday for approval. Chouhan had had talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda. The chief minister also discussed the probable names with Jyotiraditya Scindia. Till Tuesday afternoon, it looked as though all was well with the chief minister’s wish-list which he had prepared after marathon brainstorming for two days with state  BJP president VD Sharma and other party leaders in the state. However, BJP national president suddenly summoned Narottam Mishra for more discussion on the probables. Mishra’s intervention, apparently at the behest of his mentor Amit Shah, completely upset the chief minister’s game-plan. JP Nadda in the second meeting asked the chief minister to drop names of at least six senior MLAs, who were Shivraj Singh’s ministerial colleagues in the past. Instead, the BJP president told a beleaguered Chouhan to give place to young blood. The CM tried to bat for seniors but Nadda was firm on change in the list. A visibly downcast Chouhan returned Bhopal on Tuesday morning.  Given the Scindia factor, the chief minister has limited room for maneuvering in the cabinet. His five-member cabinet can accommodate 29 more members. Of these, a dozen slots are already reserved for Scindia –loyalists and four other MLAs who had quit the Congress to join the BJP. Most of the probable faces recommended by the high command are not liked by the chief minister. In the first cabinet expansion that took place in April, the chief minister had to accommodate his known adversaries such as Kamal Patel, Mina Singh, and Narottam Mishra apart from two Scindia supports Tulsi Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-singh-chouhan-likely-to-expand-cabinet-with-tied-hands-on-wednesday-853205.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Delhi High Court refuses to grant bail to accused who pointed pistol at policeman||The Delhi High Court Wednesday refused to grant bail to an accused who allegedly pointed a pistol at a police head constable during the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, saying his intention was to become a hero and now he will have to face the law. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said he was not inclined to grant the relief to the accused, Shahrukh Pathan, after which his counsel withdrew the plea. The plea is “dismissed as withdrawn”, the court said, conducting the hearing through video conferencing. The court orally observed, “If you take law in your hands and become a hero, then you have to face the law. Your intention was to become a hero.” Pathan sought bail saying he has to take care of his 76-year-old father who is unwell and there is no one in the family to look after him. Advocate Asghar Khan, representing Pathan, submitted that he has been in judicial custody for 113 days and has clean antecedents and not required for investigation as the charge sheet has been filed. The counsel referred to the order passed by the high court on Monday granting bail to Jamia student Safoora Zargar on humanitarian grounds and said Pathan’s bail plea be also considered that way. Additional Public Prosecutor Amit Chadha opposed the bail plea saying they have got two more CCTV footages clearly showing the accused firing with the pistol and there is ample evidence to show what the entire country witnessed. On the submission of counsel for the accused that he has to take care of his ailing father, the judge observed, “he should have thought about his family when he was brandishing a pistol. While committing the offence, you forget everyone and now you are thinking about your aged and ailing parents”. Pathan, 23, whose picture showing him pointing a pistol at unarmed Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahia during the February communal riots went viral on social media, was arrested on March 3 from Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, is lodged in jail in the national capital. The police registered a case against him under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act. The police said it recovered the pistol that Pathan had allegedly pointed at a police official during the communal violence, from his house. After opening fire, he kept the pistol at home and fled the city in a car, it said. In the viral video, Pathan, a resident of northeast Delhi's Ghonda, could be seen pointing his pistol at the policeman on the Jaffrabad-Maujpur road on February 24. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-delhi-high-court-refuses-to-grant-bail-to-accused-who-pointed-pistol-at-policeman-853207.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Govt must concentrate more on Barahoti: Subramanian Swamy||Amid the ongoing tension with China in Ladakh, senior BJP leader Subramanian Swamy has advised the Centre to focus on Barahoti in Uttarakhand saying China and Nepal could coordinate there. He also suggested Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to soon visit Barahoti located in the border district of Chamoli in Uttarakhand. Taking a swipe at the Uttarakhand government, he said it was more interested in taking over the management of temples than anything else. "Govt should pay special interest to Barahoti where China and Nepal can coordinate. The UK Govt is more interested in taking taking of temples than preparing against China. Hence Rajnath should visit Barahoti soon," said the BJP leader, known for his plain speaking, in a tweet on Tuesday. Chinese troops have made several incursions in Barahoti area in the past. Swamy was making a veiled reference in the tweet to the setting up of the Devasthanam Board by the state government through a legislation in the state assembly earlier this year to run the affairs of 51 temples in the state including chardham. Swamy has already challenged the constitutionality of the board through a petition in Uttarakhand High Court. PTI ALM http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-must-concentrate-more-on-barahoti-subramanian-swamy-853234.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Of 15 districts with highest Covid-19 death rate, four are from Uttar Pradesh: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday stepped up her attack on the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, citing that out of 15 districts in the country with the highest death rate, four are from the state. The Congress general secretary in-charge eastern Uttar Pradesh has accused the Yogi Adityanath government of indulging in propaganda instead of dealing with the contagion. Stepping up her attack on the state government, she tweeted that of the 15 districts with the highest coronavirus death rate, four are from UP. "Jhansi: One death out of every 10 coronavirus patients, Meerut: One death out if every 11 coronavirus patients, and one death out of every 14 coronavirus patients in Etah and Agra" she tweeted along with charts showing 15 districts in the country with highest Covid-19 mortality rates and 10 UP districts with highest death rates. "It is a matter that one should think about -- if the cases are not increasing then why is the death rate so high?" she posed. On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi had attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the "high" Covid-19 mortality rate in Agra, saying Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath should clarify within 48 hours who was responsible for "pushing people into these adverse circumstances". कोरोना से सबसे अधिक मृत्युदर वाले 15 जिलों में 4 जिले यूपी के हैं। झांसी:हर 10 कोरोना पीड़ित में एक की मौत मेरठ:हर 11 में एक कोरोना पीड़ित की मौत आगरा और एटा में हर 14 कोरोना पीड़ित में एक की मौत हुई है Tagging a media report, she had said the COVID-19 death rate in Agra was 6.8 per cent, which was higher than Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/of-15-districts-with-highest-covid-19-death-rate-four-are-from-uttar-pradesh-congress-leader-priyanka-gandhi-853247.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Aarogya Setu to be coupled with another IT-driven tool to boost surveillance, contact tracing in Delhi||Authorities have planned to use Aarogya Setu app coupled with an IT-driven tool to boost surveillance and contact tracing in COVID-affected areas in Delhi. This is part of the new COVID-19 response plan prepared by Delhi government health department, as per the recommendations from the Union Health Ministry. The purpose is to boost surveillance of positive cases and improve contact tracing, officials said. As per the orders issued by the Directorate General of Health Services in Delhi on Monday, all the chief district medical officers and surveillance officers of all the districts have received a revised response plan which prescribes use of Aarogya Setu coupled with ITIHAS system for cluster projection.  “As per the recommendation of the committee (headed by NITI Ayog member V K Paul), Aarogya Setu app coupled with ITIHAS system anchored by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, is capable of tracking the movement of the cases and their contacts. The system is capable of projecting a cluster development in 300 metre geography,” according to the order. The directions point out that the surveillance system will be guided by an IT-driven tool at district and state-level hubs. The adoption of Aarogya Setu app will be promoted effectively, it said. "An identified team of epidemiologist, district surveillance officer, and IT personnel, at the district level shall be trained in coordination with the NCDC to utilise the Arogya Setu app and ITIHAS system for cluster projection," the order said. Delhi recorded 3,947 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike here, taking the tally in the city to over 66,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 2301, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aarogya-setu-to-be-coupled-with-another-it-driven-tool-to-boost-surveillance-contact-tracing-in-delhi-853276.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi's tally crosses 70,000 with 3,788 new cases; death toll rises to 2,365||Delhi recorded 3,788 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally in the city over the 70,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 2,365, authorities said. On Tuesday, the city reported the highest single-day spike till now of 3,947 cases. From Friday-Sunday, 3,000 or more fresh cases were being reported per day in the national capital. On Monday, 2,909 cases were recorded. Sixty-four fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department bulletin said on Wednesday. The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi stood at 2,301 on Tuesday. The bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 2,365 and the total number of cases mounted to 70,390.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhis-tally-crosses-70000-with-3788-new-cases-death-toll-rises-to-2365-853280.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Minor boy tries to kill Congress MLA in Rajasthan's Karauli; detained||An attempt on a Congress MLA’s life was made by a minor boy in Rajasthan’s Karauli district on Wednesday when the legislator was meeting people at his residence, police said. The minor boy attempted to fire at Hinduan MLA Bharosi Lal with a country-made pistol but the weapon didn’t go off, Karauli SP Anil Kumar said, adding that the MLA was meeting people at his residence when the incident took place. The accused has been detained and being questioned to ascertain the motive. Meanwhile, the opposition BJP flayed the government for the “poor” law and order situation in the state. “The law and order situation in the state has deteriorated. Earlier, there was a fear among criminals but now common people are under fear and criminals are roaming freely,” state BJP president Satish Poonia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-boy-tries-to-kill-congress-mla-in-rajasthans-karauli-detained-853308.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal asks centre to scrap order requiring Covid-19 patients to visit govt facility for assessment||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday requested the Centre to withdraw a new system requiring assessment of every Covid-19 patient at a government-run facility, saying the order is "not correct". The chief minister said that if the administration and police forcibly take patients to Covid care centres for their clinical assessment, it will be like their detention for 15 days. "The Delhi government, Centre and other organisations have been working in cooperation with each other. I request the Centre to roll back the order," Kejriwal told reporters during a visit at a banquet hall-turned-Covid care facility. If a COVID-19 patient has a fever of 103 F, he will also have to stand in long queues at government-run centres under the new system, Kejriwal said, asking whether a system should work like this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-asks-centre-to-scrap-order-requiring-covid-19-patients-to-visit-govt-facility-for-assessment-853317.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi adding Covid-19 cases faster than Maharashtra||India on Wednesday witnessed the highest single-day jump of 15,968 Covid-19 cases as it raced towards the five-lakh mark with Delhi outpacing Maharashtra in reporting fresh infections. According to the Health Ministry, India had 4,56,183 total confirmed cases of Covid-19 out of which 2,58,685 had recovered and discharged from hospitals. In percentage terms, the recovery rate was 56.71%, the highest so far. The fatalities due to the highly infectious disease too witnessed a sharp spike of 465 deaths in a single-day with the total deaths touching 14,476. According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker, the total confirmed cases of Covid-19 had touched 4,71,032 at 8:30 p.m. on Wednesday as against the 4,56,183 cases reported on Wednesday morning – an intra-day increase of 14,849 cases. Delhi has emerged as the new hotspot as it was reporting new infections at a faster pace than Maharashtra. On Wednesday, the national capital reported 3,947 new cases of the infectious disease as against 3,214 reported by Maharashtra. A reason for this faster growth could be the increase in testing in the national capital following the intervention by the Centre last week. India also crossed another significant landmark as the network of state-run and private laboratories the two-lakh-tests per day mark. This network of laboratories had tested 2.15 lakh samples for Covid-19 on Tuesday and a cumulative total of 73.52 lakh samples since the outbreak was first reported in India in January-end. Of the 2.15 lakh samples tested on Tuesday, 1,71,587 were tested in government laboratories while 43,608 were tested in private facilities. From a single laboratory in March, the Indian Council of Medical Research had established a network of 1,000 laboratories – 730 state-run and 270 private – for testing samples for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-adding-covid-19-cases-faster-than-maharashtra-853335.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||AgustaWestland VVIP chopper case: ED searches ex-Emmar MGF MD Shravan Gupta's premises||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday carried out multiple searches on premises of Shravan Gupta, the former managing director of realty major Emmar MGF, and some others in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper money laundering case, officials said. Raids are being carried out at nine premises in Delhi, Gurgaon and a few other locations in the National Capital Region, they said. The searches are aimed at collecting evidence in connection with the Rs 3,600-crore VVIP choppers deal case, they said. The action is being taken under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the officials said. Gupta was grilled by the ED in the case in 2016 to prove his purported links with Guido Haschke, an alleged middleman in this case. Haschke was an independent director of the realty firm between September and December in 2009. The officials said that the fresh action against the businessman has come about after certain revelations made by the other accused in the case and some fresh evidence obtained by the agency. "Emaar and MGF had parted ways a few years back and Mr Shravan Gupta has no role in Emaar India and is also no longer on the board of the company," a spokesperson for Emmar India said. He added that Emaar India "is directly under the control of its parent Emaar Properties PJSC, Dubai, and is fully in compliance with rules and regulations of the law of the land". As a responsible a corporate, Emaar India will cooperate with any government agency, the spokesperson said. The ED slapped money laundering charges in this case following allegations of irregularities in purchase of 12 VVIP choppers from Italy-based Finmeccanica's British subsidiary AgustaWestland. The deal was scrapped by India in 2014. The agency, in 2018, seized assets worth Rs 10.28 crore of Gupta on charges of he allegedly holding undisclosed deposits in a Swiss bank account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/agustawestland-vvip-chopper-case-ed-searches-ex-emmar-mgf-md-shravan-guptas-premises-853363.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt revises Covid-19 response: House to house screening by Jul 6, rigorous monitoring||With the number of coronavirus cases continuing to rise in the national capital, the Delhi government Wednesday issued an eight-point revised Covid-19 response plan to contain the spread of the disease. Among other things, the revised plans include completing house-to-house screening for coronavirus by July 6, admitting Covid-19 positive patients in highly dense area to care centres and CCTV/drone monitoring to prohibit movement inside containment zones. The plan also states that highly suspected cases testing negative on Rapid Antigen Test should be examined again using the gold standard RT-PCR test. A high-level committee set up by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday recommended quarantine of contacts of all Covid-19 positive cases in Delhi and re-mapping of all containment zones to check the rapid spread of the coronavirus infection in the national capital. According to the revised plan, Covid-19 positive patient or cluster cases in the highly dense areas will be sent to the Covid Care Centres as per the Health Ministry's guidelines. According to the revised response plan, the review and redesigning of containment zones will be done by June 26. A house-to-house screening will be completed by June 30 in containment zones and for the rest of Delhi by July 6, in a mammoth exercise, as per the revised plan. The plan document states that cases reported from the containment zone represent only 19 per cent of the infections, which implies the successful implementation of containment strategies in Delhi.   "Epidemiological analysis of new cases shows that majority of cases are presenting as isolated sporadic cases and become cluster of cases. Forty-five per cent of the cases are showing features of clustering," is says. Active case search in containment zones and vigorous contact tracing of COVID positive patients will be undertaken to analyse the reasons for clustering, the plan said. The containment zones will be redefined in line with the guidelines of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and active case search will be done in containment zones. "Testing of suspects will be augmented by universal application of Rapid Antigen Test. An Incident Command System/District level COVID Control Room lead by DM of the concerned district and technically assisted by Senior Public Health Specialist deputed from either MCD (DHO) Medical Colleges faculty with IT Support and manpower will be established at each DM office," the plan said. Rapid antigen test which is currently being utilised for screening of population in the containment zones as per ICMR guidelines shall be strictly followed, it said. According to the recommendations of the MHA committee, the assessment of the existing containment zoning plan and developing a revised zoning plan with adequate buffer zones as per Health Ministry's guidelines will be completed by June 26. “A geographical area once declared as containment zones shall follow the strict containment (perimeter control) with active case search inside the containment zones and there shall be a sufficient surrounding buffer zone," it said. Teams will be deployed for daily case search, testing and isolation. According to the plan, police shall be deployed to enforce physical distancing measures and prevention of intermixing of the population inside the containment zones. The policemen will have to ensure strict perimeter control and "absolute restriction of outward and inward movement of the population". The administration will have to supply essential commodities inside the containment zones and there shall be strict CCTV/drone monitoring to prohibit movement inside, the plan said. "Imposing fine on those breaching the rules as is being done currently shall be further augmented," it said. Currently, there are 266 containment zones in the national capital. From Friday-Sunday, 3,000 or more fresh cases were being reported per day in the national capital. On Monday, 2,909 cases were recorded. On Tuesday, Delhi reported the highest single-day spike of cases of 3,947 while on Wednesday, 3,788 fresh cases were reported taking the tally over the 70,000 mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-revises-covid-19-response-house-to-house-screening-by-jul-6-rigorous-monitoring-853369.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||CBI case against ex-Manipur CM Ibobi Singh politically motivated: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday termed as "politically motivated" the case filed by the CBI against former Manipur chief minister Ibobi Singh and said it will not be intimidated by such politically motivated steps. Congress spokesperson Gaurav Gogoi said the CBI came calling at the former chief minister’s residence just days after the Ibobi Singh-led SPF coalition met the governor and demanded a special session so that the "unstable and shaky" Biren Singh government can be “brought down”. "It is a totally politically motivated case," he said. Gogoi said the Ibobi Singh government was till 2017 and no case was lodged since then. "Surely, everybody can see this is politically motivated and attempt to threaten and intimidate, but, we will not be threatened and intimidated by this politically motivated steps," he also said. Gogoi said there is nothing to hide and Ibobi Singh will cooperate fully and at the same time the Congress will continue its efforts to expose how the Biren Singh government is "massively unpopular" and how likely it is to fall soon. The Manipur government headed by Chief Minister N Biren Singh was plunged into crisis recently after four NPP and three BJP MLAs withdrew their support from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-case-against-ex-manipur-cm-ibobi-singh-politically-motivated-congress-853377.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||China ramps up military presence in friction points in Ladakh, other areas along LAC||China has significantly ramped up its military presence in Pangong Tso, Galwan valley and several other friction points in eastern Ladakh even as it is engaged in military and diplomatic talks with India to ease tension in the region, people familiar with the development said. They said Chinese military has also deployed a sizeable number of its troops in Galwan Valley, the site of the violent clashes on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The erection of a surveillance post by China in the area had triggered the clashes. However, Chinese troops have again put up some structure around patrolling point 14 in the area, notwithstanding India's stiff opposition, they said. Over the last few days, China has been laying claim over Galwan Valley though India called it "untenable". Besides Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley, the two armies are also locked in a standoff in Demchok, Gogra Hot Spring and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel transgressed into the Indian side of the LAC. China has also increased the number of troops and weaponry in several other key sectors along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand, the people cited above said. The increase in military build-up by China along the LAC, the de-facto border between the two countries, came amid bilateral diplomatic and military talks. Senior military commanders of the two armies on Monday held a nearly 11-hour meeting during which they arrived at a "mutual consensus" to "disengage" from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh in a gradual manner. The two sides on Wednesday held diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs. In the meeting, both sides agreed to ensure expeditious implementation of the understanding on disengagement of troops from eastern Ladakh as decided in a meeting of senior military commanders on June 6, the Ministry of External Affairs said. In the midst of fast-paced developments, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Wednesday visited various forward areas in eastern Ladakh and reviewed the Army's operational preparedness. On the second day of his visit to Ladakh, Gen Naravane took stock of the Army's combat preparedness in four forward areas and interacted with soldiers deployed there besides holding detailed deliberations with ground commanders. The Army Chief reviewed the overall security situation in the region with Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Yogesh Kumar Joshi, commander of the 14 Corps Lt Gen Harinder Singh and other senior Army officials on both Tuesday and Wednesday, sources said. The Chief of Army Staff is expected to return to the national capital on Thursday. "General M M Naravane #COAS visited forward areas in Eastern #Ladakh and reviewed the operational situation on the ground. #COAS commended the troops for their high morale and exhorted them to continue working with zeal and enthusiasm," the Army said in a tweet. The sources said India is also bolstering its military presence along the 3,500 km LAC with China. On Sunday, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army has already sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border in the last one week. The IAF has also moved a significant number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft and Apache attack helicopters to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar following the clashes. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. Prior to the clashes, both sides had been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it was necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/china-ramps-up-military-presence-in-friction-points-in-ladakh-other-areas-along-lac-853379.html
24-06-2020||North and Central||Noida: 98 new Covid-19 cases; data disparity continues||Ninety-eight more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Wednesday, the second-highest for any district in the state in a 24-hour period, official data stated. Also, 47 patients were discharged after recovery, the maximum for any district in the state during the period, according to the daily data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department. Only Ghaziabad with 114 new patients has recorded more positive cases during the 24-hour period than Gautam Buddh Nagar in the state, it added. The number of active COVID-19 cases rose to 654 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, while 996 patients have got discharged after recovery so far. A total of 19 deaths have been recorded so far, the data showed. The total number of positive cases so far reported in the district is 1,669 (654 active cases + 996 discharged cases + 19 deceased), according to the data. However, the total positive cases so far would be 1,677 on addition of 98 new patients to Monday's tally of 1,579 cases, suggesting discrepancy in the statistics shared with the press. The recovery rate of coronavirus positive patients on Wednesday dropped slightly to 59.67 per cent from 60.25 per cent on Tuesday, as per the daily statistics. Gautam Buddh Nagar has the highest number of active cases (654) at present in the state followed by Ghaziabad (501), Lucknow (379), Kanpur Nagar (358), Hapur (318), Meerut (248) and Bulandshahr (226), according to the data. Overall, there were 6,375 active cases of COVID-19 in the state on Wednesday, while 12,586 patients were discharged and 596 people have died of the disease so far, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-98-new-covid-19-cases-data-disparity-continues-853380.html
24-06-2020||Opinion||Looking beyond the short-term in creating rural jobs||The large-scale reverse migration from the cities to the rural areas brings with it a new set of concerns for the rural economy and government policy.  The government estimates that migrant returnees number 10 million of whom about 6.7 million are spread across 116 districts in the six states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand.  There seems to be a fond hope that the recently launched PM Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana (PMGKRY, for short) will solve the short-term problem of finding immediate employment to the returnees, since it converges 25 rural-centric employment generation schemes that will provide employment for a maximum of 125 days. This, in turn, is thought will provide subsistence wages sufficient to feed the family.  The focus of the programme is to leverage the present skills of returnees and the creation of a public infrastructure in 25 listed activities including roads, panchayat bhawans, national highway works, plantation works, rural connectivity works, waste management, farm ponds, community complexes and other livelihood assets. In short, it is the continuation of the same strategy followed over the last decade or more: Public investments go into creating infrastructure, including those in public-private projects, and then expect the private sector investments to take over the baton of creating jobs.  The problem Assuming that the government estimate of 10 million migrant returnees is accurate – and without further questioning the number of migrants or debating the definitions or the figure of 455 million people classified as migrants in the 2011 census – it is clear providing at least 10 million people with immediate employment over widely dispersed, poorly connected rural areas is a mammoth task.  There are two ways to look at PMGKRY: Either there seems to be a fond hope it will, apart from providing short-term employment, also ignite rural consumption. Alternatively, one may be forgiven to think that by intent and design these measures are intended to be short-term in nature so that migrants will return to the urban areas and it will be business as usual once the storm passes.  If the former is the intent then, unfortunately, government measures may be too little, too late and any positive effect is likely to be short-term in nature. These policies are well-intentioned but are practical only in ‘normal’ times rather than during a crisis period. Further, the practical reality in India is that those areas close to the district headquarters tend to grow and attract most of the fund expended and this growth is invariably at the cost of the more remote regions. It is not clear if PMGKRY will solve this long-standing concern.  The return of migrants has added to the stress in labour markets at the sub-district levels where present employment is largely either through NREGS works or by way of house construction requirements. There is no doubt that some of the pressure will be eased with the onset of the agricultural season but, the relief that they may provide is as yet unknown because the farmers are reeling under price collapse due to shutting of market access and the collapse in non-agricultural production in the rural areas.  The problem with the dependence of the present-day rural economy on NREGS and house construction is that they tend to have limited shelf life, especially when there is uncertainty. In short, it means if the uncertainty continues, the government will have to keep spending scarce resources on short-term measures which may assume a quasi-permanent solution without solving the problem of employment generation – at least not as long the economy does not recover.  Try alternatives There may be a need for a shift in government policy. The excessive focus on the private sector, especially when it is wilting under high levels of indebtedness and a collapse in demand is at best a risky strategy. Instead, there is a need for the government to consider investments not just in infrastructure but also in different kinds of economic and other social enterprises. This should be aimed at generating long-term jobs that have a long-term relevance for the economy.  This took place to some extent during the 1960s to the mid-1980s. A large number of our cities owe their economic growth engines to the large middle-class base created early due to such past investments. This is not to claim that this can be done easily, especially in an era when businesses are technology and capital intensive rather than labour intensive. These investments spread across rural areas need not be only manufacturing units rather they may be considered on the basis of expected future requirements of the country.  This public sector or quasi-public sector may help generate the much-needed jobs and with it demand while fulfilling the economic needs of the country. In retrospect and considering the past under-investments in most areas vital to our social and economic needs, any refusal of the government may seem based to be more on ideological preference rather than economic preferences.  (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are strictly personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/looking-beyond-the-short-term-in-creating-rural-jobs-853160.html
24-06-2020||Opinion||The poet’s message||"I wrote a letter to the world which never wrote back to me," writes Emily Dickinson the 19th-century poet in one of her lyrics. Frustration, deprivation, self-pity? —I don’t think it was any of these feelings that prompted Dickinson to pen this poignant line. Dickinson grew up in Amherst, leading a lonely life in the picturesque University town of America.  She remained single, locked down in self-chosen isolation all her life. Like many others of her calling, she believed that silence and solitude were necessary prerequisites for creativity. Dickinson devoted her entire life to the wonderment of Nature and its inexhaustible variety, becoming a keen observer of the change of seasons, of the habits of the most humble of Nature’s creatures, of the worm in the grass and the tiny bird that hopped across the grass with lighthearted steps. Nothing was too small or insignificant for the poet in the scale of God’s creation. The small flower at her feet became an emblem for her of the grandeur of God’s plan. Life and death were the warp and woof of her visionary poetry. Beyond death was the Christian promise of immortality. Rooted in the belief of a life after death, Dickinson‘s faith never faltered. She gave herself fully to the reflections of joy and sorrow, revelling in what she could give rather than what she could receive. Hence the line, I wrote a letter to the world which never wrote back to me. It did not matter at all for the joy was all in the giving. She wrote poem after poem, hundreds of them in total self-discipline, lyrics of the utter simplicity of diction but of profound philosophical depth.  She was hardly recognized as a poet during her lifetime. It was only after her death that fame came to her. What then is the lesson learnt from lives of poets like Dickinson? The fact that humanity has landed itself in this mess can inevitably be traced to man’s greed for more power, more money, more land.   Man has forgotten the simple joys of Nature. During the lockdown when machines had fallen silent and the environment was free of pollution we heard stories of people’s innocent experiencing of birdsong and the music of rustling leaves which they had long forgotten.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-poet-s-message-853406.html
24-06-2020||Panorama||Reviving urban livelihoods post-lockdown through job scheme||The Coronavirus pandemic has wrecked the lives and livelihoods of millions of people in India, especially those in major cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai. Given the density and connectedness of Indian cities, the virus has unsurprisingly infected more people in urban areas. As India now opens up after more than two months of lockdown, the focus of the state should not only be on fighting the spread of the virus but also on reviving the livelihoods affected by the harsh national lockdown.  The lockdown has also disproportionately damaged the employment and livelihood prospects of those living in cities. A phone survey conducted by Azim Premji University along with civil society organisations across 12 states found that 80% of urban residents lost their employment during the lockdown compared to 57% rural residents.  In urban areas, self-employed workers and casual wage workers are most affected with 84% and 81% losing their employment, respectively. A total of 89% of the urban households reported that they would not be able to pay rent for the following month compared to 65% in rural areas. With the opening of shops, offices and restaurants in the “unlock” phase, the unemployment scenario seems to have partially recovered. According to the latest data by the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy for the week ending June 14, India’s job loss rate has now reduced to 11.63%.  However, the urban unemployment rate (13.1%) is still higher than the rural unemployment rate (10.96%). India was already facing a major unemployment crisis before the onset of Covid-19 which has now been exacerbated with the imposition of the lockdown. Hence, we need bold new measures to tackle the ongoing crisis. The haunting images of workers leaving the city for their villages on foot revealed the extreme vulnerability of huge sections of the urban population. It indicates that the urban poor, especially the internal migrant workers, lack basic social security for their subsistence. While the economic impact of lockdown was most severe in cities, the options for accessing welfare and relief measures is considerably more difficult for urban residents. As per the Azim Premji University survey, while 85% of vulnerable households in rural areas received ration, only 65% of those in urban areas could access it. Further, while 58% received some form of cash transfer in rural areas, only 36% received it in urban areas. The much-delayed economic relief package announced by the Central government does not provide much for migrant workers and vulnerable urban communities. A report by the Indo-Global Social Service Society (IGSSS) that analysed 175 orders/circulars issued by the Centre until May 1 found that only 27 of them were directly related to urban poor and marginal groups. Informal sector workers and vulnerable groups like street vendors, homeless and transgender communities have received minimal support from the government during this crisis. While the informal workers have been left in the lurch, the rights of formal sector workers are also being undermined by various state governments. Uttar Pradesh has issued an ordinance that suspends almost all labour laws for a period of three years. Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have also announced “labour reforms” that enables companies to fire workers easily and exempt them from health and safety norms. Overall, the policy response of the government to the Covid crisis has made the lives of both formal and informal urban workers more precarious. As India faces an unprecedented economic crisis, it is important for the state to undertake proactive policy measures that directly improve the livelihoods of the country’s workforce. These measures can be a combination of direct cash transfers to vulnerable groups and strengthening of existing welfare programmes. For addressing the urban migrant worker crisis, the Public Distribution System needs to be universalised to enable those that do not have a ration card to also receive food supplies, at least for the next few months. Since the urban poor will face a larger livelihood crisis for an extended period after Covid, we also need a more comprehensive policy measure - an Urban Employment Guarantee Programme. Sustainable employment Modelled on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, such a programme will offer succour to a huge section of urban informal workers. The need for an employment guarantee programme not restricted to rural areas has been articulated in different contexts. Last year, some of us brought out a policy paper titled “Strengthening Towns through Sustainable Employment” as part of Azim Premji University’s State of Working India Report where we laid down the contours of what an urban employment guarantee programme could look like. We proposed the creation of a national programme that guarantees 100 days of work a year for casual workers and 150 contiguous days of apprenticeship for educated youth. In the context of the present Covid-induced economic crises, the call for such an urban employment guarantee has gathered more steam. Odisha recently launched an Urban Wage Employment Initiative for urban informal labour to carry out public works identified by the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) across the state. Similarly, Himachal Pradesh has announced the Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojana which assures urban poor 120 days’ work. Punjab and Rajasthan have requested the support of the Centre for such a programme. Kerala has been running the Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme across its ULBs successfully for many years. As urban livelihoods across the country gets ruined, it is the right time for the Centre to launch a National Urban Employment Guarantee Programme. If it cannot enact such a programme across the country, the Centre should at least offer financial support to states that wish to introduce such programmes. An urban employment guarantee will not only cater to livelihood needs of the urban poor but also create public infrastructure, restore urban commons and improve the capacity of the fledgling ULBs. The present crisis offers us an opportunity to introduce such a policy measure that revives urban livelihoods. (The writer is a lawyer and researcher on urban issues and a consultant with the Centre for Law and Policy Research, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/reviving-urban-livelihoods-post-lockdown-through-job-scheme-853069.html
24-06-2020||Panorama||How to handle locust attacks||Swarms of locusts are currently on the rampage in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, after leaving a trail of destroyed crops in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. These are no ordinary hoppers, but desert locusts. They differ from the regular hoppers in that they become dangerous when they enter the gregarious phase, by forming swarms that can travel up to 150 km per day and eat as much as about 10 elephants in a day. When millions of locusts descend on a crop, they destroy everything, devastating the agricultural supply chain and livelihoods of farmers.  During the last wave of desert locust attack—from July 2019 to February 2020—almost 1.7 lakh hectares of agriculture land in India was affected, with Rajasthan and Gujarat being the worst hit. The attack caused an estimated loss of Rs 100 crore.  UN-led Food and Agriculture Organization’s (FAO) desert locust bulletin has informed of the possibility of successive bigger swarm waves entering Rajasthan throughout June, coinciding with the sowing season. The locusts will be either settling in cropping areas or will continue eastwards to Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, going even as far as Bihar and Odisha.   The locusts invading several states now are in the nymphal stage. Once they reach adulthood, in just three breeding seasons—spanning over three to five months—their population can expand 16,000 times. They are a threat not just to agricultural crops but also to horticultural crops. In fact, fruit trees are particularly vulnerable to attack by immature swarms, which prefer to roost in them. Once damaged by locusts, the trees are likely to have their fruit yield affected for more than one year.  To ward off locusts, India has bought drones to spray insecticides, and specialised equipment to monitor their movement. FAO has made several innovations in locust survey and surveillance, such as the use of survey data that is geo-referenced, and is in conjunction with weather, habitat data and satellite imagery.   The attack earlier this year is attributed to cyclones in Indian Ocean that hit a sandy area in the Arabian Peninsula, creating congenial breeding conditions for the locusts. With wetter conditions and increased intensity of precipitation events being projected by climate experts, the increased risk and frequency of locust attacks in the coming years is a cause for concern.  Given the magnitude of the recent attacks, and the vulnerability of the agriculture sector, the Government of India should consider certain policy initiatives to alleviate the woes of the farmers. Crop diversity, which has been traditionally considered the best option to tide over adverse conditions including climate change, pest attacks, and diseases, should be encouraged. Crop diversity allows farmers to plant and harvest more than one crop. The growing seasons are staggered throughout the year, and therefore, in the incidence of a locust attack, farmers are likely to have already harvested some crops. This leaves them with buffer stocks of foodgrains and seeds to sow.  The Government should also mull reinforcing policies for social protection to farmers, such as the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme, implemented by Odisha recently. Crop insurances, which provide financial support to farmers in the event of crop failure due to natural calamities, pests and diseases, should be considered.  However, according to the Pocket Book of Agricultural Statistics (2017), the percentage crop area insured under all insurance schemes, in the states under locust attack is less than or about 30%, with 22% in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh each, and 32% in Haryana and Maharashtra each. Bridging this gap between farmers who are protected by crop insurance and those outside its ambit is important. While temporary measures such as spraying of insecticides is on to battle locusts, a long-term solution involves restoring the environment and formulating strategies for a resilient agriculture sector. (The writers work in the area of Adaptation and Risk Analysis at CSTEP, a research-based think tank)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-handle-locust-attacks-853070.html
24-06-2020||Panorama||Revamp animal agri practices||It is no secret that Covid-19 is a zoonotic disease but do we really know what this means for our health, the health of the animals, and the wellbeing of the workers who have to work with animals in relatively unhygienic conditions? According to articles in global media, the principal driver of zoonotic diseases is industrial animal agriculture. Moreover, with the human population predicted to reach 9 billion by 2050, demand for livestock products is predicted to double, which will result in increased greenhouse gas emissions from livestock farming.  These global statistics have been around for more than two decades, yet we have failed to have an honest public discussion on how to produce our food. As the demand for meat is growing exponentially across the world including in India –largely considered a vegetarian nation– the detrimental impact of inconsiderate animal agriculture is now evident. In 2013, the consumption of meat in Indian was about 5.6 kg per capita (Indian Council of Food and Agriculture). Philanthropists, not-for-profit organisations, and activists have made a clarion call to reduce the consumption of meat by 50% to lessen its rapidly increasing carbon footprint on earth. It is evident that unhygienic breeding conditions of animals have contributed immensely towards the spreading of Covid-19 claiming several thousands of lives. Yet, the well-being of the people in the supply chain of animal agriculture and of the poor workers in facilities where animals are bred and sheltered has been ignored for the longest time.  Three international major meat producers in the US — Tyson Foods, JBS USA and Smithfield Foods — have not only failed to provide the requisite gears to all their workers but also forced them to continue working in crowded plants even while sick, turning the facilities into infection hotspots. According to US media reports, there have been coronavirus outbreaks in more than 30 plants run by these companies and others have impacted no less than 3,300 workers and killed at least 17. The story here on home ground is not very promising either. In April, a Visakhapatnam meat-shop owner tested positive for coronavirus. His samples were collected on April 2 and he continued to work at the store. Only when his samples tested positive, officials accompanied by the police took him and 12 of his contacts to the hospital. The least we recommend is to keep slaughterhouses and meat shops shut until the pandemic is behind us.  Animal agriculture is not only threatening the very existence of humans but is also doing a great disservice to the environment. It is time for the world to bring down consumption of meat while upgrading working conditions of poor workers who come in contact with animals directly and are exposed to the dangers of contracting diseases from them. Countries must also adopt steps for sustainable animal agriculture that can include proper nutrition for the animals, maintenance of hygienic conditions in slaughterhouses and breeding grounds, avoiding the over-crowding of animals in space, lesser use of supplements and artificial boosters to boost growth in animals and raising regionally appropriate animals. Governments worldwide are developing strategies to raise the bar in the field of animal agriculture and public health but there is still a long way to go. Significant work has been undertaken by countries in the space of public health to safeguard the interest of poor workers such as those in animal agriculture but India is miles away from its goals. Almost 70% of the Indian population are dependent on private sector for their health needs and end up paying one of the highest out-of-pocket costs for health services, which drives them into poverty and debt. With the widespread pandemic looming over the lives of poor workers, the onus is on governments to take a note of the situation and improve the delivery of public health while enhancing working conditions of people involved in animal agriculture.   (The writer is the Executive Director of the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO), India’s apex animal protection organization.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/revamp-animal-agri-practices-853403.html
24-06-2020||Panorama||Covid-19: Making critical care relevant and humane||In the times of ongoing pandemic, one of the solutions to prevent deaths that has attracted the largest attention is provision of critical care. In fact, the earliest modelling exercises carried out by scientists at Imperial College were largely aimed to predict the numbers of people who would require intensive care at the peak of the epidemic and how can that period be prolonged to prevent overwhelming of the system. Since availability of mechanical ventilation is an important component of critical care, the discussions since then have revolved around availability of ventilators. Not only in public discourse but even the policy response in India has been to procure more ventilators to prevent deaths due to Covid-19. For example, the largest expense from PM-Cares fund has been towards procurement of ventilators. However, the ventilator care has not lived up to its initial promise. In New York City, nine out of 10 persons provided ventilator care died. Since then, there have been revised technical guidelines and clinical practice that are much more cautious on early use of ventilators. Critical care services are meant as clinical services that meet the needs of patients facing an immediate life-threatening health condition—specifically, that in which vital system organs are at risk of failing. Critical care is a continuum starting from triaging, emergency room care, transport to intensive care unit, and then transfer out to in-patient care and then post-discharge care. Within a region, the continuum extends to triaging and emergency care at a primary care facility, care during transit, and receiving at the referral hospital. Such an organisation is critical to save lives.  For example, inappropriate triaging or delay in providing emergency care before referral would make the most advanced critical care units fail. In that sense, critical care is a system and a not a standalone unit. In India, critical care is not organised as a system. The reason lies in a disintegrated healthcare system, across public and private, and across levels of care which do not speak to each other. Within a critical care unit, the organisation structure is inappropriate. In UK, for example, ventilatory decisions are made by nurses according to set protocols. In India, all such decisions are made by doctors, who are usually anaesthesiologists or critical care specialists, who in any case are few in numbers. Some other group of paramedics, who are extremely critical for quality of care, such as physiotherapists and clinical pharmacologists, are often not available in Indian ICUs. Many ICUs in India lack basic equipment. For example, in 10% of ICUs in Madhya Pradesh, even the basic Blood Gas Analysers were not available. Of course, much of the equipment is expensive, and raises the costs of care. ICU care in India is expensive, often comparable to the costs in North America. A study of patients with liver disease in ICUs in Punjab revealed that average cost of ICU care to the system for each day was around Rs 1.8 lakh and about Rs 1.5 lakh to the patient. About half of the costs are for antibiotics which raise the issues of infections acquired in ICUs and of developing antimicrobial resistance. Critical Care Units in India are highly inequitable. Colleagues at AIIMS Bhopal conducted a study to assess the status of ICUs in MP. Most of the ICUs were located in four cities, and as many as 30 out of 49 districts did not have any critical care beds. About 75% of the ICUs in the state are in the private for-profit sector, and less than 20% were in the public sector. Critical care is expensive and is fraught with risk of hospital acquired infection and admission. Critical Care Units is best reserved for those patients who would benefit from it the most. In India, there is no clear criterion for admission to critical care units. Many patients are admitted for “monitoring” of the patients, which is wasteful. On other hand, admission to critical care units is often used to provide end-of-life care, which is not only wasteful but also can contribute to painful and undignified last days or weeks for the patients and families. Such care is best provided at homes or hospices. Appropriate technology Use of appropriate technology is critical to be effective and to reduce costs. For example, in the case of Covid-19, use of high flow nasal oxygen is much more effective than mechanical ventilation when started early.  Availability of a simple technology as a pulse oximeter in a primary care setting, for example, can help in early identification of respiratory failure in a child with severe pneumonia. If oxygen concentrator is available there, providing high flow oxygen along with antibiotics, would stabilise the child and save lives. Similarly, provision of acute care for trauma, including use of Tranexamic acid at primary care level, is important to save lives. In our own primary care settings in remote and rural south Rajasthan, for example, we have managed hundreds of children with severe pneumonia due to a combination of availability of pulse oximeter, oxygen and standard protocols.   Many people with life threatening situations therefore could be saved by instituting simple protocols, using appropriate technology and building capacities at primary care level.  Even if they still require referral, they would be stabilised before referral and would reach hospitals in “better shape”, and hence would have much better prognosis. However, that brings us to the next step of the continuum-the referral transport and care during transit.  Increasing the numbers of ambulances, instituting standards of care during transit, coordination among them and hospitals, would go a long way in improving care of critically ill patients. We can see that buying more ventilators (or adding other sophisticated solutions at the top) is not a solution to the problems we face, in times of Covid or indeed at any time. (The writer is a paediatrician formerly with Unicef India. He is the co-founder of Basic Healthcare Services, Rajasthan, and Director, Health Services, Ajeevika Bureau, a non-profit that works for migrant workers) (Through The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-making-critical-care-relevant-and-humane-853404.html
24-06-2020||Panorama||Zoonotic diseases are on the rise, are we curbing them?||Eighteen years ago, the world was struck by a new disease, Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) that came out of nowhere but spread rapidly throughout the world infecting 8,422 individuals with a case fatality of nearly 11%. In countries like Malaysia (40%), Thailand (22%), Taiwan (21%) and Hong Kong (17%), the death rate was much more. Years later, the scientists traced the virus to cave dwelling horseshoe bats in China’s Yunnan province while Asian civet cats were the pathogen’s intermediary. Till now, there is no treatment for Sars though fortunately, the disease has not appeared on the earth for a long time. Cut to December 2019 when mankind encountered a related strain Sars-CoV-2 (Covid-19) that has a lower fatality rate of around 3% but turned into a pandemic within months infecting more than 85 lakh people and killing in excess of 4.5 lakh. With no signs of slowing down, the pandemic has already pushed the world economy down through a deep abyss. Preliminary research suggests this time too, the virus originated in a bat species and jumped to the humans through an intermediary animal with the index case reported from a wet market in the Wuhan province of China. The conclusion is obvious. With people increasingly encroaching upon nature, the jungle germs found an easy way to strike at those who violate the barrier, leading to a dramatic rise in the new zoonotic diseases that originate in animals but are transmitted to people. Over the last 30 years, some 60-70% of the new diseases that emerged in humans had a zoonotic origin. Animal pathogens can infect humans directly through contact with the wild animals that are natural carriers of these diseases or indirectly by transmission through intermediate hosts, such as livestock and domestic or peri-domestic animals that live in proximity to humans. These intermediate hosts act as “mixing vessels” that can lead to the genetic variation of diseases, enabling them to infect humans. When natural ecosystems like forests remain intact, interactions between major human population groups and wild host species are limited. As a result, viruses circulate in natural ecosystems without crossing over into humans. Similarly, wild host species have fewer interactions with domesticated animals and livestock, which generally live in close proximity to humans. It is, therefore, less likely for domestic animals and livestock to become intermediate hosts of these diseases. Some studies also suggest that greater biodiversity of species in a natural ecosystem like a forest may hinder disease transmission. This may be attributable to what scientists call the “dilution effect,” which makes it more difficult for a single pathogen to spread rapidly or to dominate. Evidence is not fully conclusive that this effect applies broadly across diseases, although one study found significant evidence of this effect in parasite systems and plant-herbivore systems. One study reviewing over 200 assessments found significant evidence of the dilution effect weakening transmission in parasite systems and plant-herbivore systems. However, over the last century, there has been an alarming increase in the number and frequency of new zoonotic disease outbreaks. The frequency of such outbreaks, caused by a spillover of pathogens from animal hosts to people, may have more than tripled in the last decade. The diversity of these pathogens has also increased, with the number of new zoonotic diseases infecting people quadrupling over the same time period. “These increases are driven by more frequent contact between humans and dangerous animal pathogens as well as by contact with a wider variety of species, resulting in the emergence of new forms of diseases in humans. These new zoonotic diseases have posed a grave threat to human health around the world,” says a new report prepared by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) released last week. Covid-19 and Sars aren’t the only examples of such species jump. There are MERS, Hendra, Zika, Nipah and Avian flu to name a few other deadly diseases that came from the wilderness. With no cure available, it was a matter of luck that none of the outbreaks assumed pandemic proportion in the last two decades. But the luck finally ran out with Covid-19. In modern times, the risk of zoonotic diseases is accelerating, driven by two key factors: the trade of high-risk live wild animals and their meat, and unsustainable food systems driving the large-scale conversion of land for agriculture. The global sale of wild meat and other animal products is increasingly on the rise. Some of the restaurants in Vietnam sell pangolin meat at a price of $300 (nearly Rs 23,000) per kg. A survey of wildlife consumption in three provinces in China found that high-grade restaurants and hotels accounted for 41% and 34%, respectively, of places where wild meat was consumed. Domestic and foreign tourists are also driving demand, with local tourism suppliers often promoting the consumption of wild animals in travel destinations as a unique experience based on local traditions. Every year hundreds of thousands of wild animals are internationally traded for commercial purposes. Land conversion for food and livestock production also destroys and fragments natural habitats around the world. The amount of land converted for food and livestock production is increasing at a rapid rate in order to feed a growing global population. In the last three decades, 178 million hectares of forest have been cleared, which is equivalent to the size of Libya, the 18th largest country in the world. The loss of primary forest and grasslands has continued to grow in recent years, mainly driven by commodity production and shifting agriculture. Most habitat loss associated with agriculture is attributed to just three commodities: beef, soy and palm oil. As a result of extensive land conversion, about 70% of forests globally are now within one km of a forest edge and exposed to further fragmentation. “India too is highly susceptible to zoonotic diseases as we have higher possibilities of humans coming in contact with animals, both due to increasing populations and because of reverence to animals that renders them to have more contacts,” commented K N Ganeshaiah, former professor and head, Department of Forestry and Environmental Sciences, School of Ecology and Conservation at the University of Agriculture Sciences, Bengaluru. For years, India (and Karnataka) dealt with such an illness called Kyasanur Forest Disease - a tick borne viral haemorrhagic fever. Fortunately, KFD has not spread to other parts of the country because the host (monkey) and parasite (virus) combination has a restricted distribution. For it to spread there are gaps in the distribution landscape - an issue that has come to India’s advantage. The Covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated the power of global responses to drive forward systemic changes, with unprecedented shifts in the way that people behave. With the outbreak revealing the strong interconnectedness between environmental issues and health crisis, the WWF in its report suggests to adopt the same approach in an effort to heal nature and stop entry of any future pandemic to the human enclosure. This requires a number of steps to be taken by the governments, business enterprises and people at large. If the governments are serious, nature can be put on a path of recovery by 2030 for the benefit of all people and the planet, notes the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/zoonotic-diseases-are-on-the-rise-are-we-curbing-them-853405.html
24-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Don't call me aunty!||“To dispense with ceremony is the most delicate mode of conferring a compliment,” these immortal words by Edward Bulwer-Lytton somehow struck an ever so discordant note with me when I was young. I recall the first time I was called an “aunty”. If indeed, by calling me so, the child was “conferring a compliment’’, I was not in the least amused and would have been happier being called “akka’’! You see, back then, I am afraid I was still very much a college freshman, and decked, rather informally in my bermudas, and tee, and poring through a comic book, out in the garden. This cute, three-year-old was playing with his ball and innocently asked me, “Aunty, can you please pass my ball?” I glowered at him, then told him sternly, how I was not an aunty. The bewildered child looked at me, mouth agape! That was the death knell in the coffin of my youth. From then on, I seemed to be haunted by the very spectre of ‘auntyhood’, what with each and every child I saw referring to me innocently as aunty. Oh! How it smote my delicate, and oh–so-quite vain heart! With the passage of time, I progressed from being a freshman to being a graduate. I moved on to my first job in a school nearby. Here, too, I found, quickly, all my students quite happily bandying about this word, while addressing me in my off-duty times as “aunty”. Initially, I have to admit, I used to literally duck when I saw any of my students outside school since I dreaded that aunty word like the very plague. But, there was no way around it. Let us just admit it, auntyhood had caught up with me, and there was no pretending to be younger than my years! Still, it irked me, and, when possible, I defended my non-aunty status protesting vehemently, like others of my legion, ’’Aunty mat kahon na (don’t call me aunty!)’’. That was then. Since then, I have watched children around me blossom like little flowers, joining college and their workplaces, and felt a quiet contentment in being addressed as aunty, even considering it to be a happening status! Since that first encounter with aunty hood, I have accepted, initially, with exasperation, then, resignation, and, finally, with a quiet pride the epithet my dear children have bestowed upon me. Finally, I may well conclude my discourse on auntyhood, saying, “Live life and forget your age,” aka auntyhood (with apologies to Norman Vincent Peale)!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/dont-call-me-aunty-853402.html
24-06-2020||Second Edit||Women in elected bodies, a lip service||The nomination of only male candidates for Legislative Council and Rajya Sabha elections from Karnataka this month has once again exposed the stark reality that political parties are only interested in paying lip service to the representation of women in higher echelons of the government. Ironically though, Karnataka was the first state in the country to implement the Panchayat Raj Act in 1987 mandating 25% quota for women, even before the concept of such reservations were introduced by the Rajiv Gandhi government through the 73rd constitutional amendment. While women especially those from scheduled and backward communities play a significant role in local bodies of the state, it is an altogether different story in the legislature and Parliament. Women constitute only 2.6% of the 75-member state Legislative Council. By this month-end, the Upper House will be left with only two women members, as two others are set to retire. The government has a chance to take corrective steps, albeit in a small way, as five nominated seats are set to fall vacant soon. But even if all five seats go to women, which is most unlikely, it will not tip the balance in their favour. The situation is no better in the Legislative Assembly where women with eight members, constitute only 3.1% of the house. Though the representation of women in Lok Sabha has gone up from 5% in the first general elections to 14% at present, it is still abysmally low considering that the female population of the country is 48.5% according to the 2011 census. One of the root causes for this is the lack of will by successive governments and political parties to implement the Women Reservation Bill which has been hanging fire for nearly 25 years now.  First mooted by the Deve Gowda government in 1996, the Bill which provides for 33% reservation for women in Lok Sabha and state assemblies, was finally passed by Rajya Sabha in 2010 when Manmohan Singh was prime minister, but never saw the light of the day as it could not been even be introduced in the Lok Sabha due to lack of consensus among political parties. According to the United Nations, women’s political participation is a fundamental prerequisite for gender equality and genuine democracy. Besides, studies have shown that their greater representation in Parliament and assemblies contribute to stronger attention to women and child issues. Enough time has already elapsed and the Modi government should demonstrate its seriousness about women empowerment by using all the force in its command to get the Bill passed in both the Houses of Parliament without any further delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/women-in-elected-bodies-a-lip-service-853065.html
24-06-2020||Second Edit||Europe kicks off revival of sport||Like everything else in the world, sporting activity too had come to a complete halt following the spread of Covid-19 pandemic across the world. The coronavirus, which originated in China, caused its first major havoc in Europe. The impact of the virus was so huge that it left even the supposedly best public healthcare system in the world inadequate as lakhs got infected and thousands lost their lives every day. With no immediate remedy to combat the fast-spreading disease, one country after another went into lockdown, bringing all productive activities to a complete halt. Sports events, where thousands gather and a perfect vehicle for community spread, were one of the first to be shut. It wasn't long before the rest of the world followed suit.  It appears only apt that Europe, the first continent to be hit severely by the Covid-19 pandemic since it was found in China, has now become the first region to get the major sporting competitions rolling as well. Germany, one of the best countries in containing the virus, set the ball rolling, giving a green signal to Bundesliga over a month ago. Soon, Spain's La Liga, England's Premier League and Italy's Serie A resumed. Stringent protocols were set, spectators were banned from the stadium and a biosecure environment was created to minimise the effect of the virus. Taking cue from football, golf teed off in the US while England announced the commencement of a three-Test series against West Indies from July 8. The Caribbeans have already completed a 14-day isolation period in restricted set-up and if all goes well, Europe will also become the first continent to kick-off international cricket. While 10 Pakistani players testing positive ahead of their August tour of England is a big blow, neither side has backed down from going ahead with the series.   Encouraging as these developments have been for the full return of sporting activities, comes a discouraging development with four top tennis players, including World No. 1 Novak Djokovic, testing positive for Covid-19 during the course of an exhibition tournament (in Croatia and Serbia) organised by the Serbian ace. While the intention behind the move to host the event was right, it appears that little attention was paid insofar as pandemic protocols were concerned. Spectators packed the venues with literally no social distancing. Most of them did not wear masks while the players themselves were seen, in videos leaked on Wednesday, partying hard in a crowded place. It was nothing less than inviting trouble. While it is a major setback as sport looks to regain some sort of normalcy, hopefully it is just a one-off incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/europe-kicks-off-revival-of-sport-853398.html
24-06-2020||South||3 deaths, 879 new COVID-19 cases reported in Telangana; Tally rises to 9,553||Telangana continued to witness a major spike in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday with as many 879 new cases and three deaths being reported, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 9,553 and fatalities to 220. Out of the 879 fresh cases, 652 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) followed by Medchal district near here with 112 cases. A total of 4,224 people have been discharged so far, while 5,109 were under treatment; 3,006 samples were tested on Tuesday, a bulletin said. Cumulatively, 63,249 samples have been tested, it said. The state government has recently announced that around 50,000 samples would be tested in Hyderabad and its neighbouring districts as part of measures to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-deaths-879-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-telangana-tally-rises-to-9553-853049.html
24-06-2020||South||Case against woman activist for allegedly making children do body art on her||A police case was registered against activist Rahana Fathima in Kerala for allegedly making her children paint on her body. Rahana had received wide attention as she tried to enter Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala after the Supreme Court lifted the ban on entry of women in 10-50 age group to the temple in 2018. A body art video footage, purportedly that of Rahana lying half-naked and two children drawing and painting on the body, is now being circulated on the social media. A lawyer and BJP activist Arun Prakash filed a complaint at the Thiruvalla police station on Tuesday alleging that Rahana made her minor children do body art and circulated it on the internet. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under various sections of Juvenile Justice Act and Indian Penal Code for cruelty to children and electronically transmitting sexually explicit content. Police said that further actions would be initiated in the case after looking into the allegations in the complaint and the place of occurrence. Rahana, who was a telecom technician with BSNL, recently alleged that she was terminated her from service. A case was registered against her in November 2018 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. She was subsequently placed under suspension and BSNL conducted an internal enquiry also. Based on that she was terminated from service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-against-woman-activist-for-allegedly-making-children-do-body-art-on-her-853132.html
24-06-2020||South||Amid Indo-Sino border tension, Kerala's China junction wants to change its name||As India-China relationship worsens, a small place at Pathanamthitta district in Kerala is seeking to change its name. 'Chinamukku' (China junction) at Konni, about ten kilometres from Pathanamthitta town wants to change its name. Konni panchayat vice president Praveen Plavilayil has given a memorandum in this regard to the panchayat. He said that a major chunk of the people of Chinamukku wants a name change, even as some CPM activists seem to be unhappy with the move, said Praveen, who is a Congress activist. Panchayat president Rajani said that the panchayat was planning to pass a resolution in this regard and propose to the state government to change the name. "It seems there won't be much resistance from any parties, including CPM, to the proposal for a name change as the local people also share a similar mood," she said. It is believed that the place got the name from a remark of former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Nehru came down to the locality in the 1950s for an election campaign. The entire locality was decorated using Congress flags and festoons. But one small area in between stood apart with red flags as it was a Communist-dominated area. Nehru remarked whether it was Communist China. Thus, the area got the name China junction, said Praveen. He added that many alternative names have come up. Nehru junction, Bharat junction and Jawan junction are some of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-indo-sino-border-tension-keralas-china-junction-wants-to-change-its-name-853148.html
24-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh's Covid-19 tally crosses 10,000-mark||Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday crossed the 10,000-mark in coronavirus cases with 497 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours. While it took close to three months from March for the first 5,000 Covid-19 cases to emerge in the state, the second 5,000 came in just 15 days. The Covid-19 toll also mounted to 129 on Wednesday, with 10 fresh fatalities, the highest in a day so far, according to the latest bulletin. In the last 24 hours, 497 new cases were reported taking the tally of infections to 10,331 in the state, while 146 patients were discharged from hospitals. Kurnool reported four Covid-19 deaths, Krishna three, Guntur two, and Srikakulam one in the last 24 hours. Anantapuramu district registered the highest 90 cases, taking its overall tally to 1,028. It is the third district in the state after Kurnool (1,483) and Krishna (1,132) to cross the 1000 cases mark. The 10,331 Covid-19 cases in AP included 8,306 locals, 1,660 from other states, and 365 foreign returnees. The state now has 5,423 active cases after a total of 4,779 patients recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradeshs-covid-19-tally-crosses-10000-mark-853169.html
24-06-2020||South||Sexagenarian held in Tamil Nadu for proposing, giving love letter to teen||A sexagenarian was arrested near here on Wednesday for allegedly proposing to a 16-year-old girl and giving her a love letter, police said. The 66-year-old Mohammed Bahir Basha handed over the letter to the girl in the neighbourhood two days ago. In the letter to her, he had said: "I like you, is it okay," the police said. Taken by surprise, the girl showed the letter to her mother, who along with her husband, took the issue up with Basha's family, they said. The family convinced the girl's parents and apologised for the old man's behaviour. However, Basha again reiterated his love for the girl and allegedly threatened her, they said. As the girl was afraid to come out of the house, her parents lodged a complaint with the all-woman police. A case was registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against Basha. He was arrested and lodged in the central jail here, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sexagenarian-held-in-tamil-nadu-for-proposing-giving-love-letter-to-teen-853185.html
24-06-2020||South||Four held in Kochi for blackmailing actress Shamna Kasim with marriage proposal||Four persons were held by the Kochi city police on Wednesday in connection with an attempt to blackmail popular South Indian actress Shamna Kasim. Police suspect the involvement of the gang in more such blackmailing. Shamna's mother recently filed a complaint with the Kochi city police alleging that a gang tried to blackmail the actress after coming up with a marriage proposal. The marriage proposal came about one month ago. The prospective bridegroom was said to be from a member of a prominent family in Kozhikode district. A picture of the prospective bridegroom was also shown and he also spoke to Shamna and other family members couple of times over phone, but did not come up for video call. About two weeks ago, the youth and family members informed Shamna's family that they would come down to Shamna's house at Kochi. But in the last minute they informed that owing to lockdown the prospective bridegroom and family could not turn up and some of their relatives would visit. Four persons came to Shamna's house introducing themselves as the prospective bridegroom's uncle and relatives. Shamna's mother said that her family was quite suspicious about them and after they visited the family, checked surveillance camera of the house and found that the youths took pictures of the house and her vehicles. Later the person who posed as prospective bridegroom rang up Shamna and demanded Rs. one lakh from the actress over phone. As Shamna refused it, he blackmailed her stating that he would spoil her career by misusing her pictures and telephone conversations. Shamna's family noticed that the picture shown to them as prospective bridegroom was that of a Tik-Tok fame hailing from Kasargod district. Shamna's family made an enquiry and found that they were being cheated. Subsequently, Shamna's family reported it to the police. Kochi city deputy commissioner of police G Poonguzhali said that four youths hailing from neighbouring Thrissur district were held. More person are suspected to be involved in the gang. She also said that some more persons have now approached the police with similar complaints. Hence, it is strongly suspected that the gang was involved in more similar cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-held-in-kochi-for-blackmailing-actress-shamna-kasim-with-marriage-proposal-853228.html
24-06-2020||South||Kerala eases pre-departure Covid-19 test for NRIs, but to insist on protective wears||Kerala government has relaxed its order insisting on pre-departure Covid-19 test for all NRIs returning, but will insist on protective wears like N-95 masks and PPE kits. Meanwhile, fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala have been steadily increasing over the last six days with 152 on Wednesday, while 81 more recovered, taking the total active cases to 1,691. Even as Kerala government was insisting on pre-departure Covid-19 test for NRI's despite strong opposition from Opposition parties, the state on Wednesday eased the norm as test facilities could not be ensured in all foreign countries. Hence the state urged that those who could conduct test should do it with in 72 hours before traveling, while others would be subjected to test on arrival in Kerala and would have to mandatorily go on 14 days quarantine. UAE is conducting Covid-19 test to all boarding flights. Those coming from other places without undergoing Covid-19 tests should wear N-95 masks, gloves and face shields. All coming down from Saudi Arabia should wear PPE kits and those coming from Kuwait without conducting Covid-19 test should wear PPE kit. Those coming from Qatar should have green status in Ehteraz app, which is mandatory in Qatar. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 69 percent on Covid-19 cases reported in Kerala so far were NRIs. Flight travel of infected persons pose risk of super spread of Covid-19 infection to others infected. Hence Kerala sought pre-Covid-19 tests for returnees. The Chief Minister said that lockdown norms would be tightened in some districts depending upon increase in Covid-19 cases. So far there were no signs of community spread, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-eases-pre-departure-covid-19-test-for-nris-but-to-insist-on-protective-wears-853272.html
24-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu launches exclusive Covid-19 treatment centre based on Siddha medicine||After successfully treating dozens of Covid-19 patients using Siddha medicine, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday launched an exclusive centre with 224 beds that will use the traditional Tamil system of medicine to “cure” patients infected with coronavirus. The 224-bedded facility will function from the sprawling premises of Dr. Ambedkar Government Arts and Science College in Vyasarpadi in north Chennai, one of the worst-affected areas in the city. Patients who come here will be treated only through the Siddha system of medicine and no English medicine will be administered to them. From sattvic food to herbal bath to yoga to herbal tea to herbal food – patients will undergo a rigorous treatment protocol at this centre, which has an hospital-like administrative set-up. Experts from the National Institute of Siddha (NIS) here have been roped in to formulate the treatment protocol which would be a mix of healthy food and physical exercise. Officials said awareness on treatment through Siddha medicine has been created among people in Chennai and only those who opt for the Tamil system of medicine to get treated for Covid-19 will be brought to the centre. “We have painstakingly devised the treatment protocol that will be supervised and implemented by a team of doctors. Siddha medicine is next to none, and we have got this centre ready to showcase to the world that our medicine can also be successful in Covid-19 treatment,” Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture Minister ‘MaFoi’ K Pandiarajan, who is coordinating efforts in the Tondiarpet zone here, said. The treatment would start at 6 am with a cup of herbal tea, followed by walking, breathing exercise and a herbal concoction before the patients’ head for a herbal breakfast. Through the day, the patients will go through several physical exercises, herbal baths and yoga, besides “tasty” lunch and dinner that will have a heavy herbal touch. “Patients will have to do the exercises on their own, but they will be guided by Siddha doctors. The Covid care centre will have a resident medical officer like any other hospital and the treatment protocol will be monitored by a team of five senior doctors,” Pandiarajan said. Besides doctors from NIS, renowned Siddha doctors Sivaraman and Parthiban have also been drafted to treat the Covid-19 patients. The exclusive Siddha-based Covid Care Centre was established after 30 people were successfully treated for Covid-19 using the traditional system of medicine in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-launches-exclusive-covid-19-treatment-centre-based-on-siddha-medicine-853290.html
24-06-2020||South||As Covid-19 cases report spike, Tamil Nadu bans inter-district travel||With the prevalence of Covid-19 not just confined to this metropolis now and spreading across the state, Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday imposed a ban on inter-district travel and suspended public transport between districts for six days beginning June 25. The announcement by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami came as the state reported its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 numbers on Wednesday with as many as 2,865 persons, including 91 who returned from abroad and other states, testing positive for Coronavirus. The state’s tally now stands at 67,468, including 37,763 discharges and 866 deaths – 33 of which were recorded on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 28,836. Chennai reported 1,654 cases on Wednesday, taking its individual tally to 45,814, including 26,472 discharges and 668 deaths. In a press release, Palaniswami said inter-district travel and plying of public transport between districts in zones, which were created for the state’s convenience while implementing lockdown 5.0, will be banned for six days from June 25. Anyone travelling out of a district would need e-pass, while buses will ply within districts outside of Chennai and its neighbouring districts. The CM said the decision was being taken as districts are finding it difficult to trace the contacts of people who come from other areas of the state without the mandatory e-pass. The tightening of relaxations provided from June 1 came as the number of cases outside Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Chengalpattu witnessed a massive spike in the past ten days. Chennai and parts of the three districts are under a 12-day ‘strict’ lockdown since June 19. A few northern districts like Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, and Ranipet and southern districts like Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Tirunelveli, and Thoothukudi, which had brought the spread of Coronavirus under control, have been reporting hundreds of new patients in the past ten days. Mass exodus of people from Chennai to their native places across the state is said to be one of the major reasons behind the spike in the numbers. Data analysed by DH from June 14 to June 23 says as many as 5,333 people have tested positive in the aforementioned period alone in 34 districts excluding Chennai and its three neighbouring districts. Districts like Madurai, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, and Ranipet have reported doubling their total cases in the aforesaid period alone. While Madurai added 611 case since June 14, Tiruvannamalai reported 679 fresh cases, Vellore (390), Ranipet (340), Ramanathapuram (254), Dindigul (147), Tiruchirapalli (215), Thoothukudi (273), and Theni (144) during the same period.   While only a few possess e-pass and travel to their native towns and villages, several hundreds have found multiple ways to hoodwink the police and reach their native places. While those travelling with e-pass are quarantined and tested at facilities arranged by district administrations, those who reach their villages and towns without reporting at check-posts pose a bigger problem. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- “These people come to their towns using village roads and do not report their arrival to anyone. Only when we ask them whether they had any travel history, they tell about their return from Chennai or from other parts of the state. By the time we come to know, many of these people would have passed on the virus to others,” a district collector told DH, requesting anonymity.   He added that tracing the contacts of people coming from other districts, including Chennai, is proving to be a tough task as they attend functions like marriage and meet their relatives. “We have sought the help of the village panchayats and elders in getting information on those returning from other parts of the state where the prevalence of the virus is high. Only if people who come from other districts reduce their social contact, we will be able to bring the spread under control,” the collector said. Another district collector spoke in similar language, saying people who come with e-pass can easily be tracked as the administration is in possession of all their details. “We test everyone who comes from Chennai to their native places due to high-prevalence of the virus in the capital. People are generally cooperative, and they undergo tests without any fuss. But the real problem is tracking and tracing the people who sneak into villages without e-pass,” the collector told DH. EoM  --     Warm Regards   E. T. B. Sivapriyan Special Correspondent | Deccan Herald Flat No 2A, Prestige Point | 47/2, Haddows Road Nungambakkam | Chennai-34   Ph: 044-28214378 | Mob: (+91) 98999 62358||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-cases-report-spike-tamil-nadu-bans-inter-district-travel-853291.html
24-06-2020||South||Big spurt in cases compels Telangana government's move to start treating patients at 'Covid-19 hospital'||As fresh cases are adding in alarming numbers breaking the previous day's records, a special Covid-19 hospital which the Telangana government has “readied within three weeks” is expected to begin treating patients next week. Telangana has registered 879 new cases on Tuesday and 872 the day before. While the total cases in the state till now are 9553, active cases are 5109. The number of deceased is also increasing worryingly and is at 220, till Tuesday night. Announced as “open” amidst fanfare from April 20, “the 1500 bed capacity hospital”, with medical equipment installed, and showcased to the inter-ministerial central team on COVID-19 inspection, has been lying unused. As DH had reported on June 11, health officials stated that the hospital would come into use when there is a bigger spike in cases, which Telangana is witnessing now. On Wednesday, health minister Etela Rajender visited the “Centre for Covid-19”, located in Gachibowli, the IT hub of Hyderabad, and reviewed the facilities. “The hospital is equipped with advanced amenities like in corporate hospitals. Out of 1224 beds readied, 1000 have oxygen facility and 50 have ventilators. Staff recruitment will be completed in two days and in-patient services will start in 4-5 days,” Etela said. “A canteen is also set up within the complex to prepare, supply food for the patients.”   A fortnight back, stating they are overworked, junior doctors at the Gandhi Hospital sat on a protest demanding that Covid-19 treatment be decentralized utilizing the Gachibowli hospital too. The 14 floor sports complex building turned into Covid-19 hospital on a war footing had drawn comparisons with a hospital in Wuhan that China supposedly built in 10 days.    Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao declared that the hospital would continue services as the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), after the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/big-spurt-in-cases-compels-telangana-governments-move-to-start-treating-patients-at-covid-19-hospital-853296.html
24-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports record jump of 2,865 new coronavirus cases||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued unabated in Tamil Nadu with an all-time high of 2,865 people testing positive in a single day on Wednesday, taking the tally to 67,468 while the toll mounted to 866 with 33 deaths. With the focus on increasing testing, the state examined 32,079 samples, the highest in a day so far, and cumulatively 9,76,431 specimens have been screened for the deadly virus, a health department bulletin said. Those dead included 30 with co-morbidities and three had none, it said. In the new cases, Chennai's share was 1,654, taking its aggregate to 45,814. While active cases stood at 28,836, a total of 2,424 people were discharged from various hospitals, again a record for recoveries on a single day. In total, 37,763 people have been sent home after cure, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-record-jump-of-2865-new-coronavirus-cases-853336.html
24-06-2020||South||Amid rising virus cases, Tamil Nadu stops inter-district public transport bus services for 6 days||Inter-district public transport bus services are being withdrawn for six days in Tamil Nadu from Thursday and e-pass made mandatory for travel outside a district, the government announced, reintroducing the curbs amid continuing surge in COVID-19 cases. The decision was taken after district collectors at a virtual review meeting chaired by chief minister K Palaniswami made the suggestion, saying there were difficulties in contact tracing in case a person travelling outside a district without the e-pass tested positive for the deadly virus. Also, officials said the virus was spreading in view of unrestricted travel by public within the zones. Announcing the restoration of the curbs eased from June 1, Palaniswami referred to the view of officials as well and said private vehicles, including cars and two-wheelers, cannot make inter-zonal travel without e-pass. People coming from other states and foreign countries should be quarantined and their entry shall be subject to possession of e-pass, he said in a statement. E-passes are issued only for travel for medical emergencies, death or marriage of blood relatives and essential services. Palaniswami also said rice ration card holders in Madurai will get the second round of Rs 1,000 cash assistance in view of the week-long complete lockdown enforced there from Wednesday to check rising cases. Tamil Nadu clocked an all-time high of 2,865 positive cases in a single day on Wednesday, taking the tally to 67,468 while the toll mounted to 866 with 33 deaths. The Chief Minister said the present "zonal system" of allowing travel within a zone (comprising a number of nearby districts), without the need to obtain an e-pass has been temporarily cancelled. The government, for transportation purposes, had earlier divided the state into eight zones and allowed public transport buses in all but two zones comprising Chennai and its neighbouring districts with high case load while doing away with the need for e-pass for intra-zone journeys. Palaniswami said from June 25 to 30, people can travel without e-pass only within a district. For inter-district journey, e-pass was needed and public transport bus services will operated within the confines of a given district for six days. "I appeal to the people to extend their cooperation to prevent the spread of coronavirus," he said. In the review meeting, district collectors pointed out factors like the difficulty in tracking contacts of those who arrive in a district from another without an e-pass. Only intra-district travel without e-pass may be allowed, the officials said. "This proposal (of officials) has been accepted and the zonal system of transport is temporarily cancelled," the chief minister said. Palaniswami said he has ordered disbursement of Rs 1,000 to rice ration card holders in Madurai and other nearby areas which have come under intense curbs from Wednesday till June 30 without relaxations available previously like Chennai and parts of Chengelpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. The cash assistance has been announced for card holders in Chennai and nearby areas after the intensified lockdown was clamped on June 19. Meanwhile, police in Chennai said three cab drivers and two state government employees, including a Revenue Inspector, were arrested in acase of alleged fraud in issuance of e- pass. The passes were issued without due diligence in consideration of illegal gratification by the two government stafferswith the connivance of the drivers, they alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-rising-virus-cases-tamil-nadu-stops-inter-district-public-transport-bus-services-for-6-days-853378.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: KSRTC to resume AC bus services to 8 cities from June 25||Three weeks after the BMTC started running air-conditioned buses in Bengaluru, the KSRTC on Wednesday announced that AC services will resume to eight cities, including Mangaluru and Mysuru from June 25. Starting from Thursday, people can travel to Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kundapura, Madikeri, Chikkamagaluru, Davanagere, Shivamogga and Virajpet in AC busses, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said in a release.  Passengers can book tickets online at www.ksrtc.in or through reservation counters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-ksrtc-to-resume-ac-bus-services-to-8-cities-from-june-25-853161.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Video clips show poor Covid-19 treatment in Mangaluru hospital||The video clippings allegedly showing lack of facilities and treatment for Covid-19 infected at Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru is being circulated in social media.  Three video clippings allegedly shot by the infected are being circulated. The video clipping shows waste in a drinking water tumbler, tea kept in open in glasses, and a mask being kept near the window of the toilet.  As the tablet given for the infected had turned brownish colour, a youth is seen questioning the hospital staff over the colour of the tablet in the video. In another video clipping, a youth is seen expressing displeasure for treating aged and youngsters infected with Covid-19, in the same ward. Reacting to the allegations, Wenlock Hospital Superintendent and district surgeon Dr Sadashiva said "a few youths with international travel history have been tested positive for Covid-19. They are asymptomatic. However, their samples are tested positive. They are keen to return their houses. Owing to the positive report, they are frustrated and have levelled allegations."  "Already 256 infected have recovered and been discharged from hospital. The doctors and staff render their service by putting their health to risk. It is not right to level false allegations against the doctors and staff," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/video-clips-show-poor-covid-19-treatment-in-mangaluru-hospital-853183.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka all set to hold SSLC exam amid Covid-19 scare||Almost 8.5 lakh students are expected to appear for the SSLC exams beginning on Thursday, with the state government deciding to go ahead with the exercise amid pressure from all quarters to postpone or even cancel the test. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar defended the decision and said it was not a "question of pride" for the government. "We have taken it as our responsibility in the interest of students. Other states have cancelled Class 10 exams because marks secured in Class 12 matter to those states, but in our state, Class 10 marks are considered at all levels," he said. The minister said he had consulted experts, opposition leaders and heads of religious institutions on the issue, and that all necessary arrangements have been made. "We are following the Standard Operating Procedure given by the health department," he said. All exam centres were sanitised by the Health Department a day before the exams. "In case any student or staff contracts the virus during the exams, the government will take the responsibility of their treatment. I request all students to take the exams without any fear," he appealed. A total of 8,48,203 students will appear for the exams from June 25 to July 4. Separate seating arrangements have been made for students from containment zones. Further, in case an area is declared as a containment zone, exam centres at such places will be shifted to a nearby centre. To avoid inconvenience, students appearing for exams at such centres will be allowed to appear for supplementary exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-all-set-to-hold-sslc-exam-amid-covid-19-scare-853293.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus cases breach 10,000 mark in Karnataka; 397 fresh cases and 14 deaths||A little over a month after crossing 1,000 cases, Karnataka’s Covid-19 case count breached 10,000-mark. The state saw 10-fold increase in infections in 40 days. A spike of 397 cases on Wednesday took state’s tally to 10,118. Most number of Wednesday’s cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban 173 followed by Ballari 34, Kalaburagi and Ramnagara 22 each, Udupi 14, Yadgir 13, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad 12 each and Koppal 11. The remaining districts reported cases in single digit.  The 14 new fatalities shot up the death toll to 164. Bengaluru reported five deaths on Wednesday. Kalaburagi and Ramanagar reported two deaths each while Tumakuru and Mysuru recorded one death each. Ballari district has reported four fatalities since Tuesday. The state has 3,799 active cases, as on June 24.   As many as 112 patients are in the ICUs across the state. Bengaluru Urban alone accounts for 63 of them. Out of Wednesday’s cases, 75 are domestic returnees and eight international passengers while contacts of 92 cases were yet to be traced.  Five more JSW workers contract virus Five more employees of Toranagallu-based JSW plant and a health worker (OPJ fever clinic) were among the 28 people who tested positive for novel coronavirus in Ballari district on Wednesday. With this, Ballari district’s Covid-19 tally rose to 537. Among the fresh infections are three cases of ILI while the remaining are the contacts of the previously infected persons. The district reported four Covid-19 fatalities in the last 48 hours. The first three deaths were reported on Tuesday. A 72-year-old man, a SARI case, died at VIMS late on Tuesday night. Bagepalli court sealed A 28-year-old woman, working as second division assistant (SDA) at civil court in Bagepalli town, Chikkaballapur district, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The court premises has been sealed for next two days. The woman used to travel daily from Gauribidanur taluk to Bagepalli court. She developed fever and cough on June 22. Two days later, her swab sample returned positive for virus. All primary contacts of the woman have been identified and sent to home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-cases-breach-10000-mark-in-karnataka-397-fresh-cases-and-14-deaths-853322.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HD Kumaraswamy demands complete lockdown in Ramanagara, Channapatna||Amidst widespread pressure on the state government to impose yet another lockdown, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy has demanded that a lockdown be imposed in Ramanagara and Channapatna assembly constituencies.  Kumaraswamy has written to the respective Deputy Commissioners seeking a complete lockdown in these constituencies following the rising number of cases. "Let there be permission given to people for buying essential items between 7 am and 11 am. That apart, there has to be a complete lockdown," he wrote in his letter. The JD(S) leader represents Channapatna constituency while his wife Anitha is the MLA of Ramanagara constituency.  In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Kumaraswamy alleged that the government had completely failed in providing proper treatment and care for the Covid-19 patients. Neither are there enough beds for treating the existing patients nor are there sufficient ventillators. A self-imposed lockdown is the only solution, he tweeted, calling upon people across the state to stay at home. "Once infected, forget the poor, even the middleclass will not be able to afford treatment at the prices fixed by the government. If four people in a family get infected and have to stay in the hospital for fifteen days, a family needs Rs 5-6 lakh at the government-fixed prices," he said. Meanwhile, facing pressure from various quarters, the government is likely to decide on the possibility of another lockdown in the cabinet meeting on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hd-kumaraswamy-demands-complete-lockdown-in-ramanagara-channapatna-853330.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IPS officer, 9 cops contract Covid-19||A 46-year-old IPS officer attached to Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night. The officer is undergoing treatment at Manipal hospital. He was in constant touch with the KSRP personnel in Bengaluru who were under quarantine.  The Additional Director General of police, (KSRP), Alok Kumar, confirmed to DH that the officer has tested positive. Meanwhile, nine policemen attached to various police stations in the city have also contracted the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ips-officer-9-cops-contract-covid-19-853366.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK seeks lockdown in Ramanagar, Channapatna||Amidst widespread pressure on the government to impose another lockdown, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has demanded that a lockdown be imposed in Ramanagar and Channapatna Assembly constituencies. Kumaraswamy has written to the Ramanagar Deputy Commissioner seeking a complete lockdown in these constituencies in the wake of the rising number of cases here. “Let there be permission given to people for buying essential items between 7 am and 11 am. Let there be a complete lockdown after this period till the next morning,” he wrote in hisletter. Kumaraswamy represents Channapatna constituency in the Assembly, while his wife Anitha is the MLA from Ramanagar constituency.   In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Kumaraswamy alleged that the government had completely failed in providing proper treatment and care to Covid-19 patients. Neither are there enough beds for treating the patients nor are there sufficient ventilators. A self-imposed lockdown is the only solution, he tweeted, calling upon people across the state to stay at home. “Money is not more important than life. Your life is in your hands. Once infected, forget the poor, even the middle class will not be able to afford treatment at the prices fixed by the government. If four people in a family get infected and have to stay in the hospital for 15 days, at the government-fixed prices, a family needs Rs 5 lakh to Rs 6 lakh,” he said, urging people through his tweets to stay at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-seeks-lockdown-in-ramanagar-channapatna-853370.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress plans big to counter BJP at booth-level||Taking a leaf out of the BJP’s strategy book, the D K Shivakumar-led Congress is pursuing an ambitious plan to strengthen its booth-level presence by deputing senior leaders there, revamping the very manner in which booth-level committees are constituted.  Shivakumar wants all top leaders - Mallikarjun Kharge, Siddaramaiah, K H Muniyappa, Dinesh Gundurao, B K Hariprasad, himself among others - to take up the responsibility of constituting committees at the booth where they are registered as voters.  Also, the party will develop an app that will be used to constitute booth-level committees, which are crucial to ensure conversion of votes.  Shivakumar revealed this during a preparatory meeting ahead of his formal coronation as the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president on July 2.  “During the formation of the booth committees, an app and a tab will be given,” Shivakumar said. “It won’t be like you sit somewhere and make a list of people like it happened all this time. You can’t sit in some MLA’s house or my house and make the list. The committees should be finalised in the booth itself. One has to sit there, take pictures of the committee members, hit a button and it’ll reach the KPCC,” he said.  “The likes of Siddaramaiah, Kharge and I have to be booth-level representatives first,” he said.  In the run-up to the 2018 Assembly polls, the party attempted formation of booth-level committees, but it did not succeed. The BJP, on the other hand, worked aggressively in the booths. Every booth committee had a target of bringing 50% of the votes to the BJP. The booth committees were also instrumental in helping the BJP devise its poll strategy in understanding the vote share and identifying votes that can be swung in its favour.  Now, every Congress booth-level committee will have 25-26 members, with representation from the Mahila Congress, Youth Congress, National Students Union of India and one digital youth who will be tech-savvy. “We will decide on the shape and size of the committee based on the population (in that booth),” Shivakumar said.  Significantly, Shivakumar also announced that only booth representatives will be appointed as KPCC office-bearers going forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-plans-big-to-counter-bjp-at-booth-level-853371.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rural mandate, Bengaluru work: KRIDL doubles turnover||A state-run agency notorious for having been blacklisted in the past has raised eyebrows by almost doubling its turnover in the last five years while posting a 175% increase in profits.  Although its mandate is rural infrastructure, nearly half of the turnover of the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) came from Bengaluru in the 2019-20 fiscal. Rising turnover, profits According to official figures, the KRIDL took up works worth Rs 3,853.91 crore in the previous fiscal whereas its target was Rs 3,425 crore. In Bengaluru’s municipal limits, KRIDL bagged works such as asphalting of roads and drain improvements worth Rs 1,891.40 crore, 171% more than the Rs 1,100 crore target.  Its profit after tax is steadily increasing - from Rs 109 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 300 crore last year.  These figures have baffled officials in the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department under which KRIDL functions. “For all other departments, the KRIDL does work against advance payment. For BBMP, they do work without any advance. This is something that we have been objecting. But political influence is brought to bear,” a senior official pointed out.  The KRIDL is a favourite among many legislators, because no tendering is required while awarding works to the agency. “Works given to KRIDL need not be tendered as they are supposed to do the work themselves. Since they are taking on so much of workload, they can’t obviously do the work themselves,” the official said.  A legislator from Kalaburagi district, requesting anonymity, said works assigned to KRIDL can be handed out to contractors picked by MLAs. Apparently, the handing out of works to contractors happens informally - no paper work is done.  In October 2018, the social welfare department had blacklisted KRIDL for shoddy work.  Even the BBMP had, in 2010, blacklisted the agency for poor road work. In 2015, a probe found that hundreds of crores of public money had been illegally parked in the personal accounts of KRIDL officials. KRIDL was set up in 1971 as the Directorate of Land Army. It was renamed as KRIDL in 2008 with the objective of taking up rural development by eliminating middlemen. “It started with good, capable army personnel headed by Brigadier Mallappa,” former additional chief secretary V Balasubramanian said. ‘Wind it up’ “It worked well, but over time tenders were exempted, which is a violation of general principles that govern public works. As a result, it has been scandal-driven. Either wind it up or change its procedure.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rural-mandate-bengaluru-work-kridl-doubles-turnover-853373.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||One more lockdown? All eyes on today’s Cabinet meeting||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet, which is scheduled to meet on Thursday, is expected to discuss the need for another lockdown in the face of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, especially Bengaluru.  Some Cabinet ministers have not ruled out the possibility of another lockdown being imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai acknowledged that much was being talked about the lockdown. “The CM is reviewing the situation every day. Even the media is conveying public sentiment. Whether or not lockdown should be imposed is an important issue,” he said. With Covid-19 cases increasing, we have to keep in mind the management of pandemic, economic activities and the financial position of the government, Bommaiadded.  Health Minister B Sriramulu said the matter will be discussed with the committee of experts. “We will discuss this with the CM and also consult the Centre. There are more cases in Bengaluru because of people who came from outside. So, some areas have already been sealed down.” On Wednesday, Karnataka crossed the 10,000-mark after reporting 397 new Covid-19 positive cases. Out of 10,118 cases, 3,799 are still active whereas 6,151 have been discharged and 164 have succumbed. Karnataka’s average compounded daily growth rate of Covid-19 positive cases is 4.12%, higher than the national average of 3.71%.  While the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24, Karnataka ordered the closure of malls, theatres, multiplexes, clubs, pubs and other commercial establishments on March 13. The state has been crawling back towards normalcy since June 1, which marked the start of Unlock 1.0.  “If we impose the lockdown, some will ask why. If we don’t, some will ask why not. There is some panic now because cases have gone up. Based on that, we’re going to have to think of how we can control this,” Tourism Minister CT Ravi said. Several businesses have voluntarily decided to shut shop in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Voices from the Opposition Congress and JD(S) are also calling for imposition of one more lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-more-lockdown-all-eyes-on-today-s-cabinet-meeting-853374.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||British national drowns in sea off Gokarna beach||A 44-year-old British national, who ventured into sea for fishing, died after drowning near Gokarna on Tuesday. His body was recovered from the main beach on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Gregory Robert Wright, who was staying in Gokarna since September 2019. Police sources informed DH that Gregory lost his balance while fishing and drowned in the sea. For the last eight years he has been visiting Gokarana along with his family. They have bought a sea facing house. The family had to stay back in Gokarna due to lockdown and non-availability of international flights. Gregory’s wife said, on Tuesday he had gone for fishing in an isolated location. However, he did not return home in the evening.Police said that post-mortem would be conducted after receiving permission from British embassy. A case of unnatural death has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/british-national-drowns-in-sea-off-gokarna-beach-853375.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Public Works Department all set to lose engineering weight||In a huge administrative exercise, the Public Works Department (PWD), which boasted the largest pool of engineers, will see its size shrink to almost one-fourth. The process of dividing the PWD, Water Resources and Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) departments is now in its final stages after several differences regarding promotions and fixing seniority were resolved. Engineers and staff are given a choice to decide whether to opt to stay in the parent PWD or get attached to any of the other two departments. According to sources, measures for trifurcation were initiated almost a decade ago and recently ministers in-charge of the departments met for the fifth time to finalise the process. “Earlier, cadre management of all engineers deputed to all departments - but majorly to RDPR and Water Resources, and the staff of establishment sections was done by the PWD, which is the parent department. With trifurcation, the responsibility of hiring and cadre management will now rest with the departments concerned.” As of now, PWD manages around 7,500 engineers. Following the trifurcation, Water Resources will absorb around 3,500 engineers considering the number of projects taken up, while around 2,500 engineers will be assigned to RDPR. The PWD will be left with around 1,500-1,700 engineers, several of whom are deputed to various projects and boards such as the Smart Cities project. The selection process is expected to be completed within a month. Till now, around 700 engineers have opted for Water Resources and 600 for RDPR. Soon after the government issued an order in May asking all engineers from PWD, serving in Water Resources and RDPR to make a one-time choice on the department they want to be absorbed, a section of engineers had alleged that the decision would affect their career prospects. When contacted, B Guruprasad, secretary to government, said that all issues such as seniority fixing, promotion and others were sorted out. “Several constraints in the trifurcation were resolved and measures are on to complete the process soon,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/public-works-department-all-set-to-lose-engineering-weight-853376.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt notifies draft rules for regulatory sandboxes||Startups and big businesses will have to pay anywhere between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 40 lakh to test disruptive technologies in a controlled environment as Karnataka has notified draft rules governing the operation of the regulatory sandboxes.  The regulatory sandbox is a key feature of the Karnataka Innovation Authority (KIA), which the government claims, is India’s first pan-sector initiative that is expected to see private companies testing innovations that are currently unregulated under law. Sandboxes will provide regulatory exemption for disruptive technologies to be tested for a year, which can be extended by one more year. Sandboxes will be established in two ways: One, based on an application the KIA receives from innovators seeking a sandbox, which it will decide upon within 59 days after determining the feasibility through a public consultation; two, the KIA itself setting up a sandbox suo motu, again via public consultation.  The government has also proposed that private entities can be selected as sandbox operators. However, only those private entities having a registered office in Karnataka and have been in existence for three years with the ability to provide an effective test environment and the capacity to test a product, service or business will be preferred.  The government hopes that the regulatory sandbox approach will help devise new technologies to deal with contemporary challenges.  Karnataka has had its share of regulatory tussle with disruptive technology. In the transport sector, for instance, carpooling and shuttle services are restricted under the motor vehicles rules.  Companies that seek establishment of a sandbox to test new innovation will have to pay a processing fee (Rs 5 lakh to Rs 40 lakh) based on its paid-up capital. The fee is exclusive of 18% GST. Similarly, the draft rules prescribe a fee for companies to participate in a sandbox already established based on paid-up capital. The participation fee ranges from Rs 20,000 to Rs 4 lakh, excluding 18% GST. Government agencies seeking to set up a sandbox do not have to pay any fee.  It was widely believed that the first regulatory sandbox was the Financial Control Authority the UK established in 2015 for the fintech space. The Reserve Bank of India, SEBI and Maharashtra government have also set up regulatory sandboxes to boost fintech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-notifies-draft-rules-for-regulatory-sandboxes-853381.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Vidhana, Vikas Soudha to only allow visits with 'valid' reasons||Only those citizens with a “valid” reason to meet ministers or officials will be allowed inside the secretariat buildings of Vidhana Soudha and Vikas Soudha, a government circular said on Wednesday. This is in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases.  According to the circular, the government is trying its best to contain the spread of the pandemic. Considering that there was a case recently reported from Vikas Soudha, the government is putting in extra measures to ensure that the virus does not spread in the Vidhana Soudha, Vikas Soudha and MS Building. Hence, limiting the number of visitors was crucial, the circular stated.  In this light, the government has decided to allow only those with a specific purpose to meet minister and officials, that too only after 3.30 pm every day, the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vidhana-vikas-soudha-to-only-allow-visits-with-valid-reasons-853382.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka records 397 fresh cases, tally goes past 10,000-mark||A little over a month after crossing 1,000 cases, Karnataka’s Covid-19 case count breached 10,000-mark. The state saw 10-fold increase in infections in 40 days. A spike of 397 cases on Wednesday took state’s tally to 10,118. Most number of Wednesday’s cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban 173 followed by Ballari 34, Kalaburagi and Ramnagara 22 each, Udupi 14, Yadgir 13, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad 12 each and Koppal 11. The remaining districts reported cases in single digit.  The 14 new fatalities shot up the death toll to 164. Bengaluru reported five deaths on Wednesday. Kalaburagi and Ramanagar reported two deaths each while Tumakuru and Mysuru recorded one death each. Ballari district has reported four fatalities since Tuesday. The state has 3,799 active cases, as on June 24.   As many as 112 patients are in the ICUs across the state. Bengaluru Urban alone accounts for 63 of them. Out of Wednesday’s cases, 75 are domestic returnees and eight international passengers while contacts of 92 cases were yet to be traced.  Five more JSW workers contract virus Five more employees of Toranagallu-based JSW plant and a health worker (OPJ fever clinic) were among the 28 people who tested positive for novel coronavirus in Ballari district on Wednesday. With this, Ballari district’s Covid-19 tally rose to 537. Among the fresh infections are three cases of ILI while the remaining are the contacts of the previously infected persons. The district reported four Covid-19 fatalities in the last 48 hours. The first three deaths were reported on Tuesday. A 72-year-old man, a SARI case, died at VIMS late on Tuesday night. Bagepalli court sealed A 28-year-old woman, working as second division assistant (SDA) at civil court in Bagepalli town, Chikkaballapur district, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The court premises has been sealed for next two days. The woman used to travel daily from Gauribidanur taluk to Bagepalli court. She developed fever and cough on June 22. Two days later, her swab sample returned positive for virus. All primary contacts of the woman have been identified and sent to home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-records-397-fresh-cases-tally-goes-past-10000-mark-853388.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||19 students to miss their first board examination due to coronavirus||At least 19 students will be missing their first board examination this year. As per the data from the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, 10 students have contracted coronavirus and around nine students in quarantine are barred from appearing for the exams. “I had prepared well for the exams. But now not for my fault, I have to wait till August to write the exams. I don’t know what would be the situation then,” one of students said. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said that these students would be allowed to attend the supplementary exams in August as fresh candidates. However, several parents expressed their concern and some even called Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) to know about the safety measures taken by the department for the exams. The helpline operators at the Board said that the only query by parents was about safety measures.  False paper leak Just a day before the exams, an English question paper was rounding on various social media platforms. However, the department said it was a false one.  “That paper was of recently held preparatory exams and we have filed a complaint with cyber police to nab the culprits trying to misguide students,” said Suresh Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/19-students-to-miss-their-first-board-examination-due-to-coronavirus-853389.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cloud over sanitiser purchase from Bengaluru-based firm||Fresh documents submitted to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) suggest that the Karnataka State Drugs Logistics & Warehousing Society (KSDLWS) procured sanitisers during the Covid-19 pandemic from a company which had violated tender terms by supplying poor quality sanitisers in the past. The Karnataka Rashtra Samithi has filed a complaint pertaining to this with the PAC, which is already looking into alleged irregularities in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment. According to the complaint, chemical analysts from government labs in Kalaburagi and Ramanagar districts had declared that the hand sanitisers procured from a Bengaluru-based company by KSDLWS via a tender in October 2019 were “not of standard quality”. Moreover, the company allegedly supplied only half the 47,000 units of 500-ml sanitisers procured at Rs 97.44 per unit and submitted that it couldn’t supply the other half. Despite such violations of tender regulations, KSDLWS allegedly procured sanitisers at Rs 250 per unit from the same company during the Covid-19 pandemic, when tender regulations were relaxed by the government. “The company should have been blacklisted since it violated tender terms. However, the blind eye turned by KSDLWS authorities regarding the issue has raised several suspicions,” Deepak C N, general secretary of the Samithi, said in a complaint. The complaint is among the several filed by the organisation regarding irregularities in procurement of Covid-19 equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cloud-over-sanitiser-purchase-from-bengaluru-based-firm-853393.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rape accused tests positive, 13 cops quarantined||As many as 13 police personnel, including the sub-inspector of the women police station in the city, were placed under quarantine after a rape accused tested positive for Covid-19 late on Tuesday night.  The 20-year-old man from Dhuttargaon in Aland taluk was arrested on charges of raping a 10-year-old girl at a village in Kalaburagi taluk on June 17. The following day women police station staff led by SI arrested the suspect.  He was remanded to judicial custody after registering a case under the POCSO Act. However, the accused (P-9372) tested positive for the virus on Tuesday evening.  Deputy Commissioner of Police D Kishorebabu told reporters that there was no need for sealing down the police station as the staff maintained social distancing and followed all safety measures. However, the staff will be subjected to Covid testing, he added. Throat swab samples of the rape victim and her parents are sent for testing, sources revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rape-accused-tests-positive-13-cops-quarantined-853394.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5 JSW staffers, health worker, court staffer contract coronavirus||Five more employees of Toranagallu-based JSW plant and a health worker (OPJ fever clinic) were among the 28 people who tested positive for novel coronavirus in the district on Wednesday. With this, Ballari district’s Covid-19 tally rose to 537. Among the fresh infections are three cases of ILI while the remaining are the contacts of the previously infected persons. The district reported four Covid-19 fatalities in the last 48 hours. The first three deaths were reported on Tuesday. A 72-year-old man, a SARI case, died at VIMS late on Tuesday night. Bagepalli court sealed A 28-year-old woman, working as second division assistant (SDA) at civil court in Bagepalli town, Chikkaballapur district, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The court premises has been sealed for next two days. The woman used to travel daily from Gauribidanur taluk to Bagepalli court. She developed fever and cough on June 22. Two days later, her swab sample returned positive for virus. All primary contacts of the woman have been identified and sent to home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-jsw-staffers-health-worker-court-staffer-contract-coronavirus-853395.html
24-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rising dam levels bring gush of joy to agriculture sector||Several major reservoirs have recorded live storage levels two-three times more than last year, as inflows have been encouraging during the first month of the monsoon season. This is a good sign for farmers and citizens in general as reservoirs with enough water will not lead to a drinking water problem.  The Almatti reservoir, the backwaters of which witnessed unprecedented flooding last year, is almost half-full in the first month itself, with inflows set to increase due to good rainfall in River Krishna’s catchment region. Though monsoon is below average in Malnad and South Interior Karnataka region till date, conditions were favourable for monsoon to intensify in the coming days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Among the reservoirs, the live storage at KRS dam in Mandya district — primary source of drinking water to Bengaluru — was at 15.26 TMC as on June 24, compared to 6.29 TMC on the same day last year. Bengaluru consumes around 18-20 TMC water annually. At Almatti in Bagalkot district, the live storage was at 55.24 TMC — almost three times the level recorded last year (17.55 TMC). Though the inflow to Tungabhadra dam in Ballari district is yet to improve, the live storage was 7.93 TMC as compared to 2.04 TMC last year. G Srinivas Reddy, Director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, told DH that the initial level storage of the dams prior to the monsoon, too, was among the highest in the last decade and half, due to heavy inflows generated during the fag end of monsoon last year. “The Krishna catchment region that feeds Almatti and Narayanapura dams has received good rainfall in the last two weeks and monsoon will pick pace again in the region soon,” he said. Measures were also being taken to prevent any flooding incidents this year, due to the dam management policy which mandated regular release of water once the dams reached 50% capacity. “The release of water will be dependent on weather forecast too,” he said. According to the IMD, monsoon will intensify in Malnad and South Interior Karnataka districts, including Bengaluru, from Thursday. Fairly widespread rainfall is expected in the region for the next four to five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rising-dam-levels-bring-gush-of-joy-to-agriculture-sector-853407.html
24-06-2020||West||Fire breaks out at factory in Ahmedabad's Sanand area; 25 fire tenders at the spot||A fire broke out at a factory in Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) in Sanand area of Ahmedabad. Twenty-five fire tenders present at the spot. Fire-fighting operations are underway. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-ahmedabads-sanand-area-25-fire-tenders-at-the-spot-853136.html
24-06-2020||West||Covid-19 spreading faster in cities neighbouring Mumbai||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), that covers five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, includes nine municipal corporations, nine municipal councils and over 1,000 villages. MMR's population is nearly two crore. While the jump in Covid-19 cases is reducing in the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, corporations of the neighbourhood are battling a big spike.  According to Tuesday's data of the Public Health Department, while the state has recorded total progressive Covid-19 cases of 1,39,010 and 6,531 deaths. In the MMR, the total Covid-19 cases stand at 1,01,496 and deaths at 4,781. On the other hand, Mumbai accounts for 68,410 cases and 3,844 deaths. If one looks at the 24-hour jump, Mumbai recorded 824 new Covid-19 cases, while MMR saw 1,443 new infections. In the wake of the jump in cases in Mumbai's far eastern and western suburbs after the unlocking started, the Maharashtra government brought in new municipal commissioners in Thane, Navi Mumbai, Ulhasnagar, Mira Bhayander and Bhiwandi.   Maharashtra's chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte has asked the district collectors and municipal commissioners to actively pursue 4 Ts - tracing, tracking, testing and treating like the way it is being done.  The government has also passed on details of how Dharavi maintained strict containment and quarantine and how the same model can be followed in congested areas of MMR slum clusters.  "Mumbai's workforce comes from its suburbs. After unlocking, there is unrestricted movement in the five districts by road. There is a level of vulnerability for those who are travelling and not taking precautions," said Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra.  The nine corporations in MMR besides the BMC (Mumbai) are Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Ulhasnagar, Mira Bhayander and Bhiwandi-Nizampur (all six are in the Thane district),  Vasai-Virar (Palghar district) and Panvel (Raigad district). "There is a big cause of concern. People need to strictly follow social distancing, wear masks,  be at home and step out when only absolutely necessary," said Dr Ravi Pandey,  a general practitioner in Vasai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-spreading-faster-in-cities-neighbouring-mumbai-853153.html
24-06-2020||West||CRPF jawan killed in Jammu and Kashmir encounter cremated in Maharashtra village||The mortal remains of CRPF jawan Sunil Kale, who was killed in an encounter with militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, were consigned to flames at his native place in Maharashtra's Solapur district on Wednesday. Kale, 41, who joined the service in 2000, was killed in the encounter in Pulwama on Tuesday, a police official said. The body was brought to his native Pangaon village in Barshi tehsil of Solapur late Tuesday night, he said. His last rites were performed at the village on Wednesday morning at the village, the official said. Kale, who was posted in Jammu and Kashmir some months back, is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday paid tributes to Kale. Pangaons good son CRPF jawan Sunil Kale was martyred while fighting militants in Jammu-Kashmir. The people of Barshi bid farewell to the braveheart in military honours. Tributes to brave martyr jawan Sunil Kale, the former defence minister tweeted. Besides the CRPF jawan, two unidentified militants were also killed in the encounter, police earlier said. On Tuesday morning, security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Bundzoo in Pulwama district of South Kashmir after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, they said. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/crpf-jawan-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-encounter-cremated-in-maharashtra-village-853174.html
24-06-2020||West||Shiv Sena hails 'victory' against coronavirus in Dharavi||With the number of new COVID-19 cases from Dharavi slum sprawl in Mumbai trickling down to a single digit, the Shiv Sena on Wednesday hailed the "defeat" of the coronavirus as a befitting reply of the party-led government to its critics, an oblique reference to the BJP. Dharavi, which was once a troublesome coronavirus hotspot, had on Tuesday reported just five new cases, the lowest since April 5. The total number of cases now stands at 2,189. "Controlling the spread of the pandemic in Dharavi calls for celebrations. Those criticising the MVA government's handling of the COVID-19 crisis should also be invited for the celebration," said the editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. It said the difficult task to curb the spread of coronavirus in Dharavi has earned accolades for the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is ruled by the Sena, from the Centre. The Sena also thanked residents of Dharavi for adhering to the lockdown norms and following various other measures. Commenting on the strategy adopted in Dharavi, the edit said the BMC administration increased testing and tracing of contacts and also made lockdown rules stricter. The Sena also praised BMC commissioner I S Chahal and Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh for the Dharavi success. "However, the war against the virus is not yet over. Cases are rising elsewhere in Maharashtra," it said. With the highest population density of 2,27,136 persons per sq. km, Dharavi had 491 cases in April with a growth rate of 12% when the number of cases were doubling every 18 days. As per an official release, the proactive measures adopted by the BMC brought down the COVID-19 growth rate to 4.3 per centin May and further down to 1.02 per centin June. These measures also ensured an improved case doubling time to 43 days in May and 78 days in June 2020. It listed challenges like common toilets, high population density, narrow lanes and crammed neighbourhood, which made it difficult to ensure that people adhere to social distancing norms. "The BMC adopted a model of actively following four T's Tracing, Tracking, Testing and Treating. This approach included activities like proactive screening. "While 47,500 people were covered by doctors and private clinics in house-to-house screening, about 14,970 people were screened with the help of mobile vans while 4,76,775 others were surveyed by BMC health workers," the release said. Fever clinics were set up for screening high risk category such as elderly/senior citizens, which helped to screen 3.6 lakh people, it said. "About 8,246 senior citizens were surveyed and as part of its policy of 'timely separation', they were separated. Altogether, 5,48,270 people have been screened in Dharavi. The suspected cases were shifted to well organized COVID Care Centres and Quarantine Centres," the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-hails-victory-against-coronavirus-in-dharavi-853182.html
24-06-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant workers are victims, not criminals, says Gujarat HC||Citing the observation made by the Supreme Court that cases against migrant workers during the lockdown should be withdrawn by respective state governments and the workers are "more the victims and certainly not the criminals," the Gujarat High Court granted bail to construction workers who were arrested following the violent clash with police in and outside Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA). Although the orders were pronounced on Tuesday the workers couldn't be released on Wednesday as procedures couldn't be followed. On May 18, the Vastrapur police had arrested 35 workers following a violent clash with police inside the IIMA new campus where they were engaged by a private firm PSP Project Limited in the construction of a new building. A group of over 250 workers had lost their patience after their repeated requests for allowing them to go back to their native states were not heeded. Out of 35 arrested, two were tested positive for coronavirus. The duo and the remaining 33 workers had moved lower court for bail in separate applications. Most of these workers are from Jharkhand and are aged under 30s. The state government had opposed the bail on the ground that they were migrants and if granted bail they wouldn't come back for trial. The court upheld the argument and refused release them on bail. The workers approached high court through two separate petitions. One of the petitions was heard by justice Paresh Upadhyay noted, "in the lockdown, when the applicants were without any work, without any money and even without any food and under such circumstances, instead of arranging their going back home, they are sent to jail. The applicants are more the victims, certainly not the criminals. They need not be continued in custody any further. They need to be set free immediately, on furnishing their personal bond, without any further condition." Similarly, justice Gita Gopi decided petitions of two workers who were infected with the virus. She has observed in her order that in view of the facts and circumstances of the case along with observations made by the apex court that respective governments should withdraw such cases, "this court finds this to be a fit case where discretion could be exercised in favour of the applicants." Advocate Nirav Mishra, who represented the workers on behalf of the private firm, said that "The workers were not released from jail as the procedures are yet to be completed." He also added that the family members of the workers are getting "anxious and are under constant fear due to rising coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-are-victims-not-criminals-says-gujarat-hc-853239.html
24-06-2020||West||Tigress Kareena dies in Aurangabad zoo||An adult tigress, Kareena, who was not keeping well since the past few days, died in the Siddharth Garden and Zoo at Aurangabad. The six-and-half- tigress died in the wee hours of Wednesday. Kareena was not keeping well a few days and had stopped eating for the past three days. She was suffering form suspected kidney ailments. Her swabs were taken and the Covid-19 test report is awaited. Once a star attraction of the zoo, she was under treatment at the veterinary hospital attached to the zoo.  It needs to be mentioned that a four-year old tigress Nadia had succumbed to Covid-19 in the Bronx Zoo in New York. A white tigress had died in New Delhi zoo in late April but had tested negative. After Kareena's death, wll the tigers at Siddharth Garden Zoo and their caretakers were also screened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tigress-kareena-dies-in-aurangabad-zoo-853266.html
24-06-2020||West||Dharavi reports 10 new COVID-19 cases on June 24, count rises to 2,199||The COVID-19 tally in Dharavi, Mumbai's biggest slum, grew to 2,199 on Wednesday after it reported 10 new cases, an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. As no fresh death was reported from the area, its fatality count has remained unchanged at 81, he said. Of the 2,199 COVID-19 positive patients, 1,100 have already been discharged from hospitals and the slum now has 1,018 active cases, the official added. Spread over 2.5 square kilometres, Dharavi is the largest slums in Asia with 6.5 lakh population. Dharavi had on Tuesday reported just five coronavirus positive cases, the lowest since April 5. The Shiv Sena, which is in power in Maharashtra and the BMC, on Wednesday hailed the "defeat" of the coronavirus in Dharavi as a befitting reply of the party-led government to its critics. In an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana', it also thanked residents of Dharavi for adhering to the lockdown norms and following various other measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-on-june-24-count-rises-to-2199-853311.html
24-06-2020||West||Gujarat Covid-19 cases cross 29,000-mark; 25 more die||Gujarat on Wednesday reported 572 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 29,001, state Health department said. With 25 more people succumbing to the infection, the death toll has risen to 1,736. A total of 575 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of the recovered cases in the state to 21,096, it said. The number of active cases stands at 6,169. "A total of 70 Covid-19 patients are on ventilator and in critical condition," the health department said in its evening bulletin. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 29,001, new cases 572, deaths 1,736, discharged 21,096, active cases 6,169 and people tested so far 3,40,080.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-cross-29000-mark-25-more-die-853320.html
24-06-2020||West||Maharashtra's COVID-19 count up 3,890 to 1,42,900||As many as 3,890 new COVID-19 cases were registered in Maharashtra on Wednesday, taking the count of patients to 1,42,900, a health department official said. Coronavirus also claimed the lives of as many as 208 people, taking the state's fatality count to 6,739, he said. Of these 208 victims, 72 died in the last 48 hours, while the remaining 136 had succumbed to the infection before that, but COVID-19 was not mentioned as the cause of their death earlier, the official said. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 1,42,900, new cases: 3,890, deaths: 6,739, discharged: 73,792, active cases: 62,354, people tested so far: 8,23,775.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-count-up-3890-to-142900-853323.html
