25-06-2020||First Edit||India-Pakistan ties under strain again||India-Pakistan relations are under serious strain with the two sides engaging in tit-for-tat actions on the diplomatic front. On Tuesday, India ordered the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi to halve the strength of its staff size. It is simultaneously downsizing its own mission at Islamabad. India has alleged that Pakistani diplomats in New Delhi are engaging in espionage activities and dealing with terror organisations.  The allegations are not new. Officials in the Pakistani mission have been known to work as conduits for hawala transactions. More recently, two staffers of Pakistan’s New Delhi mission were caught red-handed trying to obtain information about Indian troop movements. They were immediately expelled from the country. Pakistan retaliated soon after. Last week, two officials of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad went missing. It emerged that they had had been picked up and tortured by Pakistani officials. India’s decision to downsize missions in New Delhi and Islamabad appears to be a response to the ill-treatment of its diplomats. India’s anger over the treatment meted out to its envoys in Islamabad is understandable as is its concern over Pakistanis engaging in spying and other activities that have implications for India’s national security. However, this diplomatic tit-for-tat is hardly useful in addressing its concerns. Relations between the two countries are already strained. Bus and rail links have been snapped and bilateral trade has stopped. The dialogue process is frozen. Cross-border firings have witnessed a sharp increase in recent months. At a time when relations are troubled, we need stronger diplomatic engagement. The two high commissions have been headless for over a year now, the decision to reduce staff strength will further weaken diplomatic ties. By reducing diplomatic presence in each other’s capitals, we are denying ourselves the use of diplomatic channels to convey messages, defuse tensions and address contentious issues. This is not the way a country with big power ambitions conducts its foreign policy. Weakening diplomatic ties with Pakistan comes at a time when we are already grappling with a serious crisis in our relations with China. India is under severe pressure all along its border with China. Why is it opening another front with Pakistan? There are issues on which India and Pakistan can initiate co-operation immediately. Both are struggling with rising numbers of Covid-19 cases. Both are also having to deal with locust invasions, which will severely undermine their food security. Neither issue is caught in different interpretations of history or understanding of nationhood. All it requires is setting aside egos and quick action. This will help break the cycle of tit-for-tat actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/india-pakistan-ties-under-strain-again-853768.html
25-06-2020||In Perspective||Politics behind Donald Trump’s visa move||Facing a turbulent election campaign and falling polling numbers, US President Donald Trump has finally gone ahead and signed an Executive Order suspending H-1B, L-1 and other temporary work permits as well as extended a pause on some green cards.  In an attempt to restrict the entry of immigrants into the US, this move towards certain categories of visa suspension will be effective till the end of the year and the hope is that it will help the US economy which is reeling under the pressures of coronavirus pandemic. Arguing that “we [the US] have a moral duty to create an immigration system that protects the lives and jobs of our citizens,” the Trump Administration is hoping that this latest move will free up employment opportunities for Americans.  This move has been long in the making and the worsening economic situation in the US made it imperative for the Trump Administration, facing a tough election ahead, to respond to the challenge. The US economy is still struggling to recover from the lockdown as unemployment rate has risen to an all-time high. Demands for more government stimulus have grown in recent days even as reports suggest that the US economy will shrink by 6.5% this year. Though situation has marginally improved from March this year, unemployment rate is still the highest it has been since the 1940s. While Trump’s move may rally his support base in the run-up to the November elections, most business groups had been lobbying against this move given its potential to damage the economic recovery which is still at a nascent stage. The tech industry has been sharply critical of the Trump Administration’s move arguing that it would slow down innovation precisely at the time it was most needed. It is being estimated that this move would block up to 2,19,000 foreign workers through the rest of the year. There is unlikely to be a big change in the immediate future as visa processing remains largely suspended because of coronavirus and travel restrictions. But this move by Trump should not be assessed through the economic lens but the political lens of the US President as this allows him to put into place measures to limit immigration into the US, a key part of Trump’s election platform in the 2016 elections. It remains one of the most important issues for his core base, and might once again dominate the re-election campaign over the next few months. This also puts his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden on a back foot as he can’t be seen as ignoring the concerns of the ordinary Americans about unemployment. Trump has used the ongoing threat from coronavirus to refashion America’s immigration policies. This move follows his earlier executive order in April which suspended the issuance of green cards for two months. While tech companies fear the loss of talent and its negative impact on innovation, others see these as measures designed to fundamentally alter the immigration policy architecture of the US. Whatever the domestic political calculus, India will be affected by the policies, especially pertaining to H1-B visas which are non-immigrant visas allowing US companies to hire highly skilled foreign workers in specialised fields. Indian nationals corner around 70% of the 85,000 H1-B visas issued annually by the US. So, this will be a major blow to the Indian IT companies which have benefitted from the H1-B visa regime. Though the restrictions will apply only to new work visas and not to existing holders who are in the US currently, this also complicates the position of the Indian government. India has been regularly engaging the Trump Administration on the issue of H1-B visas and underlining “that the economic and trade linkages are a strong pillar of our strategic partnership, particularly in technology and innovation domains.”  As per a 2015 report by Nasscom, the Indian IT sector not only supported more than 4,00,000 jobs in the US but has also contributed more than $20 billion in federal taxes from 2010-2015. New Delhi had reached out to Washington earlier this year in April asking the US government to extend the H-1B work visas and other visas of all Indian citizens for the duration of the Covid-19 pandemic. India, in all likelihood, will downplay this move of the Trump Administration, especially as it comes at a critical moment of its ongoing tensions with China. It is not the most important issue on the US-India bilateral agenda and will be managed largely through the backchannels. New Delhi can only hope that the US will eventually take into account the long-term benefits of H1B visa for its own competitiveness and technological superiority, especially at a time when geotechnology is becoming the latest focal point of Sino-US contestation. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College, London)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/politics-behind-donald-trump-s-visa-move-853769.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fearing failure in SSLC examination, girl kills herself in Karnataka's Belagavi||Fearing failure in the SSLC examination, a 16-year-old girl who was to appear for the exams on Thursday allegedly committed suicide at her house in Vadgaon in Belagavi, a suburb of Hubbali on Wednesday night. She hung herself on the first floor of the house, police said. Based on the complaint filed by the parents of the minor girl, she feared that she would fail her SSLC examinations and was finding it difficult to recollect what she had studied. The Shahapur police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fearing-failure-in-sslc-examination-girl-kills-herself-in-karnatakas-belagavi-853550.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Private hospitals and hotels to have tie ups to house Covid-19 patients||Private hospitals and hotels can now tie up to house asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Private hospitals may run Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in association with hotels. While they will provide medical facilities, the hotels will provide accommodation at a cost which will be worked out by both associations in consultation with the government. While the government is establishing CCCs at large spaces such as stadiums, hotels, hostels, stadiums free of cost, the privately-run CCCs are planned for patients wishing to access private healthcare in luxury. Each participating hospital will be tied up with budget, three star or five-star hotels for accommodation of the patients. A team consisting of a PHANA (Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association) representative, the hotel manager and a government staff member will supervise and ensure that their is minimal contact between the patient and the hotel staff. A medical unit and ambulance will also be on standby in case of emergencies. Severe cases of Covid-19 requiring more intensive care will be admitted to Designated Covid Health Centres and Designated Covid Hospitals. The meeting on Wednesday was chaired by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, and attended by South India Hoteliers Association, Karnataka Hoteliers Association, PHANA, Federation of Healthcare Associations Karnataka, Manipal Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Fortis Hospital. "This public-private partnership model will free up more beds in medical facilities for symptomatic and critically-ill patients, while ensuring that the 80% of asymptomatic patients are kept isolated, reducing the risk of transmission to vulnerable populations. The patients at CCCs will be monitored and provided care in a non-medical environment with little stress," said a statement from the health department. Dental hospitals and eye hospitals will not be required to provide Covid-19 treatment in Karnataka. One wing of Kumara Krupa guesthouse with 100 beds will henceforth act as a Covid Care Centre. It is reserved for Karnataka MPs, MLAs, council members and senior government officers above the rank of Secretary. Karnataka police personnel who have moderate and severe Covid-19 symptoms will be exclusively treated at ESI Hospital, Indiranagar. Those police officers with mild symptoms or those who are asymptomatic will be housed at Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Guruji Ashram on Kanakapura Road. One third of beds in Covid Care Centres will be reserved for doctors and paramedics henceforth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-hospitals-and-hotels-to-have-tie-ups-to-house-covid-19-patients-853554.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC exams take place with precautions in Karnataka's Hubbali||Amid the Covid-19 scare and taking all possible precautions to check the spread of infection, the SSLC examination began on Thursday at 10:30 am. The first exam was for the second language subject. Students were allowed to enter the examination premises from 7:30 am and stand in distant boxes while waiting for thermal screening, hand sanitisation and mask distribution. Several examinations had already been conducted to check preparedness for the final examinations and attempts were made to instill confidence among students and their parents, while a helpline was also opened. A total of 2,573 SSLC students are supposed to appear for the examinations on Thursday at 24 centres in Hubballi city. This includes 27,841 students in 107 blocks with CCTV cameras in Dharwad district. Seating arrangements in blocks were made keeping in mind social distancing measures. According to Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan, no examination centre has been opened in any containment area and none of the assigned centres was used for quarantine. She also added that special rooms were arranged for students who come from containment zones. 17 additional blocks were opened this time. More than 330 officials were on examination supervision duty, while police, scouts and guides volunteers were also appointed. Prohibitory orders were also in place for a 200-metre radius from examination centres. Various NGOs have donated masks, hand sanitisers and thermal scanners to the Public Instruction Department, for the benefit of students and teachers.NWKRTC buses, private buses and school vehicles are arranged for students' transportation, while a few students have made their own arrangements to reach examination centres and back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-exams-take-place-with-precautions-in-karnatakas-hubbali-853577.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||In Karnataka, students fight Covid-19 fears to write SSLC exams||Amid arguments for and against conducting the exams, SSLC exams began amid tight security and safety arrangements in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on Thursday. The students were made to reach the exam centres around three hours before the exam, to complete the process of thermal screening, which is made mandatory. The exams which were earlier scheduled to be held from March 27 to April 4, were postponed due to the spread of the Covid pandemic. The exams for second language English, were held at 89 exam centres in Hassan district, 82 centres in Mandya and at 54 centres in Chamarajanagar district. The students queued up at chalked boxes by 7.30 am at the examination centres, for the exam scheduled for 10.30 am. Police personnel and home guards were deputed at the exam centres. BiBi Hazira, a student in Chamarajanagar, who suffered injuries on her forehead due to a fall, near her home, turned weak during thermal screening. The health personnel advised her medical treatment, but the girl was adamant of appearing for the exam. However, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, who was present on the spot, convinced her to go to hospital for treatment. In another incident, a Block Education Officer was successful in convincing the family members to send three students for the exam, who had abstained, due to a death in the family, and claimed to be under 'soothaka', at Maduvanahalli, Kollegal taluk. Around 96.23% students appeared for SSLC exam on the first day, in Chamarajanagar district. Out of 10,977 students who had enrolled for the exam, 10,564 students appeared. In all, 412 students were absent. DDPI S T Javeregowda said that the exams were conducted systematically and there was no confusion. In all, 545 students were absent for the exam in Mandya district. Out of 20,321 students, 19,766 were present. Around 15 students, who were suffering from cold, cough and fever, were made to write the exam in separate classrooms. Similarly, 926 students were absent in Hassan district. Out of 21,257 students, who had enrolled, 20,331 appeared. The exams were held peacefully across the district. Deputy Commissioner R Girish, visited several examination centres and inspected the arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/in-karnataka-students-fight-covid-19-fears-to-write-sslc-exams-853589.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Muslim family performs 'Javala' in Kundgol taluk||'Javala', a Hindu ritual of removing the hair of young boys for the first time, was conducted by a Muslim family at a masjid at Chikkanarti village in Kundgol taluk on Thursday. Lalsab Nadaf and Amina Nadaf conducted 'Javala' of their five-and-half-month-old son Arif at the masjid in the village, displaying community harmony. Hindu tradition like filling Udi was also conducted, and removing hair after touching betel leaves was also held. "We are the only Muslim family in our village, and we follow some Hindu traditions including festivals also. It is also an effort to promote communal harmony, as we should not restrict ourselves to a particular caste or community. This 'Javala' is an effort to develop communal harmony especially among children," Lalsab said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-muslim-family-performs-javala-in-kundgol-taluk-853615.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||AIDYO, teachers' association seek special package, job security||Members of Akhila Karnataka Guest Lecturers & Teachers Struggle Committee and All-India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO) have urged the government to immediately release pending honorarium of guest teachers and to announce a special package for them. Submitting a memorandum to the chief minister through the tahsildar's office in Hubballi on Thursday (June 25), they also demanded job security. The pending honorarium of guest lecturers should be paid immediately. They should also be given priority in the appointment of permanent teachers. In the background of lockdown, a special package should be announced for them, they demanded. There is no clear data about the number of guest lecturers and teachers, who are also taking online classes. Their honorarium is less, and their service is not regularised even after working for decades. They have not received the honorarium during the lockdown also, they added. D P Manakatti, I B Bilebal, Veeranna Garag, N S Kusugal, and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aidyo-teachers-association-seek-special-package-job-security-853673.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Kodagu homestays, resorts closed for 21 days||The Kodagu District Hotel and Resort Owners’ Association and Kodagu District Homestay Owners’ Association have decided not to accommodate tourists for another 21 days to prevent Covid-19. Kodagu District Hotel and Resort Owners’ Association president B R Nagendra Prasad and Kodagu District Home Stay Owners’ Association president B G Anantashayana said that even though the government had given permission to resume tourism activities from June 8, the owners of hotels, resorts and homestays have decided not to operate. Anantashayana requested the citizens to inform the district administration if they come across any illegal homestays and resorts operating in thedistrict. Nagendra Prasad said that the hotels and resorts having accommodation facilities would also not operate. But, the regular restaurants will be open for people, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-kodagu-homestays-resorts-closed-for-21-days-853727.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||22 Covid-19 positive cases reported in districts||In all, 22 positive cases have been reported from Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on Thursday. Hassan district reported 12 positive cases, including a 32-year-old Army solider, who had come on leave, from Jammu and Kashmir. The soldier had come in a flight to Delhi, and from there to Bengaluru in a train. From there, he came in a private vehicle to Alur. Before returning to duty, he underwent a health test, where he was confirmed positive. The village has been turned into a containment zone. Out of the remaining 11 cases, six persons have a contact history with P-9576, a police constable, who had returned from Bengaluru. Four cases have a travel history of Maharashtra and the contact of one case is under tracing. In all, eight men and four women have tested positive. The total positive cases is 311. While 230 patients have recovered and discharged, there are 80 active cases. One death is reported. Mandya reported nine positive cases, including six men and three women. While eight cases are said to be suffering from Influenza like illness (ILI), one had returned from Bengaluru. In all, the number of positive cases has gone up to 382. While 334 have been discharged so far, there are 48 active cases. Chamarajanagar tested one positive case, a 25-year-old woman, with a contact history of P-8311. With this, the number of positive cases has increased to nine. While one has been discharged, there are eight active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/22-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-districts-853731.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Amid tight security, students appear for SSLC exam||Amid arguments for and against conducting the exams, SSLC exams began amid tight security and safety arrangements in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on Thursday. The students were made to reach the exam centres around three hours before the exam, to complete the process of thermal screening, which is made mandatory. The exams which were earlier scheduled to be held from March 27 to April 4, were postponed due to the spread of the Covid pandemic. The exams for second language English, were held at 89 exam centres in Hassan district, 82 centres in Mandya and at 54 centres in Chamarajanagar district. The students queued up at chalked boxes by 7.30 am at the examination centres, for the exam scheduled for 10.30 am. Police personnel and home guards were deputed at the exam centres. BiBi Hazira, a student in Chamarajanagar, who suffered injuries on her forehead due to a fall, near her home, turned weak during thermal screening. The health personnel advised her medical treatment, but the girl was adamant of appearing for the exam. However, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, who was present on the spot, convinced her to go to hospital for treatment. In another incident, a Block Education Officer was successful in convincing the family members to send three students for the exam, who had abstained, due to a death in the family, and claimed to be under 'soothaka', at Maduvanahalli, Kollegal taluk. Around 96.23% students appeared for SSLC exam on the first day, in Chamarajanagar district. Out of 10,977 students who had enrolled for the exam, 10,564 students appeared. In all, 412 students were absent. DDPI S T Javeregowda said that the exams were conducted systematically and there was no confusion. In all, 545 students were absent for the exam in Mandya district. Out of 20,321 students, 19,766 were present. Around 15 students, who were suffering from cold, cough and fever, were made to write the exam in separate classrooms. Similarly, 926 students were absent in Hassan district. Out of 21,257 students, who had enrolled, 20,331 appeared. The exams were held peacefully across the district. Deputy Commissioner R Girish, visited several examination centres and inspected the arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amid-tight-security-students-appear-for-sslc-exam-853732.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC exam largely successful on day one in Mysuru||Despite Covid-19 fear, 35,935 students appeared for SSLC examination on Day One, on Thursday. The examination was largely successful, across the district. Deputy Director for Public Instruction (DDPI) Panduranga said, “A total of 37,738 students had enrolled for the examination and 1,803 of them were absent. A majority of the absentees are private candidates and repeaters.” The DDPI said, “As many as 45 students from containment zones wrote the exam and the authorities had made special arrangements for them. The students were given extra care and special rooms were arranged for them. In addition, four students with minor health issues like fever, cold and cough wrote exams.” A majority of the students had fear of Covid-19 as well as examination, before entering the centre. But, owing to the precautionary measures, the students wrote the exams in a relaxed mood. Eshanya, a student who appeared for examination at Maharani’s PU College, said, “I was a little nervous before entering the centre. But, after reaching here, I was confident and wrote the exam without any fear.” The staff members and Health department authorities inside the centre were very supportive and instilled confidence. The authorities had made good arrangements for students, said Rahul, another student.    Parents also appreciated the district administration and Education department for the measures taken to ensure the safety of students. “I was worried a lot about the safety of my child. But, after seeing the arrangements and care, I am relaxed. I am not bothered about the examination, but about the safety of child,” said Anuradha, a parent. All 139 examination centres were sanitised and sanitisers were provided for the students. Every student was thermal screened, before entering the examination hall. The authorities have made pickup and drop facility for students from their houses or villages to their respective centre. As many as 56 buses, including KSRTC and private school vans, ferried the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-exam-largely-successful-on-day-one-in-mysuru-853735.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Disinfection begins in Mysuru's market areas||As cases of Covid-19 are on the rise in the city, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) commenced disinfection at major markets on Thursday. The authorities sprayed disinfectant at Devaraja Market, adjoining areas, near Chikka Gadiyara. Even though the MCC Commissioner ordered complete closure of Devaraja Market, Shivarampet, Santepet, Mannars Market and Boti Bazar, a few shops remained open and a few street fruits and vegetable vendors did business in front of the market. It has to be mentioned that the commissioner has ordered complete closure of all five markets for four days from Thursday, for sanitisation work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-disinfection-begins-in-mysurus-market-areas-853736.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||8-month-old baby tests Covid-19 positive in Mysuru, district tally climbs to 92||With 22 persons, including a eight-month-old baby, testing positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, the district has a total of 92 active cases. Out of 22 cases, six persons have returned from Bengaluru, two are from Assam, one each from Chamarajanagar and Ramanagara districts. While seven cases are primary contacts of other cases, the authorities are tracing the contacts of five fresh cases. With the fresh cases, the district reported a total of 220 cases and 127 of them are discharged and one patient died.     According to the DC, the Health department authorities have observed 10,397 persons and tested samples of 17,691. While 8,382 persons have completed 14 days quarantine, 1,588 are in home quarantine and 334 are in facility quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/8-month-old-baby-tests-covid-19-positive-in-mysuru-district-tally-climbs-to-92-853740.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Five medicos on Covid-19 duty test positive in Mangaluru||As many as 13 frontline health workers, including seven doctors, working in various hospitals across the state have tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. Five medicos (junior doctors) on the frontline Covid-19 duty in various hospitals of Mangaluru contracted virus. All five doctors, in their late 20s, are PG students in a private medical college in the coastal city. They were deputed for Covid duty at Wenlock District Hospital and Lady Goschen Hospital. All five were staying in the same apartment. A total of 45 doctors, their contacts, have been quarantined, DHO Dr Ramachandra Bayari told reporters. A special team has been constituted to trace and quarantine the contacts of the infected doctors, the DHO said. Seven medical staff, including doctors of the district hospital and two private hospitals in Madikeri, also contracted Covid-19. The private hospital has been sealed after the medical staff tested positive for the virus. The district hospital has been disinfected, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy told reporters. Apart from seven health workers, the district also saw as many people contract virus. A 32-year-old doctor from Davangere (P-10391), a resident of Maaganahalli road in the city, tested positive for the virus. She had an interdistrict travel history. NTPC staffer tests +ve A Kudigi NTPC thermal plant employee, with a travel history to Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Upon his return, he was sent to a 14-day home quarantine. He tested positive while in quarantine. The employee has been shifted to the designated Covid hospital in Vijayapura. His flat and the apartment have been sanitised, NTPC senior HR manager P A John told DH. Vijayapura reported 10 fresh cases on Thursday as the district's tally jumped to 331. Meanwhile, Ballari district's Covid case count shot up to 595 with 26 new infections in the last 24 hours. As many as 335 cases are linked to the JSW plant cluster. Koppal district saw its biggest single-day spike of 22 cases on Thursday. Among the new cases are five children, including a 3-year-old girl. The district's Covid tally has increased to 66. Dharwad district also saw 26 new infections while Ramanagara recorded 36 fresh cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-medicos-on-covid-19-duty-test-positive-in-mangaluru-853752.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two children drown in nallah near Savadatti||Two children from the same family drowned in a nallah near Yargatti village in Savadatti taluk on Thursday. Police said that the Durgannavar family has agriculture lands on both sides of the nallah and resides in the farmhouse at one side. Four children while playing made attempt to cross the nallah in which waters had accumulated due to recent rain. Unaware of the water level while they were crossing the nallah, Sanjita Gopal Durgannavar (6) and Satish Bassppa Durgannavar (8) drowned. Their grandparents noticed it and grandfather was successful in rescuing Veeresh Bassppa Durgannavar (10) and Narayan Gopal Durgannavar (10). Murgod police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-children-drown-in-nallah-near-savadatti-853756.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||12 more containment zones in Kodagu, active Covid-19 cases shoot up to 25||With six new cases of Covid-19 getting confirmed in Kodagu on Thursday, the district administration has formed 12 containment zones in various parts of the district. 14 new Covid-19 cases had surfaced in Kodagu district on Wednesday. With significantly a large number of cases getting confirmed in two days, the district tally of Covid-19 has reached 28. Three of them have been cured and the current number of active cases is 25. Warriors fall victim Out of the 14 persons who were tested positive on Wednesday, 7 are corona warriors from Ashwini Hospital and Vivus hospital in Madikeri. The infected include 4 doctors and non-medical staff. The premises of the hospitals are being disinfected. Vivus hospital has been closed for two days. The DC denied rumours that the doctors and other medical staff got infected as they worked in the district Covid-19 hospital. “All safety measures are followed in the district Covid-19 hospital. The medical staff at the private hospital might have been infected through Covid-19 positive patients.”  A 70-year-old woman who tested positive, was running a home stay in Bittangala, and she is believed to have been infected due to contact with the Covid-19-infected person who visited the home stay. The woman did not have any travel history. Another person who had returned to Piriyapattan from Saudi Arabia, also tested positive, she said and added that two persons from a same family have tested positive. They had a travel history to Tamil Nadu. “The primary contacts of the infected are being traced. The district administration has been gathering the travel history of the corona warriors who have been infected”, the DC further said. Annies Kanmani Joy stated that 12 regions in Madikeri have been brought under the containment zones on Thursday, following emergence of new Covid-19 cases. The district administration will provide essential items to the people living in the containment zones, the DC added. The containment zones are: Madikeri limits -- Omkareshwara Temple Road, a residential layout in Putani Nagara, Dairy Farm, Talattamane, Kaggodlu, Kote Mariyamma Temple. Somvarpet limits -- Shirangala village, Doddalli, Aluru-Siddapura, Mulluru, Rathabeedhi in Kushalnagar. Virajpet limits -- Bittangala, Palibetta. District Superintendent of Police Dr Suman D Pannekar said that five teams have been formed to trace the primary contracts of the infected persons. Several of them have been traced and are home quarantined. The SP warned of lodging criminal cases against those who violate rules and move out of containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12-more-containment-zones-in-kodagu-active-covid-19-cases-shoot-up-to-25-853789.html
25-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Over 500 discharges in Karnataka; 442 new Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths||Over 500 Covid-19 patients were discharged in Karnataka on Thursday, as the state reported 442 new cases and six related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 10,560. The day also saw total number of discharges in Udupi alone crossing 1,000 mark, even as 160 patients in the state were undergoing treatment at ICU. As of June 25 evening, cumulatively 10,560 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 170 deaths and 6,670 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 3,716 active cases, 3,556 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 160 are in ICU. Among the six dead include- three from Bengaluru rural and one each from Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru. Those from Bengaluru rural include two elderly women of age 60 and 80 years and a man aged 38. All three are with the history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The other three deceased are- a 61-year-old man from Kalaburagi, whose contact history is still under tracing, a 68-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada with history of SARI, and a 87-year-old man from Mysuru with inter district travel history to Bengaluru. Out of 442 new cases, 81 are returnees from other states, while 23 are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with history of SARI, ILI, inter district travel among others. While contact history of few patients are still being traced. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 113 cases, Kalaburagi 35, Ramanagara 33, Dakshina Kannada 29, 26 each from Ballari and Dharwad, Mysuru 22, 18 each from Bagalkote and Kodagu, Udupi 14, twelve each from Hassan and Bengaluru rural, Uttara Kannada 11 and 10 each from Vijayapura, Gadag and Haveri. While Mandya reported 9 cases, Bidar was 8, Davangere 7, four each from Belagavi, Shivamogga and Kolar, two each from Yadgir and Chikkaballapura, and one each from Tumakuru, Chikkamagaluru and Chamarajanagara. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,791 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,289 and Udupi 1,116. A total of 5,53,325 samples were tested so far, out of which 14,078 were tested on Thursday alone. So far 5,27,731 samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 12,343 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/over-500-discharges-in-karnataka-442-new-covid-19-cases-and-6-deaths-853730.html
25-06-2020||Main Article||Hoping for an economic miracle: Narendra Modi's employment gamble||Ever since he took office as prime minister in 2014, and in the run-up to the election that year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made creation of jobs a major plank of his campaign and programme. But it turned out to be the most elusive goal. There was economic growth though not as much as one expected and there was foreign investment, but there were no jobs that he had wanted to deliver so much. He had promised two crore jobs every year, about 10 lakh every month. But it did not happen. When the opposition parties demanded the government figures for the jobs that have been created, the government hummed and hawed. The argument was that the employment statistics were not accurate. Then in September 2017, the government created data, showing the number of employees subscribing to the Employees Provident Fund (EPF), arguing that though confined to the limited organised sector, it would provide a better base for reliable employment data. The new EPF subscribers between September 2017-March 2018 were 84,57,404, for April 2018-March 2019 it was 1,39,44,349, and the total figure from September 2017 to January 2020 was 3,20,98,535. The figures amply reflect that the record for job creation is depressingly modest. And this is but a very small slice of the people employed in the country because about 85% of the workforce in the country is in the informal sector. The migrant labour crisis that exploded in the wake of the national lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 where thousands of people, especially from the villages of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, who had become jobless and homeless overnight, and thousands of them began to walks thousands of miles home even as the government waited till the end of April to arrange the Sharmik Express trains to take them home, set off the idea in the mind of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that the labour returning from the metro centres like Mumbai, Surat, Bengaluru, Gurugram could be used as a captive pool of workers to attract investments in the state. It was also an attractive idea because it had the added advantage to persuade the poor people that they do not have to go off to far-off places in search of work and live in squalid conditions, and that job opportunities would be created nearer home. It remains an idea and many people who had returned are making their way back to the big cities as the lockdown eases in many parts of the country and economic activity limps back to normalcy. The chief minister had also mooted at one point that the other states must take the permission of the Uttar Pradesh government before they hire people from the state, which smacked of a dictatorial approach as to how to deploy the workforce. And the chief minister had also carried out the exercise of collecting data about the work skills of the labour who returned so as to create labour data base which could be used to create jobs in the state for the people of the state. It was called mapping of skills. The idea of finding jobs for workers from the most populous state in the country has turned out to be an unsurprising dud. Modi took forward the idea of Adityanath when he announced in Bihar on June 20 a Rs 50,000 crore job-creation scheme to be rolled out in 116 districts across six states – Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha -- in 125 days, but mostly confined to building rural infrastructure like Panchayat Bhavans, Aanganwadi Bhavans, provide drinking water through Jal Jeevan Mission, roads, community toilets, cattle sheds, mandis, housing. The prime minister did not imply that this programme is an experiment in providing jobs for people near their homes. He has indicated that the migrant labourers who returned from the cities could use their skills while they are in the village to build rural infrastructure. It has not been indicated whether the wages for working on these schemes would be paid MGNREGS rates. Home remedies It seems that Modi and Yogi Adityanath are working out home remedies for the problem of providing employment. While the prime minister’s Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana is confined to rural infrastructure, the UP CM is looking at the prospect of employment in the manufacturing sector in the state. The assumption is premised on the fact that some of the multi-national corporations leaving China would set up shop in Uttar Pradesh. It may or may not happen, and it may not be possible for the CM to absorb the total workforce in the state in the manufacturing and service sectors in the state. But it is a workable idea. It will be more difficult for the prime minister to absorb the whole of the migrant labour in infrastructural works in the rural areas because this could reach the saturation point quickly enough. Modi is certainly toying with the idea that the rural sector is large enough to create a model for economic activity centred in villages. He is always on the lookout for alternative models, but it is not something that has been thought out fully. If the manufacturing and service sectors in the sprawling cities cannot create enough jobs for the ever growing large pool of the workforce, the PM wants to find whether he can turn to the large hinterland itself to create a vast economic zone. Modi and the BJP started out in 2014 with the idea of shifting as many people as it is possible to the cities to shift the burden on land. There was a move to amend the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 in 2014. But the move hit the road block early on, and it was put on the backburner. It seems that Modi is turning to the villages for the economic miracle which he wants so badly for himself and for the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/hoping-for-an-economic-miracle-narendra-modis-employment-gamble-853770.html
25-06-2020||National||Fighting Covid-19 top priority, say Delhi's new mayors||BJP leader Jai Prakash and party councillors Anamika Mithilesh and Nirmal Jain were on Wednesday elected unopposed as the mayors of three municipal corporations in Delhi. This is perhaps the first time when the mayoral elections for the three civic bodies in the national capital -- the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) -- were held on the same day at the Civic Center in turns.   Hari Nagar councillor Anamika was elected unopposed to the post of South Delhi Mayor in the House meeting of the SDMC, while BJP councillor from C R Park, Subash Bhadana, was elected unanimously to the post of deputy mayor in the corporation. Prakash, the outgoing chairman of the Standing Committee of the NDMC, was elected to the post North Delhi Mayor during the House meeting at the Civic Center here. Soon after being elected, Prakash spelt out his priorities, saying, "Using all resources of the corporation optimally to fight Covid-19 would be our top priority". He recalled his humble roots and said, "We had a milk businessand I have sold milk to people by going door-to-door. I am just an ordinary person of this city". Ritu Goel, councillor from Rohini-I was elected unopposed as the deputy mayor of North Delhi. After the election of mayor and deputy mayor of North Delhi, polling was held to elect the three members of the Standing Committee in which Yogesh Verma (BJP), Chhail Bihari Goswami (BJP) and Ajay Sharma (AAP) won the election, while Mukesh Goel (Congress) lost after getting the lowest votes, the NDMC said in a statement. Meanwhile, senior AAP leader Sanjay Singh posted a tweet alleging that the BJP tried to defeat the AAP by "giving away 14 votes to Congress" but Ajay Sharma still won. Newly-elected mayor Jai Prakash rubbished the allegation and claimed Sharma won as "two of the independent councillors" veered towards the AAP". Both the NDMC and the SDMC have 104-member Houses, while the EDMC has 64 members. Soon after being elected, Anamika said her foremost priority will be dealing with the Covid-19 situation effectively. In view of the financial challenges being faced by the SDMC, "we need to focus on a better revenue generation plan to deal with the situation and try to make the south corporation self-sustained rather than expecting financial assistance from the Delhi government", she said.  The new mayor also said that the SDMC will to provide all modern amenities to people in living in areas under it.            Anamika, a social worker, had held the post of chairperson of the DEMS Committee in the civic body for the last two consecutive years. She was also the member of Standing Committee of the SDMC in 2017, officials said. Five nominations were filled for the three vacant posts of member in the SDMC Standing Committee. With the withdrawal of nomination by Congress councillor Suresh Kumar and BJP councillor Mukesh Surya, the remaining nominees of the BJP Rajdutt Gehlot and Tulsi Joshi, and AAP nominee Jitender Kumar were declared as elected members, the SDMC said in a statement. In the EDMC, besides Jain, Hari Prakash Bahadur of the BJP got elected unopposed as the deputy mayor of East Delhi. Jain and Bahadur represent Ward No. 31 (Shahadra) and Ward No. 54 (Saboli) respectively, EDMC officials said. The new East Delhi mayor said that he is going to follow the principles of former prime minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The primary responsibility of the corporation is to keep areas clean and in this direction, sanitation work will be improved in east Delhi, Jain said. BJP councillors Satya Pal Singh (Ward No. 61, Karawal  Nagar), Deepak Malhotra (Ward No. 23, Ghondli), Pravesh Sharma (Ward No. 37, Ram Nagar) and AAP councillor Geeta Rawat (Ward No. 10, Vinod Nagar) were elected unopposed as members of the Standing Committee of the EDMC, the corporation said in a statement.   The outgoing mayors are Avtar Singh (NDMC), Sunita Kangra (SDMC) and Anju Kamalkant (EDMC), all from the BJP. The mayoral five-year tenure sees five single-year terms on a rotation basis, with the first year being reserved for women, the second open category, third for reserved category, and the remaining two also being in open category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fighting-covid-19-top-priority-say-delhis-new-mayors-853409.html
25-06-2020||National||DH Deciphers | Why hasn't India flattened the coronavirus curve despite 13 weeks of lockdown? ||As the Covid-19 pandemic began to spread globally at the start of this year, the worldwide consensus was that a period of lockdown would break the chain of infections. India acted remarkably quickly in comparison to others. The nationwide lockdown here fell into place on March 25, when the country had a paltry 519 cases and only 10 deaths. In contrast, the UK, when it introduced its lockdown on March 24, had already registered 8,077 cases and 422 deaths. Italy ordered a nationwide lockdown on March 11 when it had already registered 631 deaths and 10,149 cases.    But now, nearly 13 weeks later, as India prepares to withdraw the last of its lockdown restrictions, the country’s rate of infection is higher than ever, even as the numbers in the UK and Italy have largely flatlined. So where did India's attempt to flatten the curve go so wrong?      What did Europe do differently that its lockdown flattened the curve?  Simply put, it was stringent social distancing, plus the scrupulous wearing of masks and social welfare measures, that saw Europe through. In Italy and Spain, the data shows, the lockdown had a rapid impact. In both countries, the new cases peaked between 13 and 20 days and thereafter began to decline.   What was the problem with India's lockdown?  The problem is not that India introduced a lockdown early, but that the government failed to implement a series of concurrent measures to ensure that the infections did not resurface.  The fundamental usefulness of the lockdown is to reduce the number of infections for a short period. The government's failure to exploit the lockdown for its true worth is why we are seeing so many cases now, epidemiologists say.  Dr Giridhar Babu, a pandemic expert, says a lockdown alone cannot stop a pandemic. In the absence of large-scale testing to rapidly identify infected individuals and social welfare programmes, a lockdown cannot succeed on its own, he explains.  From March 25 to April 23, during the most stringent phases of the lockdown, India's testing reached a peak of only 0.36 tests per 1,000 people — not enough to gauge the spread of the disease within the population.  The central government now says nearly one lakh tests are being done daily. While these might seem an impressive number, it still translates to roughly only 5.3 tests per 1,000 people, as per data from the Karnataka state Covid war room. In comparison, the UK is currently out 60.4 tests per 1,000 of the population. In Karnataka, the rate is 7.9 tests per 1,000.      So did India bungle social distancing? A lockdown, intended to freeze people in place, is a good thing while tackling a pandemic, but its value is contingent on how well social distancing is carried out. In the Indian context, dense population clusters and large numbers of people living in the same household made social distancing a tricky proposition, says Dr Vivekanada Jha, Director of the George Institute for Global Health (India). In the end, the lockdown had the exact opposite effect that it was intended for. "While the lockdown bought us enough time to expand our medical infrastructure, it arguably also expanded the spread of the disease," Dr Jha said. "What the lockdown did was relegate people in densely congested areas where if one person has the disease, then others contract it as well. The result is a larger spread."  A glimpse of this spread dynamic was captured in Bengaluru’s densely populated Shivajinagar where a single hotel worker with the disease infected 46 others in his residential building through the use of a single common toilet.  The government’s failure to enact a financial safety net for ordinary citizens is also said to have inherently doomed the lockdown to failure. The end result could be less social distancing, post-lockdown, cautioned Suvrat Raju, a theoretical physicist at the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences. "The economic compulsions of people and the fact that marketplaces, malls and businesses will be anxious to rebound from the financial crunch could eventually dilute social distancing norms," he said.  He added that without these concurrent measures, simple mathematical models suggest that "there is a risk that when the pandemic has run its course, it will have extracted almost the same final toll in lives as it would have without the lockdown."  Was the introduction of the lockdown too hasty?  Potentially so, experts say, pointing to the fact that zero notice of the lockdown meant, for example, that millions of migrant workers employed in daily-wage jobs in cities were not able to return to their home states in time.  Although subsequent plans were made to feed stranded daily-wage workers, they were largely a failure, prompting NGOs and private donors to step in. The government’s neglect of migrant workers rebounded when interstate and inter-district travel restrictions were withdrawn in May. Scores of hitherto undetected but infected people crossing state borders have triggered a spike in cases.  This is perhaps the ultimate legacy of India's lockdown: Starting early, but without the heft to ensure that the people's needs were taken care of and then running out of steam before it could have any long-term impact against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-why-hasnt-india-flattened-the-coronavirus-curve-despite-13-weeks-of-lockdown-853429.html
25-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 25, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-25-2020-edition-853431.html
25-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 25||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 4.73 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 4,88,220 as of June 25 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 15,288   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 2,38,212  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-25-853432.html
25-06-2020||National||The Lead: A doctor's day in Covid-care centre||The Lead from Deccan Herald Podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In today's episode, DH journalist Ahmed Shariff speaks to Dr Nikhil Naithottu, a medical professional currently working at a Covid-care centre, about what goes on in the hospital and his day there.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-a-doctors-day-in-covid-care-centre-853434.html
25-06-2020||National||No respite for consumers as fuel prices rise for the 19th day||Prices of fuels were hiked yet again on Thursday marking the 19th consecutive session of increases. Diesel price crossed the Rs 80-mark in Delhi, and will now cost 14 paise more at Rs 80.02 a litre. Price of petrol price in the national capital at rose by 16 paise and will now cost Rs 79.92 per litre. In Bengaluru, petrol is priced at Rs 82.52 a litre, 17 paise costlier, while diesel will cost 13 paise more at Rs 76.09 a litre. Rates of petrol and diesel differ from state to state depending on the incidence of VAT. The 19th daily increase in fuel rates since oil companies started revising prices from June 7 in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus in rate revision, has taken diesel prices to fresh highs. In 19 days, diesel price has gone up by Rs 10.63 per litre while petrol price has risen by Rs 8.66 a litre. Diesel price for the first time crossed the rate of petrol in Delhi on Wednesday.  Prior to the current rally, the peak diesel rates had touched was on October 16, 2018 when prices had climbed to Rs 75.69 per litre in Delhi. The highest ever petrol price was on October 4, 2018 when rates soared to Rs 84 a litre in Delhi. When rates had peaked in October 2018, the government had cut excise duty on petrol and dieselby Rs 1.50 per litre each. State-owned oil companies were asked to absorb another Rs 1 a litre to help cut retail rates by Rs 2.50 a litre. The government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each and then again on May 5 by a record Rs 10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. The two hikes gave the government Rs 2 lakh crore in additional tax revenues. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices to two decade low. International oil prices have since rebounded and oil firms are now adjusting retail rates in line with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-for-consumers-as-fuel-prices-rise-for-the-19th-day-853436.html
25-06-2020||National||PM Modi looks inward to save economy as crisis bites||By Vrishti Beniwal and Shwetha Sunil  Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to make India more self-reliant, but if the experience over the past few years is anything to go by, it’s not going to be easy.Faced with disruptions to raw material supplies from China because of the pandemic and millions of job losses following a nationwide lockdown, Modi has ratcheted up calls to boost local manufacturing and reduce India’s reliance on imports. A shortage of personal protective equipment at the beginning of the outbreak increased his resolve -- and within the space of just two months, India has become the world’s biggest maker of PPE kits after China. That success has only emboldened Modi as he exhorts Indians to buy local goods. A military standoff with China is now adding fuel to those calls. Following a deadly clash between soldiers from both countries along a contested Himalayan border this month, Indian political leaders have called for a boycott of Chinese goods and possible higher tariffs on products from its neighbour. Traders, who were previously reluctant to snub cheap Chinese imports, have now come up with a list of 3,000 items, including toys, watches and plastic products, that can easily be replaced by local manufacturing. The push to cut imports this time is “more pronounced in its economic nationalism,” said Amitendu Palit, a senior research fellow at the National University of Singapore. “The dominant thinking is if businesses give up imports, and start making the same products at home, then they would create jobs, and generate incomes in a self-sustaining process.” Deja Vu Modi previously attempted to boost domestic manufacturing with his Make in India plan, but that had limited success. Under that initiative, the government pledged to cut red tape and assist companies looking to set up shop in the country. The ambition was to grow the share of manufacturing in the economy to 25% by 2020, from 15% in 2014. But strict local-content rules in that plan backfired by raising production costs for companies, while waning domestic consumption amid a protracted slowdown in the economy saw the manufacturing sector’s share remaining almost stagnant at about 15%. Modi has little choice but to focus on manufacturing, given the slump in the dominant services sector -- the primary driver for employment growth. With the economy on course for its first full-year contraction in four decades, authorities see industrial growth as a key to creating jobs for some 1 million young people entering the workforce every month. India has outlined new measures to promote self-reliance, including prohibiting global companies from bidding for government contracts up to a value of 2 billion rupees ($26.4 million), and giving collateral-free loans to small businesses that account for about 48% of India’s goods exports. Analysts say the latest measures will do little to make local firms more competitive. “These are all medium-term strategies India already had. Now it is taking a little bit of political colour,” said N R Bhanumurthy, vice chancellor of Bengaluru Dr B R Ambedkar School of Economics. “If you want to really deal with China you need to be very competitive. That’s not an overnight job.” The politically influential Swadeshi Jagran Manch -- a group aligned with Modi’s ruling party -- has been at the forefront of pushing Indians to reduce their dependence on imports.​ But doing so is easier said than done. China is India’s biggest source of imports, with purchases including electronic goods, nuclear reactors and organic chemicals running into almost $70 billion last year. Beijing enjoys a trade surplus of about $50 billion with New Delhi. “Self-reliance should be interpreted as making India more resilient in the coming years, rather than interpreting those words in its narrowest terms,” said Kaushik Das, chief India economist at Deutsche Bank AG. “The objective is not to reduce imports at any cost.” Modi is also hoping to lure investment as businesses around the world look to reassess their supply chains and diversify their China operations. “While this vision is good, we need policies,” said Ram Upendra Das, head of the Centre for Regional Trade in New Delhi, describing the recent self-reliance pledge as “more of a reiteration” of the Make in India program. “We need to upgrade physical infrastructure, social infrastructure.” India has been trying to woo investors since the US-China trade war, but many favoured places like Vietnam, Thailand and the Philippines instead, given concerns about India’s archaic land and labour laws. Frustrating Delays While India is in the process of simplifying labour laws and has cut corporate tax rates to bring it on par with Asian peers, challenges remain in the form of cumbersome land acquisition rules, foreign-exchange controls and lethargic bureaucracy. Companies including South Korea’s top steelmaker, Posco, have given up on their India investment plans, owing to frustrating delays in land acquisition. The result is that India imports 6.69 million tons of finished steel despite being a net exporter of iron ore. Words alone won’t be enough to attract investors, said Jayati Ghosh, an economics professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. “The economy is in a state of collapse,” she said. “If you’re a global company interested in a new location for part of your supply chain, you need excellent infrastructure.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-looks-inward-to-save-economy-as-crisis-bites-853440.html
25-06-2020||National||Centre may consider diplomatic measures to deal with locust problem, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said that as locusts, this time, originated in Africa and entered India through Pakistan, the Centre could consider "diplomatic measures" to minimise the damages by the pests.  "As Rajasthan is affected by locusts attack, the government of Rajasthan has been providing best possible help including pesticides, sprays, drone supervision, etc. to the locusts department, which falls under GoI (government of India)," Gehlot said in a tweet.  He also said, "This time since locusts have originated from Africa and entered India via Pakistan - GoI may also consider diplomatic measures to minimise the damages."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-consider-diplomatic-measures-to-deal-with-locust-problem-says-ashok-gehlot-853447.html
25-06-2020||National||12 Army personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Nagaland||Twelve Army personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in Nagaland's Kohima district, officials said on Thursday. Health and Family Welfare Department officials said 12 Army personnel of Jakhama army camp quarantine centre tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. A group of army personnel had returned to Jakhama garrison from different parts of the country last week and were put under strict quarantine as per the military SOP rules within the camp jurisdiction, officials said. Twelve Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the total infections in Jakhama Army camp to 15, they said. Earlier a Covid-19 case was detected in the camp on June 19 and two cases on June 23. All the 15 Army personnel are admitted to the Jakhama Army Hospital and all are asymptomatic, sources said. The state Health department and the Army have started contact tracing of persons who came in contact with the positive patients from their place of origin and back to camp. All the 15 positive cases of Army personnel are included in Nagaland's Covid tally of 347 cases, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-army-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-nagaland-853472.html
25-06-2020||National||With 16,922 cases, India sees highest-ever daily jump in Covid-19 cases; death toll rises by 418||With this, India has registered over 14,000 cases for the sixth day in a row. According to the ministry data updated at 8 am, active cases stand at 1,86,514 while 2,71,696 people have recovered and one patient has migrated. "Thus, around 57.43 percent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The number of confirmed cases included foreigners.  Of the 418 new deaths, 208 were in Maharashtra, 64 in Delhi, 33 in Tamil Nadu, 25 in Gujarat, 14 in Karnataka, 11 in West Bengal, 10 each in Rajasthan and Haryana, nine in Madhya Pradesh, eight each in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, five each in Andhra Pradesh,  Telangana and Uttarakhand. Bihar, Goa and Jammu and Kashmir have reported one Covid-19 fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-16922-cases-india-sees-highest-ever-daily-jump-in-covid-19-cases-death-toll-rises-by-418-853477.html
25-06-2020||National||UK PM Boris Johnson terms Sino-India standoff ‘very serious, worrying situation’; calls for dialogue||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has called on India and China to engage in dialogue to sort out their border issues as he described the escalation in eastern Ladakh as “a very serious and worrying situation” which the UK is closely monitoring. The first official statement of Johnson came during his weekly Prime Minister’s Questions (PMQs) in the House of Commons here on Wednesday. Responding to Conservative Party MP Flick Drummond on the implications for British interests of a dispute between a “Commonwealth member and the world’s largest democracy on the one side, and a state that challenges our notion of democracy on the other,” he described the escalation in eastern Ladakh as “a very serious and worrying situation”, which the UK is "monitoring closely". “Perhaps the best thing I can say… is that we are encouraging both parties to engage in dialogue on the issues on the border and sort it out between them,” the Prime Minister said. In a statement in New Delhi on Wednesday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said India and China have agreed that expeditious implementation of the previously agreed understanding on disengagement of troops from standoff points in eastern Ladakh would help ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. During the diplomatic talks between India and China, the situation in the region was discussed in detail and the Indian side conveyed its concerns over the violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in the clash. The talks were held in the midst of escalating tension between the two countries following the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-pm-boris-johnson-terms-sino-india-standoff-very-serious-worrying-situation-calls-for-dialogue-853494.html
25-06-2020||National||India registers over 16,000 Covid-19 daily cases for first time; death toll rises by 418||India registered its worst single-day increase in COVID-19 cases on Thursday, recording more than 16,000 coronavirus infections, to push the overall tally to 4.73 lakh as the number of fatalities also jumped by 418, the Union Health Ministry said. This was the sixth consecutive day when coronavirus cases increased by more than 14,000. On June 20, the country registered an increase of 14,516 cases. On June 21, the increase was of 15,413 cases; 14,821 cases on June 22; 14,933 cases on June 23; and 15,968 cases on June 24. Consequently, India added 92,573 cases since June 20, and over 2.82 lakh this month since June 1. The health ministry data updated at 8am on Thursday showed the daily tally increased by the highest-ever 16,922 cases to reach 4,73,105, while the total deaths climbed to 14,894 with 418 new fatalities. However, according to the data, the recovery rate has improved to 57.43 per cent. The number of active cases stands at 1,86,514 while 2,71,696 people have recovered; one patient has migrated. The total number of confirmed cases included foreigners. According to ICMR, a total of 75,60,782 samples have been tested up to June 24 with 2,07,871 samples being tested on Wednesday. Of the 418 new deaths, 208 were in Maharashtra, 64 in Delhi, 33 in Tamil Nadu, 25 in Gujarat, 14 in Karnataka, 11 in West Bengal, 10 each in Rajasthan and Haryana, nine in Madhya Pradesh, eight each in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, five each in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Uttarakhand. Bihar, Goa and Jammu and Kashmir have reported one COVID-19 fatality each. Of the total fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 6,739 deaths followed by Delhi (2,365), Gujarat (1,735), Tamil Nadu (866), Uttar Pradesh (596), West Bengal (591), Madhya Pradesh (534), Rajasthan (375) and Telangana (225). The COVID-19 death toll reached 188 in Haryana, 164 in Karnataka, 124 in Andhra Pradesh, 113 in Punjab, 88 in Jammu and Kashmir, 57 in Bihar, 35 in Uttarakhand, 22 in Kerala and 17 in Odisha. Chhattisgarh has registered 12 deaths, Jharkhand 11, Assam and Puducherry nine each, Himachal Pradesh eight, Chandigarh six, Goa two and Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported one fatality each. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, the health ministry said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,42,900 followed by Delhi at 70,390, Tamil Nadu at 67,468, Gujarat at 28,943, Uttar Pradesh at 19,557, Rajasthan at 16,009 and West Bengal at 15,173, according to ministry data.  The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 12,448 in Madhya Pradesh, 12,010 in Haryana, 10,444 in Telangana,10,331 in Andhra Pradesh and 10,118 in Karnataka. It has risen to 8,209 in Bihar, 6,422 in Jammu and Kashmir, 6,198 in Assam and 5,752 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 4,627 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 3,603 cases. A total of 2,623 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 2,419 in Chhattisgarh, 2,207 in Jharkhand, 1,259 in Tripura, 970 in Manipur, 951 in Goa, 941 in Ladakh and 806 in Himachal Pradesh. Puducherry has recorded 461 COVID-19 cases, Chandigarh has 420, Nagaland has 347, Arunachal Pradesh has 158 and Mizoram has 142 cases. Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 120 COVID-19 cases. Sikkim has 84, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 56 infections so far while Meghalaya has recorded 46 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research)," the ministry said, adding 8,493 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-over-16000-covid-19-daily-cases-for-first-time-death-toll-rises-by-418-853495.html
25-06-2020||National||Over 30 personnel at Naval Air Station 'INS Parundu' test positive for Covid-19||While the district authorities put the number of infected at 33, Defence sources said 'some' of the sailors, mostly who had arrived here recently on postings, have been affected with the virus. They said that as per standard protocol, such personnel are quarantined and tested for the contagion in which 'some' of them have tested positive. "INS Parundu is very much operational. The entry of civilian staff working there has been restricted," they added. District authorities are set to take up disinfection procedures later.  The INS Parundu is primarily used as a reconnaissance station to monitor the South East Bay of Bengal. According to the Navy, INS Parundu provides search and rescue coverage and conducts operational sorties over the Palk Bay area on a regular basis. Coastal/ Area surveillance and real time intelligence gathering are its other operational tasks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-30-personnel-at-naval-air-station-ins-parundu-test-positive-for-covid-19-853509.html
25-06-2020||National||Let new generations draw right lessons from Emergency: Prasad||Let the new generations draw the right lessons from Emergency, Union minister and BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Thursday while attacking the Congress for its "grossly undemocratic" behaviour which he claimed still continues. In a series of tweets on the 45th anniversary of the imposition of Emergency, he said today is the day "to recall the heroic sacrifices of people of India against the grossly undemocratic behaviour of the Congress Party." On 25th June 1975 draconian Emergency was imposed by the Congress Govt led by PM Indira Gandhi. Major opposition leaders including Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan, Bharat Ratna Atal Behari Vajpayee, L. K. Advani, Chandrashekhar and lakhs of people of India were arrested. The "legacy", Prasad said, "still continues". "Let the new generations draw the right lessons," he wrote. He recalled that after the Emergency was imposed by then prime minister Indira Gandhi, major opposition leaders including Jai Prakash Narayan, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, L K Advani, Chandrashekhar, along with scores of citizens, were arrested. "Ultimately people of India voted massively against the Congress Party in 1977 Lok Sabha election and even Indira Gandhi was defeated and the first non-Congress Govt came to power at Centre," he said. The minister recalled that as an activist of the "JP Movement" from Bihar he fought against the Emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-new-generations-draw-right-lessons-from-emergency-prasad-853516.html
25-06-2020||National||CBSE cancels X, XII board exams in wake of Covid-19||The CBSE on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that its remaining class XII examinations, scheduled between July 1 and 15, have been cancelled. With this, the students would be given an option to appear for exams on a later date or get promoted through internal assessment, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar. A fresh notification giving a time schedule may be issued by Friday, Centre further told the court. The decision comes amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country. Several states have expressed their inability to conduct the examinations in such a scenario. The bench asked the Center and the CBSE to issue fresh notification regarding class 12 exams. It asked the Board to clarify the issue of options between internal assessment and examinations for the future date. The court also sought to know the status of state board exams. The top court posted a batch of PILs filed by Col Amit Baithla and others for consideration on Friday. During the hearing, the court was also informed that the ICSE board examinations for class X and XII would also be cancelled. It, however, did not agree to the CBSE's stand to conduct examinations on a future date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-cancels-x-xii-board-exams-in-wake-of-covid-19-853530.html
25-06-2020||National||34 senior bureaucrats to supervise Central scheme for street vendors||Thirty-four senior bureaucrats have been made nodal officers to assist states and supervise the implementation of Prime Minister Street Vendor's Atma Nirbhar Nidhi scheme in the country, officials said on Thursday. The scheme, to be implemented from July 1, is aimed at providing affordable loans to street vendors to resume their livelihoods that had been hit due to lockdown. Under the scheme, vendors can avail a working capital of up to Rs 10,000, repayable in monthly installments in one year. On timely/early repayment of the loan, an interest subsidy @7% per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer on a six-monthly basis. "The nodal officers will be responsible for supervising the implementation of the scheme and also assist states in resolving issues that may arise," a Personnel Ministry order said. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs will provide the charter of duties of the nodal officers, contact details of stakeholders in the states/union territories/cities and all the necessary support, it said. All nodal officers, except Niranjan Kumar Singh of Indian Forest Service, belong to the Indian Administrative Service. They all are of a joint-secretary level. Singh has been made the nodal officer for Gujarat, M C Jauhari for the northeastern region states, Neerja Sekhar for Haryana, Hukum Singh Meena for Bihar, Rajat Kumar Mishra and Tanmay Kumar for Rajasthan and Rajesh Kumar Sinha for Kerala. Kamran Rizvi, Leena Johri, Amit Kumar Ghosh and Partha Sarthi Sensharma have been appointed nodal officers for Uttar Pradesh, the Personnel Ministry order said. Amit Agrawal will be nodal officer for Chhattisgarh, Rakesh Kumar Verma and Alaknanda Dayal for Punjab and G Jayalakshmi for Telangana, it said. Over 50 lakh people, including vendors and hawkers, in different areas/contexts are likely to benefit from this scheme. The goods supplied by them range from vegetables, fruits, ready-to-eat street foods, tea, pakodas, breads, eggs, textiles, apparel, footwear, artisan products, books/stationaries etc. The services include barber shops, cobblers, pan shops, laundry services etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/34-senior-bureaucrats-to-supervise-central-scheme-for-street-vendors-853532.html
25-06-2020||National||Student unions, youth groups write to Environment Min to put on hold new EIA draft notification||Over 50 student unions and youth groups from across the country on Thursday urged the Environment Ministry to put on hold a new environment impact assessment (EIA) draft notification, saying it has several "controversial amendments". In a letter to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, the students from Delhi University, JNU, Aligarh Muslim University, All India Students Federation and 48 other student wings and groups sought that the draft EIA notification be re-written as per recommendations from environment experts once the COVID-19 crisis ends. "In March 2020, during the COVID pandemic and under your leadership, the ministry released the Draft EIA 2020 Notification. We, the undersigned student representatives of our universities, are writing to you today to request you to put the current draft on hold on account of how destructive it can prove to be for the ecology and the people of our nation. We petition for the draft to be rewritten as per recommendations by experts and released once health and survival are not a critical issue, thereby leading India into a green recovery," the letter said. It alleged that the new EIA Draft Notification intends to bring in controversial amendments such as post-facto grant of approval, exemption of several large industries from public hearings, permission for industries to submit just one compliance report a year rather than two, increased validity of the environment clearances for mining projects and river valley projects, and many more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/student-unions-youth-groups-write-to-environment-min-to-put-on-hold-new-eia-draft-notification-853558.html
25-06-2020||National||IN-SPACE to be regulator, give private sector level-playing field: ISRO chairman K Sivan||Allowing private sector to carry out space activities like building of rockets, satellites and providing launch services is a major reform, ISRO chief K Sivan said on Thursday. The Cabinet on Wednesday approved participation of the private sector in the entire range of space activities, including planetary exploration missions.  Terming this a "major reform", Sivan said the private sector can also be part of the inter-planetary missions of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). "The private sector will be enable to carry out space activities like building of rockets, satellites, providing launch services on a commercial basis.  "The private sector can also be part of interplanetary missions of ISRO. This is being planned to be done through announcement of opportunities," he said in an online briefing.  He, however, added that ISRO's activities are not going to reduce and it will continue to carry out space-based activities including advanced research and development, inter-planetary and human space flight missions. When asked whether policy foreign private players will be allowed, Sivan told PTI that a decision on this is yet to be taken.  Unlike many countries in the West, where civilian space activities like launching satellites are opened up for private players, it remained closed in India. However, with this decision, it is likely to change.  Sivan said the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (In-Space) has been created under the Department of Space as a separate vertical for taking independent decisions with respect to permitting and regulating space activities of the private sector. He said the move will not only enable accelerated growth of the space sector, but will also help the Indian industry play a major role in the global space economy.  The current global space economy is pegged at USD 360 billion, while the Indian space economy is estimated to be around USD 7 billion.  "This is going to be a major system and reform in the Department of Space. In-Space will have its own directorates for technical, legal safety and security, activity promotion as well as for monitoring purposes so that they can take an independent decision," Sivan said.  The In-Space board will also have members of the industry, academia and the government.  It will take six months for the system to take shape, but private companies can submit their applications to the Department of Space in the interim time.   "Private companies can directly apply to In-Space which will independently evaluate and process the application. Once In-Space gives the decisions, it will be binding on all stakeholders, either private people or ISRO," Sivan said. A new navigation policy is also being proposed and suitable changes in Remote Sensing Data Policy as well as SATCOM policy are also on the anvil. These changes are aimed at aligning these policies to an open and inclusive space sector, Sivan added. The New Space India Limited (NSIL), a PSU under the Department of Space, will also play a role in this endeavour by re-orienting space activities from a 'supply driven' model to a 'demand driven' model, thereby ensuring optimum utilisation of space assets, he said.  "NSIL will be strengthened and empowered to off-load operational activities of ISRO in the areas of launch vehicle and satellite production, launch services as well as space based services. NSIL will execute these activities through industry consortiums," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-space-to-be-regulator-give-private-sector-level-playing-field-isro-chairman-k-sivan-853576.html
25-06-2020||National||Indian Railway stalls to sell coronavirus essentials to passengers||Coronavirus essentials like masks, gloves, sanitisers, bedroll kits will now be sold at the multi-purpose stalls at railway platforms, railway officials said Thursday. The stalls, run by private contractors, carry most items that travellers could require, like toiletries, books, medicines and packed eatables. The stalls will now also be able to sell essential items required to protect passengers from coronavirus infection, according to a set of instructions issued by the Railway Board. "Mindful of the fact that passengers travelling during these times might need certain essential items which they would need to buy in case they forget to get it from home, we have directed our multipurpose stalls to sell them. "However, we have said that they have to be sold at MRP and no profiteering will be allowed through it," said a senior railway official. The official said bedroll kits, which are no longer provided on board trains due to fear of the coronavirus spread, will also be available at these stalls. They will be sold as a kit -- with pillow, pillow covers, blankets, face towel -- as well as separately. "Since we have stopped giving these items because of the pandemic, passengers can buy either the entire kit or any item separately," the official said. The order issued last week stated that the emphasis was on maintaining hygiene and fulfilling needs of the passengers. "These takeaway bedroll and other protective items should be of good quality and not exceed the MRP," the official said, clarifying that the stall owners are not bound to sell these items manufacturing by the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railway-stalls-to-sell-coronavirus-essentials-to-passengers-853582.html
25-06-2020||National||Central team to Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana as Covid-19 cases surge||As Covid-19 cases witnessed a record single-day surge, the Health Ministry on Thursday dispatched a central team to Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana, which is emerging as a new hotspot reporting an average 800 cases everyday. A Health Ministry statement said a central team led by Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana from June 26-29 to strengthen the efforts of Covid-19 management in the three states. Maharashtra and Gujarat are among the worst-hit states by the Covid-19 pandemic with 1,42,900 and 28,943 total confirmed cases respectively. Telangana crossed the 10,000 cases landmark on Thursday as it reported 891 new infections taking the total cases in the state to 10,444. According to the Health Ministry, India reported 16,922 new cases on Thursday morning taking the total confirmed cases to 4,73,105, while 418 persons succumbed to the infectious disease taking the death toll to 14,894. “Thus, so far, a total of 2,71,697 patients have been cured of Covid-19,” an official statement said adding that the recovery rate among the patients was 57.43%. As many as 1,86,514 patients are under active medical supervision in various Covid-19 hospitals and care centres. The number of active cases were growing at 2.2%, while the fatality rate was at 2.9%. Currently, India has 33.39 cases of Covid-19 per lakh population as against the global average of 120.21 cases per lakh population. The case fatality rate is also among the lowest in the world as India has been reporting 1.06 deaths per lakh population as against the world average of 6.24 deaths per lakh population. The Indian Council of Medical Research added seven more testing laboratories to its network of 1,000 testing facilities across the country. The laboratories tested 2.07 lakh samples for Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the cumulative samples tested since January to 75.60 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-team-to-maharashtra-gujarat-telangana-as-covid-19-cases-surge-853586.html
25-06-2020||National||Congress seeks virtual Parliament session to discuss LAC stand-off||The Congress on Thursday demanded that the government convene a virtual session of Parliament to discuss important issues before the country, especially the border standoff with China. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said during the 1962 war, then BJP leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee demanded that a session of Parliament be convened to discuss it and then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru accepted his demand. "A session of Parliament should be convened to discuss important issues. The Parliamentary Committees are also not meeting, even when there are key issues to be discussed," Khera said at a press conference. The Congress leader said Parliament is the only medium where everyone can discuss the key issues and together work out a strategy to deal with them. Party spokesperson Manish Tewari on Wednesday accused the government of hiding behind rules to escape parliamentary oversight and demanded that a session be held soon to answer key queries of opposition parties. "This government has walked the extra mile to hide behind rules, to escape parliamentary oversight. This is nothing short of the emasculation of Parliament," he said. "Unfortunately, presiding officers of both the Houses should have walked the extra mile to prevail upon the government, not should try to subvert Parliament in this manner and escape parliamentary oversight," he said. His colleague and party spokesperson Gaurav Gogoi cited the government's experience of having conducted a bilateral summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart. "Surely we can have a special session of Parliament to discuss important issues, keeping in mind both social distancing and the importance of national security," Gogoi said. "It is a sign of authoritarianism and only an effort by the BJP government to buy time so that it can escape the questions which have been asked by the people of India through the major opposition parties," Gogoi alleged. Tewari said it is extremely unfortunate and regretful that while one can have a Russia, India, China trilateral summit virtually, the G-20 can be held and an all-party meeting on China can be held virtually, "why can't this government hold a virtual session of Parliament". Opposition members, especially from the Congress, have been demanding a Parliament session to discuss key issues confronting the country like the coronavirus pandemic and the "Chinese intrusions into India at Ladakh".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-seeks-virtual-parliament-session-to-discuss-lac-stand-off-853592.html
25-06-2020||National||Central team to visit Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana to bolster Covid-19 management efforts||A central team, led by Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and 29 to coordinate with the state officials in strengthening Covid-19 management efforts in those areas, the ministry said on Thursday. According to officials, the team will also review the measures undertaken by the states for containment of Covid-19. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,42,900. Gujarat has recorded 28,943 instances of the viral infection while Telangana has so far reported 10,331 cases, according to health ministry data. India registered its worst single-day increase in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, recording more than 16,000 coronavirus infections, to push the overall tally to 4.73 lakh as the number of fatalities also jumped by 418, the Union Health Ministry said. The ministry said there are 33.39 Covid-19 cases in India for every one lakh population, against the global average of 114.67. Also, the country has 1.06 deaths per lakh population, which is amongst the lowest in the world and the global average is 6.24. Following efforts to ramp up facilities across the nation, there are in total 1,007 diagnostic labs, of which 734 are in the government sector and 273 private. From limited Covid-19 tests in January, a cumulative total of 75,60,782 samples have been tested up to June 24 with 2,07,871 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-team-to-visit-maharashtra-gujarat-telangana-to-bolster-covid-19-management-efforts-853611.html
25-06-2020||National||Power tariff won't go up in amended law: Centre||Dismissing apprehension about a possible increase in power tariff after implementation of the proposed draft amendments to Electricity Act, the Centre on Thursday said after reforms, electricity tariff will come down. “Power tariffs are in fact supposed to come down after the reforms we are undertaking. The Central generating companies are absorbing the hike in coal and freight tariffs. There is a reduction in power supply costs to power distribution companies (Discoms) because of merit order dispatch," Union Power and Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh told reporters here. As per the proposed law, electricity distribution companies cannot pass their inefficiency on consumers. The regulator has to cap the losses and power distribution companies will not be allowed to pass on this beyond 15%, the Minister said. The new draft of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill was ready as comments on draft have come by June 15 and it would be introduced in the coming session of Parliament once the Ministry of Law clears it. If possible the bill will be introduced in the coming monsoon session of Parliament,  he said. One of the key proposals of the amended law will be the exercise of direct benefit transfer (DBT) in the power sector. As per the DBT, instead of giving free power or discounter power to consumers, the state governments transfer money to consumer account and they pay the full bill as per electricity meter reading.   Dismissing concerns that DBT would result in an interruption in power supplies to the consumers if the state did not release its share of subsidy, the Minister said in such scenario consumers electricity supply will not be disconnected. As per the proposal, the state would transfer subsidy into the power accounts maintained by customers with discoms and even if the state failed to pay, consumers paying their bills will get an uninterrupted electricity supply. The new law will ensure both stare government and electricity distribution companies accountable to consumers. With the discoms dues running more than Rs 90,000 crores, many of them not able to provide quality power to consumers, the Minister said. He also clarified that the Centre will not take the power of states on appointing the head of state electricity regulators. "Now, we are even considering having a standing committee in each state headed by Chief Justice of High Court and members from both Centre and state for appointments. Even in this framework states can appoint their regulators while Centre can do so for CERC," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-tariff-wont-go-up-in-amended-law-centre-853619.html
25-06-2020||National||HC seeks Singh brothers’ response on Daiichi’s plea to sell Fortis and Religare trademarks||The Delhi High Court has sought response of former Ranbaxy promoters Malvinder Mohan Singh and Shivinder Mohan Singh on a plea by Daiichi Sankyo seeking to attach and sell trademarks of Fortis and Religare and recover the amount due to the Japanese company. The high court has directed for maintaining status quo on the Religare trademark till July 28. The high court has been hearing the petition filed by Japanese pharma major Daiichi Sankyo seeking execution of Rs 3,500 crore Singapore tribunal arbitral award passed in its favour and against the Singh brothers, former promoters of Fortis Healthcare, in April 2016. Justice Rekha Palli, who was conducting the hearing through video conferencing, issued notice to the Singh brothers and others on Daiichi’s application seeking directions to restrain M/s Elive Infotech Private Ltd from creating any third party rights in the Religare trademark, attaching equity shareholding of RHC Holdings Pvt Ltd in Elive Infotech Pvt Ltd. The application has also sought direction for selling trademarks of Fortis and Religare through a court commissioner and crediting the amount received from the sale of the trademarks to Daiichi towards part satisfaction of the decree. “In the light of the fact that the Decree Holder (Daiichi) is entitled to recover a substantial sum from the Judgement Debtors (JD) under the award amount, M/s Elive Infotech Private Ltd is directed to maintain status quo, till the next date, with respect to the equity shareholding of JD No. 19 (RHC Holding) and the Religare trademark which were assigned to it by the assessment deed dated November 1, 2017…,” the high court said in its order, which was passed on Wednesday and made available on Thursday. It also sought response of Malvinder Singh on another application by Daiichi seeking cancellation of an October 2017 gift deed saying he deliberately gifted a sculpture worth Rs 7.59 crore to his minor daughter after the arbitral award was passed. Senior advocate Arvind Nigam, appearing for Daiichi, said this was a deliberate attempt to deprive the company from enjoying the fruits of the award in its favour. The counsel said it is pertinent to note that the minor daughter of Malvinder, beneficiary of the gifted sculpture, is arrayed as judgement debtor number 5 in the execution petition. Advocate Suman yadav, who represented Malvinder, said as he is still in custody, the daughter may be granted two weeks’ time to file a reply which was allowed by the high court. As Shivinder Singh is also lodged in jail, the high court directed the Tihar Jail superintendent to assist his lawyer to communicate with his client and permit a communication between them through video conferencing for taking instructions on the Daiichi’s application. The Singh brothers are lodged in jail in connection with a case of alleged misappropriation of funds of Religare Finvest Ltd. A tribunal in Singapore had passed an arbitral award of Rs 3,500 crore in favour of Daiichi and had ordered the Singh brothers to pay the damages for concealing information that their company was facing probe by the US Food and Drug Administration and the Department of Justice while selling its shares. On January 31, 2018, the high court had upheld the international arbitral award passed in the favour of Daiichi Sankyo and paved the way for enforcement of the 2016 tribunal award against the brothers who had sold their shares in Ranbaxy to Daiichi Sankyo in 2008 for ₹ 9,576.1 crore. Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd had later acquired the company from Daiichi Sankyo. It had, however, said that the award was not enforceable against five minors, also shareholders in Ranbaxy, saying they cannot be held guilty of having perpetuated a fraud either themselves or through any agent. Daiichi Sankyo had moved the high court here seeking direction to the brothers to take steps towards paying its ₹ 3,500 crore arbitration award, including depositing the amount. It had also urged the high court to attach their assets, which may be used to recover the award. On February 16, 2018, the Supreme Court had dismissed Singh brothers’ appeal against the high court verdict upholding the international arbitral award. Singh brothers’ counsel had argued that the award granted consequential damages which were beyond the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal and the award cannot be enforced under the provision of the Arbitration Act. They had claimed that Daiichi Sankyo was fully aware of all facts and still chose to retain the Ranbaxy shares, instead of terminating the agreement and returning them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-singh-brothers-response-on-daiichi-s-plea-to-sell-fortis-and-religare-trademarks-853632.html
25-06-2020||National||Won't accomodate Chinese nationals: Delhi hotel body||The Delhi's Hotel and Guest House Owners Association (DHROA) announced on Thursday that no hotel listed under them will accommodate Chinese guests in the city. A total of around 3,000 hotels are listed under the Association. Its decision comes after the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) urged traders and service providers to boycott Chinese goods over border tensions.  The report added that CAIT’s National General Secretary Praveen Khandelwal welcomed the decision taken by Dhurva and said that it is clear that people from different sections of the country are joining CAIT’s campaign of boycotting Chinese goods. Amid the China boycott calls, reportedly, the CAIT has earlier written to Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal urging them to ensure that all their products have the country of origin mentioned on it.  The CAIT has also appealed to celebrities and industrialists to join the campaign. The apex trade body comprises seven crore traders and over 40,000 trade associations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-accomodate-chinese-nationals-delhi-hotel-body-853634.html
25-06-2020||National||5 daughters for a son: MP Congress leader Jitu Patwari’s sexist remark sparks outrage||Congress MLA Jitu Patwari in an attempt at pointing the ‘failures’ of the BJP government landed himself in a soup on Wednesday when his tweet comparing ‘Vikas’(development) to a male child and ‘failures’ to daughters sparked massive outrage. “In the hope of having a male child, five daughters were born, demonetisation, GST, inflation, unemployment, and recession. However, Vikas has not been born yet,” he wrotein his tweet which has now taken down. The Madhya Pradesh MLA’s remark was an attack on the government’s slogan “sabka saath, sabka vikas” (with all, development for all) which was used by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Patwari later tweeted an apology claiming that he only meant to point out the weaknesses and failed promises of the BJP government. He wrote, “As far as daughters are concerned, they are goddess-like. I tweeted in expectation of Vikas, which BJP is using to hide its weaknesses. I am still saying that thewhole country is waiting for ‘Vikas’. Modiji broke the back of the country’s economy with demonetisation, GST, inflation, unemployment and recession. The public endured all this only in the hope of development. I regret if any sentiments have been hurt,” he wrote in his second tweet.   मोदी जी ने नोटबंदी, जीएसटी, महंगाई, बेरोज़गारी और मंदी से देश की अर्थव्यवस्था की कमर तोड़ दी..! —जनता यह सब केवल “विकास” की उम्मीद में सहन करती रही। उपरोक्त आशय के साथ किये गये मेरे ट्वीट से यदि किसी की भावनायें आहत हुई हैं तो मैं खेद व्यक्त करता हूँ। Among many who lashed out at Patwari, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted saying, “At a time when the entire nation is proud of the sacrifices made by the likes of Rani Durgavati, Congress is busy insulting our daughters.”   आज एक तरफ पूरा देश रानी दुर्गावती के बलिदान को याद कर रहा है, तो दूसरी तरफ कांग्रेस बेटियों को अपमानित कर रही है। क्या कांग्रेस की इसी विकृत मानसिकता की बलि नैना साहनी, सरला मिश्रा, प्रीति मिश्रा जैसी अनेक बेटियां चढ़ा दी गईं? Taking cognizance of Patwari’s sexist tweet, NCW’s (National Commission for Women) Chairperson Rekha Sharma also tweeted, “It is sad that these people, with this kind of mind- set, are calling themselves leaders. What are they teaching to their followers, I wonder. Will ask for an explanation from him for sure.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-daughters-for-a-son-mp-congress-leader-jitu-patwari-s-sexist-remark-sparks-outrage-853640.html
25-06-2020||National||CBI files charge sheet in Yes Bank scam||The CBI on Thursday filed a charge sheet into the sensational Yes Bank scam case naming its co-founder Rana Kapoor and Wadhawan brothers - Kapil and Dheeraj. The charge sheet was filed before a special CBI court. The Yes Bank,  when Rana Kapoor was the MD & CEO,  had invested around Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the troubled Diwan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL).  Simultaneously, DHFL promoter-Director Kapil Wadhawan paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of  RAB Enterprises (India) Pvt Ltd. The case was registered on 7 March. The trio is currently in judicial custody and lodged in jail.   More details are awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-files-charge-sheet-in-yes-bank-scam-853641.html
25-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: CBSE informs cancelling class 12 exams; row between BJP, Congress||In today's episode, from the newsroom, CBSE has informed the Supreme Court that its remaining class XII examinations, scheduled between July 1 and 15, have been cancelled, The BJP sharpened its attack on the Congress over Emergency and Diesel price in the national capital has crossed the Rs 80 per litre-mark  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-cbse-informs-cancelling-class-12-exams-row-between-bjp-congress-853642.html
25-06-2020||National||People should ask PM to speak on fuel prices in Mann Ki Baat: Maharashtra Congress leader||People should ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak about rising prices of petrol and diesel in the country in his monthly radio talk Mann Ki Baat, a Maharashtra Congress leader said here on Thursday. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 79.92 per litre from Rs 79.76 during the day while diesel rates were increased to Rs 80.02 a litre from Rs 79.88. "The prime minister speaks on many issues in his Mann Ki Baat program. He also asks people to suggest topics," said state Congress secretary Mohan Joshi. "Nowfuel prices are rising regularly, which will also increase the inflation. People can not deal with inflation amid coronavirus pandemic. So People should suggest that the PM talk on the fuel price hike," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-should-ask-pm-to-speak-on-fuel-prices-in-mann-ki-baat-maharashtra-congress-leader-853662.html
25-06-2020||National||Plea filed in Supreme Court for better facilities in child care institutions||A plea has been moved in the Supreme Court for better facilities in child care institutions following the emergence of reports of 57 minor girls, having tested positive for Covid-19 in a shelter home in Kanpur. In an application, Aparna Bhat, amicus curiae in Muzaffarpur Shelter Home case, claimed that the rights of children were currently in dire straits with the challenges posed by the pandemic and the bare minimum requirements for a good management protocol. Her plea contended that the CCIs need to ensure that any child referred to them by the Child Welfare Committees (CWCs) were placed in adequate quarantine. "Similarly, there is a need for taking other preventive measures at this time to ensure the prevention of the further spread of Covid-19 among children in these facilities," it said. The application also sought proper medical treatment and facilities for the 57 Covid-19 patients from Kanpur shelter home. Of these girls, five were pregnant and one HIV positive. On April 3, the court has Suo Motu directed the authorities to consider releasing on bail all those children, who were kept in observation homes on being found in conflict with the law, as Covid-19 was intensifying in the country. The court had also said that urgent measures need to be taken on priority to prevent the spread of the virus to Child Care Institutions (CCIs). On June 11, the court asked all the state governments to spell out measures being undertaken to prevent infection of Coronavirus among juveniles kept at the protection homes. It had asked the Tamil Nadu government to explain how 35 out of 57 children got infected with the Covid-19 in a protection home at Royapuram, Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-supreme-court-for-better-facilities-in-child-care-institutions-853670.html
25-06-2020||National||35 lakh houses built under Housing for All scheme: Centre||The Centre on Thursday said a total of 35 lakh houses have delivered to beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY-Urban) so far while 65 lakh houses are currently under construction.   Union Housing and Urban Affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri in his addressing a webinar to mark the 5th anniversary of PMAY (U), Smart Cities Mission (SCM) and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), said that an estimated 3.65 crore jobs would be generated in the construction of all sanctioned houses under the mission and of these, about 1.65 crore jobs would have already been generated. As per the centrally sponsored PMAY-Housing For All scheme, the government aims to build 1.12 crore houses in urban areas by 2022. According to the ministry, the houses built under PMAY(U) and earlier schemes of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) have served as a boon in the fight against COVID-19. Presently more than 22,000 houses are being dedicatedly used as COVID-19 facility units in various states and Union Territories, Puri said. Talking about another Mission - AMRUT, the minister said the ministry has so far provided 79 lakh household water tap connections and 45 lakh sewer connections in the country. On Smart Cities Mission programme, total of 5,151 projects worth over Rs 2 lakh crore were identified in 100 smart cities. "So far, the mission has tendered around 4,700 projects worth Rs 1,66,000 crore which is about 81 per cent of the total projects proposed," the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-lakh-houses-built-under-housing-for-all-scheme-centre-853674.html
25-06-2020||National||India, China willing and able to properly manage differences: Chinese Ambassador Sun||Striking a conciliatory tone after raising tensions in eastern Ladakh to a fever pitch, China on Thursday said it was ready to work with India to properly deal with the border standoff while noting that "suspicion and friction" was a wrong path that goes against the fundamental aspirations of people of the two countries. In an interview to PTI, Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong said India and China are able to properly manage their differences, and called upon New Delhi to avoid taking actions that may "complicate" the situation in eastern Ladakh. He went on to add that at present, the overall situation in the China-India border areas is "stable and controllable." "We hope the Indian side meets the Chinese side halfway, avoids taking actions that may complicate the border situation and takes concrete actions to maintain stability in the border areas," he said. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last six weeks, and the tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese ambassador said "mutual respect and support" is a sure way and meets the long-term interests of both countries, but at the same time, largely put the onus on India to ease tension in the region. "China and India are both large developing countries and emerging economies with more than one billion people, and both have the historic mission of realising our own development and revitalisation," he said. He further said: "China and India are willing and able to properly manage differences. In the last few weeks, both sides have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to cool down temperature even as Chinese military has increased its presence in all sensitive areas along the 3,500 km Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de-facto border. At a weekly media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said Chinese side departed from previously agreed understanding in respect the Galwan Valley area and sought to erect structures just across the LAC. "When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on June 15 that directly resulted in casualties," the spokesperson asserted. He said the conduct of Chinese forces this year has been in complete disregard of all mutually agreed norms. The ambassador said:"Mutual respect and support is a sure way and meets the long-term interests of both countries; suspicion and friction is a wrong path and goes against the fundamental aspiration of the two peoples." "Under the guidance of the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, we are ready to work with the Indian side to properly deal with the current situation, jointly uphold peace and stability in the border areas, and ensure a sound and steady development of bilateral relations," Sun said. In their historic informal summit in Chinese city of Wuhan in 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping underscored the importance of maintaining peace and tranquillity in all areas of the India-China border region in the interest of the development of bilateral relations. The summit had taken place months after a 73-day military face-off between the two armies in Doklam that raised fears of a war between the two Asian giants.In the course of the interview, Sun repeated the Chinese government’s stand -- which has been rejected by India -- that Indian troops are responsible for the Galwan Valley clashes, and indicated that the onus was on India to improve the situation in eastern Ladakh. "The onus is not on China. The Indian side crossed the LAC (Line of Actual Control) for provocation and attacked the Chinese border troops. The Indian forces seriously violated agreements on border issues between the two countries," he said. After the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in Galwan clashes, India called it "a premeditated and planned action by China" and sent a veiled warning to China saying "India wants peace but if provoked, India is capable of giving a befitting reply". Referring to talks between foreign ministers of the two countries on June 17, the envoy said both sides agreed to "fairly address" the serious situation caused by the Galwan conflict and vowed to jointly follow the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting on June 6 to ease the situation as soon as possible. Sun said China would not like to see a similar situation like the Galwan clashes, repeating Chinese foreign ministry's allegations that India was responsible for it. The Ambassador said the two sides kept peace for decades in Galwan Valley, adding since the beginning of 2020, the Indian side has built facilities at or the crossing of the LAC in the Galwan Valley, "constantly changing the status quo of ground control. On May 6, he claimed the Indian troops crossed the LAC in the Galwan Valley by night and trespassed into Chinese territory. "They resorted to violent means to create a standoff between the two sides and built infrastructures in an attempt to maintain a permanent presence," he alleged. India has been maintaining that Galwan Valley belongs to it and has strongly rejected China's claim of sovereignty over it. Sun said Chinese side lodged representations on multiple occasions to the Indian side through military and diplomatic channels following the incident and that India agreed to withdraw its personnel from the area. The two sides held Lt General-level talks on June 6 during which they agreed on disengagement of troops from all the standoff areas. The ambassador said the Indian side promised in the talks that they would not cross the estuary of the Galwan river to patrol and build facilities, adding the two sides agreed to build observation posts on either side of the Galwan river mouth. "However, after the commander-level meeting, when the situation on the ground was already easing, the Indian border troops copped out on the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting, demanded that China dismantle its observation post," he said. India has been consistently maintaining that Galwan Valley clashes had taken place on the Indian side of the LAC. The envoy said actions taken by the Indian side are not in consonance with the spirit of several agreements signed by the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-willing-and-able-to-properly-manage-differences-chinese-ambassador-sun-853678.html
25-06-2020||National||Experts discuss risks in handling multiple disaster emergencies||Experts at a webinar on tackling simultaneous disasters like super cyclone Amphan and Covid-19 underlined the major risks involved in handling of such multiple emergencies. They mostly stressed on the need for effective implementation of stringent rules and regulations while participating in the event organised by the Centre for Disaster Management Studies (CDMS), Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University here, an official release said Thursday. GGSIPU Vice Chancellor Dr Mahesh Varma said, "Rules and regulations are in place for various disaster emergencies in our country. The need is that all the major stakeholders execute them on ground keeping in mind the catastrophic effects of twin/multiple disasters at one time." Acknowledging the efforts of the CDMS in organising the webinar, he also insisted on community preparedness when such a secondary disaster persists. Chairman Odisha PSC Brig (Dr) LC Patnaik focussed on the aspects of governance, management and resources of the coastal states which were affected by the super cyclone. He stressed that disaster professionals including central government officials, private sector authorities and non-profits organisations need to analyse their strategies and develop synergised frameworks that can be enacted in handling such challenging times. Experts from National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) elaborated on the policies, framework, implementation, last mile connectivity and resilient infrastructure development in the given reference. Maj Gen RC Padhi, Former Additional Surveyor General of India, articulated on how GIS and remote sensing technologies can be a force multiplier in managing a crisis situation. Former Vice Chairman, Bihar SDMA, Anil Sinha spoke on how the state administration could formulate customised plans for specific regions within the state and explained how the district administration had the highest responsibility. Besides former secretary, DCMG, Ministry of Defence, Brig. (Dr) Vinod Dutta, the webinar was attended by various academicians, research scholars, industry and government officials, the release said. The CDMS, established by the university in 2005, promotes research, professional academics and extension work in various aspects of disaster management and provides specialised training to personnel engaged in disaster management and capacity building, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-discuss-risks-in-handling-multiple-disaster-emergencies-853685.html
25-06-2020||National||Humanly impossible to analyse global data on COVID-19 without AI: Justice Prathiba Singh||There is no humanly possible way to analyse the global data emanating from the COVID-19 virus without the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) which can be an efficient tool in finding a fast and effective solution to the unprecedented pandemic, said Justice Prathiba M Singh of the Delhi High Court on Thursday. Justice Singh said the sheer magnitude of analysis of this data can be imagined by considering the large number of players and entities, who are involved in the diagnosis, management, treatment, prevention and cure of this disease. Speaking at a webinar on ‘Intersection of AI, Copyright and COVID’ organised by Legitquest, which is an online legal research platform with Indian case laws, the judge said during the outbreak of COVID-19, reports have been received in respect of various strains of the virus, which have affected people. “The strains are not identical and neither are the symptoms nor the intensity of the disease. While research is taking place in separate pockets across the world, there is no humanly possible way to analyse the global data emanating from the virus without the use of AI,” Justice Singh said. When intelligence is embedded in a machine, not naturally but by enabling it in the form of input, analysis and output, it is machine intelligence or AI. She added that diagnostic laboratories, government departments doing contact-tracing, various applications and the data collected by them, medical records of all those persons who have undergone testing, nature of treatment given in different parts of the world, mortality and recovery data, quantities of masks and PPE kits being used to predict the required demand and to correlate this with production – all this data cannot be analysed without the power of AI. “Thus, AI can be an extremely efficient tool in finding a fast and effective solution to this unprecedented pandemic outbreak,” Justice Singh said, adding that the global community is conscious of the power of AI and various steps have been taken to facilitate the use of AI for the protection of public health. She said as long as the data is not copyright protected, it can be used for analysis and research and for providing positive outcome. Regarding the Interface between Intellectual Property rights (IPR) and Artificial Intelligence, the judge said IP can be a barrier, which shields data from being used by AI softwares and IPR can be used to protect the outcomes of AI. “Thus, IP rights can be both a sword and a shield while dealing with AI. To ensure that IP is not a barrier, it is important to make access to copyrighted databases easy and possible. Organisations across the world are conscious of the need for making copyrighted databases easily available. Various endeavours have been made by right-holders to not insist on IP rights during the COVID-19 outbreak, Justice Singh said. She said the interface between AI and law is the one that could provide a very effective solution for expedited adjudication of certain categories of cases where human intervention can be minimal. “Adequate controls can be placed to ensure that AI is used just as digital technologies for greater efficiency, better solutions– with a human face,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humanly-impossible-to-analyse-global-data-on-covid-19-without-ai-justice-prathiba-singh-853691.html
25-06-2020||National||Humanly impossible to analyse global data on Covid-19 without AI: Justice Prathiba Singh||There is no humanly possible way to analyse the global data emanating from the Covid-19 virus without the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) which can be an efficient tool in finding a fast and effective solution to the unprecedented pandemic, said Justice Prathiba M Singh of the Delhi High Court on Thursday. Justice Singh said the sheer magnitude of analysis of this data can be imagined by considering the large number of players and entities, who are involved in the diagnosis, management, treatment, prevention and cure of this disease. Speaking at a webinar on ‘Intersection of AI, Copyright and COVID’ organised by Legitquest, which is an online legal research platform with Indian case laws, the judge said during the outbreak of COVID-19, reports have been received in respect of various strains of the virus, which have affected people. “The strains are not identical and neither are the symptoms nor the intensity of the disease. While research is taking place in separate pockets across the world, there is no humanly possible way to analyse the global data emanating from the virus without the use of AI,” Justice Singh said. When intelligence is embedded in a machine, not naturally but by enabling it in the form of input, analysis and output, it is machine intelligence or AI. She added that diagnostic laboratories, government departments doing contact-tracing, various applications and the data collected by them, medical records of all those persons who have undergone testing, nature of treatment given in different parts of the world, mortality and recovery data, quantities of masks and PPE kits being used to predict the required demand and to correlate this with production – all this data cannot be analysed without the power of AI. “Thus, AI can be an extremely efficient tool in finding a fast and effective solution to this unprecedented pandemic outbreak,” Justice Singh said, adding that the global community is conscious of the power of AI and various steps have been taken to facilitate the use of AI for the protection of public health. She said as long as the data is not copyright protected, it can be used for analysis and research and for providing positive outcome. Regarding the Interface between Intellectual Property rights (IPR) and Artificial Intelligence, the judge said IP can be a barrier, which shields data from being used by AI softwares and IPR can be used to protect the outcomes of AI. “Thus, IP rights can be both a sword and a shield while dealing with AI. To ensure that IP is not a barrier, it is important to make access to copyrighted databases easy and possible. Organisations across the world are conscious of the need for making copyrighted databases easily available. Various endeavours have been made by right-holders to not insist on IP rights during the COVID-19 outbreak, Justice Singh said. She said the interface between AI and law is the one that could provide a very effective solution for expedited adjudication of certain categories of cases where human intervention can be minimal. “Adequate controls can be placed to ensure that AI is used just as digital technologies for greater efficiency, better solutions– with a human face,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humanly-impossible-to-analyse-global-data-on-covid-19-without-ai-justice-prathiba-singh-853694.html
25-06-2020||National||Shipments hold up : Electronics industry worry over supply chain disruptions||Indian electronic industry has asked the government to ensure quick clearances of shipments came from China saying delay would hit supply chain disruptions. Amid the report that shipments coming from China being held up at Chennai ports, the  India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA), which represents the electronics industry in India, has written to the Finance Minister, Department of Revenue at the Finance Ministry and the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), complaining about supply chain disruptions at ports. All China-origin imports of the electronics industry have come under adverse action by the customs at the ports without prior warning, which has impacted the supply chain, the body said.  "There was refusal to clear followed by delays, and now, talk about 100 per cent examination. The logistics of seamless movement is in total disarray," ICEA Chairman Pankaj Mohindroo wrote in the letter. "At a time when the government is strategically targeting shifting investments of international firms, especially the US and Japan, from China to India, a disruption in the supply chain by way of a disturbance at ports will not only hurt the supply chain of foreign companies but also an entire range of Indian companies - large and small - which are entirely dependent upon Chinese imports of inputs in critical areas such as pharmaceuticals, automobiles, electronics, electrical machinery, and several others," the letter said.  "It is critical that at this stage, we ensure the smoothest possible transition of supply chains and go the extra mile to give India and global industry the confidence that India can be a viable alternative with least bureaucratic challenges when it comes to importing inputs that are required for the functioning of vital supply chains," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shipments-hold-up-electronics-industry-worry-over-supply-chain-disruptions-853699.html
25-06-2020||National||Covid-19 lockdown legitimate confinement, but Emergency was illegitimate, says M Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday said home confinement of people in order to cope with the rising COVID-19 cases was legitimate, but the Emergency in 1975 was "illegitimate" as people were deprived of all fundamental rights. "What is the worth of life if there is no right to life," he said in a Facebook post. "If the present confinement was induced by coronavirus, the one I am talking about was triggered by the rampant corruption in public life and the national resentment against the same," he said. He said three months back, people volunteered to confine themselves to home to ward off the looming threat of coronavirus. "We preferred to mask ourselves and restrict our movements for the good of all. During this short period, we realised what it means to be confined. This legitimate confinement is a sharp contrast to the one that the nation was subjected to this day 45 years back in the name of a contrived threat to the country's security from internal disturbance," Naidu said. During that "illegitimate confinement" for a long period of 21 months, the citizens were deprived of all fundamental rights, including the Right to Life, he said. There was total erosion of values in public life, he said, adding that corruption was rampant. "Intolerance to a different opinion reached its peak. All this was a manifestation of insecurity. The Constitution was nearly abandoned. The right of judicial review of government's decisions was done away with," the vice president wrote in his Facebook post. In a nutshell, Naidu said, it was total darkness. Recalling his days in jail, he said the confinement resulted in extensive political education through individual and group discussions, question and answer sessions. "This was in contrast to online education, the feature of the present corona-induced confinement," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-legitimate-confinement-but-emergency-was-illegitimate-says-m-venkaiah-naidu-853700.html
25-06-2020||National||35 lakh houses handed over to beneficiaries under PMAY-Urban: Hardeep Singh Puri||Thirty-five lakh houses have so far been delivered to beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY-Urban) while 65 lakh houses are currently under construction, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday. Puri said an estimated 3.65 crore jobs would be generated in the construction of all sanctioned houses under the mission and of these, about 1.65 crore jobs would have already been generated. The government has set a target of 1.12 crore houses in urban areas by 2022 under PMAY - ''Housing for All'', one of the flagship programmes of the Narendra Modi government. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs minister was addressing a webinar to mark the 5th anniversary of PMAY (U), Smart Cities Mission (SCM) and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). He said India has undertaken one of the most comprehensive planned urbanisation programmes in the history of the world. According to the ministry, the houses built under PMAY(U) and earlier schemes of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) have served as a boon in the fight against Covid-19. Presently more than 22,000 houses are being dedicatedly used as Covid-19 facility units in various states and Union Territories, Puri said. Talking about another Mission - AMRUT, the minister said the ministry has so far provided 79 lakh household water tap connections and 45 lakh sewer connections in the country. "Seventy-six lakh conventional streetlights have been replaced with energy-efficient LED lights which have led to energy savings of 167 crore units per annum, resulting in a reduction in CO2 emission by 13 lakh tonnes per annum," he also said. About the Smart Cities Mission, he said the Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCC) developed under the mission have helped cities in their fight against Covid-19. Forty-seven operational ICCCs became war-rooms and have played an effective role in Covid response, the minister said. He added that 5,151 projects worth over Rs 2 lakh crore were identified in 100 smart cities. "So far, the mission has tendered around 4,700 projects worth Rs 1,66,000 crore which is about 81 per cent of the total projects proposed," Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-lakh-houses-handed-over-to-beneficiaries-under-pmay-urban-hardeep-singh-puri-853705.html
25-06-2020||National||India, Nepal coordinating to minimise damage due to flooding: MEA||India and Nepal are coordinating on a real time basis to minimise the damage due to flooding this monsoon season, the External Affairs Ministry said on Thursday, amid reports that the Himalayan nation is obstructing flood prevention-related works along the border with Bihar. The MEA's assertion comes days after Bihar's Water Resources Minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said repair of embankments along the Indo-Nepal border in the state has been adversely affected as barricades put up by the neighbouring country is hindering personnel from crossing over to complete the work. Asked about the issue at a media briefing, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said there is already an existing bilateral mechanism between India and Nepal with regard to flooding and inundation works. "The embankment and anti-erosion works have already commenced," he said, adding that works are already underway on some of the major rivers along the India-Nepal border, "Both sides are coordinating on a real time basis to minimise the damage due to flooding and inundation in this monsoon season," Srivastava said. On the issue of Nepal amending its Constitution to update its new political map featuring areas which India maintains belong to it, Srivastava said, "We have made our position clear on the issue and would not like to add anything." India had termed the move as "untenable" and asserted that artificial enlargement of territorial claims by Nepal is not based on historical facts or evidence. Asked about reports of problems in trade and supplies at the Kakarbhitta border point, the MEA spokesperson said trade and supplies are going on without any hindrance between the two countries, including at the Kakarbhitta-Panitanki border. "The two countries have extensive trade relations. Our bilateral trade is growing despite the lockdown. In fact in the month of May it surpassed USD 300 million," Srivastava said. Asked about the proposal to amend Nepal's Citizenship Act that would require a foreign woman married to a Nepali national to wait seven years for getting naturalised citizenship, Srivastava said, "We have seen the reports on this. People of India and Nepal share deep-rooted and familial bonds. These bonds reflect the close civilizational and cultural linkages between our two countries." He refused to comment on reports of Chinese encroachment of Nepalese territory. The India-Nepal bilateral ties are under strain due to the map row. In 2015, India's relations with Nepal came under severe strain following the economic blockade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nepal-coordinating-to-minimise-damage-due-to-flooding-mea-853710.html
25-06-2020||National||India stands with Republic of Korea for permanent peace in Korean Peninsula: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to those who sacrificed their lives for establishing peace in the Korean Peninsula and said New Delhi stands by the Republic of Korea in its quest for permanent peace. In a video message to mark the 70th anniversary of the Korean War, he said India is proud to have contributed to this cause by deploying its 60 Para Field Hospital in the Korean Peninsula during the war. "I salute the resilience and resolve of the Korean people who have build a great country rising from the ashes of war," he said. The prime minister also appreciated the efforts made by President Moon Jae-in to preserve and promote peace in the Korean Peninsula. "The government and people of India stand by the government and the people of the Republic of Korea in their quest for permanent peace in the Korean Peninsula," the prime minister said. The message from the prime minister was screened during a commemorative ceremony to mark the occasion in Seoul, a statement said. The field hospital deployed by India had rendered yeoman service during the war and provided essential medical aid both to soldiers and civilians. North Korea invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950. The war, which continued till July 1953, cost millions of lives. It ended in an armistice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stands-with-republic-of-korea-for-permanent-peace-in-korean-peninsula-pm-modi-853713.html
25-06-2020||National||India-China clash: Some disengagement at Galwan Valley, but Line of Actual Control remains tense||Ten days after the Galwan Valley clash, Chinese People’s Liberation Army has pulled back some of its troops and vehicles from the conflict zone in east Ladakh but the situation remains tense at Depsang bulge, Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso areas with India sending more troops in eastern Ladakh for reinforcement. At Galwan, the new tents that came up after the June 15 bloody brawl are very much in place with the PLA showing no intention to dismantle them. The disengagement seen on Thursday was as per the plan agreed upon by India and China when military leaders from the two sides met for the second time earlier this week. “The Chinese side, on June 22, had given assurance that they will move back troops from front to the depth areas. In this regard, some troops and vehicles were moved back by them in the Galwan area,” sources said. The pull back, however, is far less than the number of soldiers injected by the PLA in the last one and half months. India too gradually enhanced its troop presence to counter the threat. With three Divisions of the Indian Army (nearly 45,000 men) already in Ladakh, Indo-Tibetan Border Police has now augmented its strength. “We have sent more troops to Ladakh. We are alert as the country’s safety and security is the most important and we are on the job,” said an ITBP source. The ITBP men would assist the Army in patrolling duty. India’s 3,488 km long disputed border with China is on high alert with sources saying more talks are needed to ensure deescalation from each of the contentious areas in Galwan Valley (PP-14, PP-15 and PP-17A) and Pangong Tso (lake). Meanwhile, China increased its presence in the north of Galwan too opening up a new front in Depsang Bulge. The most fortified Chinese presence continues to be on the northern banks of the 135 km long Pangong lake where the PLA stopped Indian troops at Finger 4, cutting their regular patrolling up to Finger 8. Going by the Indian perception, the Line of Actual Control runs through Finger 8 whereas by the Chinese perception, it passes through Finger 4. “The PLA has already forced a change in the LAC on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. Chinese soldiers are currently in physical occupation of areas along their perception of the LAC and have constructed numerous posts,” Lt Gen D S Hooda (rtd), former General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Northern Command told DH. The Pangong Tso bottleneck was left unresolved even in the first meeting between senior military commanders of India and China on June 6 with both sides agreeing to having subsequent dialogues at the Corps Commander level to sort out the thorny issues. Since then, the Chinese side heavily augmented its positions with satellite images showing around 500 structures, fortified trenches and a new boat shed over 20 km further forward from the existing one. More structures appear to be under construction as Chinese forces became the overwhelming majority in the disputed area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-clash-some-disengagement-at-galwan-valley-but-line-of-actual-control-remains-tense-853717.html
25-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Indian Railways suspends regular train services till August 12||Indian Railways on Thursday suspended regular train services till August 12 due to Covid-19 while only Shramik Special, 15 pair of Special Rajdhani Express trains, 100 pair special timetabled train will continue to operate.  The Railways has already cancelled booking of tickets for regular mail/ express till further order. However, ticket bookings for special Rajdhani and 100 pair of special trains will continue.    The Railways said if required more special trains will be operated. Regular mail/express and suburban train services will be suspended till August 12. The Indian Railways suspended the train operations from March 22 and continue to operate only freight trains transporting essential commodities. However from May 1, Indian Railways had started operating Shramik Special. Subsequently, operations of Special Rajdhani Express trains on May 12 and Special timetabled train on June 1 were started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-railways-suspends-regular-train-services-till-august-12-853721.html
25-06-2020||National||CBI begins preliminary enquiry into 2 newspapers getting govt advertisement with 'inflated' circulation figures||The CBI has started a preliminary enquiry against two persons and unidentified officials of DAVP for allegedly getting government advertisements worth Rs 65 lakh in three years to two newspapers by inflating their circulation figures, officials said on Thursday. The newspapers were printing minimum copies needed to show their existent, but reporting circulation figures multiple times higher to get government advertisements with the help of unidentified officials of the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP), they said. It is alleged that these papers managed to get advertisements worth Rs 65 lakh from DAVP during 2016-19, they said. A preliminary enquiry is done to assess allegations and if prima facie crime is established an FIR is registered, officials said. The CBI had carried out a joint surprise check on 150 government offices on August 30 last year, during which the teams visited the printing press of these newspapers to find that they were publishing only around 100-200 copies to maintain records while inflating figures at the time of claiming government advertisements, they said.  "Action is in consonance with the CBI mandate of anti-corruption work," CBI spokesperson RK Gaur had said after the checks. The joint surprise checks are primarily conducted at such points and places of corruption where common citizens or small business persons feel maximum pinch of corruption in government machinery, he had said. This special drive will sensitise all stakeholders about possible avenues of corruption a common citizen faces while seeking services from such departments. It also strives to identify and highlight points and places vulnerable to corruption, Gaur had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-begins-preliminary-enquiry-into-2-newspapers-getting-govt-advertisement-with-inflated-circulation-figures-853725.html
25-06-2020||National||Record 4,841 Covid-19 cases reported in Maharashtra, death toll rises by 193||The Covid-19 cases zoomed northwards in Maharashtra with fresh 4,841 cases being reported on Thursday (June 25). This is the highest addition of cases in a day's time. As of now the progressive total of the state stands at 1,47,741. During the last 24 hours, 193 deaths being recorded taking the total to 6,931. The total number of treated patients went up to 77,453 with 3,661 more being discharged. So far, 8,48,026 samples have been tested of which 1,47,740 have been tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-4841-covid-19-cases-reported-in-maharashtra-death-toll-rises-by-193-853744.html
25-06-2020||National||Home isolation of Covid-19 patients decided on June 21: MHA||The Centre on Thursday said a decision on home-isolation of Covid-19 positive cases in Delhi was taken on June 21 at a high level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, among others. This home ministry's clarification came in the wake of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia's claim that the central government's order regarding the requirement of Covid-19 care centre visit by coronavirus-positive persons has been withdrawn. A home ministry spokesperson said that at the June 21 meeting, it was decided that all COVID-19 positive cases must be immediately examined and based on clinical assessment and visit to residence of persons concerned by health officers/district surveillance team, decision about home-isolation or hospitalisation of positive person must be taken. "Today's SDMA decision on home isolation of Covid-19 positive patients in Delhi is a reaffirmation of the decision taken at the meeting held by Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah on 21st June and communicated to Delhi Govt on 22.06.20," the home ministry spokesman said in a tweet. According to a circular issued by Additional Secretary Govind Mohan on June 22, "It will be ensured that minimum two rooms with separate toilets are available at residence before taking a decision about home isolation of Covid-19 positive person. In other cases, the person will be shifted to covid care centre / hospital. Persons having any co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, renal diseases etc would be shifted to Covid care center / hospital." Earlier, Sisodia said corona-positive persons will not be required to visit COVID care centres for a clinical assessment for home isolation or hospitalisation.   It has been decided to withdraw the Centre's order regarding the requirement of COVID care centre visit by corona-positive persons at the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) meeting, he said. Sisodia said those found Covid-19 positive through the rapid test will be clinically assessed by medical officers on the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-isolation-of-covid-19-patients-decided-on-june-21-mha-853745.html
25-06-2020||National||India says China amassed large number of soldiers along LAC, flouted 1993 pact||India on Thursday (June 25) alleged that China had flouted a 1993 agreement by amassing a large number of soldiers along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations since early May. New Delhi also warned that if the ongoing stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the LAC in eastern Ladakh continued further, it would “vitiate the atmosphere” for development of overall India-China relations. Beijing too accused New Delhi of flouting the agreements China and India signed in 1993 and 1996 to maintain peace and tranquility along the disputed boundary between the two nations. “At the heart of the matter is that since early May, the Chinese side has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. “This is not in accordance with the provisions of our various bilateral agreements, especially the key 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas.” The 1993 agreement had been signed when the then Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao had visited Beijing and met Chinese Premier Li Peng. It had for the first time officially recognized the LAC as the de facto boundary between the two nations. The agreement is still considered as the first major step by India and China to maintain peace and tranquility along the long-disputed boundary between the two nations. The two nations, according to Article II of the pact, had agreed that each side would “keep its military forces in the areas along the LAC to a minimum level compatible with the friendly and good neighbourly relations” between them. “Respecting and strictly observing the Line of Actual Control is the basis for peace and tranquility in the border areas and explicitly recognized so in the 1993 and subsequent agreements,” said the MEA spokesperson. The 1993 agreement was followed by four other pacts, which were signed in 1996, 2005, 2012, and 2013, all intended to ensure peace along the LAC and avert flashpoints. Srivastava said that the Indian Army had to respond to the build-up by the Chinese PLA with “counter-deployment” resulting in the stand-off. “The deployment of a large body of troops and changes in behavior has also been aggravated by unjustified and untenable claims. The recent shift in the Chinese position on the Galwan Valley is one example,” said the MEA spokesperson. New Delhi already dismissed Beijing’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley, where the Indian and Chinese soldiers had a “violent face-off” on June 15 last. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the numbers of its personnel killed or injured in the incident. The Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a marathon meeting on June 22 and finally reached a consensus to continue the process of “disengagement and “de-escalation”, which was originally agreed upon on June 6 but went wrong in Galwan Valley. The senior diplomats of the two nations also had a video-conference on June 23. “We expect that the Chinese side to sincerely follow up on this understanding and ensure the expeditious restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas,” said the MEA spokesperson. “A continuation of the current situation would only vitiate the atmosphere for the development of the relationship”. China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, on the other hand, said that Article I of the 1993 agreement, as well as Article II of the 1996 agreement, clearly stipulated “the activities of the two sides near the LAC”. “Actions taken by the Indian side are not in consonance with the spirit of above-mentioned agreements,” he said in an interview to the news-agency PTI in New Delhi on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-china-amassed-large-number-of-soldiers-along-lac-flouted-1993-pact-853746.html
25-06-2020||National||India assessing impact of US President Donald Trump's H-1B visa ban||Two days after President Donald Trump’s administration in Washington D.C. temporarily barred the entry of foreigners to the United States on H-1B and other work-visas, New Delhi said that it was assessing its impact on the professionals and industry of India.  “This is likely to affect the movement of Indian skilled professionals who avail of the non-immigrant visa programmes to work lawfully in the US,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said, reacting to American President’s June 22 proclamation to suspend issuing of the H-1B and other work visas as well as entry of the ones who had already received such visas. “We are assessing the impact of the order on Indian nationals and industry in consultation with stakeholders,” added the MEA spokesperson.   He underlined that people-to-people linkages and trade and economic cooperation, especially in technology and innovation sectors were an important dimension of the US-India partnership. “High-skilled Indian professionals bring important skill sets, bridge technological gaps and impart a competitive edge to the US economy. They have also been a critical component of the workforce that is at the forefront of providing Covid-19 related assistance in key sectors, including health, information technology and financial services,” reminded Srivastava. “The US has always welcomed talent. We hope our professionals will continue to be welcomed in the US in the future,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-assessing-impact-of-us-president-donald-trumps-h-1b-visa-ban-853749.html
25-06-2020||National||Over 3.6 lakh Indians returned to India after launch of Vande Bharat mission: MEA||Over 3.6 lakh Indians have returned to India from abroad after the government launched the ''Vande Bharat'' evacuation mission on May 7 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said a total number of 5,13,047 Indians have registered their request with Indian missions abroad for repatriation to India on compelling grounds. Of the people who have registered, 3,64,209 have returned under this Mission as of today, he said. Repatriations from neighbouring countries have also been happening through land borders, he added. "More than 84,000 Indians have returned through land border immigration checkpoints from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh," the MEA spokesperson said. "In the first three phases of the Vande Bharat Mission, around 875 international flights were scheduled for operation from over 50 countries across five continents. So far, more than 700 of these flights have reached India, repatriating around 1,50,000 Indians," Srivastava said. The remaining 175 flights under the Phase 3 are expected to reach in the coming days, he said. These Vabde Bharat Mission (VBM) flights have been instrumental in addressing the immediate requirements of stranded Indians from many parts of the world, Srivastava said. "We are committed to bringing back our remaining compatriots particularly in the GCC countries, Malaysia, Singapore among other places. In order to continue with our efforts, Phase IV of VBM is being firmed up with effect from July 3, 2020," he said. "Phase IV will particularly focus on countries where we still have a large number of Indians who have registered to return," Srivastava said. Apart from these, chartered flight operations which commenced on May 26, have steadily increased over the past weeks, he said. These flights have also brought back seafarers and crews of shipping companies stranded in various places, Srivastava said. "Till date, 1,30,061 persons have returned on these flights. Demand for these flights remains very high especially in the Gulf region. Therefore, we are moving to further streamline the process," Srivastava said. Noting that repatriations through naval ships have also been part of this mission, he said one such repatriation is presently underway. INS Jalashwa reached Port of Bandar Abbas in Iran on June 24 to bring back Indian citizens and their embarkation was to commence on Thursday, Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-36-lakh-indians-returned-to-india-after-launch-of-vande-bharat-mission-mea-853750.html
25-06-2020||National||China amassing troops, armaments along LAC, says continuation of current situation would only vitiate atmosphere: India||China has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May, India said on Thursday, and warned that continuation of the current situation would only vitiate the atmosphere for the development of the relationship. This is for the first time since the military standoff began in early May, India has officially admitted about the Chinese buildup along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). In a strongly-worded statement, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said conduct of the Chinese forces is in "complete disregard" of all mutually agreed norms. At an online media briefing, he also gave a detailed run down of the events along the LAC in the eastern Ladakh, and said Chinese side was responsible for the Galwan Valley clashes off June 15. India expects China to sincerely "follow up" on the understanding arrived at between two sides on disengagement of troops to ensure expeditious restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas, he said. "At the heart of the matter is that since early May, the Chinese side has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC. This is not in accordance with the provisions of our various bilateral agreements," the spokesperson said. "A continuation of the current situation would only vitiate the atmosphere for the development of the relationship," he asserted. The unusually strong attack by the MEA spokesperson against China came a day after Chinese foreign ministry as well as the defence ministry held India responsible for the Galwan Valley clash, even accused the MEA of spreading false information about the incident. Srivastava said both the India and Chinese sides remain deployed in large numbers in the Galwan Valley region. Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a standoff in various areas in eastern Ladakh for the last six weeks. The tension escalated after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the Ga;wan Valley clashes on June 15.   Referring to the 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas, Srivastava said it mentions that each side will keep its military forces in the areas along the LAC to a minimum level. The deployment of "large body of troops" and "changes in behavior" by Chinese side has also been aggravated by "unjustified and untenable claims", the spokesperson said, adding "the recent shift in the Chinese position on the Galwan Valley is one example." "Obviously, the Indian side had to undertake counter deployments and the resulting tension has thereafter expressed itself," he said. He said a set of procedures and norms have been mutually agreed upon in conducting patrolling in border areas which are reflected in a number of agreements and understandings. "While there have been occasional departures in the past, the conduct of Chinese forces this year has been in complete disregard of all mutually agreed norms," the MEA spokesperson said. In early May, he said, the Chinese side took action to hinder India's "normal, traditional" patrolling pattern in the Galwan Valley area while it sought to change the status quo in other areas of the Western Sector in mid-May. "We had registered our protest on the Chinese actions through both the diplomatic and military channels, and made it clear that any such change was unacceptable to us," he said. Subsequently, the senior commanders met on June 6 and agreed on a process for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC that involved "reciprocal actions", he said. Srivastava said both sides had agreed to respect and abide by the LAC and not undertake any activity to alter the status quo. "The Chinese side departed from these understandings in respect of the LAC in the Galwan Valley area and sought to erect structures just across the LAC," he said. "When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on June 15 that directly resulted in casualties. Thereafter, both sides remain deployed in large numbers in the region, while military and diplomatic contacts are continuing," he added. The MEA spokesperson said respecting and strictly observing the LAC is the basis for peace and tranquility in the border areas which was explicitly recognised in the 1993 and subsequent agreements. He said Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC in all sectors of the India-China border areas and abide scrupulously by it. "They have been patrolling all along the LAC, including in the Galwan Valley, for a long time. All infrastructure built by the Indian side has always been on its own side of the LAC," he said. "The Indian side has never undertaken any actions across the LAC and has never attempted to unilaterally change the status quo. However, that has not been reciprocated by the Chinese side and that from time to time has led to face-offs," Srivastava added. The meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) on Wednesday was a significant development, he said. It was preceded by a discussion among senior military commanders on June 22 that focused on implementation of the understandings reached between them on June 6, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-amassing-troops-armaments-along-lac-says-continuation-of-current-situation-would-only-vitiate-atmosphere-india-853753.html
25-06-2020||National||Pakistan's continuation in FATF grey list vindicates India's position: MEA||India on Thursday said Pakistan's continuation in the "grey list" of global terror financing watchdog FATF vindicated its position that Islamabad has not taken any concrete action to address global concerns over terror financing as well as existence of safe haven for terrorists in the country. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on Wednesday decided to keep Pakistan in the "grey list" as it has failed to check flow of money to terror groups like the LeT and the JeM. The decision was taken at the Financial Action Task Force's third and final plenary held virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "The continued grey listing of Pakistan vindicates our position that Pakistan has not taken concrete action to address international concerns regarding terror financing and the safe havens which exist in that country," Srivastava said. He was replying to a question on the issue during an online media briefing. Srivastava said Pakistan continues to be on the FATF "grey list" and it is yet to show any progress on 13 of the 27 points recommended by the global organisation under an action plan to contain flow of funds to terror groups operating from the country. Asked about Pakistan's attempts at the UN to list an Indian as terrorist, he said the effort was defeated as Islamabad has no credibility on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-continuation-in-fatf-grey-list-vindicates-indias-position-mea-853757.html
25-06-2020||National||India registers biggest single-day spike of nearly 17,000 new Covid-19 cases||A record spike in COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh on Thursday triggered the biggest single-day jump of close to 17,000 infections in the country even as Maharashtra decided to undertake antigen and rapid antibody tests for the disease in the worst hit state. According to the Union Health ministry data, COVID-19 cases rose by the highest-ever number of 16,922 to reach 4,73,105, while the death toll climbed to 14,894 with 418 new fatalities. This was the sixth consecutive day when coronavirus cases increased by more than 14,000. Consequently, India has added 92,573 cases since June 20, and over 2.82 lakh this month alone since June 1. However, the recovery rate has improved to 57.43 per cent, according to the Health ministry. It also said there are 33.39 COVID-19 cases in India for every one lakh population, as against the global average of 114.67. Also, the country has 1.06 deaths per lakh population, which is amongst the lowest in the world and the global average is 6.24, it added. A central team led by Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and 29 to coordinate with the state officials in strengthening COVID-19 management efforts in those areas. According to officials, the team will also review the measures undertaken by the states for containment of Covid-19. Maharashtra recorded the highest daily jump of 4,841 new cases and the tally rose to 1,47,741, a state health official said. Gujarat was in the fourth position with a tally of 28,943 while Telangana reported 10,331 cases, according to health ministry data. Twelve states have reported over 10,000 cases. Tamil Nadu recorded 3,509 new virus cases, the highest single day increase so far, to take the infection count to 70,977, a health department bulletin said. Andhra Pradesh also scaled a new high of 553 cases to reach a count of 10,884. The Maharashtra government said it would conduct antigen tests, which would provide results of the COVID-19 tests within an hour, unlike the current waiting period of over 24 hours. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said one lakh antigen test kits will soon be made available in the state. The diagnostic technique tests nasal fluid swabs. "Procurement orders have been given. Priority would be given to conduct this test on the frontline Covid-19 workers, such as essential services staff, health workers, police and others," he told reporters in Mumbai. The state government has also decided to undertake rapid antibody tests kits for which were being supplied by a South Korean company. "It will help the state in finding out whether a person has contracted Covid-19 infection," Tope said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR), a total of 75,60,782 samples have been tested across the country up to June 24 with 2,07,871 samples being tested on Wednesday. In some good developments for Mumbai, the growth rate of coronavirus cases in the city is decreasing with every passing day, the data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed. As of Wednesday, the city had reported 69,625 infection cases and a death toll of 3,962. But the average doubling rate of cases--the number of days during which cases double--has now crossed 40 days, while the average growth rate of cases has dropped to 1.72 per cent, the civic body said. On June 24, the doubling rate of infection cases stood at 41 days from 30 days on June 16, while the average growth rate declined to 1.72 per cent from 2.30 per cent on June 17, it said. "While on one hand, a positive growth is being reported in the average doubling rate, the average growth percentage is also reporting a decline every day. Both these things are definitely comforting for Mumbaikars," the BMC release stated. The populous state of Uttar Pradesh recorded 636 new cases to cross the 20,000 mark with 12,370 being added to the count since June 1 when the Centre began the "Unlock-1" phase, gradually lifting the curbs imposed nationwide to contain the spread of the pandemic. Gautam Buddh Nagar in the National Capital Region(NCR) alone recorded 143 new cases, the biggest single day spike, official data showed. Delhi, which is poised to launch door-to-door surveys from June 27, recorded 3,390 new cases to take the total to 73,780. Delhi is the worst affected city and is also in the second spot in the all India tally. The Karnataka government, meanwhile, ruled out fresh lockdown for now in Bengaluru, putting to rest speculation it was planning such a move in view of the spike in cases. "There will be no lockdown in Bengaluru. It is clear, no lockdown in Bengaluru," Revenue Minister R Ashoka said after a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and attended by senior Ministers, including himself, and officials. There will be only containment zones in the city and regions that have a large number of cases will be sealed, he told reporters here. A total of 1,791 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the city so far. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state which stood at 3,408 as of June 1 crossed the 10,000 mark on Wednesday with the capital city topping the districts in the infection count. The caseload is now 10,560. The neighbouring state of Kerala reported over 100 COVID-19 cases for the seventh consecutive day, taking the total to 3,726.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-biggest-single-day-spike-of-nearly-17000-new-covid-19-cases-853760.html
25-06-2020||National||Amid 'Coronil' row, Patanjali claims it broke no rules||Under flak over the launch of a drug it claims be a cure for Covid-19, yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved on Thursday insisted that it broke no law. "There is no room for confusion," the herbal products company said in a tweet. “The licence for the drug was obtained on the basis of the traditional knowledge and experience related to the medicinal virtues of Ashwagandha, Giloy and Tulsi," Patanjali spokesperson S K Tijarawala said. "The positive results of the clinical trials conducted legally on corona patients were shared,” he added. In another tweet, the company said no illegal claim has been made on the label of the medicine. "Manufacture and sale of a medicine is carried out as per the rules laid down by the government and not in accordance with someone's personal belief or ideology," it said. "Patanjali has complied with all legalities," it said asking people to refrain from unnecessary commentary on the issue. The Haridwar-based company on Tuesday launched “Coronil”, claiming it can cure Covid-19. The company said the drug, when taken with another Patanjali product, had cured all coronavirus positive patients who took part in a trial within seven days. The trial, it said, was conducted in association with the National Institute of Medical Sciences, a Jaipur-based private institute. Hours after the launch of drug, the AYUSH ministry had asked Patanjali Ayurved to provide details on the research leading up to it and its composition, telling the company to stop advertising it till the issue is examined. On Wednesday, an Uttarakhand official said Patanjali Ayurved had only applied for a licence to manufacture an immunity booster against cough and fever. “There was nothing in their application related to the treatment of coronavirus," the state Ayurved department’s licence officer Y S Rawat had said. The company was being sent a notice, asking for an explanation, the department said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday warned the yoga guru that the state government won't allow sale of “spurious” medicines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-coronil-row-patanjali-claims-it-broke-no-rules-853761.html
25-06-2020||National||Store positive Covid-19 samples for 30 days before destroying: ICMR to govt labs||The ICMR on Thursday advised government laboratories to retain all samples testing positive for coronavirus infection for a minimum of 30 days before destroying them. In its 'Guidelines for storage of respiratory specimens collected for Covid-19 diagnosis by RT-PCR platforms in government laboratories', the apex health research body said appropriate procedures to disinfect all samples prior to disposal must be followed and the labs should keep a record of the destruction. According to the guidelines, all samples being stored for a long-term must be appropriately labelled indicating laboratory identifiers, date of collection and must be kept in properly functioning -80ºC deep freezers. A proper inventory (preferably electronic) of stored samples should be essentially maintained. With the surge in testing across the country, the number of tested samples has gone up considerably, the ICMR said as it advised laboratories that are serving as validation centres for Covid-19 diagnostic kits to preserve adequate numbers of positive and negative samples to prepare appropriate panels for validation. There is a need to retain clinical specimens or a subset of the clinical specimens for various purposes such as performing additional tests, for quality control purposes or for use as control materials to assess newer diagnostic tests. "In addition, a laboratory may need to store specimens for projects aimed at studying genomic epidemiology of the SARS-CoV2 virus across regions and over time," ICMR said. A government laboratory may decide on the number of positive and negative samples to retain in the long term based on the availability of freezer space as well as perceived research agenda of the laboratory for Covid-19 in the future, the guidelines stated. If the number of samples tested positive at a laboratory is considerably large and the laboratory is unable to retain all positive samples beyond 30 days, a minimum of 10 per cent of all positives detected at the laboratory in a month or 40-50 positives preferably with equal numbers of high, moderate and low viral load should be stored for a period of one year at the least. A single aliquot of a positive sample may be retained taking into account freezer space availability at the laboratory, it said. Considering that the number of samples tested negative at each laboratory will vary depending on the load and testing capacity of the laboratory, a minimum of 50 samples or 1-2 per cent of such samples tested over a month, whichever is smaller should be retained at the testing laboratory for a period of one year. According to the guidelines, all labs will send five random positive and as many negative samples per month to quality control labs. ICMR has mapped Covid-19 testing labs to different quality control labs. All testing labs should liaise with the recommended quality control labs and will ensure regular participation in the activity. All testing labs will ensure storage of samples at -80̊ C and will ensure regular monthly transfer to quality control labs. "Don't forget to include your lab name and sample ID. While shipping, place samples in screw capped vials and proper biosafety and biosecurity precautions should be followed," the ICMR said. In case of any discordance, additional five positive and three negative samples will need to be sent for quality control check. If quality control results are concordant, the samples may be destroyed and labs will keep a record of destruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/store-positive-covid-19-samples-for-30-days-before-destroying-icmr-to-govt-labs-853762.html
25-06-2020||National||Galwan Valley: China tried to intrude but we responded, says Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday that China tried to intrude into Indian territory but India "responded" to it. The BJP leader was addressing a virtual rally of party workers in Western Maharashtra from Nagpur through video link. "We know that our borders are not safe. China, in a way tried to intrude on our border but we responded to it," he said, referring to the stand-off in Galwan valley in Ladakh. "If anyone is coming to our borders and trying to encroach on our land, we will give them a befitting reply. We will empower and strengthen this country further so that no one can take steps against us," he said. "We (the NDA government) brought in several reforms in defence sector. We do not want to attack anyone but we should be equipped and ready to defend ourselves," Gadkari said. "Since the days of late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Indian government has always tried to maintain cordial relations with neighbouring countries," he said. "India is not expansionist," the Union minister added. "India never tried to take a single (square) foot of land (even) from a small country like Bhutan. It was the Indian government that fought for and liberated Bangladesh but we did not grab their land," he said. "We liberated the country, ensured that a government was formed there and we came back. Our policy towards neighbouring states is just, cordial and cooperative," Gadkari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-china-tried-to-intrude-but-we-responded-says-nitin-gadkari-853763.html
25-06-2020||National||Fires at three commercial premises in Mumbai||Fires were reported at three commercial establishments including an office of the Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait in Mumbai on Thursday, officials said. There was no casualty, but a fire officer fainted while trying to douse the flames at one of the spots, they said. A major blaze erupted around 5.15 am at the office and server room of Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait on the ground floor of the 15-storey Jolly Maker Chamber 2 building at Nariman Point, a fire brigade official said. The flames spread across electrical wiring and installations, office furniture, records and important documents, computers, UPS battery and false ceiling in an area of 4,000 sq ft on the ground floor, he said. Nine fire engines including water tankers were rushed to the spot, he said, adding that the cause of fire was yet to be ascertained. The flames were extinguished after nearly three hours. The smoke-filled premises were ventilated by breaking window glass panes. The fire alarm system in the bank office was found to be working, but the sprinkler system was not activated, the official said. Another fire broke out in the three-storey P-2 building at Raghuvanshi Mill Compound in Lower Parel in central Mumbai around 9.30 am, the fire brigade official said. The fire spread from the ground floor to the upper floors, he said. It was initially reported as a `level-2' fire, but was later upgraded to 'level-3' and then to 'level 4'. It was brought under control in the afternoon. After visiting the spot, Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that due to heavy smoke, the fire brigade took some time to find the source of the flames, which were found to have been caused by a short circuit. Though the flames caused huge damage, no casualties have been reported so far. A fire brigade officer suffered a minor cut injury during the operation, but he was allowed to go home after treatment in 108-ambulance. Fourteen fire engines and nine jumbo tankers were used for dousing the fire along with other equipment. Before these two incidents, two godowns containing electrical equipment, furniture and a hydraulic compressor machine were gutted in a fire at Nanddham industrial estate in Marol area of suburban Andheri around 12.45 am, another official said. A deputy fire officer fainted while trying to douse the flames and was rushed to a hospital, he said, adding that the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. The deputy fire officer later tested positive for COVID-19 with a slight pneumoniatic patch observed in the lungs in CT scan, according to a senior fire brigade officer. His condition was stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fires-at-three-commercial-premises-in-mumbai-853778.html
25-06-2020||National||Pakistan's continuation in FATF grey list vindicates India's position: MEA||India on Thursday said Pakistan's continution in the "grey list" of global terror financing watchdog, FATF, vindicated its position that the country has not taken any appropriate action against terror networks operation from its soil. It vindicated our position that Pakistan has not taken appropriate action against terror outfits, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said during an online media briefing. FATF on Wednesday decided to keep Pakistan in the "grey list" as it has failed to check flow of money to terror groups like the LeT and the JeM. The decision was taken at the Financial Action Task Force's third and final plenary held virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On the Trump administration's decision to suspend H1B visas, Srivastava said India is assessing its impact on Indian industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-continuation-in-fatf-grey-list-vindicates-indias-position-mea-853780.html
25-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Board exam cancelled, questions remain||The CBSE’s decision to cancel pending board exams in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases has not ended the anxiety of students who say they don't know what is next and how will this affect their next admission, further education and the career. Have the examinations been completely cancelled or made optional? What will be the criteria for internal assessment? How will undergraduate admissions be impacted with the move? What about students who were preparing for competitive exams, and hence did not treat internals with the required degree of importance? These are among some of the questions that are causing anxiety to students whose board exams were postponed in March due to COVID-19 pandemic, and later rescheduled for July. However, these remaining CBSE and ICSE Board examinations for classes X and XII have now been cancelled, the Supreme Court was informed on Thursday. Class XII students of CBSE Board will, however, have the option of either taking the exams later or to move ahead with the assessment based on their performance in the last three internal exams. The re-exam option will not be available to class X students. The option of re-examination would not be available to the ICSE Board students -- neither class XII, nor class X. The CBSE board has not issued any official notification yet as it has been directed by the apex court to submit an affidavit on Friday detailing its plan. When reached for a clarification, board officials refused to comment on the confusion saying the matter is subjudice. Said Romesh Jha, a class 12 student, "They just announced that the exams are cancelled but where is the clarity? Students get to choose whether they want to write exams or take results on the basis of assessment? At what stage the option is to be chosen? There is no clarity, the exams have been delayed for over three months and still there is uncertainty,” Shruti Das, another class 12 student said, “What will be the criteria for internal assessment? Which three last exams are they talking about? How are they going to calculate an average? Will that impact admissions to universities like DU where cutoffs are too high. Nobody is able to answer these questions”. “Taking the internal marks into consideration for the final board result would not be fair to the students now as well as in future. Different schools might have had varying difficulty levels in internals,” said Shreeni Ghosh. Students have also launched an online petition, saying that the decision to go by internal assessment has been taken keeping in mind the safety of the students but not their educational future. "Even though, we have been given a choice to appear for our remaining exams later, this decision has still not yet been finalized,” the petition said. “Also, taking the exams this late will not be feasible for all the students due to the large time gap as well as due to the upcoming college examinations. This would lead to a lot of inadequacies and unfairness in the final board results.” Pooja Singh, a student of Delhi Kannada Senior Secondary School in Lodhi Estate, said, "The decision to cancel exams is good considering the coronavirus threat. Students have the option of taking the exams at a later date but there has to be a clarity on the later date. “My Hindi exam was left and I have confidence about my score in the pre-boards. But many of my friends could not take the pre-Board exams due to some reason or the other. How will they be eligible for admission to Delhi University, which in all probability, will announce its cut-offs in August?" Rahul Gupta, a student of Mamta Modern School Vikaspuri, said, "I had fallen sick during my pre-board exams and missed some papers. I had two board papers left -- Business Studies and Informatics Practices. As a student, I have been left in the lurch about my future. How will the CBSE work out a formula for those students who missed their internal assessment or pre-Boards?" Astha Arora, a student of Delhi Public School, Rohini, said students do not take their internal assessments seriously and focus on preparing for Board exams since that is how they are conditioned. "It has been very frustrating since March. We do not know what is happening. Today the CBSE told the Supreme Court that the Board exams are cancelled but students will have the option of choosing whether they want their internal assessment marks to be considered or they would like to take the exams at a later date. “There is so much confusion with no clarity when the exams will be held. The CBSE could have formulated a scheme where students could have taken the exams online."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-board-exam-cancelled-questions-remain-853787.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Emergency was imposed due to one family's greed for power: Amit Shah comes down heavily on Congress||Facing an all-out attack from Congress on its handling of the coronavirus crisis and Galwan Valley issue, the BJP on Thursday sharpened its “one dynasty” attack on Congress and raked up the memory of the “dark” days of Emergency on its 45th anniversary to slam Opposition party over its “Emergency mindset”. Home Minister Amit Shah and PM Narendra Modi tweeted on the occassion, taking strong criticism to the the strict clampdown under the rule of Congres sleader Indira gandhi.     "Exactly 45 years ago, Emergency was imposed on the nation. My salutation to all those who fought for saving democracy  and faced persecution then. Nation will never forget their sacrifices," the Prime Minister tweeted. BJP also took a jibe at the Left parties, who had once fought against the Emergency for “siding with the dynast” and not “democracy”, an attack that comes at the backdrop of the Left having joined issues with Congress in attacking the government on many occasions including on the recent India-China stand off at the LAC. The ruling party also lauded the RSS's role in the fight against the Emergency and its peaceful protest against the ban on it and violation of civil rights saying the only purpose of RSS's fight was the country's return to democracy.  “Overnight the nation was turned into a prison. The press, courts, free speech...all were trampled over. Atrocities were committed on the poor and downtrodden,” he said. On this day, 45 years ago one family’s greed for power led to the imposition of the Emergency. Overnight the nation was turned into a prison. The press, courts, free speech...all were trampled over. Atrocities were committed on the poor and downtrodden. Latching on to reports of Rahul Gandhi shouting down party colleagues for not being critical enough of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sacking its spokesperson Sanjay Jha earlier who had penned an article ruing the lack of forum in the Congress for a free discussion, Shah said that as one of India’s major opposition parties, Congress needed to ask itself “why does the Emergency mindset remain? “ “Why are leaders who don’t belong to one dynasty unable to speak up? Why are leaders getting frustrated in Congress? Else, their disconnect with people will keep widening. During the recent CWC meet, both senior and younger members raised a few issues but were shouted down. A party spokesperson was unceremoniously sacked. The sad truth is - leaders are feeling suffocated in Congress,” Shah said. The Home Minister alleged that due to efforts of lakhs of people, the Emergency was lifted and democracy was restored in India but it remained absent in the Congress. “The interests of one family prevailed over party interests and national interests. This sorry state of affairs thrives in today’s Congress too!,” Shah rubbed in at a time there is a growing talk in Congress of Rahul Gandhi re-emerging in a prominent role in the party nearly a year after he had quit as Congress President, owning responsibility for the party’s debacle in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. BJP put tweets with pictures of former Prime Minister late Indira Gandhi with remarks recalling how the freedom of the Press was muzzled and the Constitution was trampled upon during the Emergency imposed by her and reminded the Congress how all Opposition leaders then were jailed for criticising the government. “Emergency 1975 - The unforgivable sin of Congress Before the President’s signature on the declaration papers, top national leaders like JP Narayan, Morarji Desai, L.K.Advani and AB Vajpayee along with hundreds of others had been imprisoned overnight,” the BJP tweeted. It also said, “ According to a report of the International Human Rights Organization, 1,40,000 people had been arrested without trial during the Congress Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi’s emergency.” The Emergency attack of the BJP on Congress has come at a time when Rahul Gandhi has launched a relentless attack on Modi, accusing his government of surrendering Indian territory to China and coming up with a jibe of “Surender (surrender) Modi. Congress leaders have frequently cited the “valour” of Indira Gandhi in the creation of Bangladesh, counterpointing it with an attack on Modi’s “56-inches” chest and raising questions on the government’s handling of China affairs. “Emergency 1975 – The unforgivable sin of Congress All major democratic institutions like bureaucracy, police, media and judiciary were made to collapse by Congress govt,” the party tweeted. BJP President J P Nadda said, “India greets all those, who despite having faced acute hardships, opposed the Emergency” BJP Vice President Vinaya Sahasrabuddhe said, “45 years back it was on this day that the nation was converted into a big jail ! Simply to perpetuate a dynasty, democracy was crippled to such an extent that even so many decades after, India’s democracy rating is lowered because of this blot! Let’s not forget.” He also said many RSS, ABVP and Jan Sangh workers braved the onslaught of Emergency. “Several Leftists were also there. But later they sided with those who imposed that draconian rule. Between Dynasty and Democracy, they sided with the former,” he said.. BJP also tweeted a blog written by former Finance Minister late Arun Jaitley “The Emergency Revisited: The circumstances leading to the imposition of Emergency in which the BJP leader had spoken about reasons including “mismanagement of the economy that led to the imposition of Emergency”, The ruling party, ever since it came to power in 2014, has also ad nauseum referred to the Emergency imposed by then Congress Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1975, to dismiss the credibility of the main Opposition party raising questions on freedom of speech and persecution of the media or social rights activists. On the 43rd anniversary of Emergency in June 2018, less than a year before 2019 Lok Sabha plans, the BJP readied a massive plan attacking Congress for the episode and honouring those who valiantly fought against Emergency. The programme was lined up when the Modi government was facing charges from a united Opposition and sections of intelligentsia for having clamped in the country an “undeclared Emergency”. The then BJP government of Maharashtra led by Devendra Fadnavis had instituted monthly pension for political civil rights activists, who fought against the Emergency.  The charge against Congress was led by BJP’s chief troubleshooter Arun Jaitley, who penned a three part series on Facebook highlighting “the tyrannies of Emergency” BJP’s Emergency attack on Congress had also gone to high decibel levels during the election campaigns especially the last two Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/emergency-was-imposed-due-to-one-familys-greed-for-power-amit-shah-comes-down-heavily-on-congress-853488.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Congress talk on democracy is anguishing, says Nirmala Sitharaman||The "power-hungry" Congress government took away the rights of the people by clamping emergency this day 45 years ago and when the very same party spoke on democracy it was anguishing, BJP leader and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday. Recalling that the emergency came into effect in India on June 25, 1975, she said, it was promulgated by the "power-hungry Congress party and they created a huge challenge for democracy by coming up with an emergency." The emergency continued till March 21, 1977. Addressing BJP Tamil Nadu unit party workers via a virtual rally, she said: "People's rights were completely rejected. Why did the Congress party do it? It was hankering for power, it was for the sake of office. The law was broken and an emergency was declared." The emergency era witnessed several atrocities, she alleged and said several leaders from the ranks of opposition were jailed and the DMK government led by late Chief Minister M Karunanidhi was dismissed. A DMK leader, Mayor Chittibabu died unable to bear the torture in prison, she alleged. "That the Congress today has the guts to talk of democracy is anguishing," she said adding the DMK, however, joined hands with the Congress subsequently. She wondered what yardstick of democracy prompted the DMK to join hands with the Congress party. Also, she asked: "What right does the DMK have to raise questions on freedom of speech and democracy?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-talk-on-democracy-is-anguishing-says-nirmala-sitharaman-853522.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Congress leaders speak out over border tension with China||Amid reports of Chinese build-up at the border, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday said India should force China back by all means as its arsenal is not meant for "hatching eggs". Several Congress leaders, including P Chidambaram, also spoke out on the issue. Chidambaram termed as "extraordinary demand" the assertion of China's Foreign Ministry and PLA as they again laid claim to the entire Galwan Valley and demanded that India vacate the area. Chowdhury also noted that India is in a "catch-22 situation" and should not allow it to be cowed down by the "red army". "China is furtively and fervently encroaching our land in a steady manner, much to the peril of Indian security and territorial integrity. It is a catch-22 situation for us, but we cannot afford ourselves to be cowed down by the red army," he said on Twitter. "They are to be repulsed back by whatever means, our arsenals are not meant for hatching eggs, so strike back, drive back, force back the Chinese aggression, god will be Indian in deciding the course of conflict," he also said in another tweet. Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, said in spite of all endeavours to diffuse the tense situation along the Line of Actual Control which even resulted in death of 20 Army personnel, China is hell bent upon altering the status quo. Chidambaram said that contrary to what Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated it was undeniable that the status quo was changed by Chinese troops in April-June 2020. "People are watching if the Modi government will succeed in restoring the status quo ante," he tweeted. "Will BJP-led NDA government once again reassert India's claim and demand that 'status quo ante' must be restored," the former union minister asked. Party spokesperson Gaurav Gogoi on Wednesday asked the government to give a "strong reply" to China as regular dialogues would not work, and India needed to use other means like trade to take on it. Gogoi said India cannot afford to have another Doklam-like situation in Ladakh and needs to look at other forms of leverage like trade to have successful negotiations with China and use them to force the Chinese to go back to status quo in entirety. "We demand that Government of India not look at what's happening in Arunachal Pradesh or Ladakh as isolated incidents. These are grand designs and these need to be responded strongly," Gogoi said. China needs a strong response from India as regular dialogues won't work, he said. There are reports of Chinese build up of troops at the border and China has made claims on the entire Galwan Valley. Troops of India and China were locked in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam near Sikkim in 2017 after the Indian side stopped the building of a road in the disputed area by the Chinese Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-speak-out-over-border-tension-with-china-853538.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Those who killed democracy questioning govt now: Prakash Javadekar slams Congress on Emergency||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday launched a sharp attack on the Congress over the Emergency imposed in 1975, saying those who killed democracy 45 years ago are questioning the government today. Javadekar's attack came on the 45th anniversary of the imposition of Emergency by the then Indira Gandhi-led government. "I wonder, those who killed democracy 45 years ago are questioning the government today. The party that suppressed the entire system, ended the freedom of all and jailed scores of people, particularly from the opposition, is now raising slogans of freedom," he asked. Such politics will not work, Javadekar said. "On 25 June 1975, Congress imposed an emergency to save a family. What the Congress is doing even today after 45 years is to save a family," he tweeted with the hashtag 'Emergency 1975 Haunts India'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-killed-democracy-questioning-govt-now-prakash-javadekar-slams-congress-on-emergency-853541.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Country will not forget sacrifice of people who fought for democracy during Emergency: PM Narendra Modi||The sacrifice of people who fought for democracy during the Emergency will never be forgotten, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Former prime minister Indira Gandhi had imposed the Emergency in the country on June 25, 1975. "Emergency was imposed on the country exactly 45 years ago. I salute the people who fought for the protection of India's democracy then, underwent torture," Modi tweeted in Hindi. The country will never forget their sacrifice, he said. The prime minister also shared a short clip of one of his "Mann ki Baat" radio address of June 2019 in which he had referred to the Emergency. In that episode of his monthly radio programme, Modi had reminded people of the Emergency and urged them not to take democracy "for granted", saying in day-to-day life, it is difficult to savour the joy of democratic rights unless they are snatched away. In 1977 Lok Sabha elections, the PM had said, people voted without bothering about other rights and requirements. They voted, he said, "just for the sake of saving democracy. And the country had witnessed one such election in 1977."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/country-will-not-forget-sacrifice-of-people-who-fought-for-democracy-during-emergency-pm-narendra-modi-853549.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi should take over as Congress chief again, says Rajasthan Deputy CM Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister and Pradesh Congress Committee head Sachin Pilot on Thursday said Rahul Gandhi should again take over as party president. "It is our demand that Rahul Gandhi should lead the party once again," Pilot told reporters at the party office here. His demand came as Gandhi has sharpened his attack on the Modi government for its handling of the border row with China and over increasing fuel prices. The BJP has responded aggressively, with party president J P Nadda on Wednesday saying that it is time for unity and solidarity and the "relaunch of the scion for the nth time can wait". Pilot also targeted the Centre over the fuel price rise and the tension on the Sino-India border in eastern Ladakh. The deputy chief minister said there was still confusion on the border situation. “The prices of diesel and petrol have been rising constantly and putting pressure on people. We demand the Centre to roll back the price hike,” Pilot said. He said the party will hold demonstrations at all district headquarters on June 29 against the price hike. On an alleged attack at the party MLA in Karauli on Wednesday, Pilot said it was a matter of concern and police should ensure security of public representatives. He said he also spoke to MLA Bharosi Lal when the firing incident occurred. A minor boy has already been arrested for trying to fire at the MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-should-take-over-as-congress-chief-again-says-rajasthan-deputy-cm-sachin-pilot-853578.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||As Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi takes on Yogi government, BSP supremo Mayawati goes soft on BJP||As an aggressive Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kept on targeting the Yogi Adityanath government on alleged 'mishandling' of Corona crisis, incidents of attacks on the 'dalits' and rising fuel prices, BSP supremo Mayawati, for a change, continued to heap praise on the saffron party regime in Uttar Pradesh. Unfazed by being dubbed as ''Twitter wali Neta' (leader), Priyanka has been taking on the state government almost on a daily basis through social media posts. Not a day is passed, when Priyanka and the UP government officials and BJP leaders do not engage in duel on the social media. Priyanka was even sent a notice by the district magistrate of Agra over former's posts regarding death from Coronavirus infection in the district. UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also joined the issue and warned of action if Priyanka did not retract her posts. The Congress leader did change some words in her posts but launched a fresh attack on chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying that the death rate from Coronavirus in Agra was even more than Delhi and Mumbai. On Thursday also she took to the social media to decry rising prices of fuel and said that Congress workers have been holding protest demonstrations across UP.   Earlier also Priyanka had taken on the UP government on by offering one thousand buses to ferry the stranded workers home. She also lashed out against the state government over incidents of attacks on the 'dalits' in some parts of the state. Strangely BSP supremo Mayawati appeared to be 'soft' on the BJP government and seemed more critical of the Congress. She not only praised the UP government for arranging to send the migrant workers home but also termed Priyanka's offer of buses as a ''political ploy''. Even on the issue of attacks on 'dalits', Mayawati praised the state government for acting promptly against the perpetrators. On the clashes between Indian and Chinese forces in Laddakh also, Mayawati called for 'supporting' the centre. Political analysts say that Mayawati does not want to cede grounds to Congress in UP. ''She knows that her core vote bank (dalit) will prefer her to BJP but it may not be averse to supporting Congress,'' says J.P.Shukla, a Lucknow based political analyst.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/as-congress-leader-priyanka-gandhi-takes-on-yogi-government-bsp-supremo-mayawati-goes-soft-on-bjp-853597.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Why hasn't India benefitted from your 'strange bonhomie' with China: Congress asks PM||The Congress on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why has not India gained anything from the "strange bonhomie" which it claimed he shared with China. Seeking to turn the tables on the ruling party, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the BJP also shared bonhomie with the Communist Party of China (CPC) with several party-level exchanges taking place in the past. He sought to know whether India's borders have become safe after these exchanges in the last many years. The Congress leader asked what has the country gained out of these exchange delegations and why are the borders insecure despite the bonds that the two ruling parties of India and China share with each other. "There is a strange kind of bonhomie between Narendra Modi and China, a two decade old bonhomie. Why doesn't the country get the benefit of that bonhomie," he asked at a virtual press conference. Khera said all that the Congress will continue to question is about the political will that just does not get visible when it comes to China. "Whatever is happening on the border today, is it despite the bonhomie which you have with China, or is it because of the bonhomie which you have with China. The country needs to know," he asked. "We do want to ask you, if as president of the party, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari and Amit Shah have been sending delegations,  strengthening the bonds between the Communist Party of China and the BJP. What has the country gained out of these bonds? Why are the borders insecure despite these bonds that you have," he also asked. The ruling has hit out at the Congress for signing an MoU with China's Communist Party and has questioned its "bond" with the ruling party in China. Khera also asked what role did the India Foundation, an organisation run by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval's son has in strengthening the bonds with China. "Why does India Foundation keep visiting these countries? Who do they meet? What's the outcome? What's the role of NSA Ajit Doval's son- Shaurya Doval? He keeps attending these meetings through India Foundation? These are important questions in the light of what is happening," he asked. Khera said the prime minister is showing "red eyes" to those who are asking him questions instead of showing them to the enemy. "It is time to stand with the Army and show red eyes to China," he said. The Congress leader said questions will be asked to Modi especially when there are definitive reports, satellite images of incursions in the Ladakh region of India by the Chinese. He alleged that China laps up the comment of Modi and uses it across the world that the Indian prime minister says that China is in its own territory and Galwan is theirs. "After a lot of pressure, PMO contradicted what the prime minister said. This kind of a goof up is unpardonable," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-hasnt-india-benefitted-from-your-strange-bonhomie-with-china-congress-asks-pm-853604.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||After BJP slams Emergency, Congress hits back saying 'govt of two people' ruling nation||The Congress on Thursday hit back at Home Minister Amit Shah over his attack on the 45th anniversary of the Emergency and asked why the BJP-led Centre that runs a "majoritarian rule" is described as a "government of two people". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the country's ruling party needs to answer why horse trading and mass defections capture its only legacy. "As India's ruling party, BJP needs to answer: Why is its majoritarian rule described as Govt of 2 people only and all others as mere side kicks," he asked on Twitter. "Why is horse trading, mass defections and institution capture its only legacy? Why is it obsessed in its vile hatred of Nehru-Gandhi's (sic)," Surjewala asked. Congress leader Pawan Khera said an "undeclared Emergency" has been imposed in the country under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "In the last six years, the way the Prime Minister has tried to weaken democracy and destroy democratic institutions, an undeclared Emergency has been imposed in the country," he said at a press conference, adding that this is dangerous for a democracy. Senior BJP leaders slammed the Congress on the 45th anniversary of Emergency on Thursday, alleging that the interests of "one family" prevailed over those of the party and the country. Shah alleged that the "Emergency mindset" still prevailed in the Congress and that the "sad truth" was that leaders were feeling suffocated in the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-bjp-slams-emergency-congress-hits-back-saying-govt-of-two-people-ruling-nation-853608.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||BJP govt interested in picking people's pockets even amid crisis: Priyanka on fuel price hike||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attacked the BJP-led NDA government over the repeated fuel price hike, saying it has become clear that the Centre is only interested in picking pockets of the people even in times of crisis. Her attack came after diesel price in the national capital crossed the Rs 80 per litre mark for the first time ever on Thursday as oil companies raised prices for the 19th day, taking the cumulative rate to Rs 10.63 a litre. Petrol price, after a day's hiatus, was hiked by 16 paise and the increase in less than three weeks now totals Rs 8.66 per litre. "By increasing the prices of petrol and diesel for the 19th consecutive day today, the BJP government has made it clear that it is more interested in picking pockets of the public even in the time of such a crisis," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet. इस संकट के समय केंद्र सरकार ने जनता की जेब काटने का इतिहास रचा है। Diesel अब Petrol के रेट को पार कर चुका है। जबकि दुनिया भर में कच्चे तेल के दाम में भारी गिरावट है। "The Congress has carried out a massive protest in Uttar Pradesh. People are not ready to tolerate this loot," the Congress general secretary in-charge eastern Uttar Pradesh tweeted. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 79.92 per litre from Rs 79.76, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 80.02 a litre from Rs 79.88, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. Rates differ from state to state depending on the incidence of value-added tax (VAT). The 19th daily increase in rates since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus in rate revision, has taken diesel prices to fresh highs. In 19 straight days, diesel price has gone up by Rs 10.63 per litre. Petrol price has been hiked on 18 occasions since June 7 and now totals to Rs 8.66 a litre. The Congress will hold mass protests across the country next Monday over the "unprecedented" rise in petrol and diesel prices. "On June 29, Congress workers, wearing masks and by maintaining social distancing norms, will sit on a two-hour dharna from 10 am to 12 noon at every district headquarter to protest against the unprecedented rise in the price of petrol and diesel and demand its rollback," All India Congress Committee General Secretary, organisation, K C Venugopal, had said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-interested-in-picking-peoples-pockets-even-amid-crisis-priyanka-on-fuel-price-hike-853638.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Why there is no one beyond Modi-Shah in BJP, asks Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Congress on Thursday hit back at Home Minister Amit Shah over his attack on the 45th anniversary of Emergency accusing the BJP government of unleashing a “majoritarian rule” and “destroying democratic institutions” of the country. Leading the charge, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah of “hijacking” the BJP and the NDA government “with no breather for other leaders”. “It is shocking that apart from 3-4 minister, public does not even know who all are in Modi’s cabinet,” Gehlot said. Congress’ chief spokesman Randeep Surjewala asked why the BJP’s “majoritarian rule” is described as a government of “two people only and others as mere sidekicks”. Congress spokesman Pawan Khera accused the Modi government of unleashing an “undeclared emergency” in the country. “In the last six years, the way the Prime Minister has tried to weaken democracy and destroy democratic institutions, an undeclared Emergency has been imposed in the country,” he said, adding that this was dangerous for a democracy. Gehlot also claimed that only the Congress had the courage and strength to take on the “tyranny” of the current regime. The Rajasthan Chief Minister said he was not surprised to see that out of all opposition parties, Modi and Shah were worried only about the Congress. “Their insecurities & fear is evident because everyone knows including Mr Shah that only Congress under the leadership of HCP Soniaji and Rahulji have the courage and strength to take on the tyranny of the current regime,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-there-is-no-one-beyond-modi-shah-in-bjp-asks-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-853690.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||India-China tension: Congress targets PM Narendra Modi on reports of fresh incursions in Ladakh||Congress trained guns on the Modi government on Thursday over reports of fresh incursions by China in eastern Ladakh and was set to hit the streets to protest against “lackadaisical” approach to national security. Sharpening its attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress accused him of contradicting former army generals, newspaper reports and satellite images suggesting incursions by China into Indian territory. Addressing a press conference here, Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC in-charge of the Communication Department, demanded answers from the Modi government over reports of fresh incursions by Chinese troops in the Depsang sector. Surjewala hit back at the BJP for the sustained attack on the Congress accusing it of having links to China’s Communist Party. “Instead of standing up to China, the BJP government is busy targeting the opposition,” he said. Seeking to keep up the heat on the Modi government, Congress has directed its leaders and party workers to stage silent sit-in protests at party offices and martyrs' memorials across the country to pay homage to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in violent clashes in the Galwan Valley. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi held meetings with state Congress chiefs on Wednesday evening to chart out the finer details about the mass protests and observe June 26 as ‘Shaheedon Ko Salaam Divas’. Clear directives have been given by the party to avoid sloganeering during the hour-long mass protest programme on Friday. The social media department is expected to whip up a campaign ‘Speak up for Jawans’ on various virtual platforms by urging people to post videos in support of the Armed Forces. On June 29, Congress leaders and workers will hit the streets again at every district headquarters to protest against the rise in the price of petrol and diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-china-tension-congress-targets-pm-narendra-modi-on-reports-of-fresh-incursions-in-ladakh-853693.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Chinese Embassy funded Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, alleges BJP; asks Congress to come clean||BJP, which has made a huge political row out of a 2008 MoU between the Republican Party of China and Congress on Thursday came out with “documents” to allege that the Chinese Embassy in India had funded the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation chaired by Sonia Gandhi. Congress has dismissed the allegations as diversionary tactics. Asking the Congress party to come clean on it, the BJP, IT Cell chief Amit Malviya said, “Donations showed results soon after. RGF did not just one but several studies on how a Free Trade Agreement between India and China is desirable and required. Studies argued that India needs the FTA much more than China and should pursue it as part of its efforts to improve bilateral relations!” Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged, “the donor's list of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation annual report in 2005-06 clearly shows that it has received a donation from the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China. “We want to know why this donation was taken? Rajiv Gandhi Foundation’s report 2009-11 mentions the proposed FTA between India and China will be feasible, desirable and mutually beneficial and should be comprehensive with free flow of good services, investment, and capital,” Prasad said alleging “a pattern as to why Congress party does not condemn China”. “Because 10 years rule of Manmohan Singh govt is littered with various evidence as to how congress party tried to support China and make it earn tonnes of money by permitting the increase of trade deficit 33 times,” Prasad said. Malviya, who put out “documents” on social media, alleged, “not just the Embassy of The Peoples Republic of China in India but even the Government of People’s Republic of China is a donor to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation.” While Sonia Gandhi is s the Chairperson of RGF, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, P Chidambaram and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are members in the board of RGF. Malviya asked Congress if these donations have any connection with the MoU signed between the Congress and CPC in 2008. “What other things is the Congress party hiding from India on its relations with the CCP? Full disclosure needed. Did donations to RGF deliver a debilitating blow to India's economy?,” Malviya asked. Reeling out figures, Malviya alleged that during UPA1, India’s trade deficit with China increased more than 17 times, and under UPA 2 by 88%. Under the UPA, the overall trade deficit with China increased 33 times, i.e from $1.1 billion in 2003-04 to $36.2 billion in 2013-14. Congress on Wednesday debunked the criticism of the memorandum with the Republican Party of China. Party spokesperson Maneesh Tewari said, “if Congress has to be subject to a frivolous witch hunt for bilateral ties it has with a hundred or more political parties around the world should then these eminences also not be investigated? BJP-RSS team holds talks with CPC in China.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chinese-embassy-funded-rajiv-gandhi-foundation-alleges-bjp-asks-congress-to-come-clean-853703.html
25-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi now launches his 'Telegram channel'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has started a Telegram channel through which he would soon start engaging with people directly. The official Channel of Shri Rahul Gandhi, Member of Parliament, will soon be verified, sources said. His Telegram channel has around 3,500 members so far. A telegram channel is a messaging application where the administrator alone can post messages and views. The channel is a tool to broadcast public messages to a large audience. Gandhi has been using direct messaging to reach out to the public and he often uses his Twitter and Facebook accounts to attack the government on its policies. Gandhi also launches attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his social media accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-now-launches-his-telegram-channel-853764.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||All districts in J&K to have dedicated COVID burial, cremation grounds: Official||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday announced that every district in the union territory will have dedicated burial and cremation grounds for people who die from Covid-19 infection. Chief Secretary, B V R Subrahmanyam, while taking stock of efforts toward mitigating Covid-19 threat, directed the deputy commissioners to notify cemetery and cremation grounds exclusively for Covid victims, so as to prevent any untoward incidence regarding their last rites. The administration on Wednesday also ordered another inquiry into the recent incident in which two men had died during last rites of their Covid-19 infected relative in Jammu. Vimal Zadoo (42) and Vipin Zadoo (35), the two cousin brothers, had allegedly died due to dehydration on June 18 during cremation of their uncle who had succumbed to the coronavirus a day earlier, prompting the Jammu district administration to order a magisterial probe into the incident. They had allegedly died due to dehydration and suffocation while moving from one place to another in search of cremation place for their deceased uncle. Subrahmanyam directed the DCs to adopt liberal release policy at administrative quarantine centres. He said if the quarantined persons test negative, as per existing Standard Operating Procedure, they can be sent to 'home quarantine' immediately. The chief secretary directed the divisional commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir to undertake quality audits of administrative quarantine centres in respective provinces and suggest measures for improvement. Regarding exit policy for de-notification of red and containment zones, the chief secretary instructed allowing partial de-notification, if no new case is reported for 21 continuous days under existing protocol. “This will be followed by intensive and sentinel testing and if still no case is reported, then the zone will be de-notified after 30 days”, he added.  To capture samples of increased number of travellers in coming days, the chief secretary asked the concerned district commissioners to enhance sampling capacities at all entry points including two airports and four railway stations.  Administrative secretaries of departments of Health & Medical Education, Information, Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction, and Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM) participated in the meeting. Divisional Commissioners of Jammu, Kashmir and all deputy commissioners attended the meeting through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-districts-in-jk-to-have-dedicated-covid-burial-cremation-grounds-official-853444.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Two unidentified militants killed in encounter with security forces Jammu and Kashmir's Sopore||Two unidentified militants were killed in an early morning encounter with security forces in Hardshiva village of Sopore in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Thursday. Reports said the gun fight erupted after a joint team of the Army's 22-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in the wee hours of Thursday following  ‘specific inputs’ about the presence of militants in the area. A police officer said the operation turned into an encounter after hiding militants fired at the search party, which retaliated. “In the ensuing gun battle two militants hiding in a residential house were killed,” he said and added bodies of slain ultras have been recovered and their identification and group affiliation is being ascertained. The bodies of the slain local militants are taken either to Sonamarg in central Kashmir or Boniyar in Baramulla for quiet burial. Lately, police have been denying the bodies of militants to their families as their funerals may attract large crowds. There has been an increase in anti-militancy operations in the Valley since March. Security forces have launched multiple anti-militancy operations in Srinagar, south and north Kashmir. Since the Covid-19 lockdown, over 70 militants and two of their associates have been killed, while 25 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, have lost their lives. From January this year, over 100 militants have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces. 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months of 2019. In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralized by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of the revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Last week Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that 100-200 militants were still active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-unidentified-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-jammu-and-kashmirs-sopore-853448.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi's illegal colonies await makeover after Covid-19||When Sanjiv Yadav moved to Delhi from the northern Indian town of Etawah, he rented a small room in an illegal settlement like millions of other migrant workers in the capital city. Over the past decade, he set aside money to buy a one-room home in Vikas Nagar in West Delhi, a so-called unauthorised colony of a few hundred homes and shops, receiving a power of attorney for his property - not a title that he can legally sell or transfer with. That is about to change, with the planned legalisation of more than 1,700 such illegal colonies in Delhi, which the federal government says will benefit about 4 million people. "I own this house, but I can't get a bank loan. With the regularisation, I can get a title with which I can get a loan," Yadav told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "We also don't have proper facilities: the roads are bad, the garbage is not collected. We hope that after regularisation, all this will improve," he said, standing outside his home. More than two-thirds of Delhi's 18 million people live in informal settlements, according to government data. Unauthorised colonies are built in violation of zoning regulations, often on farmland that is illegally subdivided. The settlements of densely packed low-rise buildings help fill a gap in affordable housing for the tens of thousands of migrants streaming into the city every day, urban experts say. The issue of regularising them comes up every few years ahead of local elections, with all political parties promising to deliver on the longstanding demand. In December, the federal government passed a law to legalise Delhi's unauthorised colonies. It will "pave the way for incentivised planned urbanisation, and transform urban squalor into modern urban spaces with modern amenities," Housing Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said last year.  'CONFUSING ORDERS'   Worldwide, more than 3 billion people are forecast to lack access to adequate and affordable housing by 2030, according to UN-Habitat, the United Nations' settlements agency. India's sprawling capital has settlement types of varying degrees of formality, legality and tenure. Unauthorised colonies - where poor, middle-class and richer residents live - are slightly more secure than slums that are seen as encroachments and face the constant threat of eviction. While most colonies are characterised by poor infrastructure and amenities, the housing ministry dropped 69 enclaves from its initial list of those that are to be regularised because they are "wealthy". Residents demand regularisation because they hope it will drive up property values, and they can access bank loans to improve their homes, said Mukta Naik, a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, a think tank. "But owing to the many steps and institutions involved, regularisation has been governed by a series of confusing, sometimes contradictory administrative orders," she said.   Regularisation must result in "physical and social infrastructure, as well as minimum necessary services and community facilities," according to the Delhi Master Plan. But it is not a necessary condition for providing infrastructure, said Naik. In addition, colonies that have been legalised are categorised as "regularised unauthorised", and it is not clear how quickly or uniformly their property values rise, she said. With new rules issued last October, residents in unauthorised colonies can register online for a title. Satellite imagery is used to map colony borders, and the geographic information system (GIS) verifies property boundaries, after which a title is issued. The entire process would be completed in six months, Puri had said. But with a strict lockdown to contain the coronavirus, the process has been delayed, and there is no way to settle any boundary disputes, said Sanjeev Kumar, a member of the residents' association of Gopal Nagar, an unauthorised colony. "The process is meant to be easier, but it is still complicated, and they are not taking on board our objections to the maps," he said. "The law is well-intentioned, but implementation is poor, and it is not clear when we will get our titles," he said.     BETTER FUTURE More than 250,000 residents have registered online, and about 600 had been given deeds before the lockdown brought a halt to operations, said R.S. Meena, a deputy director at the Delhi Development Authority. "The system is new, so people are still getting used to it. But the process should pick up speed, and titles will be issued to everyone who meets the criteria," he said, adding that any disputes are also addressed. Almost 70% of the world's population will live in urban areas by 2050, according to U.N. estimates, with affordable housing becoming a critical issue. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised Housing for All by 2022, but the home ownership programme is not aimed at the urban poor and homeless who do not qualify for the subsidised loans, according to housing advocates. Meanwhile, cities have been slow to meet the needs of people living in informal settlements, a task made more urgent by the spread of the coronavirus in the underserved areas. As part of a stimulus plan, India has vowed to create adequate migrant rental housing in the cities. But that will not stop the creation of more informal settlements and unauthorised colonies, said Paras Tyagi, co-founder of the Centre for Youth Culture Law and Environment (CYCLE), a public policy non-profit in Delhi. "What's needed in these settlements is proper roads, water supply and sewage lines and clinics. Not just titles," he said. "The government should incentivise land pooling in unauthorised colonies to create infrastructure and affordable housing," said Tyagi, who is lobbying for upgrading Delhi's urban villages, whose residents also lack titles. For Yadav, who works as a driver to support his wife and two children in Vikas Nagar, regularisation offers hope. "We hope the infrastructure will improve, and that the property value will increase, so that my children will have a better future," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-illegal-colonies-await-makeover-after-covid-19-853452.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Girl commits suicide, family members secretly bury her||A 16-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide at her house in east Delhi and her family members secretly buried her body, which was later exhumed for post-mortem, police said on Wednesday. The girl, whose family hails from Jharkhand, allegedly hanged herself in a room in her house on Monday, they said. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, police said. Her body was exhumed on Tuesday as per the directions of the Sub Divisional Magistrate of the area. The process was carried out as her family members secretly buried her without informing the police. The incident took place on Monday. The reason behind her taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained, they said. Police said the girl lived with her mother and two siblings. The family hails from Jharkhand and are financially extremely weak. Her father died two years ago, they said. After the father’s death, the girl's mother along with her siblings took her body to a burial ground and buried her, police said. The police said the matter came to their notice after a neighbour alerted them about it. Following the information the body was exhumed, they said. On questioning the girl's mother, she told police that she didn't know that one has to inform police in a suicide case, a senior police officer said. Inquest proceedings have been initiated, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/girl-commits-suicide-family-members-secretly-bury-her-853454.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Man killed for feeding street dogs in Delhi, 1 held||A man who used to feed stray dogs near his house was stabbed to death after they bit his neighbour in Central Delhi's Paharganj, police said on Wednesday. Brij Mohan, 57, loved dogs and would regularly feed them. On Sunday night, his neighbour Prahlad (21) picked up a fight with him when the dogs charged at him, they said. The two indulged in a heated argument and used abusive language. Prahlad told Mohan that his acts could lead to dog attack incidents in the area, the police said. Later, Prahlad returned from his house with a knife and allegedly stabbed Mohan to death, police said. Mohan was rushed to a nearby hospital where he died during the course of treatment, the police official said. A case was registered and an investigation was initiated to nab Prahlad who had fled after the incident, said Sanjay Bhatia, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central).  "After we received information that Prahlad was hiding somewhere near Sabzi Mandi Krishna Market area of Paharganj and was roaming in the street by covering his face with the mask, we apprehended him from the area," he said. The accused was arrested on Wednesday and the weapon of the offence was also recovered, he added. The accused Prahlad works as a DJ in functions. He has one brother and two sisters, while his father works as a 'halwai', the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-killed-for-feeding-street-dogs-in-delhi-1-held-853455.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||5 militant associates linked to LeT held in Budgam||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-militant-associates-linked-to-let-held-in-budgam-853470.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Diesel crosses Rs 80-mark in Delhi after 19th consecutive price hike||Diesel price in the national capital crossed the Rs 80 per litre-mark for the first time ever on Thursday as oil companies raised prices for the 19th day, taking the cumulative rate to Rs 10.63 a litre. Petrol price, after a day's hiatus, was hiked by 16 paise and the increase in less than three weeks now totals Rs 8.66 per litre. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 79.92 per litre from Rs 79.76, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 80.02 a litre from Rs 79.88, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. Diesel had for the first time become costlier than petrol in Delhi on Wednesday and has now crossed the Rs 80 per litre-mark. Rates differ from state to state depending on the incidence of value-added tax (VAT). However, diesel is costlier than petrol only in the national capital where the state government had raised local sales tax or VAT on the fuel sharply last month. It costs less than petrol in other cities. The 19th daily increase in rates since oil companies on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus in rate revision, has taken diesel prices to fresh highs. In 19 straight days, diesel price has gone up by Rs 10.63 per litre. Petrol price has been hiked on 18 occasions since June 7 and now totals to Rs 8.66 a litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/diesel-crosses-rs-80-mark-in-delhi-after-19th-consecutive-price-hike-853473.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||70% of those who died due to Covid-19 in Kashmir were above 60 years of age||Out of the 78 Covid-19 deaths in Kashmir so-far, 54 were people aged 60 years and above while 24 among them were aged 70 to 80 years. The youngest person to die of the deadly viral infection in J&K has been a 15-day old infant, while 23 others aged less than 60 years have also died. Six people aged 30-40 years are victims of the virus in teh valley. According to J&K Health department data, out of 78 deaths, only eight people did not have any underlying disease. The most common underlying ailment in those who succumbed has been hypertension and diabetes, although a considerable number of people with heart ailments, cancer and other conditions have also lost life to the virus. Experts in Kashmir have expressed concern at the trend of high risk population, the elderly and those with underlying diseases, losing life to Covid-19. “Those who succumbed to viral disease were those who would not have been outdoors due to their sickness or age. They paid the price for the restlessness and complacency of the young,” they said. Dr Parvaiz A Koul, head department of internal and pulmonary medicine at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital said in keeping with the trends seen worldwide the highest mortality is of course observed in older adults and those with comorbidities. He, however, said that it was imperative that the younger population exercises infection control to safeguard the health of their kith and kin who may not be able to fight the infection off as well as they can. Srinagar with 21 deaths has the highest fatalities followed by Baramulla 13, Kulgam 11, Shopian 10, Budgam and Anantnag six each, Kupwara five, Pulwama four while one death has been reported from Bandipora.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/70-of-those-who-died-due-to-covid-19-in-kashmir-were-above-60-years-of-age-853490.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||India joins 'Alliance for Poverty Eradication' at UN as founding member||India has become a founding member of an Alliance for Poverty Eradication at the UN, launched by the President of the General Assembly, aimed at focussing on efforts to boost global economy in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. President of the 74th Session of the UN General Assembly Tijjani Muhammad-Bande will formally launch the ‘Alliance for Poverty Eradication’ on June 30, which he said will serve as a forum for Member States to raise awareness about the danger that poverty poses to world peace, human rights and sustainable development. He will also galvanise Member States, the international community and other stakeholders to support actions geared towards poverty eradication. India has joined the alliance as a founding member and stressed that ending poverty is not just about monetary compensation but guaranteeing access of the poor to quality education, healthcare, clean water, sanitation, decent housing and social security. “There are people in the world so hungry that God cannot appear to them except in the form of bread. Global inequality is deeply entrenched. It’s shocking to note that just a little over 2000 billionaires have more wealth than 60 per cent of the planet’s wealth,” India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Nagaraj Naidu said. Speaking at the informal meeting of the President of the General Assembly and members of the Alliance on Tuesday, Naidu said COVID-19 has added a new dimension to poverty, stressing that "poverty is like punishment for a crime that one did not commit." He stressed that the Alliance for Poverty Eradication should contribute to the policy discourse that seeks to analyse poverty from the perspective of multiple deprivations. “For instance, people experience poverty differently even within the same household. While data is limited, there is evidence that women and children are disproportionately affected by poverty. Hence, gender mainstreaming is vital for policy design and implementation,” he said. A concept note on the formation of the alliance with the UN said that it aims to provide a forum at which participants would deliberate on measures that need to be instituted so as to get the world economy working in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, canvass support for efforts that have proved effective in alleviating and ultimately eradicating poverty within and across the world’s regions.  The concept note said that before COVID-19 practically shut down socio-economic activities across the globe, the number of people classified as poor was approximately 2.1 billion. Of this number, 767 million were found to be living in extreme poverty. “While the extent of the damage wrought by COVID-19 to world economy is yet to be determined, the pandemic threatens not only to erase past gains but also to force an additional half a billion of the world population into poverty,” the note said. Naidu also emphasised that the alliance should call for inclusion and empowerment of those left behind as a priority, targeting those furthest behind. It should also brainstorm about sectors where jobs could be generated in the age of digitisation and automatisation and distribute successful case studies from member states that have successfully integrated economic, social and environmental policies that have helped in poverty alleviation. “The alliance should also use the United Nations development system to enable it to bring together its special expertise and policy portfolios to focus on integrated system-wide action for poverty eradication,” Naidu said. He pointed out that India is implementing a comprehensive development strategy based on a digital foundation to end poverty in all its forms, through accelerated economic growth and broader social safety nets. According to United Nations Development Programme, between 2006-2016 over 271 million people in India moved out of poverty, recording the fastest reductions in the multidimensional poverty index values during the period. "Let’s join hands to make this alliance a leading voice for poverty eradication. Let’s work to bring dignity to life," Naidu said. The concept note said the alliance will ideally start with a nucleus of like-minded countries and move steadily to bring others on board and when fully operational, the alliance will be the leading voice for poverty eradication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-joins-alliance-for-poverty-eradication-at-un-as-founding-member-853505.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||FIR against Digvijaya for cycle protest over fuel price hike||An FIR has been registered against Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh for leading a cycle protest in Bhopal against the fuel price hike without taking permission from the authorities, police said on Thursday. The 73-year-old Rajya Sabha member and several other Congressmen rode bicycles from Roshanpura square to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's residence here on Wednesday to protest against the Centre and the state government's move to hike prices of petrol and diesel. They were stopped near the Apex Bank on their way to Link Road No. 1 where Chouhan resides, as they had not taken permission for such a large gathering at the time of COVID-19 outbreak, an official from T T Nagar police station said. Later, a case was registered against Singh under Indian Penal Code Sections 188 (disobeying an order duly promulgated by public servant), 143 (unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 341 (wrongful restraint), he said. State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath took to Twitter on Wednesday to slam the Centre and the state government over the fuel price hike, saying the price of petrol was highest in Madhya Pradesh. The BJP-led state government earlier this month raised the cess on petrol and diesel by Rs 1 to make up for the decline in revenue collection due to COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-digvijaya-for-cycle-protest-over-fuel-price-hike-853506.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Naxals torch vehicles, machines at road construction site in Sukma||A group of Naxals set on fire six vehicles and machines engaged in road construction work in the insurgency-hit Sukma district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday night at Dhanikorta village under Kukanar police station limits where a road is being constructed, Sukma Superintendent of Police Shalabh Sinha said. As per preliminary information, a group of ultras reached the village, located around 450 km from the capital Raipur, and set ablaze three trucks, two JCBs and a poclain machine parked there, he said. All the vehicles and machines belonged to a contractor, he said. Despite being advised to park the vehicles and machines at a police camp near the construction site after completing work for the day, the contractor left them at the village, the official said. Soon after being alerted about the incident, security personnel rushed to the spot on Thursday morning and launched a search operation in the area, he added. Naxals have frequently tried to disrupt road construction works in the state's Bastar division, comprising seven districts including Sukma, by launching attacks on security forces and damaging vehicles and machines used in those projects. They feel the developmental works in the region and construction of roads will uproot them from the area, a police official earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-torch-vehicles-machines-at-road-construction-site-in-sukma-853518.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||IMD declares monsoon onset over Delhi||The India Meteorological Department on Thursday declared the onset of monsoon over the national capital. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the monsoon has further advanced over some more parts of west and east Rajasthan, eastern parts of Haryana, Delhi, entire Uttar Pradesh and most parts of Punjab on Thursday. "The northern limit of the monsoon passes through Nagor, Alwar, Delhi, Karnal and Ferozepur," he said. The MeT department also predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in the national capital. Normally, the wind system reaches Delhi on June 27. According to weather experts, the earlier than usual arrival of the monsoon in Delhi can be attributed to a cyclonic circulation which moved towards southwest Uttar Pradesh on June 19 and June 20, helping monsoon advance further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imd-declares-monsoon-onset-over-delhi-853521.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||PIL for guidelines on Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless; HC seeks Centre, AAP govt stand||The Delhi High Court asked the Centre and the AAP government on Thursday to reply to a PIL seeking directions to them to issue guidelines for Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless persons in the national capital. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to them seeking their stand on the plea by a lawyer alleging a "casual approach" on the part of the Delhi government, particularly its Chief Secretary, while dealing with issues of health of homeless persons with mental illness.  The court listed the matter for further hearing on July 9. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal claimed in his petition that the Delhi government has not taken seriously the lack of guidelines with respect to Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless persons. He said the high court had on June 9 directed it to address the grievances raised by him in another PIL with regard to mentally ill homeless persons in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy.  He said that on June 13 he also sent a representation to the Chief Secretary of Delhi government for providing treatment to mentally ill homeless persons in the national capital who have no residence proof.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-for-guidelines-on-covid-19-testing-of-mentally-ill-homeless-hc-seeks-centre-aap-govt-stand-853534.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||CBI registers Preliminary Enquiry against educational trust run by former JK minister Choudhary Lal Singh||The CBI has registered a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) to probe allegations of land grabbing and corruption by an educational trust run by ex-Jammu and Kashmir minister Choudhary Lal Singh, who had quit BJP following a row over the rape and murder of an 8-year-old girl in Kathua, officials said on Thursday. The officials said that PE has been registered against R B Educational Trust of Kathua and unknown public servants to probe the allegations of illegal gratification and extraneous consideration by the revenue and forest officials of district Kathua in allowing sale and purchase of forest land. According to the CBI's PE, it is alleged that false certificates that such land comes under exempted category under JK Agrarian Reforms Act were used in its purchase by the educational trust, the officials said. Singh, when contacted, refused to comment on the developments. The preliminary enquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleges that the trust, a beneficiary of such alleged illegal acts, continues to be in possession of huge tracts of land in gross violation of ceiling prescribed under Jammu and Kashmir Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976, they said. It also alleged that false information was submitted in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir on June 9, 2015 vide an affidavit filed on a public interest litigation to favour this trust, the officials said. The CBI in some cases does a Secret Information Report (SIR) which is converted into a PE only after verification of facts. During the preliminary enquiry, the agency tries to find if prima facie material exists to move ahead with a formal registration of a case also known as a Regular Case or FIR to start investigation. During the preliminary enquiry no searches can be conducted or no one can be summoned for recording statements without consent. Singh had last year quit the BJP and floated Dogra Swabhiman Sangathan (DSS). He and the then industries minister Chander Prakash Ganga had resigned from the PDP-BJP led dispensation in 2018 after questions were raised over their participation in Hindu Ekta Manch rally organized in support of those arrested in connection with the rape and murder of the eight-year-old girl in Kathua that year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-registers-preliminary-enquiry-against-educational-trust-run-by-former-jk-minister-choudhary-lal-singh-853567.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Jailed during Emergency, Uttar Pradesh Speaker goes down memory lane||Uttar Pradesh Assembly Hriday Narayan Dixit recalls how a jailor at Unnao prison changed his tone towards him as the results of the 1977 Lok Sabha elections came in, toppling Indira Gandhi after two years of Emergency. The jailor had caught him listening to the poll results as they came in early in the morning on a transistor radio he had “somehow managed” to bring into the jail’s barrack number 21. The jailor used abusive language and warned that he may be shifted to the Naini Central Jail. Dixit turned down the volume. Two hours later, when it became clear that Gandhi had been defeated, the same official was referring to Dixit in a respectful manner, even calling him ‘maananiye”. “Abey sey hum sir ho gaye,” he told PTI, remembering how instead of the derogatory "abey", he was being called “sir”. Dixit, 74, was the general secretary of Jana Sangh’s Unnao unit general secretary when Emergency was declared in 1975. He spent almost its entire duration in jail. Recalling his experience on the 45 anniversary of the Emergency, the politician equated it with the suspension of personal liberties in Nazi Germany, claiming that the then prime minister Indira Gandhi took her cue from Adolf Hitler. He appeared to refer to the Enabling Act passed in Germany in 1933, giving Hitler dictatorial powers. "In 1933, Hitler imposed Emergency in Germany, and the torture, which he unleashed there, the same was done in India during the Emergency,” he said. “Indira Gandhi got the motivation from Hitler,” he said. Dixit did not agree with the opposition charge that an Emergency-like situation prevailed now in the country. "At this point of time, there is an India-China stand-off, and Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and other leaders are speaking whatever they want to speak. The media is writing whatever it wants. During the 1975 Emergency, there was a complete ban on the press. How can there be an Emergency today? This is only a political statement,” he said. He recalled there were a little over 100 political prisoners to begin with in barrack number 21, where he was lodged. But only about 20 remained by the time the Emergency ended. For the first five or six months, his family was not allowed to meet him as officials feared he will “exchange information” with them. Dixit’s father met him almost after a year and was not able to recognise him. The reason: “Unlike others, my health had improved.” He weighed about 55 kg when he went in, and within months was 70 kg, Dixit recalled, saying he added bulk because there was no daily routine to follow inside. Also recalling the “black day”, UP's Agriculture Minister Surya Pratap Shahi said, “The entire country had turned into a jail with prominent opposition leaders being sent behind bars.” “My father Rajendra Kishor Shahi and my uncle Ravindra Kishor Shahi were lodged in jail under MISA. I was booked under DIR,” he said, referring to the Maintenance of Internal Security Act and the Defence of India Rules. “I was a student then and had come to Deoria. There were raids at my residence. I was suspended by the vice-chancellor of Banaras Hindu University." "An FIR was lodged against us that we had damaged telephone cables and uprooted railway tracks," the minister said. Samajwadi Party leader and former MLA from Lucknow Central assembly constituency Ravidas Mehrotra was lodged in Lucknow Jail and later shifted to Bareilly prison during the Emergency. “We were sent to jail as we had hatched a conspiracy to topple the government of Indira Gandhi. Torture was inflicted upon us. Initially, we could not meet anyone and the food given to us was very bad," he said. "Almost the same situation which existed in the country at the time of the 1975 Emergency prevails now," the opposition leader claimed. Mitthulal Kashyap, who works in a sweet shop in Lucknow's Charbagh area, has a different set of memories. "I remember hospitals, trains and platforms used to be very tidy. Trains used to run dot on time so much so that one could set one's watch by their arrival and departure times." On the Emergency anniversary in 2018, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh had increased the “Loktantra Senani” pension from Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 per month. This goes to people who spent time in jail during the Emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jailed-during-emergency-uttar-pradesh-speaker-goes-down-memory-lane-853596.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||20 fresh coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand, tally rises to 2,642||Uttarakhand's COVID-19 tally rose to 2,642 on Thursday with 20 more people testing positive for the disease. Udham Singh Nagar district reported 11 new cases followed by Dehradun which reported four, Pauri and Haridwar two each and Tehri one, a state health department bulletin said. With the detection of 20 new patients, the state's coronavirus tally climbed to 2,642 out of which 1,745 have recovered, 35 passed away and 17 have migrated out of Uttarakhand, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-2642-853607.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Raj Bhawan becomes Covid-19 hotspot||Madhya Pradesh Governor house—Raj Bhawan, has become a dangerous hot spot for Covid-19 with the detection of infection in its 29 employees. Of these, four cases were detected on Thursday. The total number of coronavirus cases in Bhopal has risen to 2598 on Thursday. Governor Lalji Tandon is out of Bhopal. He is undergoing treatment in a hospital in Lucknow after he fell ill on June 12. Alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and absence of the governor has jeopardised long-awaited cabinet expansion which is getting deferred since April.   According to health department sources, negligence of security personnel has led to a rise in the Covid-19 cases in the Raj Bhawan. The employee was neither quarantined nor kept in home isolation even after being found corona positive. He continued to be on duty till June 21. As a result, 14 more employees who came into his contact also caught the infection.14 employees were already under treatment for the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-raj-bhawan-becomes-covid-19-hotspot-853609.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||India’s most powerful rail engine reaches Bhopal||India’s most powerful railway engine having a capacity of 12000 horsepower on Thursday reached Bhopal railway station.  Manufactured in Bihar under the Make In India programme, the double engine is designed to ensure that goods train pulled by it don’t stop in the middle of the journey. When one of the engines malfunctions, the second gets automatically operational. The fully air-conditioned engine has placed India among six nations having such powerful railway engines. It can run up to 120 km per hour.       Costing around Rs 20 crore, the engine’s manufacturing began in October 2017 in the Madhepura factory in Bihar. The factory is planning to assemble 120 powerful engines of 12000 horsepower. Their launch will significantly increase the freight carrying capacity of the Indian railways.  The new engine is being sent to different railway zones for trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-s-most-powerful-rail-engine-reaches-bhopal-853610.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops violate ceasefire along LoC in J&K's Macchil sector||Pakistani troops on Thursday violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Macchil sector of Jammu and Kashmir by firing mortar shells towards Indian positions, Army officials said here. They said the Indian Army gave a befitting response to the ceasefire violation. No casualties were reported in the incident. "On 25 June 2020, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Macchil sector by firing mortars," the officials said. There has been a sharp increase in ceasefire violations along the Line of Control over the past two weeks. Security officials maintain that Pakistan is resorting to ceasefire violations to provide cover for infiltration of militants into the valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-violate-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jks-macchil-sector-853612.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh booked for violating social distancing||Bhopal police have booked former chief minister Digvijaya Singh once again—this time for violating social distancing by riding a bicycle on road along with supporters to protest the continuous rise in prices of petroleum products. Ten days ago, an FIR was lodged against the Congress veteran on the charge of sharing an edited video of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.   The police also lodged FIR against Digvijaya Singh’s supporters who joined protest bicycle rally including MLA Arif Masood. Reacting to the police action, Digvijaya Singh said if the police booked him for raising peoples’ demand, he welcome it. Nearly 150 Congress workers led by Digvijaya Singh had organised a bicycle rally on Wednesday in Bhopal to register protest against the rise in prices of petrol and diesel. The police have booked them under sections 341,188,143,269 and 20 of the IPC for violating social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-veteran-congress-leader-digvijaya-singh-booked-for-violating-social-distancing-853613.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||J&K admin to establish 7 police units to strengthen security setup in south Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has ordered strengthening of the security setup in south Kashmir by establishing seven new police units and upgrading three other with the deployment of over 271 additional police personnel. South Kashmir has become a hotbed of terrorism in the past few years and has seen large-scale recruitment by terrorist outfits as well as terror strikes including the Pulwama attack in 2019 in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed. "Sanction is accorded to the establishment of the office of Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP), highway, with headquarters at Qazigund in Kulgam district," an order issued by the Home department on Thursday, said. It also gave sanction to setting up an office of Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) at Pampore. The department gave nod for upgrading the police post at Behibagh in Kulgam district to police station and regularisation of the police posts at DK Pora and Sangam. It also ordered setting up of the five new police posts at Hillar and Dakshum in Anantnag district, Hatipora and Nillow in Kulgam district and a toll plaza at Chursoo in Awantipora, it said. For the strengthening of the security grid, the government has ordered the deployment of one ASP, one deputy SP, an inspector, 19 sub-inspectors and nine ASIs among 272 police personnel at these security units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-to-establish-7-police-units-to-strengthen-security-setup-in-south-kashmir-853614.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||SC declines to consider plea by a judge against notice in sexual harassment case||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to consider a plea by a district judge of Madhya Pradesh against a show-cause notice issued to him for alleged sexual harassment of a civil judge. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Surya Kant asked petitioner Sambhoo Singh Raghuvanshi to avail his remedy by approaching the Madhya Pradesh High Court, saying Article 32 (writ) petition can't be entertained by the court. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared for the petitioner, preferred to withdraw the plea. The petitioner, who is set to superannuate by the end of this year, asked the court to call for all records including inquiry report of March 20, 2018, by the district judge, Devas and show cause notice issued on November 29, 2019, by the principal registrar of the High Court. He contended that the action initiated against him was mala fide, illegal and arbitrary and without the sanction. He claimed that the Gender Sensitisation Internal Complaint Committee, in his case, completely negated the provisions of Section 10 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, by rejecting an application for conciliation submitted by the complainant. The complaint against the petitioner was made a woman judicial officer on March 7, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-by-a-judge-against-notice-in-sexual-harassment-case-853637.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi Covid-19: AAP has its way on home isolation||AAP-led Delhi government finally had its way on home isolation of Covid-19 patients with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday reversing his order that all such people should first go to a quarantine centre to assess whether they are eligible for staying at their residences during treatment. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia among others. Responding to the decision taken at the DDMA meeting, Sisodia said, "there is happy news for the people of Delhi. The Centre has withdrawn its order after our request. The old system of Delhi government will remain applicable for home isolation." Baijal had first ordered last Saturday that all Covid-19 positive patients need to undergo mandatory five-day quarantine in an institutional facility, which was reversed later following the AAP government stepping up the pressure. However, he then ordered that all Covid-19 patients should go to a Covid-19 facility for examination by experts whether they are eligible for home isolation, which was again objected by the AAP government saying that it would create more inconvenience for patients. Sisodia on Wednesday said there are two models -- (Home Minister) Amit Shah Model and Arvind Kejriwal Model -- in Delhi and "we should adopt a model that would not add to the woes of the people of Delhi. Let us not follow a model that further strains the overburdened healthcare system and adds to the woes of the people," he had said. Sisodia had written three letters in two days to Baijal and Shah demanding that the authorities go back to the old formula on home isolation. Baijal said in a tweet that the Delhi Health Department will deploy a "robust surveillance mechanism" and only those Covid-19 positive cases who do not have adequate facilities at home to ensure physical segregation and do not have other medical conditions would require to be shifted to Covid-19 Care Centres and other facilities. According to the new directions, a patient would be allowed home isolation as per the assessment of the surveillance team if he is mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic and has a residence of two rooms or a separate room and separate toilet for the patient. If the patient has moderate to severe symptoms with comorbidities, he will be transferred to an institutional facility. Earlier, the LG had reversed Delhi government's decision to reserve hospital beds only for city residents as well as restricting sample tests for the virus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-19-aap-has-its-way-on-home-isolation-853651.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||NCPCR, NCW seek explanation from Cong leader Patwari for his remarks on girl child||The National Commission for Women (NCW) and apex child rights body NCPCR on Thursday sought explanations from Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Jitu Patwari over his "misogynistic" and "derogatory" remarks relating to the girl child. In a veiled attack on the BJP government at the Centre, Patwari on Twitter had said that in an attempt of giving birth to a son called development, five daughters were born namely demonetisation, GST, inflation, unemployment and economic slowdown. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) said the tweet not only supported the age-old evil of preferring a boy instead of a girl child, leading to high rates of female foeticide in the country but it further demonstrated his mindset and approach towards the girl child in general. "That as a political leader, it is unethical for you to violate the deepest constraints of morality to take any political digs at anyone else and to achieve greater goods and avoid disasters for the society at large," the NCPCR said in a letter to Patwari. "That audacious act of passing such a disparaging statement through your tweet not only belittles the very existence of the girl child but further takes us decades back, making all the incalculable struggle and sacrifice for achieving gender equality and rights of girl children in vain," it said. In light of the above, the commission said, "it humbly requests your good self to kindly apologise to children of the nation for passing such remarks through your tweet dated June 24 and revert to the commission regarding the same within three days". The NCW has also taken suo motu cognisance of the remark. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Patwari seeking an explanation from him at the earliest on the objectionable tweet made by him. "The commission condemns such misogynistic comments on daughters which send out a wrong message to the society. It is very unbecoming of a political leader to make such demeaning and misogynistic remarks against girls," the NCW said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncpcr-ncw-seek-explanation-from-cong-leader-patwari-for-his-remarks-on-girl-child-853667.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal launches video-call facility for COVID-19 patients at LNJP hospital||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched a video call facility for coronavirus patients admitted at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital here to talk to their loved ones. LNJP was declared a COVID-19 hospital on March 17 and since then, it has successfully treated 2,700 coronavirus patients and sent them home. It is the only COVID-19 hospital in the country with 2,000 beds, he said.  The chief minister said that till now, relatives of coronavirus patients were not able to talk to them, but that that issue has been resolved. "We have installed tablets in coronavirus wards and at a counter outside. These can be used by patients and their relatives for video calling," Kejriwal said. After the launch, Kejriwal used the facility to talk to a few patients admitted to the hospital's COVID-19 ward.  Lauding LNJP doctors, the chief minister said the medics don't go home or meet their family members for days on end fearing that the infection may spread. "All doctors here have worked really hard. You can imagine how tough it is to work wearing PPE kits in this heat," he said, adding the administration is responsible for shortcomings, if any, and not the healthcare workers. "We (government) stand like a rock behind you. If you face any problem, we are there with you. We will work together to improve the facilities. Obviously, there is a scope for improvement," Kejriwal told the doctors. Plasma therapy is being used on a large scale in LNJP, which has reduced the death rate among COVID-19 patients substantially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-launches-video-call-facility-for-covid-19-patients-at-lnjp-hospital-853672.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court reserves order on Sharjeel Imam’s plea against extension of time to probe UAPA case||Delhi Police Thursday opposed in the Delhi High Court a plea by JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, challenging a trial court order granting more time to conclude the investigation. The police contended there was no infirmity in the trial court’s April 25 order which granted it three more months, beyond the statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or UAPA. Justice V Kameswar Rao, who heard the matter through video conferencing for over 5 hours, reserved the order on the plea and asked the counsels for the police and Imam to file written submissions by June 28 after which the decision will be pronounced. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar's Jehanabad district in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) near the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university here in December last year. The statutory period of 90 days from the arrest got concluded on April 27. He has also sought default bail in the matter on the ground that the probe was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days and when the police had filed an application for more time to complete the investigation, he was not given a notice as required under the law. The trial court had dismissed the bail plea. Senior advocate Rebecca John, representing Imam, argued that the invocation of UAPA on the 88th day of the accused’ custody, is with the sole intention to curtail his liberty and deprive him of right to the statutory bail after custody of 90 days. She contended that no notice was given to Imam or his lawyer by the trial court informing them about the application of the special cell seeking the extension of the time to file the charge sheet in view of invoking UAPA charges against him. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, representing the police, said no provision of law has been violated and there are good and substantial cause for enlargement of time for investigation and contended that Imam was not entitled for any relief. He claimed the submissions advanced on behalf of the accused are misconceived and contended that there was no infirmity in the trial court's order. He said the statutory bail of the accused was also rejected by the trial court on the ground of extension of time to complete the investigation. Lekhi along with advocate Amit Mahajan, said the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, so the pace of investigation got disrupted as the probe was not done through video conferencing. The law officer said there was an application of mind by the prosecutor who also said there was a need to extend the time for completing the probe and the application has to be filed before expiry of 90 days. “I can make the application on the 89th day also. There is no bar as long as there is a cause. The requirement is a cause and not a bar,” he argued. The police had earlier filed an affidavit opposing Imam's plea and said “he was continuously giving inflammatory and instigating speeches against the government on the issue of CAA and National Register of Citizens.” It had said Imam by way of his speeches was addressing a particular religious section of the society and creating disaffection towards the government by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the CAA and the NRC, which is yet to be implemented in any manner throughout the country barring Assam. During the hearing, John said after the trial court’s April 25 order, another 60 days have passed and Imam was still in custody. She said as per a Supreme Court verdict, COVID-19 is no ground for extending time for filing of charge sheet. The police had said despite the lockdown, the counsel of the accused was timely informed of the application being filed under section 43 of the UAPA through WhatsApp and a call, keeping in view the rights of the accused. Section 43-D (2) of UAPA provides that if it is not possible to complete the investigation within the 90 days period, then upon the report of the public prosecutor indicating the progress of the probe and the specific reasons for the detention of the accused beyond the 90 days period, after satisfaction, the court can extend the period of the probe to 180 days. Imam is currently lodged in Guwahati jail in a case related to UAPA registered by the Assam police. Initially, a case under section 124 A (sedition) and 153 A IPC (promoting enmity between classes) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the IPC was lodged by the Crime Branch here, pursuant to the alleged speeches addressed by Imam, allegedly instigating a particular religious section of the society to disrupt/block the access to North East region of India from rest of India, police had claimed. Imam was allegedly involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges. Another case was filed against Imam in Assam under the stringent anti-terror law for his remark that Assam could be "severed from India, even if for a few months" as a result of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Police in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh had also lodged FIRs against the JNU scholar over his speech in which he threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the northeast from the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-reserves-order-on-sharjeel-imam-s-plea-against-extension-of-time-to-probe-uapa-case-853675.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Harsh Vardhan launches mobile app to enable people have easy access to blood||A mobile application that would enable people to access "safe blood" easily, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, was launched by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday. Developed by the E-Raktkosh team of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) under the Digital India scheme, the application will bring transparency and facilitate single-window access to blood services of the Indian Red Cross Society, officials said. Vardhan said, "In the last few months, I received several complaints from people facing difficulties in accessing safe blood. Many people require blood-related services regularly because of certain medical conditions in their families. Through this app, four units of blood can be requisitioned at a time and the blood bank will wait for 12 hours for the person to collect it." "At a time when the country is going through a pandemic, the mobile app will provide succour to all those who are in dire need of blood," the health minister said. Users with this app can know the live status of blood availability at the national headquarters of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) blood bank in Delhi.  Once a request is placed through the app, the requisite units become visible to national headquarters blood bank in its e-Raktkosh dashboard and this allows assured delivery within the specified time, the health ministry said in a statement. The stock status of other Red Cross Blood Banks in the country is also visible in the app. It would also facilitate voluntary blood donation through its camp search feature that allows users to know the venue and time of scheduled camps nearby, officials said. Urging people to donate blood, Vardhan said that any person below the age of 65 can give blood as many as four times a year. "Regular blood donation can prevent obesity, cardiac problems and many other ailments. Not just that, blood donation is also a spiritual path by which mankind can be served," he said. After the launch, Vardhan also presided over the managing body meeting of the Indian Red Cross Society.  There, he said the IRCS has been playing a major role during COVID-19 pandemic alongside the government, especially in maintaining an adequate supply of safe blood by issuing passes to donors and organizing donation camps, according to a health ministry statement. All 89 IRCS blood banks and 1,100 branches across the country have collected more than 1,00,000 units of blood through in-house donations and from around 2,000 donation camps organized during the lockdown. Also, more than 38,000 blood donors registered with NHQ Blood Bank have been contacted and motivated to donate blood. The NHQ Blood Bank conducted 55 blood donation camps collecting 2,896 units of blood. The IRCS has served more than 3,00,00,000 cooked meals and provided ration to more than 11,00,000 families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/harsh-vardhan-launches-mobile-app-to-enable-people-have-easy-access-to-blood-853681.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases cross 2,000-mark in UP; death toll mounts to 611||Uttar Pradesh recorded 15 more deaths and 636 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the tally past the 2,000-mark as the fatalities mounted to 611. At 20,193 cases, the state has added 12,370 to the count since June 1 when the Centre began the "Unlock-1" phase, gradually lifting the curbs imposed nationwide to contain the spread of coronavirus. Up to June 1, the state had reported 7,823 cases and 213 deaths due to COVID-19. Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said 13,119 of the infected have been treated and discharged from hospitals. The number of active cases stands at 6,463, he told reporters. He said 16,521 samples were tested on Wednesday, taking the number of samples tested so far to over 6.20 lakh. Accredited social health activists (ASHA) workers have tracked over 18.53 lakh migrant workers and 1,623 of them were found symptomatic, Awasthi said. "Of the symptomatic people, 217 have been found coronavirus positive and are undergoing treatment," he said, adding that the state government was emphasising on surveillance to check the spread of COVID-19 and break the chain of its transmission. Awasthi said the chief minister has directed officials to use COVID Care Fund for setting up coronavirus testing laboratories in every district of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-cross-2000-mark-in-up-death-toll-mounts-to-611-853706.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Senior IPS officer Basant Rath files complaint against Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh||A top IPS officer has kicked up a storm in Jammu and Kashmir by filing a complaint against his own boss, the Director General Police (DGP), asking the police to take cognizance of the alleged threat given to him by the top cop. Basant Rath, a 2000 batch IPS officer, presently posted as IGP Home Guards in the Union Territory, filed a written complaint against DGP Dilbag Singh in Gandhi Nagar Police Station. “I am writing to you to take note of my genuine apprehensions about my safety and reputation. I am doing it as a private citizen of this country. Not as a civil servant. Not as a police officer,” the complaint, a copy of which lies with the DH, reads. “I am not asking you to lodge an FIR against the person mentioned above (DGP Dilbag Singh). I am just asking you to make this letter a part of the daily dairy in your station. Today. Now. In case something bad happens to me, you should know whose number you should dial. With due respect,” it adds.    Rath, who is known for multiple run-ins with his seniors, has also marked a copy of the complaint to the DGP as well. “I expect you to acknowledge this letter. You can send me a screenshot of my WhatsApp. Or you can send me a DM on Twitter. I am @KangriCarrier. It is a reasonably popular twitter handle in J&K, and Ladakh,” Rath said in the complaint. Station House Officer, Gandhi Nagar Police Station G Choudhary said he has not seen the letter. “I have not seen it,” he said. Earlier, this month, the IPS officer in a tweet had hinted that Dilbag Singh apparently owns a big estate in Jammu. “Hi, Dilbag Singh. Can I call you Dilloo? Are you the one who owns 50 canals (six acres) of land in Sarore near the dental college? Is it registered on your name?” Rath tweeted. The DGP responded to the allegations on a WhatsApp group of journalists and bureaucrats named Kashmir Firstpost: “See he doesn’t even know whether it’s 2 kanals or 50 kanals. He is poor at homework. Shame on the IPS officer who has risen to become igp and is dumped without any work because every time he is given some responsibility he proves to be a joker and useless (sic).” Hailing from Odisha, Rath was promoted to IGP in early 2018 and posted in the traffic department. He earned a sobriquet of ‘Singam’ for acting against the lawbreakers. From lifting the Audi of top police officer’s kin to implementing the helmet rule and removing music systems from public transport, Rath had gone the extra mile to ensure that people adhere to the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-ips-officer-basant-rath-files-complaint-against-jammu-and-kashmir-dgp-dilbag-singh-853708.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Court allows Jamia student Asif Tanha to have legal interview in jail||A Delhi court Thursday allowed Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) University student Asif Iqbal Tanha, booked under anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in connection with communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, to meet his counsel in jail for legal interview. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, physical interviews of accused lodged in jails, with their counsel have been suspended and they were being provided legal assistance through legal aid counsel deputed by Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DLSA). Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana said the Tihar Jail Superintendent may allow the request of Tanha's counsel to meet him at a fixed date and have at least one telephonic conversation with him in a week. “The accused has a right of representation through a lawyer of his choice and for the effective exercise of the right he is entitled to have an interaction with his counsel, of course, subject to administrative convenience of the Jail Superintendent,” the court said in its order. During the hearing held through video conferencing, advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for Tanha, had sought permission have legal interview through video conferencing with him. Jail Superintendent of Tihar prison submitted a report stating that all accused persons were provided legal assistance through the legal aid counsel deputed by DLSA in jail and were allowed to speak with their counsel over telephone. He further said that if the court directed, Shankaran may visit Tanha in jail for 30 minutes at the meeting window of the jail between 11 am to 2 pm. Shankaran said that she shall seek prior permission of the jail authorities through email and thereafter meet the accused in jail on any date as fixed by the Jail Superintendent, as per his administrative convenience. She further sought permission to have at least one telephonic conversation with the accused in a week. "In view of the same, the Superintendent may consider the request of the counsel for the accused as per rules," the court said. Tanha, third-year student of BA in Persian language, currently in judicial custody in a case related to communal violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in north east Delhi in February. Besides him, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, JMI Gulfisha Khatoon, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, President of Jamia Alumni Association Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, activist Khalid and former student leader Umar Khalid have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. Umar Khalid has not been arrested in the case yet. The police had claimed in the FIR that Umar and his associates had instigated people to start riots in the area and it was a “premeditated conspiracy”. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-court-allows-jamia-student-asif-tanha-to-have-legal-interview-in-jail-853716.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Imperative to ramp up Covid-19 testing, give action plan, HC directs Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court directed the AAP government on Thursday to give an action plan on ramping up the Covid-19 testing, saying it was "imperative" as the city on June 24 recorded the highest daily increase in coronavirus cases, more than anywhere else in the country. Delhi recorded 3,788 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to over 70,000, while the number of deaths due to Covid-19 climbed to 2,365. "Give an action plan on ramping up testing in the national capital which is imperative since as of yesterday (June 24), Delhi tops the country with the largest number of increase in cases in a single day at 3.788," a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said. It directed the Delhi government, represented by its additional standing counsel Satyakam, to also file an affidavit containing a computed and tabulated statement of the number of tests carried out under each category, like the rapid antigen detection test and the newly proposed antibody test scheduled to commence from June 27. Besides, the bench directed the Centre and the Delhi government to publicise and upload on their website an advisory issued on June 23 by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permitting private hospitals to carry out the rapid antigen detection test which gives results within 15-20 minutes. However, the results of rapid antigen detection test are not very accurate and any negative result is to be confirmed by the more accurate RT/PCR test, the Centre said. RT/PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. The bench, in its order, also directed the Delhi government to file an affidavit indicating compliance of the recommendations made in the June 23 meeting of the committee constituted by the Lieutenant Governor to advise the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. The committee in its meeting of June 23 had discussed the difficulties, like duplication of data, cumbersome data entry process, manpower shortage and financial non-viability of onsite sample collection, being faced by the private labs in carrying out the Covid-19 tests. Dealing with the difficulties, the committee recommended that data with regard to the tests shall be collected only on the RT/PCR app and will only be uploaded on the ICMR website and no other app would be used for data collection, the status report filed by the Delhi government stated.' The report further said that the committee was of the view that data entry operator numbers be augmented to help with the manpower shortage and that no lab should accept samples beyond their processing capacity, so that results can be obtained within 48 hours. The committee also recommended setting up of an interactive platform and holding of virtual meetings with the labs to address their grievances, the report said. With regard to the court's observation on June 18 that testing capacity of private labs was being underutilised, the Delhi government in its report has said that while the designated Covid testing private labs have a self-declared capacity of nearly 7,220 samples per day, they have pledged merely 2.030 of that for the Delhi government on a daily basis. Satyakam, during the hearing, also informed the court about the Delhi government's proposed antibody test, set to start from June 27, as part of which 4,000 blood samples per day would be randomly collected from various parts of the city for five days and they would be tested for development of any immunity against Covid. The serological test or 'sero surveillance', which its being called, would help to identify those who have recovered from Covid-19 without being tested because they were asymptomatic, had mild disease, or could not get tested for some reason, he said. He also told the court that from June 18-23, 68,041 rapid antigen tests were carried out and 41,155 samples were collected using the RT/PCR method, leading to a total of 1,09,196 tests at an average of 18,200 samples per day. The court on June 22 had asked the AAP government to try and increase the Covid testing methodology, Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), in view of rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital. The bench was hearing an application by advocate Sanjeev Sharma who has contended there have been several instances where non-Covid patients needing surgery or emergent procedures are required to undergo testing before that, but hospital concerned is unable to conduct the test as they are not permitted to do so by Delhi government. The application by Sharma was filed in the main petition of advocate Rakesh Malhotra who had sought swift testing of Covid-19 cases and declaration of results within 48 hours. The high court had on May 4 disposed of the petition with a direction to the Delhi government to publish on its websites correct data of tests conducted, number of positive results and pending outcomes. The application has also alleged that the high court's May 4 direction was not being complied with properly by the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imperative-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-give-action-plan-hc-directs-delhi-govt-853720.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Plea in SC for proper treatment of Covid-positive minor girls of Kanpur shelter home||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking proper “medical treatment and facilities” to as many as 57 minor girls who have tested positive for Covid-19 in a Kanpur-based shelter home in Uttar Pradesh. The plea has been filed by lawyer Aparna Bhat in her capacity as an amicus curiae in a 2007 case related to “Exploitation of Children in Orphanages in State of Tamil Nadu”. Seeking better facilities for such children, the plea said, “Allow the present application and direct that appropriate medical treatment and facilities be given to the minor girls who have reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 in the Shelter Home in Kanpur District, Uttar Pradesh and report on their health condition on a regular basis”. The National Human Rights Commission has also taken cognizance of news reports that 57 minor girls have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Kanpur shelter home. Bhat has sought a direction to the Centre to issue an advisory to all Child Welfare Committees to ensure that children, who are being newly admitted into any Child Care Institutions (CCIs), are suitably quarantined before allowing them to be placed in CCIs and the necessary resources for the same be allocated as an interim measure to meet the extraordinary requirements of the pandemic. “Direct the Union of India to immediately identify homes for the purposes of quarantining children who are Covid positive and/or who are in need of being quarantined since their immediate history cannot be accessed and they can asymptomatic carriers,” the plea said. It said that the Centre be asked to make testing mandatory before placing new children in the CCIs and then follow the necessary protocol. The application has sought a direction to the Centre to call for a report from each state about the conditions of the children in the CCIs and their Covid-19 readiness including facilities for testing, quarantine and other facilities that are prescribed by the Ministry of Health for management of Covid-19 positive patients. The plea referred to the fact that the top court, on April 3, had taken suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the condition of children in protection, juvenile and foster or kinship homes across the country amid the coronavirus outbreak and had issued directions to the state governments and various other authorities to protect them. “That the manner in which Covid-19 has spread in the concerned Shelter Home makes it clear that the directions passed by this Court in Re: Contagion of Covid-19 Virus in Children Protection Homes order dated April 03, …with respect to the measures to be taken by Child Welfare Committees, Juvenile Justice Boards, CCIs and Governments have not been followed,” the plea said. Earlier on June 11, the apex court had taken note of 35 children testing positive for Covid-19 in a government-run shelter home in Tamil Nadu and had sought a status report from the state government including steps taken to protect other children at the facility. It had also sought status report from different state governments on steps taken to protect children in shelter homes amid the pandemic, and also compliance of its April 3 order in this regard. It had said a detailed order was passed by the Court on April 3 dealing with all issues pertaining to children in conflict with law and several directions were given to the State Governments for taking preventive measures to protect children from the spread of Covid-19. The top court said that Juvenile Justice Committees of high courts will circulate a questionnaire of the court among state governments seeking information in relation to the care and protection of children in conflict with law and submit their feedback before June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-sc-for-proper-treatment-of-covid-positive-minor-girls-of-kanpur-shelter-home-853738.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||Will of people at heart of Covid-19 fight: Niti Aayog's V K Paul||The behaviour and will of the people are at the heart of the fight against COVID-19, Niti Aayog Member V K Paul said on Thursday. He added that the government is trying to contain the coronavirus pandemic as much as possible. Paul further said the coronavirus will take its own time till the so-called herd immunity is achieved, which happens when a large segment of the population has already been infected. "But we will not allow this virus to infect so many of us, that is the whole name of the game. "We will contain this disease to the maximum possible, we will push the peak and lower the peak as much as possible," he said at the virtual launch of COVID-19 behavioural change campaign 'Navigating the New Normal'. Paul, who is heading an Empowered Group on medical equipment and management plan to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, said the time is ripe for a mass movement for mask-wearing. "The behaviour and will of the people are at the heart of our fight against COVID-19," he said, adding that how the country mitigates the risk of the coronavirus now depends on people's actions. "If we create a barrier like a mask in the new normal, it would limit its spread," Paul said. Speaking at the event, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said as the country continues to open up, there is a higher expectation now than ever before from each Indian to practice safe behaviour. Lyricist and communications professional Prasoon Joshi said through this behavioural change campaign, the government envisions to make mask wearing a part of everyone's subconscious and part of our everyday life. "The campaign to induce a behavioural change will be led by kids. As responsible citizens, we have to ensure that mask-wearing is an integral part of the new normal," Joshi said. India registered its worst single-day increase in COVID-19 cases on Thursday, recording close to 17,000 coronavirus infections to push the overall tally to 4.73 lakh as the number of fatalities inched closer to 15,000, according to health ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-of-people-at-heart-of-covid-19-fight-niti-aayogs-v-k-paul-853743.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi expresses anguish at loss of lives in UP, Bihar due to rains, lightening||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the loss of lives in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar due to heavy rains and lightening. He said the two state governments are carrying out the relief work with promptness. "Received tragic news about death of several people in some districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar due to heavy rains and lightening. The state governments are engaged in relief work with promptness," he tweeted in Hindi. The prime minister expressed his condolences to the families of those killed. At least 26 people including three children were killed in lightning strikes in five districts of Bihar on Thursday, officials said. Similarly, many people have died in Uttar Pradesh due to lightening and rains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-expresses-anguish-at-loss-of-lives-in-up-bihar-due-to-rains-lightening-853747.html
25-06-2020||North and Central||16-year-old TikTok star allegedly hangs self at her house in east Delhi||A 16-year-old TikTok star alleged hanged herself at her residence in east Delhi's Geeta Colony area, police said on Thursday. The deceased girl had over one million followers on the short-video platform, and another 1.35 lakh on Instagram. Police said they received information regarding the incident on Wednesday. Her father found her hanging around 9 pm, they said. Later, police were informed about the incident. No suicide note was recovered from near the body. The body was sent to Subzi Mandi Mortuary for post-morterm. The body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem on Thursday, a senior police officer said. The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. Inquest proceedings have been initiated, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-year-old-tiktok-star-allegedly-hangs-self-at-her-house-in-east-delhi-853759.html
25-06-2020||Opinion||Axone: A Laudable portrayal of Indian racial minorities' plight||While India’s Constitution envisions principled accommodation based on equality and fraternity for safeguarding racial, ethnic and religious minorities, the lived experiences of these minorities has been a story of discontent. The transgressions of individual and communitarian dignity of minorities ranges from blatant physical violence in the public and private sphere to casual chauvinism/ stereotyping in popular culture and everyday life. This discrimination translates into pervasive housing discrimination, cultural chauvinism and intolerance towards divergent ways of living, access to public goods education and healthcare. This pervasive intolerance extends to racist onslaughts on dignity of African students residing in India. This racial bias was laid bare recently when coronavirus cases were beginning to take flight in India. A girl from Manipur was spat on by a middle-aged man who called her ‘Corona’. Taking a step ahead to highlight the struggles of these minorities in a mundane, non-Covid context is the film Axone. The film is set in the landscape of a middle-class locality in Delhi where a group of women from North-Eastern states, live in rented accommodation while battling conservative restrictions and onerous conditions by their prejudiced and prudish co-tenants and house owner. The film is a welcome effort in addressing the prevalent discrimination against citizens from North-Eastern states. The film weighs in on food politics as an attempt to prick the majoritarian conscience for its inhumane insensitivity towards minorities. The film revolves around the challenges faced by the tenants for trying to cook a traditional dish ‘Axone’ to celebrate the wedding of their friend. Axone (pronounced as Akhuni) is a condiment made from fermented soyabeans and has a sharply bitter taste and flavour to it. Associated with the Sema Tribe of Nagaland, it is usually used to make pickles or served with meat, preferably pork. Through this singular problem, the film shows the various layers of subordination that racial minorities have to face in an intolerant society that finds certain types of meat and its consumers ‘impure’. The film is also remarkable for its casting as 80 percent of the star cast consists of people who themselves come from North-East and have lived the realities that they are depicting through the narrative. While sensitively exposing such iniquitous treatment of racial minorities from North-Eastern states, the director has also projected the internal cleavages and faultlines within the minority community. In the film, Upasana (a Nepali character played by Sayani Gupta) is ‘othered’ as she does not have Mongoloid features and then there is the collective disdain against a ‘Bengali Aunty’. There is also an attempt to manifest the patriarchal mindset which dictates that women who are too ‘fashionable’ or are under western influence deserve to be punished and suppressed, leading to their physical, verbal and sexual harassment. One discontent from the film’s narrative is that while it explains the struggles of cultural assimilation in a metropolis, portrays Naga culture in a sensitive manner and shows the emotional costs of migration from a racial minority-migrant standpoint, its overall narrative indulges in an undesirable balancing act. Bendang, a character played by Lanuakum Ao, expresses his internalised anguish and trauma as he had suffered physical violence. When he gets back at Shiv (the house owner’s grandson) for violating his personal space by saying ‘Fucking Indian’, he is seen as being ‘sensitised’ by his girlfriend for not choosing to be friends with mainland Indians while living in the bustling city of Delhi and not being ‘open’ enough to assimilation. Hence, the film doesn’t go as far to question the very idea of assimilation as Bendang’s anguish is portrayed as a form of parochialism rather than an anguish about the undue burden to completely assimilate into the majoritarian culture even when the latter betrays abject intolerance and ignorance. The filmmakers needed to have thought harder about the political implications of their well-meaning cinematic messaging. (Prannv Dhawan studies at NLSIU, Bengaluru and Bhavya Arora is a student of Hansraj College, Delhi University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/axone-a-laudable-portrayal-of-indian-racial-minorities-plight-853565.html
25-06-2020||Opinion||Structures that matter for India in Galwan Valley ||It was the most exciting moment when I saw the river Shyok flowing quietly in the Galwan Valley for the first time in my life. The river, surrounded by mountain peaks, virtually resembled a glacier. Slow-moving chunks of ice were floating down the river.    The Shyok is exactly opposite in features compared to many rivers I have seen. Unlike the Shyok, many rivers, including the ones flowing through my native district Belagavi, flow rapidly carrying huge quantities of water. They quickly dry up during summer. The Shyok flows slowly as masses of ice melt. As they float, water beneath flows quietly. The Shyok's unusual features have been the epicentre of tragedies for thousands of families in the valley. Many people have lost their lives while attempting to cross over the river to reach Leh for emergencies. The river posed challenges equally even to the Indian soldiers guarding the country's frontiers. It was virtually impossible for them to cross the river and rush to their native places whenever their dear ones departed. The formation and troops across the river would be cut-off from the rest of India for nearly six months. It meant the soldiers could not cross the river for as many as 180 days.  After lending ears to heart-rending tales of the soldiers, we vowed to construct the bridge across the Shyok. The project Himank for border security The Indian government decided to commission road and bridge projects under Project Himank and assigned it to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) known as mountain tamers. The development of the road up to Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) and construction of the bridge across the river Shyok were major tasks. During the peak of the summer, the temperature in the region hovers around 10-20 degrees Celsius. The temperature during winter dips to minus 40 degree Celsius. Oxygen levels are 50% less at that altitude. Adverse weather conditions make the work possible only for four months a year.   The BRO personnel were acclimatised through a tedious process and a lot of training was given before assigning the job. 255 km road project The DBO is India's northernmost corner and is located just 9 km away from the Indian perception of Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. The distance between Leh and DBO is about 350 km. The Darbuk–Shyok-DBO Road’s length is about 255 km. The road, running parallel to the LAC connects Leh to the Karakoram Pass and divides Ladakh from China’s Xinjiang province. This road between the Shyok and Karakoram Pass helps India manage the borders and the areas near Aksai Chin, Chip Chap River and Jiwan Nalla, besides ensuring the faster deployment of army troops in the area. It branches off towards the Galwan Valley and helps the Indian military to ensure its presence in the area.  It was a Herculean task to construct the road in the terrain. Adopting the latest technology, the BRO utilised local materials and geocrete and constructed a cementitious base road which can withstand recurring snowfall and cold climate. Permanent bridge: The engineering marvel  The daunting task was the replacement of temporary bridges with the permanent ones. The micro-piling technology, known as the great engineering marvel in the terrain, has been used to construct the permanent bridge. The bridge across the river Shyok, christened after Colonel Chewang Rinchen, the road up to DBO and various other bridges have reduced travel time between Leh and DBO from two days to just seven hours. The 400-metre-long all-weather permanent bridge built at an altitude of about 15,000 feet is located between the Karakoram and Chang Chenmo mountain ranges in eastern Ladakh. It is nearly 45 km away from LAC. The work for the bridge began in 2015 and completed in 2018. It has strengthened security in border areas such as Aksai Chin and Jammu and Kashmir facilitating quick movement of army forces. Built as an integral part of the strategy for the development of the border area, the bridge connects Darbuk with Daulat Beg Oldie, people of Ladakh and all interior areas of Jammu and Kashmir with other parts of the country giving scope for development and investment. The bridge with 10 spans of 140 feet each with 4.25 metre of width was built in 15 months. Its superstructure is called Extra Wide Bailey Bridge.   World's highest motorable road ready   The BRO constructed the world’s highest motorable road connecting Chisumle and Demchok villages in six years despite objections by China. It was commissioned in 2016.  The road, at the height of 19,300 feet on Zero Line and passing through the Umlingla top, was constructed to meet the strategic requirements as part of three key links.  The BRO has also constructed and repaired various helipads and Advanced Landing Grounds. The BRO's contribution in the development of the entire Leh-Ladakh region is immense. The projects have benefited locals and tourists boosting the economy. Shyok, the unusual river  Shyok, a river of the Kashmir region in the northern part of the Indian sub-continent, rises in the Karakoram Range. A tributary of the Indus River, Shyok originates from the Rimo Glacier, one of the tongues of Siachen Glacier. It is fed by melted water from numerous glaciers on its journey through the range and flows generally north-westward. It enters Pakistan and joins the Indus River near Khapalu. The Shyok's length is about 550 km. Hazardous conditions make the river impossible to cross. The climate of the valley is semi-arid with annual precipitation averaging less than 8 inches (200 mm). The sediment load and the flow are highest between June and September. The glacial melted water reaches a maximum during monsoon. During winter, the minimum daily temperature dips below minus 10 degree C.  The river has protected people of Ladakh since ancient times from foreign invaders. Many invaders and their cavalry attempted to cross the river but got drowned.  Honouring ‘Lion of Ladakh’ Col Chewang Rinchen Colonel Chewang Rinchen, known as ‘Lion of Ladakh’, was born on November 11, 1931, at Sumur village in Nubra Valley. He is one of the six soldiers of the Armed Forces to have been awarded the highest Indian gallantry award, the Maha Vir Chakra twice. He was the youngest ever recipient of the Maha Vir Chakra. He served in 1962’s India-China war and played an important role in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 as he led the battalion to capture the Chalunka complex of the Pakistani Army and a strategic outpost of Turtuk. He demonstrated extraordinary acts of courage in defending the Leh and Partapur sector. Need for good infrastructure in Ladakh sector The China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) is building up a cluster of military infrastructure signalling a gradual shift in its training activities over a period of time. The PLA's major focus is centred around protecting the Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), especially the area of Gilgit-Baltistan, where a China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is being commissioned. The four major road networks for the development of the Ladakh region include Leh-Dabruk-Shyok- Daulat Beg Oldi (DSDBO/Sub-Sector North road), Leh-Nyoma-Demchok (LND), Leh-Chalunka (LC) and Leh-Upsi-Sarchu-Manali (LUSM). Brigadier D M Purvimath: The Belagavi man   Brigadier D M Purvimath, former Chief Engineer, Project Himank (2015-2018), hails from Yaragatti in Belagavi district. He joined the Corps of Engineers of the Indian Army in 1986.  He served in northern and eastern borders. As commander of prestigious air force station of Central India, he was instrumental in constructing runway and biggest hangar. He was Deputy Director General (DGG) of NCC Directorate, Karnataka and Goa. He was honoured with the Prime Minister’s Banner for Best Directorate on January 26, 2019. He has been decorated with VSM and Bar by the President of India twice.  The Colonel Chewang Rinchen Sethu, under Purvimath's supervision, across river Shyok, was completed in 2018. The project has boosted the morale of the troops.     (Translated and edited by Jagadish Angadi and Praveen Kulkarni)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/structures-that-matter-for-india-in-galwan-valley-853585.html
25-06-2020||Panorama||A new approach in ties needed in the India-China border tension||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement at the all-party meeting on  June 19 that “neither is anyone inside our territory nor is anyone of our post captured” led to intense questioning in the media whether Chinese ‘transgressions’ were being condoned by the PM. That was a misreading of PM’s remarks. Realising the sensitivity of the matter, the PMO issued a detailed clarification next day stating that the remarks were in the context of Galwan region. The Ministry of External Affairs also issued a strong statement on rebutting Chinese claims on the Galwan Valley. The controversy erupted because news-hungry 24x7 media and social media focused on only one aspect of the PM’s statement while ignoring the others including the MEA statements. The fact is that the PM’s statement was quite comprehensive, which if read in totality, would not have led to extreme interpretations. The statement had indicated that 20 Indian soldiers had sacrificed defending the motherland. It was categoric that while India wanted peace and friendship, defending was ‘foremost’ task. Further, the armed forces have a free hand to take all necessary steps and the government was giving priority to the development of modern infrastructure in the area. The subsequent MEA statement rejected China’s exaggerated claims which were in contravention of the understanding reached between the military commanders on June 6. Read together, it is clear that India was not conceding to China any of its claims and that India was taking all steps to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The government’s statements have accepted that there have been ‘transgressions’ from the Chinese side and that the talks for ‘disengagement and de-escalation’ have been going on. While the government has not released specific details regarding Chinese transgressions in various areas, it is the right thing for the government to do particularly at a time when sensitive discussions are going on. There has been no hiding or covering up of the situation. It is a separate matter that full details of the incidents may not be available. That is not unusual at the time of heightened tensions. The government has to be cautious in what it says. Understandably, there are many things which are not in the public domain at this moment. The focus of the discussion in the country should be on how to deal with China and not to pick holes in the functioning of the government. The need of the hour is to build national resolve to fight the crisis. In a democracy, the government is answerable, no doubt.  In due course, it will have to answer for all its actions. But, it is not essential that all the answers have to be given on demand of the media or political parties. Post mortems can wait. It is heartening that most political parties gave complete support to the government and the armed forces to deal with the situation and did not press for immediate answers. The government should hold more such meetings in future. That will help to build unity and consensus in the country to deal with an aggressive China. Understandably, emotions are inflamed right now. However, dealing with China cannot be based on rhetoric or emotions. A careful, dispassionate, objective analysis of the situation, own strengths and weaknesses need to be done to formulate a comprehensive response. ‘Face-offs’, ‘transgressions’, ‘intrusions’ are not uncommon on India-China border. But the present crisis is an inflexion point in Sino-Indian relations. It should make us take a realistic assessment of the bilateral relationship. Not having a clear and demarcated Line of Actual Control (LAC) has been the root cause of the problems. The Chinese position of sticking to an undefined LAC and focusing on only border management and confidence building measures rather than on resolving the boundary question has run its course. A new approach is needed. India of 2020 is not the same India of 1962. Everyone, including China, understands it. While there is a difference between India and China in comprehensive national strength, that does not mean India is a pushover or it will give in to anybody’s bullying. The nature of China’s challenge is well understood by the leadership as well as the armed forces. The general public has also become alert to the economic dimension of the China challenge. The calls for reducing imports of critical items from China has had resonance across the country. Focus on diversification While it may not be possible to disentangle the Indian economy from the Chinese economy immediately, it goes without saying that we need to focus on diversification. This may take some time. But it is not impossible. The prime minister’s call for a self-reliant India and building local brands is the right framework to deal with India-China economic relations. We should also have a better understanding of the Chinese political structures, military system, economy and the mindset of the people. This can happen only if we acquire the language skills needed to know China. The government should encourage Chinese studies in the country. There are several diplomatic measures which can be considered. Upgrading relations with Taiwan and giving more visibility to the Dalai Lama, talking about the human rights situation in Hong Kong and Xinjiang should be encouraged. China’s assertiveness is palpable across the Indo-Pacific. The Government of India can also consider how to revitalise the Quad to discourage China from following a highly intrusive policy in the region. A coalition-building approach will be needed. India China military stand-off is likely to be a long haul. We are entering into an uncharted territory insofar as bilateral relations are concerned. India wants good relations with China but cannot compromise on its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The power differential between India and China cannot be denied but at the same time, India cannot afford to be intimidated by China. China has many faultlines which need to be understood. Our focus should be on infrastructure building, proactive diplomacy, use of consumer power, diversification of supply chains etc. A coordinated strategy to deal with China is needed. The suggestions of the sceptics should also be taken into consideration. (The writer is Former Deputy National Security Advisor)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-new-approach-in-ties-needed-in-the-india-china-border-tension-853453.html
25-06-2020||Panorama||GST Council meetings: Waste of time and resources||Of late, the meetings of the GST Council are becoming like the annual Union Budgets - raise expectations only to disappoint the taxpayer later. Much was expected from the 40th meeting of the GST Council but what transpired was only a few token measures. It reduced late fee and interest for those with tax liabilities and waived off late fee completely for those with no tax liabilities. There was also an announcement prior to the meeting that nil returns could be filed through SMS also. There was nothing on GST rates and nothing on how the Council plans to quench the thirst of the states for their pound of flesh. There were some indications given of GST collections - around Rs 45,000 crore. It is a moot point to discuss whether the Council should spend so much to time and resources to discuss things such as late fees and penalties. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) can be given this responsibility with a mandate to run their proposals through the Council. The Council has plenty of reasons to have detailed meetings at regular intervals. With the GST Appellate Tribunal yet to get up and running due to its faulty constitution, tax payers have no option but to approach the Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) to resolve their issues. It is nobody’s guess that had the Tribunal been formed, many issues decided by AARs across the country would have landed up before the Tribunal. The decisions of the AAR on GST can range from the controversial (Rajasthan AAR on directors’ remuneration) to the ordinary (most AAR’s on anti-profiteering).  A recent decision of the Karnataka AAR hits a person where it hurts the most - his stomach. In the case of ID Fresh Foods, the AAR ruled that frozen parota would attract 18% GST and not 5% since it does not meet the definition of roti or khakra. Social media was abuzz with jokes about the decision. A government official even went to the extent of defending the decision and stated that the poor do not eat frozen parota. In these times, the last thing the nation needs is a justification to levy a higher tax on the rich and a lower tax on the poor. The crux of the problem lies in the Harmonised System of Nomenclature (HSN) Codes that we decided to needlessly bring into the GST law from the erstwhile laws. It is understandable to have a laundry list of HSN Codes for customs laws but not for a largely domestic law such as GST. The problem lies in the fact that this laundry list is extremely lengthy, has innumerable chapters and sub-headings within chapters - it almost looks like a work of modern art with a title. Due to this, readymade garments and readymade sarees can have two different codes and rates and we can have complicated entries such as oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not ground or in the form of pellets, resulting from the extraction of vegetable fats or oils, other than those of heading 2304 or 2305 (this falls under Heading 2306). In the case of ID Foods, the controversy was whether parota would fall under Heading 1906 “Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares, whether or not containing cocoa; communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products” or under Heading 2106 that covers “preparations for use, either directly or after processing (such as cooking, dissolving or boiling in water, milk, etc.), for human consumption, provided that they are not covered by any other heading of the Nomenclature.” ID contended that the product merits classification under Chapter heading 1905, under the product description of ‘Khakhra, plain chapatti or roti” quoting Notification No. 1/2017-Central Tax (Rate)  as amended by Notification No.34/2017-Central Tax (Rate). Notification No.34 inserted a new entry No.99A  with the description “Khakhra, plain chapatti or roti”, without defining the said description. The AAR was of the opinion that 2106 suited frozen parotas better since it is not khakra, plain chapatti or roti. Though it is not within the purview of the AAR, no one questioned as to why the persons who drafted the HSN Codes did not think of including a staple Indian food such a parota in the Code but could think of a not-so-common item such as Khakra. Did they intend parota when they meant plain roti? Can parota be included under “similar items” mentioned in HSN Code 1906?  Should plain parota also be taxed at 18%? It is to be noted that the decision of the Karnataka High Court is silent on plain parota. One more AAR decision? The CBIC may not want to make an effort to simplify the HSN Code merely due to the number of entries therein and the sheer effort that this task can take.  They can make a beginning though by restricting the HSN Code only to the chapter headings. Next, they can attempt a rationalisation of the chapter headings. In the case of parota, “Ready to eat foods” can be one chapter heading instead of having different codes for different types of parota.  Since the rates of tax are only around 7 or 8, there is no necessity for the HSN Code to nit-pick as to how aluminium rods are cut. We can only hope another AAR does not rule that the variety of parota called Ceylon Parota has to suffer both Customs Duty and IGST because it has a foreign name. They may also be asked the question - what would be the GST rate if ID Foods puts a label “Indian Bread’’ on the outside of the packet and two frozen parota inside?  It is time the GST Council got real and gave out instructions to simplify the HSN Code. As on date, if taxpayers were quizzed as to whether the erstwhile system of indirect taxes was better than GST, it would not be a surprise if the majority said ‘yes’. The GST Council has its work cut out on trying to reverse this opinion. (The writer is a tax expert based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gst-council-meetings-waste-of-time-and-resources-853773.html
25-06-2020||Right in the Middle||My dip-tea general manager||From my school days, I could not help joking about my fellow classmates, my teachers, and my neighbours. After taking up a job in a bank I tried my best to control this trait in my character but in vain. Here I want to share with the readers how two innocuous jokes I told about one particular very proud small-minded bigwig cost me dearly. Mr. Singh, a proud man, took over our office as Deputy General Manager. He always wore a tie. He won't enter his room before trotting around the office shaking hands with the stiffness of a General. It was not enough if you stood up when he approached you. You had to demonstrate abject servility. DGM sahib was fond of Taj Mahal dip tea which he drank a dozen times a day. One day he was on leave and we were in a relaxed mood. We were talking among ourselves when his subject came up. I said, “as far as our boss is concerned DGM does not stand for Deputy General Manager. It stands for Dip-Tea General Manager” A faithful jackal placed this joke on the DGM table. My name was instantly written in bold letters in his bad book. Even before the heat of my first offence subsided I committed the second and graver offence. During a lunchtime one of my colleagues wanted to know how on earth the boss walked like a soldier, his chest thrust forward, arms tight and neck erect. I volunteered to solve the mystery. “It should be like this. When he starts for the office in the morning his wife pushes up the knot of his tie very tight. Result! His whole body becomes cadaver- stiff. When he is back from the office she loosens and removes his tie. His original loose- limb- posture returns.” A loyal-lackey relayed every word of my joke to boss’s ear which started burning. "Do you know who am I? I can burn your career to ashes". He threatened me in front of my fellow staff members. “If you yourself don’t know who you are, just hear from me. You are a petty-minded mean person without any sense of humour. You may be able to burn my career to ashes but you cannot singe a hair of mine.” I said defiantly and walked off triumphantly. The Dip Tea General Manager stooped and stopped my promotion twice proving that my assessment of his character was right.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-dip-tea-general-manager-853771.html
25-06-2020||Second Edit||Patanjali’s claim of Covid-19 cure is unconvincing||Baba Ramdev’s claim that Patanjali has found a cure for Covid-19 has evoked not just scepticism but alarm because it can pose a danger to the lives and health of people. Ramdev has claimed that Patanjali’s two drug formulations, Coronil and Swasari, will offer "100% cure’’ and that they have been developed on the basis of research and after clinical trials. The claim is most unconvincing because there is no evidence of long, widely held and rigorous trials which are essential for any drug. There are reports about some trials involving a hundred or so patients in Jaipur but this is grossly inadequate, actually nothing. There is no objective record of the trials, the processes and methodologies are unknown and no peer review has taken place. Whatever has been presented as data has been questioned by experts. There have also been inconsistencies and contradictions in the claims. The Ministry of AYUSH has put the sale of the drug on hold and told Patanjali to stop advertising it. It has said that the organisation has been told to furnish all details about the drug to it for evaluation. This is the minimum the government had to do, but there seems to be some hesitation on its part in dealing with the claim. The Uttarakhand government has said that Patanjali had sought and secured a licence to manufacture an immunity booster, but there was no reference to Covid-19 in the application.  It is suspected that this is being marketed as a cure for Covid. Patanjali’s record of claims has not been inspiring in the past and so the present claim also cannot be taken seriously without strong supporting verifiable evidence, which has so far been missing. Patanjali has a reputation and high brand value. It has a large number of products which are being used by people. Many people might accept a claim made by it as genuine and use the drug. This will be dangerous. Covid-19 is a disease about which very little is known, and the use of a medicine of unverified quality and unknown consequences is wrong and risky. Drugs are developed after long periods of research, trials and peer reviews of the processes. The development of a drug or vaccine for Covid-19 is expected to take up to 18 months, though there are reports of trials having been started. In the light of this, Patanjali’s claim seems to be highly unreliable. There are penal provisions in the law to deal with wrong and misleading medical claims. The government should invoke them to curb fake claims and quackery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/patanjali-s-claim-of-covid-19-cure-is-unconvincing-853767.html
25-06-2020||South||Puducherry reports 39 fresh COVID-19 cases, overall tally rises to 502||Puducherry on Thursday reported 39 new Covid-19 positive cases taking the overall tally in the union territory to 502. The fresh cases include two residents of Puducherry undergoing treatment in hospitals in Cuddalore and Chidambaram in Tamil Nadu, a medical bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare Services said. The total number of active cases stood at 306 while 187 patients were treated and discharged. There was no fatality and the number fatalities remained at nine. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters here that testing of samples would be intensified and it was decided to have 1,000 samples tested every dayin the next few days as against around 520 now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-39-fresh-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-rises-to-502-853569.html
25-06-2020||South||Tested positive for Covid-19, Owner of lip-smacking Iruttu Kadai halwa hangs self||The owner of the famous Iruttu Kadai that sells lip-smacking halwa in Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli died on Thursday by hanging himself, an hour after he tested positive for the novel Coronavirus. Hari Singh, 75, was admitted to a private nursing home in Tirunelveli, 630 km from here, on Tuesday following urinary infection. Though he was being treated for the infection, doctors collected his swab samples to check whether he has contracted Covid-19. “The test results came positive and the hospital staff informed Mr Singh about his Covid-19 positive status. In an hour, he was found hanging in his hospital room,” Arjun Saravanan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli city, told DH. He said, prima facie, it appears that Singh took the extreme step due to the test results. “For now, it appears his health condition is the reason,” the officer added. Singh’s son-in-law has also tested positive for the virus. Iruttu Kadai overlooking the famous Sri Nellaiappar Temple in the heart of Tirunelveli is a must stop for anyone who visits the southern Tamil Nadu town known for its hospitality. The mouth-watering wheat halwa sold at this shop has a unique taste, though the city is known for halwa with several sweet stalls selling them. The shop, which functions with just a small bulb and opens only for three hours a day from 5 pm, is always crowded with tens of people standing in queues to taste the signature halwa. Without any advertisement, Iruttu Kadai’s name reached across India due to its unique taste and word of mouth. Long serpentine queues can be seen outside the shop during peak tourist season with policemen on duty to control the crowd. The Iruttu Kadai halwa is so famous that people from across the country who visit the city make a beeline before the shop for their share of the sweet dish – the owners have imposed a limit in quantity for each person. Singh is the third-generation owner of the shop which is understood to have been launched in 1940 by his great grandfather Bijli Singh, who migrated from Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tested-positive-for-covid-19-owner-of-lip-smacking-iruttu-kadai-halwa-hangs-self-853588.html
25-06-2020||South||British national dies in Amritanandamayi Ashram in Kerala||A 45-year-old British national died at Mata Amritanantamayi Math in Kerala's Kollam district on Wednesday night allegedly after falling from the seventh floor of the building. Primafaice it was suspected that she ended her own life. The deceased was identified as Steffade Fiona. Local police said the Math authorities maintained that Fiona was showing signs of depression and had made a bid to end her life in broad daylight before. She reached the Math in January as a devotee, but was unable to return due to the lockdown. The Karunagapally police, which registered a case of unnatural death, said that post-mortem examination was being done and further investigation was on. Fiona's sister in the UK was informed and was upset that her sister was unable to return.  Meanwhile, Kerala tourism department sources said that there were enough options for foreigners stuck in Kerala due to Covid-19 to return in special flights operated by respective countries. Around 200 British nationals flew back to the UK, while some preferred to stay back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/british-national-dies-in-amritanandamayi-ashram-in-kerala-853594.html
25-06-2020||South||Panel probing Jayalalithaa’s death gets eighth extension in three years||Though not functioning for the past 14 months due to a Supreme Court ruling, the Justice A Arumughaswamy Commission constituted to probe the “mysterious death” of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa on Thursday got its eighth extension. The Commission’s tenure, which ended on Wednesday, has been extended by another four months, sources in the government told DH. The eighth extension in the nearly three years existence of the one-man commission, which has around 15 staff, comes even as the panel stopped its functioning in April 2019 owing to a stay on the proceedings by the Supreme Court. Jayalalithaa’s death on December 5, 2016, following 75 days of treatment at Apollo Hospitals in Chennai triggered a major political controversy in Tamil Nadu with her long-time political protégé O Panneerselvam raising questions about the “circumstances” that led to her death following his rebellion against V K Sasikala in February 2017. The one-man commission was one of the key demands made by Panneerselvam to merge his faction with the one led by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in August 2017 following which the panel was constituted. Though the commission functioned from September 2017 to April 2019 without any gap, the proceedings came to a halt by April-end after Apollo Hospitals got a stay on its operations. “From then, the Committee has only been waiting for the Tamil Nadu government to get the case expedited in the Supreme Court. When the hearing was to commence in March, Covid-19 struck. The committee has not been functioning for over 14 months,” a senior government official said. Though a total of 147 persons appeared before the Commission, Panneerselvam did not depose before it even once despite several notices. Jayalalithaa’s long-time aides, doctors who treated on her, the then Health Secretary Dr. J Radhakrishnan, appeared before the Commission, while the former chief minister’s long-time aide Sasikala, currently serving her jail term in Parapana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, submitted a voluminous response as she could not appear in person. P Ramajayam, Assistant Professor, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli, told DH that the AIADMK government had been using the Commission as a “political tool” since its constitution in 2017. "Jayalalithaa's death has been politicized by constituting a commission to investigate. And the way extensions are given to the Commission only reinforces the fact that it is a tool in the hands of the government. The government is expected to grant an extension for the remainder of its term to the commission as it would serve their purpose of keeping the issue of Jayalalithaa's death alive though it is irrelevant now,” Ramajayam told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panel-probing-jayalalithaa-s-death-gets-eighth-extension-in-three-years-853633.html
25-06-2020||South||Postpone state university exams: Shashi Tharoor to Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has again urged Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to postpone state university examinations citing the health hazard posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and related issues that have arisen due to the crisis. Tharoor has been repeatedly asking the state government to order postponing of state university examinations so that the students are relieved of the stress in this difficult time of the pandemic. In a letter to Vijayan, Tharoor said he has received over 3,500 emails this week alone from anxious students highlighting the immense strain they are currently under due to the decision was taken by the management of universities like the Kerala University, Kerala Technological University and Mahatma Gandhi University. With the number of cases in the state rising again, there is a strong health hazard that these students will have to contend with while leaving their homes for examination centres and appearing for their exams, Tharoor said. Many of these centres are located in regions that have been classified as hotspots due to the concentration of COVID cases, and the risk of exposure is immense, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. "Similarly, due to the rising number of cases, a number of steps have been taken by the state government and various district administrations in a bid to curtail the transmission of the virus, including reduced frequency of public transport, closure of internet cafes, mandatory social distancing protocols and so on, which have also posed a strong obstacle for our students," he said. With the majority of these students living with their parents and other elderly family members, there is naturally the worry of spreading the virus among high-risk groups, Tharoor said in the letter dated June 23. "These challenges have cumulatively posed a strong impediment for our students to perform to their true potential," he said. "Conducting examinations... is a risk that we must not force our students to face. Instead, these examinations should be postponed till such time as the current situation subsides, or, alternatively, a substitute model for grading and evaluations must be considered and adopted keeping in mind these extraordinary conditions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/postpone-state-university-exams-shashi-tharoor-to-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-853653.html
25-06-2020||South||Kerala to enhance Covid-19 testing numbers amid rising cases||As the number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala keeps on escalating with 123 more being tested positive on Thursday, Kerala has decided to enhance the number of Covid-19 tests. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state was gradually increasing number of tests with a target of 15,000 tests from around 5,000 now.  Kerala was facing criticism of low number of Covid-19 tests being done daily. Opposition Congress had alleged that among the states with over one crore population Kerala was in the 12th position with regard to number of tests.  Meanwhile, Kerala government's directives mandating PPE kits and other safety norms for NRIs returning to Kerala suffered a setback with minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan centre maintaining that state could not prescribe separate norms for NRIs returning in Vande Bharat mission flights. However, the state would be able to mandate norms for chartered flights. The chief minister said that it was owing to effective quarantine measures of Kerala that the number of infections through local contact could be kept very low. Of the total persons who came from abroad, infection spread only from seven percent. But the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority projected a steep hike in Covid-19 cases up to August as per the present trend. Hence elaborate arrangements were made for screening NRIs. Police would also take stringent actions against violation of lockdown and social distance norms. Kerala health minister K K Shailaja said that though anti-body tests were being conducted in the state to detect community spread, so far there were no signs of community spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-enhance-covid-19-testing-numbers-amid-rising-cases-853665.html
25-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 3,509 new coronavirus cases; samples tested hit 1 million mark||Recording its biggest single-day spike since the outbreak of novel coronavirus, Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 3,509 fresh Covid-19 patients, including 151 who returned from abroad and other states, pushing the state’s tally beyond 70,000. Of the 151 persons who tested positive following their return from abroad and other states, Karnataka topped the list with 34 persons – 32 came by road and two by air. Since Sunday, as many as 81 persons who returned from the neighbouring state have tested positive for coronavirus.   The state’s tally now stands at 70,977, including 39,999 discharges and 911 deaths. Thursday also saw the state crossing the one million mark in the number of samples tested so far that stood at 10,08,974 – individuals tested are 9,60,674. As many as 45 deaths were reported by the government on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 911. Continuing with the trend reported in the past few days, the positive cases were recorded from across the state with six districts, including three are in located in close proximity with this metropolis, reporting over 100 cases. Only one out of 37 districts – Krishnagiri – did not report any case on Thursday. In all, as many as 1,524 “indigenous” cases were reported from outside Chennai on Thursday alone, in yet another indicator that the virus was spreading its tentacles across the length and breadth of the state. The prevalence of the virus outside Chennai and three neighbouring districts was low till about last week.   Experts and officials have cited mass exodus of people from Chennai to their native towns and villages as one of the reasons for the rapid spread of the Coronavirus. Madurai, the temple town in Southern part of the state, is emerging as the newest Covid-19 hotspot in Tamil Nadu with 204 persons, including one “imported case”, testing positive on Thursday alone. Another southern district Ramanathapuram reported 140 fresh cases, while Theni recorded 72 cases, four of which are “imported.” Chennai, the state capital, continues to be the biggest hotspot with 1,834 fresh cases, even as its neighbouring districts also reported spike in numbers. While Chengalpattu added 191 fresh cases, Tiruvallur reported 170 and Kanchipuram 98. Another northern district, Vellore, also reported a massive spike with 172 cases, four of which are “imported.” The biggest single-day spike came on the day tighter restrictions came into place with a ban on inter-district travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-3509-new-coronavirus-cases-samples-tested-hit-1-million-mark-853686.html
25-06-2020||South||Ex-India cricketer Robin Singh fined Rs 500, car seized for violating lockdown rules||Former India cricketer Robin Singh was on Thursday fined Rs 500 and his car impounded for allegedly violating lockdown rules in the city, police said. The 56-year-old former Tamil Nadu player had gone by car to purchase vegetables and was caught by police personnel for the violation, police sources said. He was fined Rs 500 for the violation, they added. Chennai and three adjoining districts are under intense lockdown from June 19 to 30 as part of steps to contain the COVID-19 spread. According to lockdown rules, people are advised to move only within two km of their residences to buy essential items and asked not to use their vehicles. The car has been seized and taken to the Shastri Nagar police station in the city, the sources said. Robin Singh, who played one Test and 136 ODIs, was an integral part of the Indian one-day team in the 1990s. He was part of the Indian team that played the ICC World Cup in 1999 in England. The former Tamil Nadu cricketer has been fielding coach of the national team and also IPL outfit Mumbai Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-india-cricketer-robin-singh-fined-rs-500-car-seized-for-violating-lockdown-rules-853702.html
25-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 3,509 new Covid-19 cases, 45 more fatalities||Fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu for the first time crossed the 3,500 mark in a single day and the cumulative tally breached 70,000 while the toll mounted to 911 with 45 more deaths on Thursday. The state, which has been focusing on aggressive testing, crossed the ten lakh mark in the number of samples examined so far while the cumulative recoveries almost reached 40,000, a health department bulletin said. As the cases continued to mount, Chief Minister K Palaniswami asserted there was no community transmission and said people should take all precautions including wearing face mask in public places. He also hit back at DMK president M K Stalin terming as politically motivated his remarks that the state 'wasted' 90- day lockdown. The 3,509 new cases on Thursday included 1,834 from Chennai, which is also the highest till date, as its share rose to 47,650 in the state's tally of 70,977, the bulletin said. The state screened 32,543 samples on Thursday, taking the total to 10,08,974. A 31-year old woman was among the dead and 42 of them had co-morbidities whilethe toll climbed to 911, it said. Chennai, under an intense 12-day lockdown from June 19, alone has sofar reported 694 deaths of which at least three were cross-notified to other places. The number of active cases was 30,064 while 2,236 patients were discharged from various hospitals, taking the cumulative recoveries to 39,999. The state has been witnessing steady surge in the COVID-19 cases, adding over 48,000 fresh infections this month alone. "There is no community transmission of coroanvirus in Tamil Nadu," Palaniswami said in Coimbatore, where he held a meeting reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the western district. Dismissing Stalin's criticism of "wasting 90-days of lockdown period and not preventing spreat of virus," he told reporters that only because of the hard work of doctors, nurses and personnel of all government departments, the fatalities and virus spread have been 'curbed'. On Wednesday, Stalin also had alleged people were leaving Chennai and going to their native places not only due to the spiralling virus cases but also due to lack of support from the government. Hitting out at him, Palaniswami said the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly was commenting as if the virus spread was a phenomenon confined only to Tamil Nadu. Stalin's accusations were politically motivated and false, and he was "not worried" about the people. "He wants to capture political power and his statements are only aimed at power. In no other state could you find a leader of opposition issuing such statements (during the pandemic)," the chief minister charged. Sarcastically, the Chief Minister asked," he (Stalin) is a national leader. Why is he not talking about cases in Delhi and Maharashtra. Deliberately he is spreading false information in Tamil Nadu everyday." Asked about some companies resorting to retrenchment of employees citing Covid-19 as a reason, he said the government would look into it if any complaint was received. "If the companies or industries had terminated services in a wrongful manner, appropriate action will be taken," he added. The Chief Minister, who was in Coimbatore to review development projects and chair a meet with MSME representatives, in a surprise move, boarded a bus and requested passengers to wear masks and maintain distance during an inspection of a terminus. Palaniswami has been repeatedly appealing to people to toe safety norms to help fight the virus. Meanwhile, nine police personnel tested positive for the virus in Nilgiris District, prompting officials to seal the Kolaikomba police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-3509-new-covid-19-cases-45-more-fatalities-853704.html
25-06-2020||South||K Palaniswami makes surprise inspection at bus stand in Tamil Nadu; asks passengers to be safe||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday took by surpise the passengers of a government bus here when he entered the vehicle and asked them to be safe wearing masks and maintaining social-distancing to combat coronavirus. Palaniswami, who was here to review various development projects and the Covid-19 situation, made a surpirse inspection at a bus terminus here, accompanied by Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani. Interacting with some women commuters, he suddenly entered a bus and advised the passengers to wear masks to protect themselves from the infection. The CM also visited some petty shops and checked the quality of face masks being sold there and inquired about the business. Earlier, talking to reporters, Palaniswami said so far 36,905 people had undergone Covid-19 tests in the district and 292 were tested positive and 112 undergoing treatment. Noting that with 10 testing centres, 2,000 people are undergoing test daily, he said due to the strict measures taken by the government and district administration, the spread of disease was under total control here. After reviewing the Avanashi-Athikdavu Water scheme project, the Chief Minister said it would be completed by December, even as the farmers in the district had put forward some demands. In consultation with the Kerala government, the Anamalayar-Nallaru water project under PAP scheme would be implemented, he said. On various ongoing projects including smart city projects, he said Coimbatore district was getting more attention and projects than his home district of Salem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-palaniswami-makes-surprise-inspection-at-bus-stand-in-tamil-nadu-asks-passengers-to-be-safe-853707.html
25-06-2020||South||Shamna Kasim case: Gang suspected to be involved in trying to extort money from 8 models too||Three women, working as models, on Thursday lodged a complaint that they were kept in a gang's captivity for a week in Palakkad and attempts were made to extort money after inviting them for modelling, police said. The women approached the police, two days after the city police, in a separate case, arrested four members of the gang for allegedly threatening South Indian actress Shamna Kasim and her family here and attempting to extort money from them, after approaching them with a marriage proposal for her. Talking about the fresh complaint filed by the three models, police said the gang allegedly held eight women in captivity for a week at a location in Palakkad in March this year and tried to extort money from them after inviting them for modelling. One woman has alleged molestation by a gang member while being in captivity, police said. There are at least three more gang members to be arrested, they said. Police hope to extract more information regarding the activities of the gang during the custodial interrogation of the four men arrested on Tuesday. Talking to reporters after filing the complaint, one of the models said at least eight women were kept in the location at Palakkad for eight days. The gang did not provide them adequate food or water, she alleged, Besides seeking to extort money from them, the gang also allegedly threatened the women if police or their families were informed about the matter. The gang also allegedly persuaded women to work as carriers for a gold smuggling racket while being kept in their captivity, she alleged. Police said steps are on to nab other members including the kingpin of the racket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shamna-kasim-case-gang-suspected-to-be-involved-in-trying-to-extort-money-from-8-models-too-853733.html
25-06-2020||South||Sasikala to be released in August? BJP leader's tweet sets off speculation||A tweet by a BJP leader from Tamil Nadu that V K Sasikala, the long-time aide of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, is likely to be released from the Parapana Agrahara prison in August has set off intense political speculation. Sasikala, who surrendered before the prison authorities on February 15, 2017, a day after she was convicted in a disproportionate assets case, is currently serving four-year jail term. Dr Aseervatham Achary, Coordinator of the BJP's Documentation and Library Department, tweeted that Sasikala is likely to be released in August. "Mrs. Sasikala Natarajan is likely to be released from Parapana Agrahara Central Jail, Bangalore on 14th August 2020. Wait for further update," he wrote on his Twitter page.  Now breaking: Mrs. Sasikala Natarajan is likely to be released from Parapana Agrahara Central Jail, Bangalore on 14th August, 2020. Wait for further update. When contacted, sources in the Karnataka Prison department said no date has been set for Sasikala's release from the Parapana Agrahara prison. However, they said, the AIADMK leader is eligible for remission as she has not availed any leave, except for parole that did not exceed 20 days. The tweet set off intense speculation about Sasikala's release from the jail. Her release from the jail could be a major political event in Tamil Nadu as her physical presence in the state might alter political equations, especially when the state stares at assembly elections in the summer of 2021. Sasikala, who was elected as an AIADMK legislature party leader, could not be sworn in as Chief Minister after incumbent and party colleague O Panneerselvam rebelled against her. Before she went to jail, Sasikala got Edappadi K Palaniswami elected as the leader of the AIADMK and he eventually became the Chief Minister. However, Edappadi and his colleagues threw Sasikala's nephew from the party and welcomed Panneerselvam back into their fold. The tweet by a BJP functionary also raises speculation about the saffron party playing the political matchmaker again in Tamil Nadu. BJP, which has no base in the state, wants to strengthen the AIADMK to take on the DMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-to-be-released-in-august-bjp-leaders-tweet-sets-off-speculation-853742.html
25-06-2020||South||5 of Telangana BJP MLA's staff test Covid-19 positive||Telangana BJP MLA Raja Singh on Thursday said five of his staff - two drivers and three gunmen - have tested positive for coronavirus and the results of five more are awaited. He alleged that the state government is making claims that the COVID-19 test result would be out in 48 hours, but even after five days, the outcome of the test done on his staff is yet to come. "I request the Chief Minister (K Chandrashekar Rao and Health Minister (E Rajender) that if any policeman or gunman undergoes the coronavirus test, the result should be declared within 48 hours," he said. "Otherwise, the personnel and their families will be apprehensive...," he said in a video message. He made an appeal to the public representatives like MPs, MLAs and MLCs who are guarded by security personnel to ask them to go for a test immediately. At the sametime, the personnel should be away from their family until the test result is negative, he said. Raja Singh had said he tested negative for coronavirus after one of his gunmen contracted the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-of-telangana-bjp-mlas-staff-test-covid-19-positive-853777.html
25-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu provided Rs 6,600 crore for buying medical equipment for Covid-19 battle: Nirmala Sitharaman||The Centre has provided Rs 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu since April for procurement of medical equipment to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday. Besides, a total of Rs 2,825 crore worth assistance had been released to the state till June 14 through various welfare scheme components of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, she told BJP's Tamil Nadu unit workers addressing a virtual rally. "Considering that the government will need funds to buy medical equipment like ventilators, Rs 6,600 crore was given to Tamil Nadu in this fiscal within these three months to tackle Covid-19 and to see that people do not face any difficulty," the Minister said. Under the PM Garib Kalyan scheme, rice and wheat was supplied to Tamil Nadu and it reached 8.64 crore people. Also, in the Jan Dhan bank accounts, cumulatively, Rs 610 crore had been deposited into the accounts of 1.22 crore women beneficiaries in Tamil Nadu for the months of April and May by way of assistance of Rs 500 per month, Sitharaman said. A sum of Rs 1,937 crore had been disbursed to about 47,000 MSMEs in the state from the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme till June 11, she said. Sitharaman listed 'achievements' of the Narendra Modi government in the last one year in its second term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-provided-rs-6600-crore-for-buying-medical-equipment-for-covid-19-battle-nirmala-sitharaman-853781.html
25-06-2020||State||'Cancer healer' Murthy dies at 81||Traditional medical practitioner Narayana  Murthy popularly known as a cancer healer died of cardiac arrest in his home at Narasipura in Shivamogga's Sagar taluk on Wednesday night. He was 81 years old. He is survived by his wife, a son and four daughters. People from various parts of the country used to visit him to get medicine for all diseases especially cancer.  He was a ray of hope for many cancer patients. It is said that many cancer patients had recovered after taking medicines from him. Even foreigners visited his house to know more about the medicine. Murthy used to give different types of powders made up of medicinal plants to cancer patients without even examining them.  MP BY Raghavendra, former minister Kagodu Thimmappa, MLA H Halappa and leaders of the district have condoled the death of Narayana Murthy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cancer-healer-murthy-dies-at-81-853486.html
25-06-2020||State||'Cyanide' Mohan gets life sentence in 20th murder case||"Cyanide" Mohan, a serial killer who has murdered several women using the deadly chemical after befriending and raping them, has been sentenced by a court here to life imprisonment for raping and murdering a woman from Kerala in 2009. Sixth Additional District and Sessions Court Judge Sayeednunnisa pronounced the quantum of sentence on Wednesday. The 57-year old Mohan was convicted of murder on Saturday. The case is the 20th and last in the series of murder cases against him. Earlier, he had been awarded the death sentence in five cases and life imprisonment in others. Two of the death penalties were later commuted to life imprisonment. In this case, Mohan had been charged with enticing a 25-year old woman from Kasargod to accompany him on the promise of marriage and took her to Bengaluru. He stayed in a lodge with the woman, raped and killed her the next day by giving her a cyanide-laced tablet making her believe that it was a contraceptive pill. He used the same modus operandi in all the 20 cases against him. The judge awarded life sentence and Rs 25,000 fine for murder under Section 302 of IPC, ten years and Rs 5,000 for abduction, ten years and Rs 5,000 for feeding poison, seven years and Rs 5,000 for rape, five years and Rs 5,000 for robbing jewellery and imprisonment and fines for cheating and destroying evidence. The court examined 46 witnesses, 89 documentary evidence and 31 assets. Of the gold ornaments taken away by Mohan, a pendant was recovered from the residence of his second wife, which was directed to be given to the victim's mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cyanide-mohan-gets-life-sentence-in-20th-murder-case-853625.html
25-06-2020||State||In mind game against coronavirus scare, SSLC kids go one-up||Day One of the SSLC exams was conducted smoothly across the state with 98.3% students in attendance, amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. For second language English, the total number of students registered was 7,85,140. Of these, 7,71,878 were present and wrote their exams on Thursday. The students expressed happiness over the safety measures taken by the department and the arrangements made at exam centres. “I was worried before entering the exam hall, but the safety measures taken boosted my confidence and I wrote peacefully,” said a student. All the students were checked for their temperature and given hand sanitisers. It was a must for students and staff to wear face masks during the exams. However, some students felt uncomfortable wearing masks. “I was sitting in the last row and the air from the fan was not reaching there. I felt a little uncomfortable to write the exam wearing the mask,” said another student. Social distancing was an issue at some of the centres as parents accompanied their wards to the exam centres. This led to arguments between the police and the parents. Briefing the media after the exams, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “Hope the parents will understand the importance of social distancing and follow the same for the remaining papers.” The minister reassured parents that their children were safer at the exam centres than their homes. “There is no question of cancellation of the exams, like CBSE has done. We will complete the exams without any hurdle in the interests of students,” he said.  There were no cases of malpractice reported from any of the centres. A first information report (FIR) has been registered against five persons, including four teachers, for allegedly entering an examination centre illegally and trying to allow the students to copy while writing the examination at Sangameshwara Composite PU College at Hirekerur in Haveri district. Teachers Jagadish Shivappanavar, Manohar B R, Gutteppa Balambeeda and Shivayogi Ragi have been handed over to the police. Tahsildar R B Bhagavan said, “They were not on the examination duty at the centre. They tried to run away when I paid a surprise visit to the centre. Upon stopping and enquiring them, copy chits were found. We have handed them over to the police.” Centre supervisor Nagaraj Sunkapur has also been booked for allegedly allowing copying during the examination.  Five students, who tested positive for Covid-19, were not allowed to appear for the examination in Bidar district.  The students hail from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Chalakapur in Bhalki taluk and Chitaguppa.  The examination officials said they can appear for the supplementary examinations and will be considered as freshers.   Fearing failure in the SSLC examination, a 16-year-old girl, who was to appear for the examination, ended her life at her house at Vadgaon suburb in Belagavi on Wednesday night, police said.  According to the complaint registered by her parents, she had difficulty in recalling the subjects. Shahapur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-mind-game-against-coronavirus-scare-sslc-kids-go-one-up-853723.html
25-06-2020||State||Congress to protest against govt over Covid-19 handling||The D K Shivakumar-led Congress will hold a statewide protest on June 29 against the way the BJP government has handled the Covid-19 pandemic, the lockdown and its aftereffects.  “The lockdown was imposed to prepare for the pandemic. Did the government prepare? Then why is there a shortage of beds? Those (infected) people are living dead. In every way, the government is killing people,” Shivakumar said, targeting the BJP that is in power in the state and Centre.  Addressing a news conference, Shivakumar also criticised the rates fixed by the government that citizens have to pay for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals. “On one hand, the government helped spread the virus. On the other hand, you want the poor to pay so much for treatment,” he said. “The government should make Covid-19 treatment free. There is money with the government, let it pay.”  Hitting out at the Modi government on the rise in fuel prices, Shivakumar called it “exploitation” and “cheating”. “They’re sucking the people’s blood,” he said.  On Friday, the Congress is scheduled to hold an event to pay tributes to the Indian soldiers who laid down their life after a clash with the Chinese army at Galwan valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-to-protest-against-govt-over-covid-19-handling-853726.html
25-06-2020||State||Tillari forest in Sindhudurg gets conservation reserve tag||The Tillari jungles in the Sindhudurg distrist - that is home to tigers, leopards, elephants and much more - has got the status to conservation reserve. Tillari is in Dogamarg tehsil of the Sindhudurg district and it connects Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur, Maharashtra, to Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Belagavi district in Karnataka. "It will go a long way in conservation efforts," said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, a wildlife and aerial photographer. State's environment, tourism and protocol minister Aditya Thackeray thanked chief minister and forest minister Sanjay Rathod. "The  Maharashtra government declared the establishment of Tillari Conservation Reserve in the reserve forest of the forest range of Dodamarg in Sawantwadi. The 29.53 sqkm adds a small pug mark in the effort to protect wildlife, biodiversity and the tiger," said Aditya. This area is home to the tiger, elephants, leopards and more, he added. Conservation reserves are protected areas that act as buffer zones or migration corridors between established national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, reserved and protected forests of India. Tillari is the 13th conservation reserve in the Western Ghats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tillari-forest-in-sindhudurg-gets-conservation-reserve-tag-853728.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Students arrive at SSLC examination centres in Karnataka||Students from various districts in Karnataka who registered for Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations began arriving at the examination centres on Thursday. Almost 8.5 lakh students are expected to appear for the SSLC exams, with the state government deciding to go ahead with the exercise amid pressure from all quarters to postpone or even cancel the test.The uncertainty over these exams taking place caused much distress to parents and students until the government finally gave its go-ahead. Belagavi Students from Belagavi and Chikkode districts arrived ahead of the scheduled time to search for the classrooms designated for them.Over 77,000 students from both the educational districts are to appear for the SSLC examination.With several protocols for Covid-19 screening to be followed before entering the examination hall, schools had asked students to be present ahead of time. Students made it to the examination centres wearing masks. Some appeared nervous with as the exams were being conducted after prolonged delay.In Belagavi, parents and students faced a difficult time with registration numbers of some of the students being shifted to another school in the vicinity. They used all modes of transport available to reach the new centre. Examination centre from Saraswati Girls High School was shifted to Dhyan Mandir School on Wednesday and many students were not aware of this.Students from containment zones appearing for the examination were made to wear N95 masks made available by the Department of Public Instructions with separate sitting arrangements being made for them at the regular examination centre. Mysuru Despite fears of contracting the coronavirus, students reached examination centres to take the SSLC exam in Mysuru. The health and the education departments made elaborate arrangements to ensure the safety of the students.The health department officials deployed at each centre screened students and educators and guided them towards their exam halls.The Police department also deployed men around examination centres for security.KSRTC and private school buses were arranged to ferry the students to the respective examination centre. About 39,822 students were enrolled to appear for examination. Mangaluru Students in Mangaluru also began arriving examination centres in ahead equipped with masks to take their SSLC exams. Some teachers also wore face shields as a preventive measure. Students were checked for their body temperature using thermal scanners at the entrance of the examination centre. Scouts and Guides were guiding the students writing exams. There are 95 examination centers in the district and 30,835 students have registered to write examinations. The district administration had arranged school bus facilities to ferry 367 students from Kerala studying in various schools in Dakshina Kannada. The authorities had identified 29 designated points from Talapady in Mangaluru to Kolchar in Sullia to board vehicles for the students from Kerala.  In urban areas, parents dropped the students to the examination centres. Kalyana Karnataka The 10th standard students began arriving at their respective examination centres from 8 am on Thursday to write their first paper in the six districts coming under Kalyana Karnataka region.  As all other centres, students here too underwent thermal screening at the main entrance of the examination centre by the staff deputed for the task. Social distancing was maintained at all examination centres to prevent the spread of the virus. Students were also made to use sanitisers. The staff were seen distributing masks to students who did not wear one. Parents were not being allowed into the premises of the examination centres.  In Yadgir, police were seen announcing on loudspeakers that except students no one should stand or sit in front of the examination centres. A disinfection tunnel was been set up at Mahatma Gandhi High School of Yadgir City.  Students were seen standing in queue maintaining social distancing at the examination centre of Muncipal College in Ballari City. Students are arrived at examination centres two hours before the start of the examination in Kalaburagi, Bidar, Koppal and Raichur districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/students-arrive-at-sslc-examination-centres-in-karnataka-853483.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Strict action to be taken in Bengaluru to contain Covid-19: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said stringent action will be taken in the coming days to contain the spread of Covid-19 in Bengaluru and sought the co-operation of people to prevent another lockdown in the city. ಬೆಂಗಳೂರಿನ ಸಮಸ್ತ ನಾಗರಿಕ ಬಂಧುಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಮನವಿ ತೀವ್ರವಾಗಿ ಹರಡುತ್ತಿರುವ ಕೋವಿಡ್ ಸೋಂಕು ಮುಂದಿನ ಹಂತಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಹರಡದಂತೆ ತಡೆಯಲು ಹೋಮ್ ಕ್ವಾರಂಟೈನ್ ನಿಯಮಗಳನ್ನು ಇನ್ನಷ್ಟು ಬಿಗಿಗೊಳಿಸಿ ಕಡ್ಡಾಯಗೊಳಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. ಈ ಹಿನ್ನೆಲೆಯಲ್ಲಿ, ಈ ನಿಯಮಗಳ ಪಾಲನೆಯ ಮೇಲ್ವಿಚಾರಣೆ ನಡೆಸಲು ಸ್ವಯಂ ಸೇವಕರಾಗಿ ನೀವೂ ಸಹ ಕಾರ್ಯ ನಿರ್ವಹಿಸಬಹುದು. 1/2 Speaking to reporters ahead of the Cabinet meeting, he noted that the number of cases had spiked in Bengaluru in the last few days. "We have sealed some areas of the city. At noon today, a meeting will be held with ministers and senior officials to discuss measures to contain the spread of the pandemic. We have decided to take strict action," he said. Another meeting is scheduled with all MLAs and ministers representing constituencies in the city on Friday, to discuss the same. Compared to other cities the cases are not out of control, he said, seeking public cooperation to curb the spread of Covid-19. "Though opportunity was provided for free movement of people after the lockdown, social distancing was ignored resulting in cases in slums and other areas. If you don't want Bengaluru to be sealed again, people should please cooperate," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/strict-action-to-be-taken-in-bengaluru-to-contain-covid-19-b-s-yediyurappa-853528.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Local markets in Mysuru shut for four days||As cases of Covid-19 are on the rise in the city, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde ordered the closure of five major markets for four days, for sanitisation work. Devaraja Market, Shivarampet, Santepet, Mannars Market and Boti Bazar will remain closed from Thursday (June 25). Apart from sanitisation, marking of boxes, to ensure social distance, placing of sanitisers and measures for thermal screening for customers will be done during the closure. The markets will be opened after all the precautionary measures are taken. The commissioner said that the vendors in the market have to ensure the safety of customers and the trade licence will be canceled if any of them fail to follow the guidelines issued to combat the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-local-markets-in-mysuru-shut-for-four-days-853552.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus outbreak: Social distancing rule goes for toss once students come out of SSLC exam hall||The Education Department may claim to have made arrangements to maintain social distance at the examination premises, but once outside several students were seen hugging, shaking their hands and discussing in groups as they have met their friends almost after three months. Post examinations on Thursday, which was the first day of the SSLC exams students were happy seeing their friends after a long gap. Those who were accompanied by parents did not get a chance to chat with their friends, those who had come on their own ensured they spent enough time with friends. Three girl students who were waiting outside the Fort high school centre at Chamarajpet said, "Two of our friends are still writing the exams and we are waiting for them. It's been almost three months since we have seen each other." "We want to know how others have done so we are waiting to discuss," said a group of four boys who wrote exams at Rajarajeshwari school in South Bengaluru. Meanwhile, students expressed that they were not comfortable in writing exams wearing a face mask.  "it's too hot inside the exam hall and as I was sitting in last row even the fan was not reaching, " said Sai Samarth a student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-outbreak-social-distancing-rule-goes-for-toss-once-students-come-out-of-sslc-exam-hall-853557.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru city clubs set to shut down voluntarily||Days after commencing partial operations, seven major clubs in the city are shutting down for fear of the Covid-19 outbreak among its members. The decision came after three members of a club tested positive for the disease recently. After the long lockdown, clubs began with bar sales (takeaway only) that were permitted in early May. The sports activities were allowed from the third week. Only members using these facilities were allowed in the clubs and were encouraged to leave soon after their game. “The trigger to decide on the shut down was the three Covid-19 positive cases that were found at the Karnataka Golf Association recently. The main concern was the fear of spread in the community that is obvious now. Members of clubs are a community by themselves. We felt it prudent to protect our members and staff, and ensure they don’t face the risk of getting infected in the club premises,” said H S Srikanth, President, Federation of Clubs – Karnataka. The decision follows an informal discussion among the Federation’s members. “It was left to the managements of each club that is a part of the Federation to decide for their respective clubs. So far, seven clubs have decided to close. Among them are Bowring Institute, KSCA, Century Club, Bangalore City Institute, Basavanagudi Club, and Indian Gymkhana Club. Other clubs are holding meetings of their managing committee and are expected to follow suit shortly”, said Srikanth who is also Honorary Secretary, Bowring Institute. “In light of the spiralling cases, this is a good decision. We don’t know enough about this virus to ensure the complete safety of our members. Just recently we were told it was present in tears too. It is not easy to ensure the entire club is kept sanitised all the time. Members have hailed the decision to shut down till the situation is fully under control”, said S Bhaskar, Vice President, Bowring Institute and member of two other clubs. Sandeep Sudarshan, a managing committee member of Bowring Institute, said, “We have been taking great care at our sports facilities. With all gyms shut, sports facilities were a boon for members keen on exercising daily. But with the sharp spike in cases over the last few days, we feel it is better to be safe than sorry. The safety and wellbeing of our members is our first priority”. Whether the state government imposes another lockdown or not, the city’s clubs have decided to play safe for the moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-city-clubs-set-to-shut-down-voluntarily-853562.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC exam across Karnataka begin on a peaceful note||Amidst panic over the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the annual examination for 10th standard (SSLC) began on Thursday (June 25) morning across the state. Students in various parts of the state began arriving at examination centres as early as 8:00 am to avoid the last-minute rush for health screening. Every student was subjected to thermal screening and provided with sanitizer and face masks before entering the exam hall. Apprehensive about the arrangements and safety of their wards, many parents refused to leave the examination centres and chose to wait at the centres till the examination got over by 1:30 pm. Several examination centres witnessed heated arguments between parents and security personnel including the police. While the students appeared to be confident, many of them worried about the scenario. "I am fully prepared for the exam but worried about Covid-19," said a student appearing for the exams at Fort High school in Chamarajpet, Bengaluru. Parents also expressed their concern and raised doubts over possible infection during the course of the examination. "We are worried about the health of the kids as students are coming from containment areas and wards of the city. Some of them could be asymptomatic but potential enough to spread the virus," rued a parent in one of the centres of Bengaluru. Meantime, all the students from Kerala who had registered for the SSLC exam have appeared for the examination. There are around 367 students registered for the exam from Kerala and all of them have reported to their respective exam centres. Planning to hold a peaceful examination, over one lakh officials from different departments have been roped in to conduct the examination for a total of 8.48 lakh students. The exam is being held at 2,879 centres across the state. Students diagnosed with cold and cough are provided with N95 masks and made to sit in separate rooms. Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar visited several examination centres in the morning to inspect the preparations and interact with parents and students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-exam-across-karnataka-begin-on-a-peaceful-note-853571.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ease of doing business: Karnataka simplifies procedure for new businesses in state||Industrialists wanting to set up their ventures in Karnataka can henceforth do it at the click of a button. For, the state government has decided to allow industries to commence operations as soon as they get the basic approval from the concerned committee either at the district or the state-level, without having to wait for multiple clearances. A decision to this effect was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday. According to Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar, the state government will pave way for the same by amending the Karnataka Industrial Facilitation Act (2002). “This is a historic decision. We wanted to ensure ease of doing business and hence, the amendment. Karnataka will be the third state after Gujarat and Rajasthan to set up this model for the clearance of applications. Even in these states, it is applicable only to small and medium scale industries. Our amendment will be applicable to all industries,” the minister said. The government will amend the Act through an ordinance, he added. How will the new procedure work? An entrepreneur will simply apply online on the ebiz Karnataka portal, by filing an investor memorandum. From there, the application will undergo scrutiny through the land audit committee after which it will be scrutinised by either the district or the state-level committee. For investment below Rs 15 crore, the permission will be given by the district-level committee concerned. For project between Rs 15 crores and Rs 500 crores, the State-level Single Window Clearance Committee (SSWCC) chaired by the minister concerned, will process the application. For those above Rs 500 crores, the State High-Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) chaired by the Chief Minister himself, will look into the application. With the amendment to the legislation, once an investor gets the acknowledgment of approval from any of these committees, they can start the operations without waiting for clearance from other departments, for instance, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, officials in the industries department explained. However, the clearances from all other departments will still be mandatory. “Within three years, the industrial establishment had to show productivity after getting other clearances. Failing this, the approval will cease to be valid,” emphasised Law Minister JC Madhuswamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ease-of-doing-business-karnataka-simplifies-procedure-for-new-businesses-in-state-853623.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Not the way our women react when they are ravished: Karnataka HC on rape victim claiming to have fallen asleep after act||Granting advance bail to a rape accused, the Karnataka High Court has expressed its reservations about the genuineness of the complainant's case while observing that her explanation that "after the perpetration of the act she was tired and fell asleep,is unbecoming of an Indian woman." The court also found it difficult to believe at this stage that the complainant was subjected to rape on the false promise of marriage "in the given circumstances of the case." The complainant is the employer of the accused for the past two years, it noted. "Nothing is mentioned by the complainant as to why she went to her office at 11 pm; she has also not objected to consuming drinks with the petitioner and allowing him to stay with her till morning; the explanation offered by the complainant that after the perpetration of the act she was tired and fell asleep, is unbecoming of an Indian woman," Justice Krishna S Dixit observed. "This is not the way our women react when they are ravished," the judge further observed while allowing the plea on June 22. Agreeing that the charges of rape, cheating and intimidation against the petitioner were serious in nature, the court observed that "seriousness alone is not the criteria to deny liberty to the citizen when there is no prima facie case from the police." The court took note of a letter allegedly written by the complainant that she would withdraw the complaint if a compromise was brought about. "Nothing is stated by the complainant as to why she did not approach the court at the earliest point of time when the petitioner was allegedly forcing her for sexual favours," the court observed. Further, the judge also found no ground to deny the accused advance bail as the victim did not offer any explanation for not alerting the police or the public about the conduct of the petitioner when she had been to a hotel for dinner and the petitioner, having consumed drinks, came and sat in the car. The court imposed a slew of conditions on the petitioner while granting him the relief including the execution of a personal bond of Rs one lakh and not tampering with evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-the-way-our-women-react-when-they-are-ravished-karnataka-hc-on-rape-victim-claiming-to-have-fallen-asleep-after-act-853636.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Citizens For Democracy condemn Haveri BJP leaders over mining mafia||Citizens For Democracy (CFD) has condemned Haveri MP Shivakumar Udasi and Byadagi MLA V R Ballari for requesting Union and Centre governments to exclude some scattered areas from the boundaries of Kappatagudda Wildlife Sanctuary notified area, saying that quarrying and mining mafia should not be allowed to function thereby doing so. CFD president S R Hiermath stated that Udasi and Ballari gave development and jobs in industries as reasons to de-notify some blocks of Kappatagudda region which is a treasure trove of medicinal plants. They have neglected study reports and court cases also, he lamented. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javdekar has given approval for some anti-nature projects, while some politicians in the region have kept an eye on the biodiversity of the Western Ghats itself, he charged.'Justice Day' tomorrowObserving 'Day for Justice for Anand Teltumbde' who was arrested in connection with Bhima-Koregaon case, a rally would be taken out from Sadhanakeri to German Hospital in Dharwad on Saturday (June 27) at 11:00 am, to create awareness about the injustice being done to social activists, Hiremath noted. 'Justice Day' in favour of Dr Teltumbde has already been observed across the country on May 16. Noted personalities like Rajmohan Gandhi, Prashant Bhushan, Justices H N Nagamohan Das, A P Shah and Gopalgowda expressed support for this cause. Like Indira Gandhi introduced MISA and jailed several MPs, the NDA government is now misusing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Hiremath opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/citizens-for-democracy-condemn-haveri-bjp-leaders-over-mining-mafia-853661.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Four at Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa's residence 'Krishna' test Covid-19 positive||Four staffers of Krishna, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's home office, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Due to sanitisation measures, all meetings scheduled by the chief minister at Krishna were shifted to Vidhana Soudha. According to sources, two of the four were police personnel deputed for security at Krishna, one was from fire and emergency services and the fourth was an electrician. The authorities had collected swab samples from all the staff deputed at Krishna on Tuesday, after the primary contact of a lady constable working there was tested positive for Covid-19 last week. The constable, however, had tested negative. This is the second time the CMO had to reschedule meetings from Krishna due to Covid-19 cases. Following the completion of sanitisation measures, the chief minister is expected to resume work from Krishna on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-at-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-residence-krishna-test-covid-19-positive-853722.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Advancing monsoon brings widespread rain in south Karnataka||Southwest monsoon has been active over south interior Karnataka with many southern districts experiencing heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours. Parts of Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagara, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts witnessed intermittent heavy showers, coupled with thunder, since Wednesday evening. Barguru in Tumakuru district recorded 8 cm of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Thursday). Ramanagara and Kanakapura witnessed 7 cm of rain each. Thondebhavi and Gauribidanur in Chikkaballapur received 6 cm each while KR Nagar in Mysuru district, Magadi and Anekal saw 5 cm of rain each. Parts of north interior Karnataka, Malnad and coastal districts also witnessed sporadic rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rain for south interior Karnataka and coastal districts for next three days. The IMD has declared Orange Alert for Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga districts till June 28. Parts of south and north intirior Karnataka including Bengaluru districts, Chikkaballapur, Kolar, Tumakuru, Ramanagar, Mandya, Mysuru, Davangere, Ballari, are likely to receive heavy showers till June 28. Most of the major dams in the state are clocking good inflows owing to copious rain in the last two weeks. Almatti reservoir, the lifeline of north Karnataka, is already half full. As on June 25, the dam has a storage of 60.776 tmcft of water. Last year, the dam had reached the said mark on July 11. The maximum storage capacity of the reservoir is 123.81 tmcft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/advancing-monsoon-brings-widespread-rain-in-south-karnataka-853724.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Govt to waive registration fee, stamp duty for electric vehicles||The Cabinet on Thursday decided to completely waive stamp duty and registration charges for the manufacture and sale of electric vehicles. Briefing reporters, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said the government sought to promote sale and manufacture of electric vehicles through this move. This decision is in line with the Karnataka Electric Vehicles and Energy Storage Policy, 2017, Shettar said. “Recently, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had stated that over the next four years, the country would see a rise in electric vehicle use and production. Karnataka has scope for the same. We are trying to harness this opportunity,” the minister said. The electric vehicles and energy storage policy was implemented in the state in 2017 during the term of the Siddaramaiah government. The policy provides for various concessions for the sector, including a tax waiver under Karnataka Motor Vehicle Taxation. The government’s decision to provide a waiver on registration charges would further boost production, Shettar said. Other decisions: A cabinet sub-committee led by the Additional Chief Secretary to the government constituted for recommending names for Padma awards. Bill for reduction of salaries up to 30% for MLAs and ministers in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. It will be introduced in the next legislature session. A budget of Rs 10,000 crore set aside for completion of construction of 9.74 lakh houses under various housing projects. The construction is pending from 2012. Rs 200 crore approved for the development of Karnataka's 7-acre land in Tirumala. Guesthouse, wedding hall among others, to be built in partnership with TTD Trust. Long-pending doubling work of Baiyyappannahalli-Hosur (48 km) and Yeshwantpur-Channasandra (21.7 km) approved. In-principle approval given for Bengaluru suburban rail project at a revised cost of about Rs 15,000 crore. Pandavapura sugar factory contract given to Nirani Sugars Ltd for a period of 40 years at a cost of Rs 405 crore on LROT (Lease, Rehabilitate, Operate, Transfer) basis. 35 Urban Primary Health Centres and 14 Primary Health Centres under Bengaluru Urban Zilla Panchayat will be taken over by BBMP till the Covid-19 crisis ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-waive-registration-fee-stamp-duty-for-electric-vehicles-853729.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||In mind game against virus scare, SSLC kids go one up||Day One of the SSLC exams was conducted smoothly across the state with 98.3% students in attendance, amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. For second language English, the total number of students registered was 7,85,140. Of these, 7,71,878 were present and wrote their exams on Thursday. The students expressed happiness over the safety measures taken by the department and the arrangements made at exam centres. “I was worried before entering the exam hall, but the safety measures taken boosted my confidence and I wrote peacefully,” said a student. All the students were checked for their temperature and given hand sanitisers. It was a must for students and staff to wear face masks during the exams. However, some students felt uncomfortable wearing masks. “I was sitting in the last row and the air from the fan was not reaching there. I felt a little uncomfortable to write the exam wearing the mask,” said another student. Social distancing was an issue at some of the centres as parents accompanied their wards to the exam centres. This led to arguments between the police and the parents. Briefing the media after the exams, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “Hope the parents will understand the importance of social distancing and follow the same for the remaining papers.” The minister reassured parents that their children were safer at the exam centres than their homes. “There is no question of cancellation of the exams, like CBSE has done. We will complete the exams without any hurdle in the interests of students,” he said.  There were no cases of malpractice reported from any of the centres. FIR against 4 teachers A first information report (FIR) has been registered against five persons, including four teachers, for allegedly entering an examination centre illegally and trying to allow the students to copy while writing the examination at Sangameshwara Composite PU College at Hirekerur in Haveri district. Teachers Jagadish Shivappanavar, Manohar B R, Gutteppa Balambeeda and Shivayogi Ragi have been handed over to the police. Tahsildar R B Bhagavan said, “They were not on the examination duty at the centre. They tried to run away when I paid a surprise visit to the centre. Upon stopping and enquiring them, copy chits were found. We have handed them over to the police.” Centre supervisor Nagaraj Sunkapur has also been booked for allegedly allowing copying during the examination.  5 students test positive  Five students, who tested positive for Covid-19, were not allowed to appear for the examination in Bidar district.  The students hail from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Chalakapur in Bhalki taluk and Chitaguppa.  The examination officials said they can appear for the supplementary examinations and will be considered as freshers.   Student ends life Fearing failure in the SSLC examination, a 16-year-old girl, who was to appear for the examination, ended her life at her house at Vadgaon suburb in Belagavi on Wednesday night, police said.  According to the complaint registered by her parents, she had difficulty in recalling the subjects. Shahapur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-mind-game-against-virus-scare-sslc-kids-go-one-up-853737.html
25-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||442 new cases, six deaths in Karnataka||As many as 442 new cases were recorded in the state on Thursday bringing the active case count up to 3,716 cases.  Bengaluru Urban alone reported 113 fresh infections on Thursday.  The state also reported six new Covid-19 fatalities as the toll mounted to 170.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/442-new-cases-six-deaths-in-karnataka-853779.html
25-06-2020||West||Mumbai: Fire breaks out at bank office in Nariman Point||A fire broke out in the server room in the office of the Bank of Bahrain & Kuwait in the Nairman Point area of Mumbai on Thursday. The fire was reported form the ground floor of Jolly Maker II off the Jamanalal Bajaj Marg in Nariman Point. However, no casualties were reported. "Fire is confined to electric wiring, electric installation, office furniture, computers, UPS battery, office records, important documents,false ceiling," Mumbai fire brigade officials said  The fire spread in an area about ot 4,000 sq ft of Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait. The highrise comprises of basement level,  ground and 11 floors. The fire has now been controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-fire-breaks-out-at-bank-office-in-nariman-point-853459.html
25-06-2020||West||ASHA workers in Maharashtra likely to get pay hike||As many as 65,000 ASHA workers in Maharashtra are likely to get a monthly pay hike of Rs 2,000 as an incentive for their hard work during the time of the COVID-19 crisis, a government official said. The Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA workers) have so far been earning about Rs 10,000 per month, he said. "State Health Minister Rajesh Tope has finalised a proposal for their salary hike which would be discussed in the Cabinet meeting. If the proposal is cleared, the ASHA workers would get a monthly hike of Rs 2,000," the official from the health and family welfare department told PTI on Wednesday. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the ASHA workers have been assigned the task of surveillance in urban and rural areas and the state government now plans to give them an incentive for their work.  As of now, their salary structure includes a basic payment of Rs 2,000 each contributed by the state and the Centre along with additional payment as per their efficiency and the number of people they cover (as part of various government welfare schemes), the official said. "Now, the state wants to increase its contribution by Rs 2,000," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/asha-workers-in-maharashtra-likely-to-get-pay-hike-853485.html
25-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray gets an advisor||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray now has an advisor who would be his eyes and ears on the ground.  Incumbent chief secretary Ajoy Mehta,  who retires after two extensions on 30 June,  would become the principal advisor in the Chief Minister's Office (CMO). Mehta a super bureaucrat in Mantralaya, the state secretariat. This is the first time that Maharashtra's bureaucracy will see such an arrangement.  Mehta will be replaced by Sanjay Kumar, who is now the second senior-most bureaucrat after Mehta, holding the dual charge of Home and Housing departments. Incidentally, Mehta and Kumar are batchmates and enjoy a good working equation. Uddhav,  who is the Shiv Sena president, was keen that Mehta get another extension, but the Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress were against it.  Some of the senior Cabinet colleagues of Uddhav in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government have also spoken on a possible extension for Mehta, who is an officer of the 1984-batch of the IAS. Mehta's role would be similar to that of high-profile bureaucrat PK Sinha,  who after three extensions as cabinet secretary was appointed as principal advisor in Prime Minister's Office (PMO).  Mehta earlier served as municipal commissioner of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC),  one of the richest civic bodies of the country, that Shiv Sena is controlling over quarter of a century.  There has been a big shake up in Maharashtra's bureaucracy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic starting with the transfer of Mumbai's municipal commissioner Pravinsinh Pardeshi as additional chief secretary of the urban development department.In the last month, two collectors and half a dozen municipal chiefs have been shunted including four in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), a big Covid-19 hotspot. "There could be series of transfers in the IAS and IPS hierarchy in the days to come," informed sources said. It may be recalled, in February, Uddhav Thackeray appointed senior Shiv Sena leader and close aide Ravindra Waikar, an MLA form Jogeshwari as chief coordinator in the PMO,  but had to back out owing to the office-of-profit issue.Similarly, Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant, a former minister in the Narendra Modi government was made head of state Parliamentary coordination committee but his appointment too was cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-gets-an-advisor-853499.html
25-06-2020||West||Maharashtra minister in favour of lifting liquor ban in Chandrapur||The previous BJP-led state government banned sale and consumption of liquor in Chandrapur in April 2015. Liquor is also banned in the state's Wardha and Gadchrioli districts. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, Wadettiwar, who is also the guardian minister of Chandrapur, claimed the number of kidney infections and cancer cases has increased in the district due to the consumption of "duplicate liquor" (fake brews of some brands) being smuggled here. It has also been found that school students are getting addicted to the MD (mephedrone) drug, he said. Liquor worth around Rs 120 crore has been seized by police here since the liquor ban, the minister further said. He claimed five times more liquor is being sold in the dry district since the ban came into force. "Due to the consumption of duplicate liquor, there is an increase in the number of kidney and cancer patients in the district. I am very positive about lifting the ban in the district. Let social activists and others burn my effigy after the ban is lifted," the minister said. Wadettiwar also said he will propose stalling of increments of the security personnel under whose police stations liquor consignments worth over Rs 10 lakh are seized. He claimed liquor ban has failed to bring the desired results in Gadchiroli as the brewing of alcohol from 'Mahua' flowers has grown manifold in the tribal district. While Mahua liquor brewing is allowed in Gadchiroli, there is a ban on the sale of foreign-made liquor, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-in-favour-of-lifting-liquor-ban-in-chandrapur-853501.html
25-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: IIT-Bombay to go online next semester||Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay will go completely online next semester and not call students for face-to-face lectures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, its director said on Thursday. The decision, the first by any IIT, followed deliberations that went on till late night Wednesday. "After a long deliberation in the Senate, we have decided that the next semester will be run purely in the online mode so that there is no compromise on the safety and well being of the students. The Covid pandemic has made us rethink the way we impart education to our students,” IIT-Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri said in a statement to the media. "To ensure that our students begin the academic year without further delay, we are planning on extensive online classes details of which will be informed to all students in due course of time," he added. Other IITs are also likely to follow the suit. However, no final decision has been taken yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-iit-bombay-to-go-online-next-semester-853508.html
25-06-2020||West||Three more Maharashtra cops die of Covid-19; toll rises to 54||Out of the 54 victims, 34 were from the Mumbai Police force, he said. Three officers were among the 54 personnel who have so far succumbed to the viral infection since its outbreak in the state, he said.  As of now, more than 4,200 police personnel have been infected with coronavirus. Of these, over 3,000 have recovered, the official said. There are 991 active cases and the patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals of the state, he said, adding that seven police personnel were discharged after recovery in the last 24 hours. The Maharashtra Police force comprises over two lakh personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-more-maharashtra-cops-die-of-covid-19-toll-rises-to-54-853510.html
25-06-2020||West||Mumbai: Two godowns gutted in fire at Andheri||Two godowns were gutted in a fire at an industrial estate in Marol area of suburban Andheri here, a fire brigade official said on Thursday. While no casualties were reported in the incident, a deputy fire officer fainted while battling the flames and was recuperating at a hospital, the official said. The blaze erupted at Nanddham industrial estate at around 12.45 am on Thursday and it was confined to two godowns on the ground floor of the premises, he said. The fire brigade was immediately pressed into service and flames were doused at around 4.45 am, the official said. The two godowns containing some electrical equipment, furniture and hydraulic compressor machine were completely gutted, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-two-godowns-gutted-in-fire-at-andheri-853525.html
25-06-2020||West||Fire at commercial building in Mumbai; no casualty||A major fire broke out in a three-storey commercial building in Raghuvanshi Mill Compound at Lower Parel here on Thursday morning, the third such incident in the city since midnight, officials said. No casualty was reported in the blaze, that erupted around 9.30 am in the ground floor of P-2 building located inside the mill compound, a fire brigade official said. The flames later spread to the first and second floors of the building, he said. It was initially tagged as a 'level-2' fire, but escalated to 'level-3' (major) around 12.15 pm, he said. At least 12 fire engines were engaged in efforts to douse the flames, he said. "Fire fighting is one at the spot. There is no report of injury to anyone till now," the official said. Earlier, a fire broke out at the office of the Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait at Nariman Point in South Mumbai around 5.15 am. Besides, two godowns were gutted in a blaze at an industrial estate in Marol area of Andheri at around 12.45 am. No casualty was reported in these two incidents, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-commercial-building-in-mumbai-no-casualty-853540.html
25-06-2020||West||Tribal woman kills toddler daughter, commits suicide in Maharashtra||A 30-year-old tribal woman allegedly strangled her three-year-old daughter and committed suicide at a village in Jawhar taluka of Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Thursday. The incident took place in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday when Mangala Dileep Wagh ventured into the forest near her home in Borichamal along with her daughter Roshni, senior inspector Appasaheb Lengare of Palghar police said. Wagh allegedly strangled the toddler using her saree and then hanged herself from a tree, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tribal-woman-kills-toddler-daughter-commits-suicide-in-maharashtra-853546.html
25-06-2020||West||Maharashtra won't allow 'spurious' medicine sale: Minister Anil Deshmukh to Ramdev||Amid the ongoing controversy over Baba Ramdev's company Patanjali Ayurveda introducing a "cure" for coronavirus infection, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday warned the yoga guru that the state government won't allow the sale of 'spurious' medicines. Patanjali Ayurveda, while presenting the Coronil medicine on Tuesday had claimed that it has found a cure for coronavirus infection. "The National Institute of Medical Sciences, Jaipur will find out whether clinical trials of @PypAyurved's 'Coronil' were done at all. An abundant warning to @yogrishiramdev that Maharashtra won't allow sale of spurious medicines. #MaharashtraGovtCares #NoPlayingWithLives," the minister tweeted. Hours after the launch of Coronil on Tuesday, the Union AYUSH Ministry had asked the firm to provide the details, telling it to stop advertising it till the issue is examined. At the launch, the company had claimed that its medicine can cure the contagious disease within seven days. It said Coronil, taken along with another product developed by it, had shown a 100 per cent success rate in clinical trials on infected patients, except those on life support. Ramdev had said the medicines were developed by Patanjali Research Center, Haridwar in association with privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science, Jaipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-wont-allow-spurious-medicine-sale-minister-anil-deshmukh-to-ramdev-853547.html
25-06-2020||West||Locals start fundraiser for Mumbai's Bisleri pani-puri wallah||For close to five decades, Bhagvati Yadav sold pani-puris in the upscale Nepean Sea Road area of Mumbai. Last month, Yadav died from Covid-19. Yadav,  who hailed from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh,  was popularly known as "Bisleri pani-puri wallah" as he used packaged water to make the popular snack in one of India's costliest neighbourhoods, where some of the biggest who's-who stay. "Bhavgati Yadav was the sole breadwinner of the family," said Girish Agarwal,  a Nepean Sea resident,  who launched the campaign. "Yadav ji had been selling pani-puris for close to 46 years. I am 34....and over the years, I had seen him at the same spot in Rungta Lane. His pani-puris had the same taste...he was very popular," he said. "All these years, I never knew his name. I came to know that he passed away. We decided to do something for his wife and daughter,  whom he leaves behind," he said."We have raised Rs 2.40 lakh, we hope to reach the target," he said. "While we can try to find another snacking spot, his family will gravely miss a loving father, husband, and provider. They need our support," the Ketto platform states. For 46 years, Yadavji always put our health first by serving “Bisleri” pani-puri. And his generosity knew no bounds as he would never shy away from handing out “Ek extra puri”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/locals-start-fundraiser-for-mumbais-bisleri-pani-puri-wallah-853602.html
25-06-2020||West||Dharavi model to limit Covid-19 transmission to be implemented in Mumbai's suburbs||There is a spurt of cases in Mulund and Bhandup along the Central line and Malad, Kandivli,  Borivli and Dahisar on the Western line. The BMC has decided to implement the RAP in these affected areas. The RAP has been modelled along the lines of the strategy that helped contain the spread in Worli and Dharavi. Few days ago,  Mumbai's municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal launched Mission Zero to bring the pandemic under control. As part of the plan, BMC pressed into service 50 mobile fever clinics in ambulances in these areas. These mobile clinics drive in these localities through the day with a team of doctors, who carry out door-to-door screening of residents, check for fever, symptoms, co-morbidities, and collect swabs, if there is any person suspected of infection. The steps for elaborate screening include door-to-door survey of at least 10,000 houses per ward.  Each community volunteer, equipped with a thermal scanner and a pulse oximeter screens about 100 houses.    A massive population of 25 lakh people will be screened in the coming week. The Dharavi model of foraging public-private partnerships with various civil society organizations is being replicated in Mumbai's suburbs too.   BMC has tied up with local doctors,  CREDAI-MCHI,  Bharatiya Jain Sanghatan,  Desh Apnaye Foundation,  who are helping out in providing mobile vans, medicines etc, while swab-testing, isolation and quarantine facilities are being looked after by BMC. In order to speed up testing, the Maharashtra government is also procuring 1 lakh Rapid Antigen Test kits to screen people across Covid-19 hotspots in Mumbai and Pune. These kits, manufactured by South Korean company SD Biosensor, have been approved by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), New Delhi.   Rapid Antigen Test – performed on a suspected patient’s nasal swab – detects the presence of viral proteins in the nasal secretion on the swab.  The result is available in less than 30 minutes.  Although, Rapid Antigen kits are less sensitive than regular RT-PCR tests but have the advantage of speed, in fighting a pandemic.   The quantum of testing per day in Mumbai is set to go up to 6,000 from the present average of 4,000- 4,500. The Government of India lauded the BMC’s ‘Chase-the-Virus’ strategy which was conducted by aggressive and targeted tracing of Covid-19 suspects.   Ministry of Health & Family Welfare in its communication noted that BMC adopted a model of actively following 4 Ts – Tracing, Tracking, Testing and Treating.  This approach included activities like proactive screening. While 47,500 people were covered by doctors and private clinics in house-to-house screening, about 14,970 people were screened with the help of Mobile Vans, and 4,76,775 were surveyed by BMC health workers. Fever clinics were set up for screening high-risk patients, such as senior citizens. This helped to screen 3.6 lakh people. Around 8,200 Senior Citizens were surveyed and as part of its policy of ‘Timely Separation’, they were separated from the community to effectively limit the transmission of the disease. In all, 5,48,270 people have been screened in Dharavi. The suspected cases were shifted to well-organized Covid Care Centres and Quarantine Centres.  As a result of these measures, the doubling rate in Dharavi is now 78 days, which is more than twice the time it takes for the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-model-to-limit-covid-19-transmission-to-be-implemented-in-mumbais-suburbs-853624.html
25-06-2020||West||Several dahi-handi celebrations in Mumbai put off amidst coronavirus, restrictions||This year the Krishna janamashtami falls on 11 August and the dahi-handi is played a day after that. During the festival, Govindas, as the participants are known,  re-enact the myth of Lord Krishna stealing butter from a hanging pot, by making human pyramids. Several people including kids get injured in the festival. There have been incidents of fractures and even deaths as well. However, after restrictions from the Maharashtra government and courts since the last couple of years, the festivities are a low-key affair in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR),  where several politicians are event organizers. Mumbai MLA Ram Kadam and Thane MLA Pratap Sarnaik cancelled the celebrations in wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Several big organisers have decided to donate the money for Covid-19 patients. Organisers, who depend on sponsorships and donations, felt it would be difficult to organise festivities amidst an economic slump when unlocking is happening. "We have strict regulations for the dahi-handi festivals. Now in addition,  we have to ensure that social distancing is followed, masks are used. It would be difficult to organise," one of the organisers said. Some of the most famous locations for the dahi handi festivities are Mumbai are Dadar, Worli, Prabhadevi, Mazgaon, Lalbaug, Borivali and Thane. Apart from these localities, several institutions also organize the Dahi Handi programme with cash prizes. In MMR, close to 2,000 Govindas (those who form the human pyramid to break the handi and steal the butter) compete for 4,000 to 5,000 handis. Other states have also caught on to the practice. In some states, it is also called ‘MatkaPhod’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/several-dahi-handi-celebrations-in-mumbai-put-off-amidst-coronavirus-restrictions-853629.html
25-06-2020||West||No glitches in oxygen supply system at KEM Hospital: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday termed reports of patients dying at the civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital here due to defective oxygen supply system as completely false. Some media reports had claimed that 221 coronavirus patients had died at the hospital in central Mumbai in the last 20 days due to oxygen supply failure. The civic body said in a release that the allegations were "completely false" and "baseless". There had been neither any defect in the system supplying oxygen nor was there any incident of oxygen pressure dropping, the municipal body said. An 11,000-litre system has been set up to supply oxygen to patients in the two buildings of the hospital and the oxygen-filling system is running without disruption, it said. "So the issue of shortage of oxygen does not arise.... if there had been a breakdown in oxygen supply, other patients too might have been affected," the BMC stated. A new 13,000-litre oxygen tank will start functioning within two to three days, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-glitches-in-oxygen-supply-system-at-kem-hospital-bmc-853631.html
25-06-2020||West||Covid-19: Pregnant women banned from film sets in Goa, says new SOP||In a new list of do’s and don’ts for organising film-shoots in Goa, the Entertainment Society of Goa, a government nodal agency for licensing and permissions related to film-shoots, has banned pregnant women from sets in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. All personnel participating in the film shoots should mandatorily download the Arogya Setu app, according to the new SOP which has been devised by the Society’s Chief Executive Officer Amit Satija. “Any pregnant employee should not be allowed on the set. However, if an employee has a spouse pregnant they could be allowed if the employee is stationed away from the home during the shooting duration and submit self-declaration,” the advisory states. “Installation of the Arogya Setu app on mobile phones shall be mandatory for all persons involved in shooting, shooting permissions and related ancillary activities... Shooting is preferred to be done in the open areas, away from residential and densely populated areas,” it adds. Over the last decade, Goa, especially its beaches, river-fronted promenades and the state’s capital’s Latin Quarter has been sought-after film shooting locations. The new advisory, however, also puts limitations on the number of personnel who can be present during a film shoot in the state. While shoots involving non-fiction films can have 100-110 persons onsite, for fictional films up to 55 persons would be allowed. The new guidelines also make it mandatory for shooting locations to have a permanent Covid-19 desk, which can help inform and ensure compliance of all sanitation and social distancing norms. “Sanitisation will be given utmost importance and the set will be sanitised every day beforehand after the shoot of all equipment, shooting floors, rooms, etc. Every set will have three types of sanitizers available -- hand sanitizer, surface sanitizer, and space sanitizer, which members will have to study and use appropriately,” the advisory also states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pregnant-women-banned-from-film-sets-in-goa-says-new-sop-853644.html
25-06-2020||West||Drugs worth Rs 2.10 crore seized in Pune district, four held||Ganja and charas worth Rs 2.10 crore have been seized and four people arrested in Pune district, a Customs official said here on Thursday. Two trucks coming from Andhra Pradesh were intercepted on Wednesday and 868 kg of ganja worth Rs 1.04 crore, charas worth Rs 75 lakh and some other narcotic drugs were seized from cavities made in the roofs of the vehicles, he said. "We had information about trucks carrying contraband from Andhra Pradesh heading for various places in Maharashtra," he said. Customs teams kept a watch on Naldurg-Solapur road near Boramani and followed the two trucks. The vehicles were stopped and searched after they entered Pune district, the official said. "The total seizure was worth Rs 2.10 crore. The four persons who were travelling in the trucks were arrested and the probe is underway," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-worth-rs-210-crore-seized-in-pune-district-four-held-853669.html
25-06-2020||West||1,000 out-of-hospital deaths in Mumbai suppressed: Devendra Fadnavis||In what comes as a shocker, the BJP claimed that nearly 1,000 out-of-hospital Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai has been suppressed. On Thursday, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis shot off a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray questioning the lapse and demanding a reconciliation of the figures. The Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is yet to respond to the charges. "It is wrong to suppress figures...in case of death because of Covid-19, the figure should reflect within a maximum 72 hours," Fadnavis said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1000-out-of-hospital-deaths-in-mumbai-suppressed-devendra-fadnavis-853680.html
25-06-2020||West||Gujarat tribal party MLAs seek security, write to president||Days after abstaining from voting in the Rajya Sabha elections in Gujarat, the two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs - Chhotu Vasava and his son Mahesh - have sought security, claiming their "lives are in danger", and written a letter to the president. While Chhotu Vasava is the founder of BTP, his son Mahesh, who represents Dediapada seat in Narmada district in the assembly, is the national president of the tribal party. The party has two MLAs in the 182-member house. Without naming anyone, Chhotu Vasava, who represents Jhagadia seat in Bharuch district, claimed their "lives are in danger" as they are in opposition in the BJP-ruled state and fighting for social justice and rights of tribals. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind on June 24, Chhotu Vasava claimed people with "feudalist" mindset are creating rift between citizens and the whole society is moving towards social unrest. "The Gujarat government along with police and anti- social elements had hatched a conspiracy for fake encounters in the past and it may happen in the future too," said Vasava in the letter. The senior legislator said he and his son stayed away from the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls to highlight neglect of tribals. "We had abstained from voting in the Rajya Sabha polls in protest of non-implementation of Schedule 5 of the Constitution for the welfare of tribals...looking at the possibility of fatal attack on us, it is necessary to provide us security at the earliest," he said in the letter. The Vasavas stayed away from elections to four Rajya Sabha seats claiming their votes will go to only those who provide a written assurance about the implementation of Schedule 5 of the Constitution for the welfare of tribals. While both the Congress and the BJP were confident of getting the support of the father-son duo, they did not turn up for voting. The BJP won three seats, while the Congress had to settle for only one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-tribal-party-mlas-seek-security-write-to-president-853696.html
25-06-2020||West||CBI files charge sheet against Rana Kapoor, DHFL's Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan||The CBI on Thursday filed a charge sheet against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, DHFL co-founders Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan and others in a quid-pro-quo case involving the private sector lender. It is alleged that Kapoor's family received kickbacks for Yes Bank's investment in DHFL's debentures. The charge sheet, filed before a special court here, also named Rana Kapoor's daughter Roshni, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), RKW Developers and DoIT Urban Ventures (India). The Central probe agency had registered a case against Kapoor and others under IPC section 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) and the Prevention of Corruption Act for allegedly defrauding Yes Bank. The Central Bureau of Investigation arrested Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan in April this year, and they are nowin judicial custody. Rana Kapoor is also in judicial custody after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in a related case. According to the CBI, Kapoor entered into a criminal conspiracy with Kapil Wadhawan for extending financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank. The scam took place between April to June, 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hitDewan Housing Finance CorporationLtd (DHFL), it said. In return, Wadhawan allegedly "paid kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures, a firm controlled by Kapoor's wife and daughters, the CBI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-rana-kapoor-dhfls-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhawan-853698.html
25-06-2020||West||Wrong words, but Padalkar has respect for Pawar: BJP leader Chandrakant Patil||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Thursday said his party colleague Gopichand Padalkar did not have any disrespect towards NCP president Sharad Pawar even if the words chosen by him to criticise the latter were wrong. Padalkar, an MLC, had on Wednesday termed Pawar as "corona" that has infected Maharashtra and accused him of doing politics over the issue of reservation for the Dhangar (shepherd) community, drawing swift condemnation from the NCP, which is part of the Shiv Sena-led government in the state. Speaking to reporters in Kolhapur, Patil said Padalkar is a wise 'karyakarta' (worker) of the BJP. "Gopichand is such a sensible 'karyakarta' that even if his words were wrong, he does not have any disrespect towards Pawar Saheb. In fact,he has respect for him. In his statement, he (Padalkar) had said that Pawar saheb did not give justice to lower classes," he said. "It was his own opinion drawn from experience he may have had, but his intention was not to disrespect Pawar," the former Maharashtra minister said. Patil said quite often someone gets up and speaks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and in fact nicknames have been given to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and even to him. "It does not affect me but this is not Maharashtra's culture," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wrong-words-but-padalkar-has-respect-for-pawar-bjp-leader-chandrakant-patil-853711.html
25-06-2020||West||Gujarat: Man dials HC judge as 'MLA' to influence bail plea, busted||In one-of-its-kind case, a person seeking anticipatory bail allegedly hatched a conspiracy to call a Gujarat High Court judge in the name of a local Congress MLA to make himself look like being framed by the legislator in order to influence the judge. Accordingly, the call was made to the judge who took it seriously and ordered a police probe which on Thursday busted the whole scheme of things. It has been revealed that Vijay Shah, a resident of Anand district who is seeking advance bail, had allegedly asked one Alpesh Patel, also a resident of Anand district, to call high court justice Bela Trivedi the day she was going to hear the bail plea and identify himself as Niranjan Patel, a Congress MLA from Petlad constituency in Anand district. It was to portray that the legislator was behind the petitioner's impending arrest in a case of rioting, unlawful assembly and epidemic act. As per the plan, a call was made to justice Trivedi on her official mobile number on June 22. The caller identified himself as "Niranjan Patel" and started talking about the bail petition listed on that day when the judge disconnected the call. The caller made more three calls which were not answered by the judge. The caller, then, sent a text message on Whatsapp stating, "the Criminal  Case  No.8266  of   2020  Vijaybhai Arvindbhai .. ma aje muddat che," (today is the date of hearing)." Justice Trivedi described the incident as "unprecedented" and ordered an inquiry which revealed that the phone number was registered in the name of one "Tosif Faiz Xerox." Subsequently, Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian was ordered to record the statement of the Petlad MLA Patel and the Tosif who has been identified as Tosif Vohra. Petlad MLA denied having made such a call but revealed that he has a family relationship with Vijay Shah who also belongs to Congress and had helped in the election. Meanwhile, Tosif told police that on June 22, a person with a black mask on his face had come to his shop and requested if he could use his phone to make an urgent call to Delhi. Tosif gave his phone to the masked man who stayed in the shop for 10 minutes and pretended that he couldn't make the call. After Tosif refused to take money, the masked man bought packets of mouth fresheners worth Rs 30. This has been captured in the CCTV footage of Tosif's shop which the police have obtained. On Thursday, the police traced the masked man who has been identified as Alpesh Patel. He has reportedly admitted that he made the call at the instance of Vijay Shah and his wife Vignatri. Alpesh told the court, through video conferencing arranged at Superintendent of Police office, that "he was told by Vijaybhai that if he made such a call and sent messages in the name of Niranjanbhai Patel, M.L.A., who was   on the opposite side, he i.e.Vijaybhai would be granted anticipatory bail." As a matter of fact, the lawyers of Vijay Shah had also told the court that "the MLA wanted to see the petitioner in jail."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-man-dials-hc-judge-as-mla-to-influence-bail-plea-busted-853734.html
