26-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Congress leaders in Karnataka's Hubbali want military action against China||Congress leaders who observed silence in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue at KIMS gate at Vidyanagar in Hubballi on Friday, to pay tributes to Indian soldiers martyred in India-China clash, demanded military action against China, to get back Indian territories occupied by China. "We hope the prime minster will show the courage to get back Indian territories. Our soldiers are strong enough, and the entire country is in support of them. A strong answer should be given, and military operation is the only solution at present to take back Indian territories occupied by China and Pakistan," said MLC Shrinivas Mane.During the protest, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) SC Cell President F H Jakkappanavar charged that the BJP government has weakened the strength of SAARC, and Prime Minister Modi should have dealt with the India-China clash in a better way. "Modi supported Jio which is heavily dependent on China-made products, and it weakened BSNL. Union Government should ban all imports and exports between the two countries, and declare China as an enemy country, along with starting military operation against it," Jakkappanavar said.According to former minister A M Hindasgeri, an answer by 'patthar' (stone) whether it should be through military operation, should be given to China. The military should have been given more power, where is Narendra Modi's 56-inch chest, he demanded. Hubballi-Dharwad City District Congress Committee president Altaf Hallur stated, "Our soldiers are very strong, and a befitting lesson should be given to China.""Why is the prime minister following different policies for China and other countries," he asked. Former MP I G Sanadi, Parasmal Jain, Sadanand Danganavar, Naveed Mulla, Swati Malagi, and others also participated in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/congress-leaders-in-karnatakas-hubbali-want-military-action-against-china-853962.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||58 Mysuru police officials test negative for Covid-19||The samples of 58 Police personnel from Mysuru, including Inspector General of Police (Southern Range) Vipul Kumar, Mysuru Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and ASP P V Sneha, tested negative for coronavirus. Police officers and personnel were under quarantine and samples were tested as one of the policemen, who worked closely with the officials tested for Covid-19 positive recently. Ryshyanth confirmed all the officials tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/58-mysuru-police-officials-test-negative-for-covid-19-853926.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||No 'Tapta Mudra Dharana’ for devotees at Krishna Mutt||The ritual of ‘Tapta Mudra Dharana’ will not be held for devotees at Krishna Mutt in Udupi this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Tapta Mudra Dharana will be held only for the seers of the mutt, said Paryaya Admaru Mutt seer Eshapriya Theertha Swamiji. The ritual is held on the ‘Prathama Ekadashi’ before the commencement of Chaturmasa vratha. Under the Tapta Mudra Dharana, the images of conch and chakra are stamped on the chest and arms of the devotees. The seals are heated prior to the stamping. The ‘chakra’ is stamped on the right arm, while the ‘shanka’ (conch) is stamped on the left arm. He said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, rituals will not be held for the public. Opportunities will be given to devotees on a suitable day in the coming days. Further, he said “Siyala (tender coconut) mahabhisheka’ will be held at the temple on June 30. However, entry for the devotees is prohibited. The devotees who wish to offer tender coconut can hand it over at the entrance of Rajangana in Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-tapta-mudra-dharana-for-devotees-at-krishna-mutt-853999.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ready to restart train service if states want: Suresh Angadi||Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi stated that the ministry is ready to restart train service if chief ministers of various states appeal for the same. Speaking to media persons on Friday, he said passengers have to maintain social distancing in trains during journey in the wake of Covid-19 crisis. It is a matter of concern now. However, operation of train service will prove beneficial for the country's economy. So, the ministry will restart train service provided states appeal to the Centre in this regard. He said labourers are returning to their native places in Shramik trains from Delhi. There is a need to provide employment to labourers to avoid migration. So, the government is giving importance to provide employment to such people under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. The minister also said that Indian railway network would be electrified by 2022. There is a plan of complete doubling of railway line between Miraj to Bengaluru soon. For the convenience of export of goods, doubling line of Mumbai-Kolkata project would be taken up, he added.  MP G M Siddeswara, MLAs S A Ravindranath, S V Ramachandra, Linganna, South Western Railway Zone General Manager A K Singh, Mysuru Divisional Railway Manager Aparna Garg and Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ready-to-restart-train-service-if-states-want-suresh-angadi-854000.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Six including two doctors test positive for Covid-19||Shivamogga district recorded six more Covid-19 cases including two doctors on Friday. With this, the number of cases rose to 129. According to health bulletin released by district health & family welfare department, three are from Shivamogga, one from Bhadravathi, and two from Shikaripur. Two doctors- 35-year-old male (p-10826), 38-year-old male (p-10828) of a private hospital in the city were tested positive for Covid-19. One is cardiologist and the other is anesthetist. A 30-year-old female from Lakkavalli near Bhadra dam, who was admitted to private hospital in the city after she complained of illness  (p-10830), was also tested positive. The contact of a 45-year-old male from Bhadravathi taluk (p-10827) is under tracing, 40-year-old male (p-10829) and 20-year-old female (p-10831), were primary contacts of 75-year-old woman from Shikaripur taluk, who was tested positive after the death. All these persons are undergoing treatment in District McGann hospital in the city. The district recorded two deaths so far. Of the total, 129, 96 patients were discharged from the hospital and 31 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-including-two-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19-854117.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 cases cross 11,000-mark in Karnataka; 445 new cases and 10 deaths||The number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 11,000 mark with the state on Friday reporting 445 new positive cases and ten fatalities, taking the death toll to 180. The day also saw 246 patients getting discharged in the state after recovery. As of June 26 evening, cumulatively 11,005 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 180 deaths and 6,916 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin.  It said, out of 3,905 active cases, 3,727 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 178 are in ICU. Those dead include- three from Bengaluru urban, and one each from Kolar, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Bagalkote, Bidar, Kalabuaragi and Ballari. Out of the 445 new cases, 65 are returnees from other states, while 21 are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with history of severe acute respiratory infection, influenza like illness, inter-district travel, among others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 144 cases, followed by Ballari 47, Kalaburagi 42, Koppala 36, Dakshina Kannada 33, Dharwad 30, Raichur 14, Gadag 12, Chamarajanagara 11, Udupi 9, Yadgir 7. Six cases each from Mandya, Uttara Kannada, Bagalkote, Shivamogga and Kolar, Mysuru reported five, four each from Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu, three each from Hassan and Bengaluru rural, two each from Vijayapura Tumakuru and Haveri, and one each from Bidar, Belagavi, Davangere, Ramanagara and Chitradurga. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases with 1,935 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,331 and Udupi 1,125. Among discharges, Udupi tops the list with 1,028 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 935 and Yadgir 685. A total of 5,68,058 samples were tested so far, out of which 14,733 were tested on Friday alone. According to the bulletin, 5,41,548 samples have been reported as negative, and of them 13,817 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-cases-cross-11000-mark-in-karnataka-445-new-cases-and-10-deaths-854146.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka districts report 20 new Covid-19 cases||In all, 20 positive cases have been reported from Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on Friday. Hassan tested three positive cases, two female and a male. While a 24-year-old male had a travel history of Bengaluru, the other two are Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) cases. With this, the total has gone up to 314. While 230 have been discharged, there are 83 active cases. One death was reported. Mandya reported six new cases. This includes four male and two female. While three patients are Influenza-like Illness (ILI), two have a travel history of Bengaluru and Rajasthan. A one-year-old male baby has a contact history of P-10141. With this, the total number of cases has increased to 388. There are 54 active cases and 334 discharged. Chamarajanagar reported the highest of 11 cases. With this, the total is 20 cases. While one patient was discharged, there are 19 active cases. Out of 11 patients, there are seven male and four female. While two are ILI cases, two have a travel history of Tamil Nadu and Mysuru and one patient’s contact is under tracing. Three patients have a contact history of P-9573, two patients with P-9574 and one with P-8311.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-districts-report-20-new-covid-19-cases-854161.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple, significant Aashada Friday atop Chamundi Hill||Aashada Friday was celebrated in a simple and significant manner at goddess Chamundeshwari temple, atop Chamundi Hill here. The temple remained closed for the devotees due to the outbreak Covid-19. However, the temple priests performed puja rituals to the deity, on the first Aashada Friday. The ritual commenced at 4.30 am. Rituals such as rudrabhisheka, panchamrutha abhisheka were performed and mahamangalarathi was offered at 6.30 am. The procession of the deity was held inside the temple premises, and the temple closed at 8 am. Abhisheka and puja was performed between 6 pm and 7.30 pm.  Temple chief priest N Shashishekar Dixit said, “The rituals will be followed in a similar manner on all Aashada Fridays and no special decorations will be made. This was the first time since several years, that the temple was closed for the devotees on Aashada Friday.” There will be no distribution of prasada during the month of Aashada this year. It is common for the city temples to wear a festive look on Aashada Fridays, with mass distribution of prasada, by several organisations and auto drivers. This year, it has been restricted in view of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-significant-aashada-friday-atop-chamundi-hill-854163.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||92 cops, including IGP & SP, test negative for Covid-19||In a big relief to the Police department, 92 police personnel, including Inspector General of Police (IGP), Southern Range, Vipul Kumar, Superintendent of Police (SP) C B Ryshyanth and Additional Superintendent of Police P V Sneha, tested negative for Covid-19.  The reports of the samples were out on Friday. The personnel, including IGP, SP and ASP, were under home quarantine after a police constable, who worked with them closely, tested positive for Covid-19.  SP Ryshyanth confirmed that all the samples tested negative.  The Health department authorities had identified 22 primary contacts and 70 secondary contacts. While IGP, SP and ASP were home quarantined, other staff including inspector, sub-inspectors, constables were under facility quarantine.  It has to be noted that a police constable (PC) attached to Nanjangud Rural Police station tested positive for Covid-19. According to the sources, the PC, also an assistant to Investigation Officer in theft case of live bullets from T Narasipur Police station, had worked closely with the top officials. He had visited the SP's office a couple of times in connection with the case.  According to an officer, all the police personnel, who were under quarantine are safe and will resume work soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/92-cops-including-igp-sp-test-negative-for-covid-19-854164.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Show of strength ends in draw in APMC poll||The show of strength between once associates and now foes — former chief minister Siddaramaiah and former minister G T Devegowda — resulted in a draw and the luck of their candidates was decided by a lottery, in the election to Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) here on Friday. Three of the nominated BJP votes split, with a majority of them went to the Congress, facilitating the draw of lots. Tahsildar K R Rakshith was the election officer. Congress succeeded in retaining the post of president of the APMC, while JD(S) got the vice president’s post — Bandipalya Basavaraju and M Nagaraju respectively. The runners-up were Kotehundi M Mahadevu and M K Anand respectively. The earlier president was K Prabhuswamy and earlier vice-president was J Chikkajavaraiah. All four candidates secured eight votes each in the polling. There are 13 elected members in the APMC and the state government nominated three members in a hurry, even though the BJP has little role in the committee. Among 13 members, six were supported by the Congress, six by JD(S) and one was elected from the merchants constituency. The nominated members are J S Jagadeesh, Shivabasappa from Kuppegala and Mahadevamma from Rammanahalli. Even though Devegowda, who defeated Siddaramaiah in the last election in Chamundeshwari Assembly segment, was close to the BJP leaders, he failed to garner the BJP votes. Siddaramaiah’s associates K Harish Gowda and former ZP president K Marigowda succeeded in winning over the BJP votes. Jagadeesh, a former Congressman, is a former corporator from Sharadevi Nagar in the city, he was a close associate of the late Rakesh, the elder son of ex-CM Siddaramaiah. As he was not given a ticket by Siddaramaiah, in the last election, he had crossed over to the BJP. However, his attempts to rejoin the Congress, till recently, turned futile. BJP district (rural) president S D Mahendra said, "The official stand of the party was to remain neutral, but the decision could not be communicated to the nominated members, before they entered the APMC premises." Meanwhile, Kotehundi Mahadevu said, "The local BJP leaders had entered into an agreement with the Congress and all three nominated members voted for the Congress candidates. We got a Congress vote, which resulted in a draw."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/show-of-strength-ends-in-draw-in-apmc-poll-854167.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'FIR against those who flout home quarantine norms'||Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh has warned that FIRs would be filed against those flouting home quarantine norms and wandering out of their houses. In a press release, the DC stated that he has received many complaints about the people in home quarantine behaving irresponsibly and venturing out, violating the norms. The Covid-19 infection is spreading slowly in the district and there are possibilities of these people spreading the virus among the public. It has become inevitable to take strict action to stop the community spreading of the virus, he has stated. The release also stated that adequate measures have been taken by the district administration to keep the spread under control. The authorities keep in touch with those in home quarantine through Mobile App. But, a few have been keeping their mobile phones switched off and roaming out. Legal action would be taken against them, he warned. If the people under quarantine are found roaming, the public can inform the control room of the respective taluk office or the nearest police station, he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fir-against-those-who-flout-home-quarantine-norms-854170.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress to protest discrimination against poor in Covid-19 treatment||The Congress in Karnataka on Thursday threatened to launch a protest on June 29 against the alleged discrimination against the poor in coronavirus treatment. "A situation has come when we have to get out on to the streets to protect the people. Maintaining social distancing, we will stage a demonstration on June 29," state Congress chief D K Shivakumar said at a press conference in the party state headquarters. He was critical about the recent price cap on the treatment of coronavirus in private hospitals ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000. "Already battered economically due to the coronavirus related lockdown, the government has put a cap on the treatment of patients in the private hospitals ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000. How will people bring money for their treatment?" Shivakumar asked. He wondered why the government was discriminating against the poor as if they brought the pandemic to India. "Have poor people brought this disease in India? Why are they punished?" Shivakumar questioned. The Congress state chief asked the Centre and the state government to utilise funds donated by the big corporates to the PMCARES and CM Relief Fund to deal with the pandemic. Shivakumar was also opposed to converting the Kumara Krupa Guest House into a treatment centre for public representatives and senior officials and insisted that everyone should be treated equally. "The package government has announced has not yet reached the poor people and they don't have access to the information about these packages and beneficiaries," the Congress leader claimed. He alleged that the government was playing with the future of children with respect to starting academic activities and said some children were getting education through online classes while many others are not. The party has decided to observe silence from 11 am to 12 noon on Friday to pay homage to the soldiers who were recently killed during the clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley, Shivakumar said. He accused the centre of misleading people regarding the situation in Galwan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-to-protest-discrimination-against-poor-in-covid-19-treatment-853810.html
26-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt has 'failed' to manage Covid-19 situation: Congress||With the spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the state, Opposition Congress on Friday accused the Karnataka government of 'failing' to manage the COVID-19 situation in the state. It also urged the state government to call a legislature session to discuss the situation arising out of coronavirus and bring out a white paper in this connection. "The government implemented the lockdown untimely which destroyed both the health of the people and also the economy as they did not take strict precautionary measures. Because they did not take strict measures the infections are increasing," Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said both the central and state governments have 'failed' to check COVID-19. The number of infections in Karnataka which stood at 3,408 as of June 1 had crossed the 10,500 mark on Thursday with the capital city topping the districts in the infection count. Responding to a question regarding imposing lockdown in the city, Siddaramaiah said the government had called Bengaluru MLAs for a meeting and our MLAs have shared their opinion. "The lockdown should have been imposed now as cases are increasing now and according to experts it will increase till September. They should have imposed lock down now, instead they did it then- it was untimely," he said. Amid a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday called a meeting of MLAs and MPs of all parties from the city to discuss measures to control the spread of virus. State Congress President D K Shivakuma too alleged that the government has failed in tackling the crisis and was not sharing information with the opposition. "We have said call the assembly, discuss, take our advice and come out with a white paper. We have urged to call a special session for this, but the government is not considering anything," he said in response to a question. Noting that the government has failed at all levels, Shivakumar said, they should have taken measures to protect the health of the people, they had 2.5 to 3 months time during the shutdown, without doing anything at that time, now when the cases are rising they have called our MLAs for meeting. Asked about implementing lockdown in Bengaluru, Shivakumar said our MLAs from the capital city have attended the meeting, we had left it to their discretion to take the decision and give a message to the government. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said all efforts would be made to control the spread of coronavirus in the city and there will be no fresh lockdown, as he asserted that improving the economic situation of the state is also equally important.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-has-failed-to-manage-covid-19-situation-congress-854049.html
26-06-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru's Chamundi Devi temple closed for Ashada Friday||It's a simple but significant Ashada Friday as the doors of Chamundeshwar Devi temple atop Chamundi Hill near Mysuru remain closed for devotees. The entry for devotees was banned following the Covid-19 outbreak. Temple priests performed rituals and puja for the deity before 7.30 am. Previously Ashada masa was celebrated in a grand manner and lakhs of devotees used to throng the hill for the Devi's darshana. The police and district administration had to make elaborate arrangements for the devotees. Temple was closed to devotees 100 year ago due to plague: Interestingly, no devotees were allowed to the temple during Ashada masa exactly a century ago. According to sources, the temple was closed 100 years back due to the outbreak of the plague.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysurus-chamundi-devi-temple-closed-for-ashada-friday-853899.html
26-06-2020||National||'Strong indigenous defence-manufacturing capabilities would help India safeguard its prosperity'||Strong indigenous defence-manufacturing capabilities would help India safeguard its prosperity generated over the last couple of decades, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said on Thursday. The minister inaugurated the two-day "Defence Conclave 2020" in Gujarat via video-conferencing on Thursday, a press release issued by the Defence Ministry said. According to the release, in his speech, Naik said, "Strong defence capabilities would help the nation in safeguarding the prosperity generated over the last couple of decades and also protect key economic interests like trade routes and safety going forward." "Focus on developing a strong domestic capability in defence would be a great economic growth impetus and also help in skilled job creation in manufacturing, a key need and priority for the nation," he added. Naik emphasised on the huge opportunity the defence sector presents for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). "The slowing down or saturation of markets in other sectors has also been responsible for directing their (MSMEs) interest towards the unexplored defence sector, which promises sustained business opportunities," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strong-indigenous-defence-manufacturing-capabilities-would-help-india-safeguard-its-prosperity-853798.html
26-06-2020||National||India suspects Pakistan used its High Commission in New Delhi to recruit terrorists||At least 218 Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) youths went untraceable after they travelled to Pakistan on visas issued by the High Commission of the neighbouring country in India since 2017 and New Delhi apprehends they might have been recruited by terrorist organisations. The reports of the intelligence agencies about the J&K youths traveling legally to Pakistan and not returning to India recently prompted the government to ask the neighbouring country to withdraw half of its personnel posted at its High Commission in New Delhi. A source in New Delhi that the probe by the intelligence agencies indicated that Pakistan was using its High Commission in the capital of India not only to run espionage networks for its military spy agency, but also to recruit terrorists. The High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi issued visas to 399 youths from J&K since January 2017 to let then travel to the neighbouring country. The whereabouts of about 218 of them are presently unknown as they went untraceable after crossing over from India to Pakistan, the source told DH. What lent credence to the suspicion of the security agencies were the identities of three of the five Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists, who were killed by the security forces in an encounter soon after they infiltrated into Keran in J&K from Dudhnial across India-Pakistan Line of Control (LoC) on the intervening night of March 31 and April 1 last. The three were identified as Adil Hussain Mir, Umar Nazir Khan and Sajjad Ahmed Hurrah, all residents of J&K, who had traveled to Pakistan in April 2018 on visas issued by the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi. India on Tuesday moved to downgrade its diplomatic relations with Pakistan, asking the government of the neighbouring country to withdraw half of the personnel working at its High Commission in New Delhi within the next seven days. New Delhi cited involvement of the officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in espionage against India as well as their “dealings” with terrorists as reasons for its decision. The intelligence agencies reported that Pakistan was targeting the youths of the J&K to radicalize them and recruit them as terrorists to use in its “proxy-war” against India. They were being sent to Pakistan on visas issued by the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, recruited, trained and armed by the LeT or the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to return to India and carry out attacks. “Pakistan wants to use the J&K youths to carry out attacks in India as, if they are caught or neutralized, identification process would reveal that they hailed from what is now Union Territory of India,” said another source, adding that any attack by the J&K youths-turned-terrorists would give an opportunity to Pakistan to claim that India was experiencing local resistance to its August 2019 move on J&K. Two undercover agents of the Inter- Services Intelligence (ISI) of the neighbouring country were recently caught red-handed in New Delhi when they were involved in espionage against India. They were working as consular officials at the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi. India expelled both of them immediately and they returned to Pakistan on June 1. Pakistan retaliated on June 15 by arresting two officials of the High Commission of India in its capital – allegedly for hurting a pedestrian in a road mishap and for possessing fake currencies. The two officials were released after being detained in a police station for over 10 hours. India accused Pakistan of making baseless allegations against its officials and violating the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. They returned to New Delhi on Monday. A day later, India conveyed to Pakistan its decision to downgrade diplomatic ties, asking the neighbouring country’s government to cut 50% of the staff at its High Commission in New Delhi. New Delhi also decided to withdraw 50% of its personnel currently posted at the High Commission of India in Islamabad, protesting against the attempt by the security and intelligence agencies of the neighbouring country to intimidate its diplomats and consular officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-suspects-pakistan-used-its-high-commission-in-new-delhi-to-recruit-terrorists-853804.html
26-06-2020||National||DU's academic, executive council members asks VC to scrap online open book exams||The academic and executive council members of the Delhi University on Thursday wrote to the vice chancellor asking him to scrap the online open book exams. Their letter to DU Vice Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi comes in the wake of Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' asking the University Grants Commission (UGC) to revisit the guidelines issued earlier for intermediate and terminal semester examination, and the academic calendar. Twenty-five academic and executive council members in the letter said, "The Union Minister of HRD is learned to have advised the UGC to revisit its earlier guidelines regarding conduct of examinations and academic calendar". "It has also been reported that the UGC Expert Committee has recommended the cancellation of examinations for terminal semester/year students. It appears that both the HRD minister and the UGC Committee have appreciated the objections raised by teachers and students against the university's decision to conduct online open book exams," it said. Meanwhile, students of DU's School of Open Learning (SOL) alleged that its website crashed when they opened it to download assignment questions. They alleged "mismanagement" on the part of SOL and said students are bound to fail exams in such a scenario.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dus-academic-executive-council-members-asks-vc-to-scrap-online-open-book-exams-853811.html
26-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 26, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-26-2020-edition-853834.html
26-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 26||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 4.9 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 5,09,381 as of June 26 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 15,684   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 2,85,367  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-26-853835.html
26-06-2020||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for 20th straight day||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked yet again on Friday, marking the 20th consecutive day increase in fuel prices after the 82-day hiatus in the wake of Covid-19.  In Delhi, petrol price was hiked by 21 paise per litre, while diesel by 17 paise per litre. On Thursday, diesel price in the national capital crossed the Rs 80 per litre-mark for the first time ever as oil companies raised prices for the 19th day, taking the cumulative rate to Rs 10.63 a litre.  Today, petrol will cost Rs 80.13 per litre and diesel Rs 80.19 per litre in the national capital.  Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, petrol price was hiked by 22 paise per litre to be priced at Rs 82.74. Diesel price was increased by 16 paise to cost Rs 76.25 per litre.  Rates of petrol and diesel differ from state to state depending on the incidence of VAT. While the diesel price has been hiked for the 20th straight day, petrol price has been raised on 19 occasions in less than three weeks. The cumulative increase since the oil companies started the cycle on June 7 now totals to Rs 8.87 for petrol and Rs 10.8 in diesel. Prior to the current rally, the peak diesel rates had touched was on October 16, 2018, when prices had climbed to Rs 75.69 per litre in Delhi. The highest ever petrol price was on October 4, 2018, when rates soared to Rs 84 a litre in Delhi. When rates had peaked in October 2018, the government had cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 1.50 per litre each. State-owned oil companies were asked to absorb another Rs 1 a litre to help cut retail rates by Rs 2.50 a litre. The government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each and then again on May 5 by a record Rs 10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. The two hikes gave the government Rs 2 lakh crore in additional tax revenues. Oil PSUs Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) instead of passing on the excise duty hikes to customers adjusted them against the fall in the retail rates that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices to two-decade low. International oil prices have since rebounded and oil firms are now adjusting retail rates in line with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-20th-straight-day-853836.html
26-06-2020||National||The Lead: The state of mental health — stories, affordability and accessibility||The Lead from Deccan Herald Podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In today's episode, DH Journalist Varsha Gowda speaks to Damini Shrivastava and Ahmed Shariff about mental health issues and Ahmed talks to Alternative story's Rashi Vidhyasagar on the accessibility of mental health care.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-the-state-of-mental-health-stories-affordability-and-accessibility-853837.html
26-06-2020||National||DH Toon | 'As WHO says test, test, test... The System!'||Shortly after the launch of its 'medicine' for Covid-19, yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved was on Tuesday asked by the Modi government to stop advertising the claims due to lack of requisite approvals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-as-who-says-test-test-test-the-system-853841.html
26-06-2020||National||PLA has already forced a change in LAC, says Lt Gen Hooda||The sudden muscle-flexing by China in Eastern Ladakh has taken the Indian government by surprise forcing the armed forces to put up a formidable defence on the northern border to take on any threats from the Dragon. In his distinguished career spanning over four decades, Lt Gen Deependra Singh Hooda, former General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Indian Army’s Northern Command, has seen many facets of China’s People’s Liberation Army. In an interview with DH’s Kalyan Ray, the veteran officer analyses the current crisis. Excerpts: Q. How the clash at the Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and the Chinese muscle-flexing at Eastern Ladakh is different from regular transgressions by the Chinese patrolling parties? A. The current situation is completely different from regular transgressions and even the past standoffs at Depsang in 2013, Chumar in 2014, and Dokalam in 2017. One striking variation is the completedisregard of existing agreements and protocols by the Chinese Army. They have thrown restraint to the wind and deliberately initiated large-scale violence. This would have serious repercussions on the future actions of Indian soldiers, and we are probably going to see a hotter LAC in the future, even if the current crisis is resolved peacefully.  Q. What do you think could be the objective of the PLA (and Chinese government) in opening up a new front at the Galwan Valley and claiming sovereignty? A. At the Galwan Valley, the PLA wishes to gain a strategic advantage by coming inside our territory to dominate the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DSDBO) road. This road is absolutely vital for us to support our forces that are deployed in the northern areas of Ladakh leading up to the Karakoram Pass. But Ithink there is a larger message that the Chinese are trying to convey that they will use the instrument of military coercion to force an acceptance of their demands. This should force us to reassess our strategy for dealing with China.  Q. The PLA is also heavily increasing its presence on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso – do you think they aim to force a change in the Indian perception of the LAC? A. To be honest, the PLA has already forced a change in the LAC on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso. Chinese soldiers are currently in physical occupation of areas along with their perception of the LACand have constructed numerous posts. The biggest challenge during our negotiations going forward will be to get the Chinese to restore the status quo ante in this area.  Q. What do you think should be the Indian response? A. Our response must be based on a realistic appraisal of our strengths as well as weaknesses. It will have to be a mix of diplomatic, economic, and military actions. It would be good if political one-upmanship takes a backseat and we all come togetherto deal with this grave problem on our hands. While the opposition is questioning every aspect of the handling of this crisis, the ruling party is painting a picture of the PLA having had a free run along the LAC inthe past. Both these narratives do grave injustice to soldiers who are currently handling the difficultsituation as well as those soldiers who have resolutely defended our borders in the past.  Q. You played a key role in planning the surgical strike in the wake of the Uri massacre in which 19 Indian soldiers were killed. This time 20 Indian soldiers including the CO of the unit were killed – do you foresee a similar kind of action? A. Each situation is different and attempting to apply a Pakistan template to China would not be helpful. We have a strong military capability and the military leaders must professionally present their options to the government, including the implications of escalation. It would obviously be better if the matter is resolved diplomatically, but we must be prepared for all eventualities. After all, in this instance, the Chinese have not hesitated to employ their military forces to change the status quo on the LAC. Q: Why do you think Indian soldiers did not open a fire when they came under attack though they carried arms (as stated by the Foreign Minister S Jaishankar)? Do you think soldiers really cared about international protocols when they came under attack and saw their CO getting killed? A. There has already been enough debate on this subject and only the soldiers who were involved in the incident know the true picture and what went through their minds. It is my personal view that if the soldiers were armed, they should have resorted to using their weapons when under attack. No protocols are breached when a person acts in self defence. I think the rules of engagement have now been reviewed and the army has been given freedom to act as it deems appropriate.   Q. Will the physical violence impact the India-China boundary talks? A. It certainly will. I think the positions on both sides will become hardened and it will become more difficult to find a consensus. The Chinese actions of 15 June, when they tried to set up a post in India territory, and their subsequent statements laying claim over the entire Galwan valley have vitiated the dialogue process. There is now a great deal of suspicion of Chinese intentions. Talks held in the absence of trust face an uphill task.  Q. Should India continue to develop its border infrastructure or will look for a compromise? A. We are facing a powerful and assertive adversary who now appears willing to use its military capability to forcibly settle the border dispute in its favour. It is, therefore, incumbent on India to strengthen and develop its border infrastructure along with building a robust military. We could see some objections to this from the Chinese side, but we have to stand firm. History teaches us that a policy of appeasement has rarely brought peace to the appeaser.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pla-has-already-forced-a-change-in-lac-says-lt-gen-hooda-853851.html
26-06-2020||National||US plans to train fighter pilots of India, Japan, Oz in Guam amid China’s growing belligerence in Indo-Pacific||The United States is contemplating to open its training facilities at the Anderson Air Force Base in Guam in western Pacific Ocean for the fighter jet pilots of India, Japan and Australia – ostensibly to step up military cooperation among the four nations to counter growing belligerence of China. The proposed National Defence Authorisation Act 2021 (NDAA 2021) presented by President Donald Trump’s administration to the US Senate this week revealed its plan to set up training detachments for the fighter jet pilots of India, Japan and Australia at the Anderson Air Force Base in Guam. The move is intended to enhance the interoperability of the air forces of the US and its three other partners in the ‘Quad’ – a four-nation coalition re-activated in November 2017 to build a bulwark against China’s hegemonic aspirations in Indo-Pacific. The move comes even as Trump’s Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, said that the US was bringing down number of its troops in Europe in order to re-deploy them in Indo-Pacific to make it sure that it is “appropriately postured” to counter the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), in view of the growing belligerence of China, not only along its disputed border with India, but also in South China Sea. The US in December 2019 inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Singapore for setting up a permanent training detachment for the fighter jets pilots of the city-state in Guam. Trump Administration has now proposed to assess the “merits and feasibility” of similar MoUs with other US “allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region, including Japan, Australia and India”. New Delhi is aware of the US plan. It was discussed when Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks in New Delhi and agreed to deepen defence and security cooperation, including through advanced training and joint war-drills involving the army, navy and air forces of the two nations. The permanent training detachment for Indian, Australian and Japanese fighter jet pilots in Anderson Air Base will enhance the interoperability of the air forces of the US and its partners in the Quad and maximize preparedness to counter any threat in the Indo-Pacific, a source in New Delhi said. New Delhi late last month cold-shouldered the US President’s offer to mediate between India and China to help them resolve the stand-off along their disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. But when Trump and Modi spoke to each other over phone on June 2, the two leaders did discuss the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the disputed boundary between India and China. Though the ‘Quad’ first came into existence in 2007, it soon fizzled out. But it had a low-profile re-launch in November 2017 and senior diplomats of the four nations participated in regular consultations and called for “free and open Indo-Pacific” tacitly opposing expansionist moves by China. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers in September 2019, with Pompeo and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar joining their counterparts from Australia and Japan in a four-nation meet in New York. India of late quietly added a military heft to the Quad by inking an agreement on Mutual Logistics Support Arrangement (MLSA) with Australia. The agreement is intended to open up the military bases of India and Australia for each other’s army, navy and air forces. India is also likely to sign a similar agreement with Japan soon. It had already signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) with the US in August 2016. The US has of late been pushing for expanding the Quad into a Quad Plus, roping in other democratic nations in Indo-Pacific – obviously in response to China’s renewed aggression in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-plans-to-train-fighter-pilots-of-india-japan-oz-in-guam-amid-china-s-growing-belligerence-in-indo-pacific-853865.html
26-06-2020||National||Joe Biden seeks restoration of peoples' rights in Kashmir; disappointed with NRC, CAA||Democratic presidential nominee and former vice president Joe Biden wants New Delhi to take necessary steps to restore rights of all Kashmiris and has expressed disappointment over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as well as the implementation of the National Register of Citizens in Assam. “These measures are inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy,” according to the policy paper -- ‘Joe Biden’s agenda for Muslim American community’ posted recently on his campaign website. A group of Hindu Americans have reached out to the Biden campaign expressing their resentment to the language used against India and have urged them to reconsider their views. The group has also sought a similar policy paper on Hindu Americans. The Biden campaign did not respond to questions in this regard. Observing that Biden understands the pain Muslim-Americans feel towards what is happening in Muslim-majority countries and countries with significant Muslim populations, the policy paper clubbed together Kashmir and Assam in India with the forced detention of over a million Uyghur Muslims in western China, and discrimination and atrocities against Burma’s Rohingya Muslim minority. “In Kashmir, the Indian government should take all necessary steps to restore the rights of all the people of Kashmir. Restrictions on dissent, such as preventing peaceful protests or shutting or slowing down the Internet, weakens democracy,” said the policy paper on Muslim Americans. “Joe Biden has been disappointed by the measures that the government of India has taken with the implementation and aftermath of the National Register of Citizens in Assam and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act into law,” it said. Biden as United States Senator for decades and as vice president under President Barack Obama for eight years has been known as one of the best friends of India and Indian-Americans, it said. He played a key role in the passage of the India-US civilian nuclear deal, and as vice president, he advocated increasing the bilateral trade to USD500 billion per annum. Well connected with the Indian Americans, Biden regularly hosted Diwali at his vice-presidential residence, it said. “Biden understands the issues impacting India, issues of cross border terrorism, influx of terrorism across borders in Kashmir, issue of Hindu minorities sufferings in Kashmir, issues in Indo Pacific region with China, and the rising role of India as stronger US ally in all areas including economic growth, counter-terrorism, fight for human rights, climate change and global security,” Biden supporter Ajay Jain Bhutoria told PTI. “There are groups within various elected officials groups in the US pushing language and agenda's highlighting misinformation and damaging facts on how India handled its own internal matter on Kashmir, Ladakh or immigration reforms related to NRC,” rued Bhutoria, who is also on the National Finance Committee for Biden. Bhutoria said the US recently updated its immigration policy to block the H-1B and other visas for rest of the year to safeguard its own workers, which is completely questionable and will hurt the economy. India too has a right to define its own Immigration policy to support its population and economy, he said. “I grew up in Assam, Guwahati and I have seen the influx of people across the border and taking away important jobs, resources from local people in northeastern states,” he said. “The immigration reforms and NRC are welcome steps. Execution of these reforms and strategies need to be improved and India needs to do better in change management and rolling out of reforms,” Bhutoria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/joe-biden-seeks-restoration-of-peoples-rights-in-kashmir-disappointed-with-nrc-caa-853872.html
26-06-2020||National||Covid-19 cases cross 17,000-mark in India as tally nears 5 lakh, death toll climbs to over 15,000||The highest single-day surge of COVID-19 cases crossed the 17,000 mark on Friday, pushing India's tally to 4,90,401, while the death toll climbed to 15,301 with 407 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  Updated at 8 am, the data showed the daily COVID-19 cases increased by the highest-ever 17,296 infections. The number of active cases stands at 1,89,463 while 2,85,636 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the updated figures.    "Thus, around 58.24 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases also include foreigners.   Of the 407 new deaths reported till Friday morning, 192 were in Maharashtra, 64 in Delhi, 45 in Tamil Nadu, 18 in Gujarat, 15 each in West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, 12 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Haryana, eight in Madhya Pradesh, seven in Punjab, six in Karnataka, five in Telangana, four in Rajasthan and two in Jammu and Kashmir. Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand have reported one COVID-19 fatality each in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-cross-17000-mark-in-india-as-tally-nears-5-lakh-death-toll-climbs-to-over-15000-853886.html
26-06-2020||National||CBSE, ICSE to announce class 10, 12 board exam results by July 15||The Supreme Court on Friday permitted the Centre and the CBSE to cancel the remaining board examinations due to the COVID-19 pandemic and gave the go-ahead for the scheme to award marks to students for the cancelled papers scheduled to be held in July. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna permitted the CBSE to issue a notification for the cancellation of the examinations. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the CBSE, said that the assessment scheme would consider marks scored by students in the last three papers of the board exams. Both CBSE and ICSE told the top court that the results of the class X and XII board exams can be declared by the middle of July. The top court was hearing pleas seeking relief, including scrapping of remaining exams of Class 12 scheduled from July 1 to 15, in view of increasing number of COVID-19 cases. Similar relief was sought by the ICSE Board also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-icse-to-announce-class-10-12-board-exam-results-by-july-15-853893.html
26-06-2020||National||How CBSE plans to assess class 10, 12 students for board exams this year||Marks for the pending class 10, 12 exams, which have been cancelled in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, will be awarded on basis of marks scored by a student in his or her best performing subjects, according to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)'s four-point assessment scheme. The board notified the scheme after receiving a nod from the Supreme Court which was hearing a petition by a group of parents who had demanded the pending exams scheduled in July 1 to 15 be cancelled in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. As per the scheme, results of class 10 and 12 students, who have completed all their exams, will be declared based on their performance in the exams. "For students who have appeared in the examinations in more than three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best three performing subjects will be awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted," CBSE Exam Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj explained. "For students who have appeared in the examinations in only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two performing subjects will be awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted," he added. Taking note of cancellation of a few exams in northeast Delhi in view of the communal violence in the area during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in February, the board has decided to take into account internal exams to assess performances. "There are very few students of class 12, mainly from Delhi, who have appeared in the examinations in only one or two subjects. Their results will be declared based on performances in the appeared subjects and performance in internal, practical or project assessment," Bhardwaj said. The board will conduct exams for class 12 at a later stage when the situation is conducive and students who are unhappy with their score will have an option to appear for them. However, the students who opt to sit for those exams, their performances in the exams will be treated as the final score. Class 10 students will not get a chance to appear for improvement exams and their score as declared by the board will be treated as final. The four-point assessment scheme has been devised following cancellation of the pending exams, which were scheduled from July 1 to 15. "Results based upon the assessment scheme will be declared by July 15 so candidates can apply and seek admissions in higher educational institutions in India or abroad," Bhardwaj said. The board, however, has not specified any timeline for conducting the optional improvement exams. While the petitioning parents insisted the students be allowed to take exams within two weeks of declaring the results as children will be in a state of confusion if a timeline is not stipulated now, the court said the CBSE can first notify the date before giving an opportunity to students to opt for the exams. "It is also possible that CBSE may decide the situation is not conducive to hold the exam at all," said the bench.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-cbse-plans-to-assess-class-10-12-students-for-board-exams-this-year-853917.html
26-06-2020||National||PM Modi launches 'Atma Nirbhar UP Rozgar Abhiyan'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the 'Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rozgar Abhiyan' which seeks to promote local entrepreneurship and create partnership with industrial associations to provide employment opportunities. At the virtual launch, Modi interacted with villagers from six districts of Uttar Pradesh. Villages across all districts of the state joined the event through Common Service Centres and Krishi Vigyan Kendras. The scheme seeks to dovetail central and state government's programmes, while also creating partnerships with industry and other organisations as the COVID-19 pandemic affected workforce in general and migrant workers in particular.  The campaign is intensely focused towards providing employment and promoting local entrepreneurship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-atma-nirbhar-up-rozgar-abhiyan-853920.html
26-06-2020||National||SC to hear pleas against blacklisting of foreigners for alleged Tablighi activities on June 29||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to hear on June 29 the pleas by foreign nationals who have challenged the government orders that blacklisted around 2,500 citizens from 35 countries from travelling to India for alleged involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked the counsel appearing for the petitioners to serve copies of their pleas to the Centre. Four petitions have been filed by 34 individuals, including a Thai national who is seven months pregnant, challenging the Centre's orders on April 2 and June 4 by which over 2,500 foreign nationals, who are currently in India, were blacklisted. "The impugned decision, by its very unilateral nature, infringes the principle of natural justice, particularly ‘audi alteram partem’ by blacklisting the said foreigners present in India without first granting an opportunity of being heard or notice of any form, and resultantly depriving the aggrieved foreign nationals of their right of locomotion and travelling back to the country of their citizenship,” said the plea filed by the Thai woman. The petitions have contended that the en-masse blacklisting of foreigners without any opportunity to defend themselves is a blatant violation of Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. They said the sudden blacklisting, apart from registration of FIRs, led to the forfeiture of their passports by state authorities, thereby resulting in a complete deprivation of their personal liberty sans procedure established by law. “The impugned decision, therefore, has been passed arbitrarily against the aggrieved foreign nationals, being devoid of any documentary proof or evidence to substantiate the allegations of alleged Tablighi activities, and in the absence of any opportunity being afforded to defend or to explain, is an affront to not only the right to life and personal liberty, guaranteed under Article 21 but also to the rudimental principles of natural justice,” the Thai woman's plea said. She has said she was released from quarantine in late May but is still at a facility under restricted movements, without the avenue to go back to her nation and experience the birth of her child with security and dignity, with her loved ones.  “In barely 50 words, the impugned decision as reflected in the press release dated April 2, 2020 has arbitrarily first forfeited the personal liberty of more than 960 foreign nationals, belonging to 35 countries, presently in India, having entered on valid tourist visas, by merely alleging their involvement in ‘Tablighi Jamaat Activities’ despite the guidelines of the Respondent No.1 (MHA) placing no bar on attending religious congregations or visiting religious places,” it said. “The Respondent No.1 (MHA) baselessly and arbitrarily passed a blanket ban on the aggrieved foreign nationals under the garb of alleged visa violations pursuant to alleged Tablighi activities, forcing such persons to remain in India under restricted movements,” it said. The plea added the decisions are based on an "erroneous presumption" equating a religious congregation with Tablighi work such as preaching religious ideologies. It has sought direction to MHA and Ministry of External Affairs to remove the said foreigners from the blacklist and reinstate their visas and facilitate their return to their countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-pleas-against-blacklisting-of-foreigners-for-alleged-tablighi-activities-on-june-29-853929.html
26-06-2020||National||'GoI has failed to narrate truth about China's incursion In Ladakh’||A senior Congress leader in Ladakh has accused the government of India of failing to narrate truth about China's incursion along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Union Territory (UT) which has created confusion “within the nation itself.” Ringzin Spalbar, also a former Chief Executive Councilor of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, alleged that the ‘contradictory’ statements by the Prime Minister, Defence Minister and Foreign Minister on Chinese incursions had created confusion “within the nation itself.” Spalbar, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Parliament elections on Congress mandate from Ladakh's LS seat, said that China has, over the years, made a number of attempts to capture Indian territory and “managed to claim sovereignty because India maintained silence.” “Government of India has not revealed the actual facts to the people of the country, especially the ground situation in eastern Ladakh and there is no denial that China again this time has captured Indian territory,” he claimed. The veteran Buddhist leader revealed that in the past too, China occupied Indian territory in Ladakh “but the only difference this time is that our country lost 20 soldiers in a violent clash and the area China encroached upon this time is strategically the most vital vantage position.” He said he can't say with authority how much Indian land was occupied by China “but there is no doubt that PLA came inside Indian territory.”“There is no fear or tension among the local population here since it’s not the first time that a war-like situation is created. People have witnessed it in the past too and have helped the Indian army in every possible manner,” Spalbar said. The veteran politician said that China has always betrayed India. “We haven't taught them a lesson as India kept taking things lightly due to which we have suffered losses and will keep on if appropriate measures aren't taken,” he said and demanded India must talk to China on an equal level like a powerful nation. Lashing out at the Central government for not coming clear about the situation, Spalbar said, “The government should not hide the actual situation of Ladakh. The biggest mistake the government made is maintaining silence and failing to build word opinion and not talking the entire nation into confidence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goi-has-failed-to-narrate-truth-about-chinas-incursion-in-ladakh-853935.html
26-06-2020||National||India making significant efforts towards eliminating human trafficking: US report||India made significant efforts towards the elimination of human trafficking in 2019 but did not fully meet the minimum standards, according to a US report. As such India remained on Tier 2 of the Congressional-mandated 2020 Trafficking in Persons report of the state department. Pakistan has been downgraded to the Tier 2 watch list because the government did not make overall increasing efforts, the report said. China, on the other hand, has remained on the lowest Tier 3 as it made no significant efforts to eliminate trafficking, according to the report released by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in the presence of US President Donald Trump's daughter and top White House advisor Ivanka Trump. “The Communist Party of China (CPC) and its state-owned enterprises often force citizens to work in horrendous conditions on Belt and Road projects,” Pompeo told reporters while releasing the report on Thursday. “India does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking but is making significant efforts to do so. The government demonstrated overall increasing efforts compared to the previous reporting period; therefore India remained on Tier 2,” the report said. These efforts included convicting traffickers and completing a high-profile investigation into a case that involved officials complicit in trafficking at a government-funded shelter home in Bihar, convicting 19 individuals in the case, including three state officials; an influential former legislator was among the 12 that received life sentences, it said. According to the report, the government also filed First Information Reports (FIRs) against other government-funded shelter homes in Bihar that allegedly abused residents, including trafficking victims. For the first time, the Madras High Court reversed an acquittal in a bonded labour case. The central government added investigation of inter-state and transnational trafficking cases to the mandate of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which began investigating inter-state trafficking. The government continued to work on its draft anti-trafficking bill and committed to devoting funding to expand its police anti-human trafficking units (AHTUs) to all 732 districts, it said. However, the government did not meet the minimum standards in several key areas. The government did not make serious or sustained efforts to address its consistently large trafficking problem. Overall anti-trafficking efforts, especially against bonded labour, remained inadequate, the report said. India in the past has rejected the US State Department’s annual report on trafficking in persons, which put India on a watch-list, terming it a “judgmental and prescriptive approach by a foreign government.” Observing that traffickers exploit millions of people in flesh trade in India, the report said that traffickers target Indian women and girls but also fraudulently recruit significant numbers of Nepali and Bangladeshi women and girls to India for sex trafficking. India, it said, is a source for child sex tourists and a destination for child sex tourism. Traffickers kidnap and force Indian and Nepali women and girls to work as “orchestra dancers” in India, especially in Bihar, where girls perform with dance groups until they have repaid fabricated debts. Traffickers exploit women and children in sex trafficking in religious pilgrimage centres and in tourist destinations, it said. According to the report, traffickers force many Indian migrants who willingly seek employment abroad into construction, domestic work, factories, and other low-skilled sectors in many regions, especially Gulf countries and Malaysia, often following recruitment fraud and exorbitant recruitment fees. “Indian female domestic workers in all Gulf countries, particularly Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, consistently report strong indicators of forced labour, including non-payment of wages, refusal to allow workers to leave upon completion of their contracts, and physical abuse,” it said. In the United Arab Emirates, labour traffickers bring Indian workers overseas on tourist visas, withhold their identity documents and wages, and force them to work, especially in construction. Authorities have recently identified Indian forced labour victims in Armenia, Portugal, Gabon, and Zambia, and Indian female sex trafficking victims in Kenya, it said. “Traffickers exploit Rohingya, Sri Lankan Tamil, and other refugee populations in sex and labour trafficking. Traffickers subject some boys from Assam, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh states to forced labour in Nepal,” the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-making-significant-efforts-towards-eliminating-human-trafficking-us-report-853938.html
26-06-2020||National||HC declines to entertain PIL for direction to telcos not to block incoming calls during COVID-19||The Delhi High Court Friday said courts cannot do charity at the cost of others while declining to entertain a PIL seeking directions to TRAI and the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to ensure that operators do not block incoming services of subscribers during the Covid-19 pandemic "Telecom companies also need money. Courts cannot do charity at the cost of others," the high court said. Taking note of the observation by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, the petitioner-law student decided not to press for the reliefs sought in his plea. "Petitioner is not pressing the writ petition. It is disposed of as not pressed," the court said. The law student, Priyatam Bhardwaj, had contended in his petition that telecom companies' action of blocking incoming calls and messages on account of failure to recharge subscription is causing grave hardship to people who cannot afford to spend money on that in the prevailing circumstances.  "Forcing a person amid financial crunches to recharge their subscription out of limited resources they are left with in order to prevent the blocking of incoming calls and incoming messages causes grave prejudice to them," the petition had said.   The petitioner said he had made representations to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and the DoT in May with regard to not blocking incoming facilities on any mobile number during Covid-19 pandemic.  While no response was received from TRAI, the DoT said it will consider the proposal, but no steps have been taken till date, the plea had said.  The petition had also sought directions to the telecom service providers (TSPs), like Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone, to restore incoming services on numbers which they had blocked for non-payment of subscription during Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-declines-to-entertain-pil-for-direction-to-telcos-not-to-block-incoming-calls-during-covid-19-853939.html
26-06-2020||National||Bank fraud: CBI carries out searches at premises of Ratul Puri, others||The CBI on Friday carried out searches at seven locations including the premises of Congress leader Kamal Nath's nephew Ratul Puri after booking him and his parents in an alleged bank fraud of Rs 787 crore involving his company Moser Baer Solar Ltd, officials said. Besides Ratul Puri, former Independent Director in the company, the agency has booked his mother Nita Puri -- Nath's sister -- and his father Deepak Puri who were also directors and independent directors in the company at different points of time. After filing an FIR on a complaint from Punjab National Bank, one of the consortium members which funded the company, the agency teams swung into action and carried out searches at seven locations including the premises of the Puris in the posh New Friends Colony area of the national capital, they said. The searches were spread across Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Annupur (Madhya Pradesh), they said. Taking into consideration the coronavirus pandemic, the officers wore personal protective equipment braving sultry weather in the capital and Madhya Pradesh, they said. Besides, the Puris the agency has also booked Sunita Gupta, Deepak Khandelwal, Rajesh Khandelwal, Sunita Mowdgal, Sanjay Jain, all directors and independent directors in the company, and Bernhard Hermann Gallus, a resident of Spain who was additional director in the company till 2014. Ratul Puri had ceased to be the Independent Director in 2012, they said. He is already facing a separate probe by the CBI in connection with a Rs 354-crore bank fraud case involving Moser Baer India Ltd. When asked for comments, Ratul Puri's counsel did not offer any reaction on the development. According to the complaint, nine banks had funded Moser Baer Solar Ltd for setting up a solar line with an annual capacity of 90 MW. The company had even approached Corporate Debt Restructuring mechanism under the Reserve Bank of India to seek relief which was granted. When it was unable to repay the debts, the banks carried out a forensic audit which submitted its report in June last year. "It was alleged that the said accused had cheated the Punjab National Bank led consortium comprising PNB (lead bank), SBI, Exim Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank of India, Union Bank of India, and Bank of Baroda to the tune of Rs 787.25 crore(approx) by way of diversion of bank funds, sham transactions and inflated security deposits etc," CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said. The PNB has claimed in its complaint that as on August 31, 2019 it has an outstanding of over Rs 236 crore, State Bank of India of over Rs 142 crore, EXIM bank over Rs 128 crore, Indian Overseas Bank over Rs 157 crore, Bank of Baroda over Rs 7.42 crore, Union Bank of India over 36.59 crore and Central Bank of India over Rs 78.53 crore. "It is clear that the accused persons in connivance with each or any other person have committed various criminal offences, hereby caused wrongful gain to themselves and wrongful loss to lenders to the tune of Rs 787.25 crore as on August 31, 2019 and interest thereon," the complaint, which is now part of the FIR, alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-fraud-cbi-carries-out-searches-at-premises-of-ratul-puri-others-853948.html
26-06-2020||National||SC stays any coercive action against TV anchor for remarks against Sufi saint||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed any coercive action against TV journalist Amish Devgan in multiple FIRs lodged against him across the country for his remarks against Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna provided protection to him till the next date of hearing in July, on a writ petition filed by him. The court issued notice to states of Rajasthan, Telangana  and Maharashtra, where FIRs were lodged against him. It also sought a response from those who filed complaints against him. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for Devgan, submitted that he has already tendered his apology for the error, which can't be treated as a criminal offence. He said the petitioner made the inadvertent mistake of using the name of 'Chishti' in place of 'Khilji'. The TV debate show 'Aar Par' was telecast on June 15. Counsel for complainants contended that the petitioner had used the word 'lootera' (plunderer) in his show. In his plea, Devgan sought a direction to club multiple cases and transfer those cases to a court in the National Capital Region. Meanwhile, a separate bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai stayed proceedings against OpIndia editor Nupur J Sharma and others in an FIR lodged against them by the West Bengal police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-any-coercive-action-against-tv-anchor-for-remarks-against-sufi-saint-853950.html
26-06-2020||National||States, UTs have to optimally utilise PPE kits given for doctors, nurses: Centre to HC||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that it has provided personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and N 95 masks to states and union territories as per their requirement and it is upto them to "optimally utilize" the protective gear. The submission by the Union Health Ministry has been made on an affidavit filed in response to a PIL by an NGO alleging that nurses in private hospitals were not being provided proper protection equipment to guard against Covid-19 infection. The NGO, in its plea, has alleged that nurses in private hospitals and clinics were being given used PPE kits. The ministry in its affidavit, said "The central government is making available PPE kits, N-95 masks etc to states/UTs as per requirements. It is the responsibility of the states/UTs to optimally utilise the kits," The Delhi government, in its response to the plea by NGO, Distress Management Collective, has said that it was taking action against private hospitals and nursing homes which violate the Covid guidelines as and when such instances are brought to its attention. It said that it has issued show cause notice to a nursing home against which complaints were received from nursing staff that proper PPE kits, masks, etc were not being provided to them. The show cause notice was issued after carrying out an inspection of the nursing home which revealed that disposable PPE kits were not supplied to the nursing staff, the Delhi government affidavit said. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan will peruse the affidavits and hear the matter on July 2. The NGO, in its plea, has also sought that all the private sector nurses be covered under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package of insurance protection and they be provided proper psycho-social support. On these aspects, the Delhi government has said that it has issued an office order on April 7 which states that any person, including doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, sweeper or any other staff in government or private sector, expires while attending to Covid-19 patients his/her family shall be provided Rs one crore as compensation. It has also said that an office order was issued on June 17 notifying that psychiatric social counselling services are being made available to health care workers under a programme called ''samarthan''. The ministry, in its response, has said that health care workers in government and private sectors are covered under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package which provides comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs 50 lakh. The Distress Management Collective, which claims to be a group of social workers, health professionals, lawyers, retired bureaucrats and retired judges, has alleged that the Centre and the Delhi government have a "discriminatory approach" towards nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes as compared to those working in state-run healthcare facilities. It has also claimed that the private management which runs these nursing homes/hospitals "are maintaining nil or meagre inventory of requisite stock of safety equipments" and are not exercising basic precautions for safety and security of their healthcare workers. The petition has further claimed that the Centre and Delhi government "are not taking any action despite many representations by the nurses individually and collectively".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-have-to-optimally-utilise-ppe-kits-given-for-doctors-nurses-centre-to-hc-853954.html
26-06-2020||National||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray writes to PM over cancellation of examinations||Amid sort of uncertainty in the education sector, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged prime minister Narendra Modi to direct various national level apex bodies to cancel professional examinations in the state, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. These apex bodies are All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Council for Architecture (COA), Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), Bar Council of India (BCI), National Council For Teachers Education (NCTE) and National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology (NCHMCT). Thackeray, in a letter to Modi, noted that the state government has recently decided not to conduct any Final Year/Semester examinations for non-professional and professional courses for the academic year (AY) 2019-2020. The degrees would be awarded on the basis of a formula to be decided by various universities though students have been given the option of appearing for the examinations whenever it is feasible.  The government also decided to get the decision pertaining to canceling the professional courses exams endorsed from their respective Apex national-level bodies. Thackeray urged Modi to instruct all apex bodies to endorse the decision of the state government regarding the cancellation of Final Year/Semester examinations of these professional courses and issue necessary guidelines to the universities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-writes-to-pm-over-cancellation-of-examinations-853961.html
26-06-2020||National||Spell out plans to reclaim Indian territory: Sonia Gandhi to PM Narendra Modi||Amid reports of fresh incursions, Congress on Friday rallied supporters across the country to step up pressure on the Modi government to spell out plans to reclaim the Indian territory encroached upon by China in Ladakh. Congress workers and leaders staged sit-in demonstrations to protest against the Modi government’s handling of the situation along the Line of Actual Control with China and to remember the soldiers who were killed in violent face-off with PLA troops in the Galwan Valley on June 15. While Congress President Sonia Gandhi told the Modi government that it cannot shirk responsibility in protecting borders, Rahul Gandhi demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi declare that he was ready for action to overthrow the Chinese troops from Indian territory. “Mr. Prime Minister, you will have to speak the truth. You will have to tell the nation. There is no need to fear. If you say we have not lost any territory whereas we have lost land in reality, China will benefit,” Rahul said in a video message. “We have to fight them together, we have to pick them up and throw them back, remove them… without any fear you declare that China had seized our land and we are launching action.. the entire nation is standing with you,” the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad, Kerala said. “The country wants to know how and when the Modi government will take back our territory in Ladakh,” Congress President Sonia Gandhi said. Addressing a press conference, two former junior Ministers of Defence – M M Pallam Raju and Bhanwar Jitendra Singh – said China has now occupied “Indian territory up to 18 kms inside the LAC in the Depsang plains, up to Y-junction, Bottleneck, as per multiple reports.” Congress also whipped up a Twitterstorm as its leaders and supporters posted videos with a hashtag #SpeakUpforOurJawans, seeking accountability from the Modi government over stand-off with China. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala claimed that its campaign had reached two crore people across various social media platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spell-out-plans-to-reclaim-indian-territory-sonia-gandhi-to-pm-narendra-modi-853966.html
26-06-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA booked for 'derogatory' remark against Union minister||A case has been registered against Congress MLA in Madhya Pradesh, Shashank Bhargava, for allegedly making a derogatory remark against a woman Union minister during a protest over the fuel price hike, police said on Friday. Bhargava made the remark during a cycle rally protest held in Vidisha on Thursday, the police said. The controversial statement angered the leaders of the ruling BJP in the state, with Vidisha civic body chairman staging a protest against Bhargava and accusing him of having an "anti-women" mentality. The BJP lodged a police complaint against Bhargava, who represents the Vidisha Assembly seat. "An FIR has been registered against Bhargava under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order issued by public servant) and 354 A (1-4) (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment)," Kotwali police station in-charge Virendra Jha said. Meanwhile, National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma said a reply will be sought from the legislator for this remark. Reacting to the comment, senior BJP leader and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday tweeted, "Yatra Naryastu Pujyante, Ramante Tatra Devta (Gods reside there where women are worshipped). But the way our Congress leaders are commenting against women is highly condemnable."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-congress-mla-booked-for-derogatory-remark-against-union-minister-853968.html
26-06-2020||National||1971 war hero Sqn Ldr Parvez Jamasji passes away||Sqn Ldr Parvez Jamasji (retd), who was awarded the Vir Chakra for gallantry during the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, has died, family sources said. He was 77. Jamasji, who used a walking stick due to the injuries he sustained as a helicopter pilot while conducting heli-borne operations during the war, is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter. The former Air Force officer, a resident of the Parsi Colony in Dadar here, died on Thursday night after a brief illness. His Vir Chakra citation read, "During the operations against Pakistan in December, 1971, Flight Lieutenant Parvez Rustom Jamasji was serving with a helicopter unit. His Helicopter flown by him was attacked twice by machine gun and twice by mortars. He showed great presence of mind and brought back his aircraft to the base. "On one occasion his helicopter had engine failure over enemy position, but he brought it safely to a post within our territory. Throughout, Flight Lieutenant Parvez Rustom Jamasji displayed gallantry, professional skill and devotion to duty of a high order." The former pilot was commissioned in 1965 and retired in 1985.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1971-war-hero-sqn-ldr-parvez-jamasji-passes-away-853972.html
26-06-2020||National||IAF helicopter makes emergency landing on KGP expressway in Haryana||An Indian Air Force helicopter made an emergency landing on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal expressway in Haryana on Friday following a technical glitch, a police official said. All the personnel are reported to be safe, he said. "The IAF helicopter made an emergency landing due to some technical snag. All Police Control Room vehicles and police personnel were rushed to the spot. Later, IAF engineers attended to the chopper and it took off after two hours," Assistant Sub-Inspector of Sonipat Police Sandeep Kumar told PTI over the phone. The chopper made the landing on the KGP or the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, about 10-12 km from Sonipat. Kumar said police reached the spot and stopped the vehicular traffic on the stretch of the road where the chopper had landed. "No one was allowed to go near the chopper. The vehicular traffic was restored when the chopper took off," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-helicopter-makes-emergency-landing-on-kgp-expressway-in-haryana-853977.html
26-06-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat: SC to take up plea against blacklisting of foreigners||The Supreme Court on Friday sought to know the stance of the Centre on a plea questioning blacklisting and cancellation of visas of about 2500 members of Tablighi Jamaat from 35 countries. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked the petitioner Maulana Ala Hadrami, a resident of Indonesia, and others to serve the copy of the petition with the Union government. The court decided to take up the matter, concerning four petitions, including a pregnant woman, on Monday. The petitioners, who were led by senior advocates Salman Khurshid and C U Singh, questioned the validity of the press release issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on April 2 and June 4, blacklisting 2500 people for 10 years from travelling to the country for participating in Tablighi Jamaat activities.  They said subsequent seizing of their passports without affording them opportunity of hearing is an affront not only to their right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution but also to the rudimentary principle of natural justice. The petitioners asked the court to declare the move as arbitrary and unconstitutional, reinstate their visas and allow them to return to their respective countries. Over thousands of members, including foreigners, participated in Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in Delhi in the month of March. Hundreds of them were subsequently found to be infected with coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-sc-to-take-up-plea-against-blacklisting-of-foreigners-853992.html
26-06-2020||National||Priyanka dares Yogi govt to act against her; also attacks rival opposition parties in UP||Undeterred by the notice sent to her by the UP Commission for Protection of Child Rights over the former's remarks on reports of 57 inmates of a government women's shelter home at Kanpur being infected with Coronavirus and seven girls being pregnant, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday (June 26) dared the state government to act against her. Priyanka, who has been targeting the BJP government in the state over different issues, also attacked the rival opposition parties in the state and termed them ''undeclared spokesmen'' of the BJP though in a veiled manner. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader said that it was her duty as a ''servant of the people'' to bring the truth to light and not put forward the ''government propaganda''. ''UP government is free to act against me but it should not waste time in issuing me threats through its different departments....I will keep on putting the truth before the people,'' she said. ''I am the granddaughter of Indira Gandhi and not undeclared spokesmen of the BJP like some opposition leaders,'', Priyanka said apparently referring to BSP supremo Mayawati and Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav. The Commission has issued a notice to Priyanka asking her to withdraw her remark on the shelter home incident.  Earlier Priyanka had been sent a notice by the district magistrate of Agra over former's posts regarding death from Coronavirus infection in the district and asked her to retract the same. Priyanka did not retract her posts but did change some words in the same. While Mayawati has gone soft toward the BJP, Akhilesh has been taking on the state government through tweets on a regular basis. Priyanka's attack on the rival opposition leaders is being seen as an attempt to send a message that Congress is the only party, which is fighting the BJP in UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-dares-yogi-govt-to-act-against-her-also-attacks-rival-opposition-parties-in-up-854009.html
26-06-2020||National||Working to employ all of Uttar Pradesh’s migrant workers in state: Yogi Adityanath||Exuding confidence of providing jobs to all migrant workers of Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the state has enough potential to create employment opportunities for all of them. “Uttar Pradesh has enough possibilities for creating employment for migrant workers who have returned to the state. I can assure that we will succeed in employing all of them,” said Adityanath while launching an "Atmnirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rozgar Abhiyan" through video conferencing. Under this employment scheme aimed at making UP a self-reliant state, more than 1.25 crore workers would be provided jobs either in various industries or through self-employment, he said. Adityanath said this employment programme in the state is being launched under the guidelines provided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the coronavirus pandemic, Pointing out Modi’s emphasis on skill mapping of all migrant workers, the chief minister said barring those below 18 years of age, the skill mapping of remaining 30.47 lakh workers and labourers has been completed. He said following the resumption of economic activities in the state, 80,000 MSME units have successfully restarted and 57,000 of them have been given loans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/working-to-employ-all-of-uttar-pradesh-s-migrant-workers-in-state-yogi-adityanath-854013.html
26-06-2020||National||Reconsider decision allowing 100% FDI in coal mining, Mamata Banerjee asks PM Narendra Modi||Expressing reservations about the central government allowing 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) in the coal sector, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to reconsider the decision. "I express my serious reservation on this policy announcement on cogent grounds. This policy can neither bring foreign direct investments nor can it bring technologies or knowhow which we are unable to access today," Banerjee wrote in her letter to Modi on Thursday night. "The recent trend and empirical evidences clearly showcase the interest of global investors more in renewable energy projects as compared to the coal mining projects. In fact, research suggests that about 100 global financial institutions have divested their thermal coal investments. Therefore, FDI in thermal coal is a far cry," she said. The chief minister also described the move of the coal ministry to shift the desk offices of four of its subsidiary companies from the state as an "abrupt decision" and requested the prime minister to intervene in the matter. "I would, therefore, request you to kindly reconsider the decision of allowing 100 per cent FDI in coal sector and also strongly urge your kind intervention for advising the ministry of coal not to go ahead with the decision of Coal India Ltd to wind up their subordinate offices from Kolkata," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reconsider-decision-allowing-100-fdi-in-coal-mining-mamata-banerjee-asks-pm-narendra-modi-854018.html
26-06-2020||National||Covid-19 effect: Age limit reduced for voters to opt for postal ballot in Lok Sabha, assembly polls||Keeping in mind the safety of senior citizens amid rising cases of the coronavirus, the age limit for voters to opt for postal ballot in Lok Sabha and assembly elections has been reduced. After the coronavirus outbreak in India, Bihar will be the first state to have assembly polls. And voters of Bihar will be the first to benefit from the amended rules. In October 2019, the Law Ministry amended the Conduct of Election Rules to allow people with disabilities and those who are 80 years of age or above to opt for postal ballot during Lok Sabha and assembly elections. Now, on June 19, the ministry notified a fresh change in the rules, allowing those aged 65 years and above to opt for postal ballot. While amending the rules on the suggestions of the Election Commission, the ministry also allowed "Covid-19 suspect or affected persons" to use the postal ballot facility. The age limit was reduced as "people who are 65 and above are vulnerable" to the coronavirus, explained an EC official. The EC had approached the government to tweak the rule as pandemic could continue till the end of the year. As of now, people who come under the category of those allowed to use postal ballot have to fill form 12D to avail the facility. The election rules are amended after the Law Minister approves changes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-effect-age-limit-reduced-for-voters-to-opt-for-postal-ballot-in-lok-sabha-assembly-polls-854021.html
26-06-2020||National||93-year-old wife of former President of India Shankar Dayal Sharma recovers from Covid-19||Her family said that her oxygen levels started dipping on June 5, shortly after which her samples were taken for testing, her reports came positive on June 6. Vimala Sharma, who is 93-years-old is one among the oldest to have recovered from Coronavirus in Delhi. “To our horror, her report was positive and we immediately rushed her to AIIMS. It came as a shock as she doesn’t go out of the house at all. The first four days, her condition did deteriorate a bit. I know she is 93 but losing her to a virus would have been the worst…,” her son Ashutosh Dayal Sharma told the publication. Her family got to talk to her only twice during the entire duration of her stay at that hospital, but the fact that she was hospitalised for almost 18 days and yet did not have to be put on ventilator support kept the family’s hope buoyant.  “The biggest challenge is that you are cut off from all known faces. But it is important not to panic…,” Ashutosh said. A second test was conducted after 15 days, which came out negative, “On Tuesday, we started planning the discharge. We were in touch with Dr Neeraj Nischal, who was helping us with her treatment. The whole family is extremely happy that we got her home. It’s still a long road… she is on nasal oxygen support of 2-3 litres per hour,” Ashutosh added. According to the doctors at AIIMS, Delhi, apart from antibiotics, a high flow nasal cannula was used in her treatment. “If that doesn’t work, then we put the patient on a ventilator. During this time, it is important for the family and patient not to lose hope. All is not lost, even if you develop Covid-19. People must take precautions and seek help if their condition worsens,” a senior doctor at AIIMS told the daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/93-year-old-wife-of-former-president-of-india-shankar-dayal-sharma-recovers-from-covid-19-854025.html
26-06-2020||National||No Covid-19 death in Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim so far, says Health Ministry||No Covid-19 death has been reported from Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim so far, and the number of cases in the northeastern region was comparatively lower than the rest of the country, the government said on Friday. It also said that lack of testing facilities and dedicated Covid-19 hospitals had initially hampered the fight against the dreaded virus in the eight northeastern states, but the infrastructure has been bolstered since then. As on date, the number of recoveries at 5,715 exceed the active cases which stand at 3,731. The death toll in the entire region is 12, the Union health ministry said. The fight against the pandemic across the country has been a concerted and collective endeavour and the Centre has pro-actively and strongly supported the strengthening of the medical care infrastructure in the northeastern states to fight Covid-19, it said. "A critical pillar which hampered the efforts of the northeastern states in combating the Covid-19 outbreak was complete lack of testing facilities. But today, because of the focussed attention of the Centre through the Health Ministry, the region has 39 testing labs in the public sector and three in the private sector, totalling to 42 laboratories," the ministry said. Assam has 10 public and two private laboratories, while Meghalaya has six public and one private lab. Nagaland has 13 testing labs, Arunachal Pradesh three, Manipur, Mizoram and Sikkim two each, and Tripura one public laboratory for Covid-19 testing.  "The NE states also suffered from an acute lack of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, COVID Health Centres and COVID Care Centres (DCCC). With the help of the Centre, the healthcare infrastructure across all the eight states has been substantially supplemented," the ministry said. It now has 1,518 Covid-19 dedicated health facilities, including 60 hospitals, 360, health centres, and care centres. "The central government has supported the eight states in stepping up the number of ICU beds, isolation beds, oxygen-supported beds and ventilators. This has played a critical role in effective clinical management of Covid-19 cases," the health ministry said. Assam has 67,833 isolation, 1,841 oxygen-supported and 598 ICU beds, and 350 ventilators. Arunachal Pradesh has 1,998 isolation, 178 oxygen-supported, and 60 ICU beds, and 16 ventilators. There are 1,231 isolation, 345 oxygen-supported and 83 ICU beds, and 95 ventilators in Meghalaya, 681 isolation, 142 oxygen-supported, 54 ICU beds and 28 ventilators in Nagaland, and 251 isolation, 224 oxygen-supported, 20 ICU beds and 59 ventilators in Sikkim. Tripura has 1,277 isolation, 10 oxygen-supported, 13 ICU beds and seven ventilators.  Manipur has availability of 829 isolation, 317 oxygen supported and 48 ICU beds and 45 ventilators while Mizoram has 709 isolation, 213 oxygen-supported and 37 ICU beds, and 27 ventilators. The Centre has also strongly supported the NE states to step up the availability of N95 masks, PPE kits and hydroxychloroquine tablets. So far, 1.21 lakh N95 masks, 0.66 lakh PPE kits and 1.5 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets have been distributed in Arunachal Pradesh, 3.37 lakh N95 masks, 2.01 lakh kits and 6.7 lakh HCQ tablets in Assam, 0.95 lakh N95 masks, 0.79 lakh PPE kits and 2.7 lakh HCQ tablets have been distributed in Manipur. Meghalaya has been given 0.75 lakh N95 masks, 0.52 lakh PPE kits and 1.75 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets, 0.76 lakh N95 masks, 0.31 lakh PPE kits and 2.2 lakh HCQ tablets have been distributed in Mizoram, while Nagaland has been provided 0.7 lakh N95 masks, 0.25 lakh PPE kits and 1.75 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets. So far, 0.80 lakh N95 masks, 0.52 lakh PPE kits and 0.25 lakh  HCQ tablets have been distributed in Sikkim while 1.38 lakh N95 masks, 1.13 lakh PPE kits and 2.5 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets have been provided to Tripura. As on date, Arunachal Pradesh has 121 active coronavirus cases while 38 have recovered. The state reported its first Covid-19 fatality on Friday. Assam has 2,279 active cases, 4,033 patients have recovered while nine persons have succumbed to the infection. Manipur presently has 702 active cases with 354 recoveries. Meghalaya has registered three active cases, 42 recoveries and one death, while Tripura has 270 active cases after 1,019 recoveries and one death. Nagaland has 195, Mizoram 115 and Sikkim 46 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-death-in-manipur-mizoram-nagaland-sikkim-so-far-says-health-ministry-854026.html
26-06-2020||National||Women should enhance skills to become 'atmanirbhar': Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said women should enhance their skills, equip themselves with technology to become 'atmanirbhar' and asked the BJP Mahila Morcha to reach out with MSME schemes. During a video-conferencing session with workers of the party's women's wing in Nagpur, Gadkari emphasised on the need to create jobs and opportunities for sustainable living for women in villages and slums. He urged the Mahila Morcha to conduct workshops for women where officials from MSMEs and Khadi Gram Udyog can guide them about entrepreneurial opportunities. Women entrepreneurs have been given 3 per cent reservation in the Public Procurement Policy and they should take advantage of this by registering themselves with the MSME authorities, he said. As many as 1,400 MSME women entrepreneurs got public undertaking orders worth Rs 231 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 381 crore in 2019-2020, the Union minister in-charge of MSMEs said. Gadkari also informed that loans were available for women under the Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme and Credit Guarantee Trust fund for micro and small industries, wherein 75 per cent loan guarantee is secured by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-should-enhance-skills-to-become-atmanirbhar-nitin-gadkari-854027.html
26-06-2020||National||China standoff: ITBP DG says forces dedicated to protect integrity, sovereignty of country||Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal on Friday said his force and the Army, currently in a standoff with Chinese troops in Ladakh, are "dedicated" to protect the integrity and sovereignty of the country. Deswal, a 1984-batch Indian Police Service officer of the Haryana cadre, added the forces are ready to handle all challenges. "The Army and the ITBP are dedicated to the nation for protection of the integrity and sovereignty of the country as well as the borders," the ITBP Director General (DG) told reporters here. He was speaking after reviewing a newly created over 1,000-bed Covid-19 care centre at a Radha Soami Satsang Beas facility in Chhattarpur. Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on the night of June 15 in the biggest military confrontation between the two countries in over five decades. The ITBP has reinforced its numbers in the Ladakh region along with other sectors of the Sino-India Line of Actual Control that is about 3,488 kms long and runs from the Karakoram Pass to Jachep La in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-standoff-itbp-dg-says-forces-dedicated-to-protect-integrity-sovereignty-of-country-854032.html
26-06-2020||National||No coronavirus risk for Indrani Mukerjea, says CBI opposing bail plea||The CBI on Friday opposed the interim bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, accused of killing her daughter Sheena Bora, and said she doesn't have health issues that put her at risk of contracting coronavirus infection in prison. Mukerjea, lodged in Byculla jail since August, 2015, had sought temporary bail in the wake of the outbreak. Replying to the bail plea, the Central Bureau of Investigation said she doesn't have any major health issue that will put her at the risk of contracting the virus. The CBI also said jail authorities were taking proper care of all prisoners. If released on bail, she might influence witnesses who are yet to be examined, the agency contended. The CBI also said she was a foreign national and not entitled to temporary bail, adding that the accused might abscond if released. Sheena (24) was allegedly strangled in a car in April, 2012, and the incident came to light in August, 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-coronavirus-risk-for-indrani-mukerjea-says-cbi-opposing-bail-plea-854033.html
26-06-2020||National||Children as young as 14 are recruited by armed groups against govt in J&K: US report||A US State Department report on human trafficking in India has said that non-state armed groups continue to recruit and use children as young as 14 years in direct hostilities against the government in Jammu and Kashmir. The Congressional-mandated 2020 Trafficking in Persons report of the State Department, released by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Thursday, noted that Maoist groups, particularly in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, forcibly recruited children as young as 12 to handle weapons and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), and in some cases be human shields. According to the report, India made significant efforts towards the elimination of human trafficking in 2019, but did not fully meet the minimum standards. “Non-state armed groups continued to recruit and use children as young as 14 in direct hostilities against the government in Jammu and Kashmir,” the report said. “Maoist groups, particularly in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand forcibly recruited children as young as 12 to handle weapons and improvised explosive devices, and in some cases be human shields. “Several women and girls formerly associated with Maoist groups reported that sexual violence, including practices indicative of sexual slavery, was a practice in some Maoist camps. Non-state Naxalite groups continued to systematically recruit and use child soldiers,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-as-young-as-14-are-recruited-by-armed-groups-against-govt-in-jk-us-report-854035.html
26-06-2020||National||Mild to medium colour blind people can now obtain driving licence||The government on Friday said those with mild to medium colour blindness can now obtain driving licence. The Road Transport and Highways Ministry has issued a notification in this regard for necessary amendments in required forms of motor vehicle norms. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has issued a notification for amendment to the Form 1 and Form 1A of the Central Motor Vehicles (CMV) Rules, 1989 for enabling the citizens with mild to medium colour blindness in obtaining the driving licence...," the ministry said in a statement. The MoRTH has been taking many measures to enable 'divyangjan' citizens to avail transport-related services and especially relating to the obtaining of the driving licence, it said. The advisories, the statement said, have been issued in this regard to facilitate driving licence to 'divyangjan' citizens. Further, an advisory for people with monocular vision has also been issued, it said. "The ministry received representations that the colour blind citizens are not able to have the driving licence made as restrictions through the requirements in the declaration about physical fitness (FORM 1) or the medical certificate (FORM 1A) makes it difficult," the statement said. "The issue was taken up with medical expert institution and advice was sought. The recommendations received were to allow mild to medium colour blind citizens to be allowed to drive and put restrictions only on the severe colour blind citizens from driving," the statement said. This is also allowed in other parts of the world. Earlier issuing a draft notification in March, the ministry had sought suggestions and comments from various statkeholders for an amendment in Motor Vehicle Rules for enabling such individuals obtain driving licence. "It was brought to the notice of the ministry that the colour blind citizens were not being able to get the driving licence made although they are able to perform all functions properly except from identifying colours. The matter was sympathetically examined consulting the medical experts," the ministry had said earlier. It had been reported that the citizens with certain degree of colour blindness can be provided with driving licence and this is being done in many countries of the world, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mild-to-medium-colour-blind-people-can-now-obtain-driving-licence-854038.html
26-06-2020||National||ICAI to file affidavit on plea regarding CA exams, SC to hear on June 29||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) told the Supreme Court Friday that it would file an affidavit on the plea which has challenged its 'opt out' option for CA exams, scheduled between July 29 and August 16, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The apex court was hearing through video-conferencing a plea which has alleged that ICAI had made an important announcement on June 15 by which it "arbitrarily decided to discriminate" between the aspirants by providing an option of 'opt out' in the May cycle CA examination. The counsel appearing for ICAI told a bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari that the institute has ensured that no prejudice is caused to anybody by notification issued regarding the upcoming examination. The plea has also sought directions for increasing the number of examination centres for around 4.67 lakh aspirants in the exams. "Ramji Srinivasan, senior counsel, instructed by Pramod Dayal, appearing for respondent No.1 (ICAI), seeks the liberty to place certain facts on record by way of an affidavit, which he intends to file before June 29, through e-mail," the bench noted in its order and posted the matter for hearing on June 29. Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, appearing for the petitioner, told the bench that deadline to submit online declaration to avail the 'opt out' option is June 27. The petitioner, president of ‘India Wide Parents Association’, has claimed in the plea that ICAI has stated that students, who have already submitted online examination application for May examination cycle, shall be allowed to 'opt out' and carry forward their candidature to November 2020 examination cycle. "It is respectfully submitted that Respondent No.1 ICAI has notified that for the students who choose opt-out option, this attempt (May 2020) will be treated as cancelled/not counted. Thus, such student will be deprived of the May, 2020, attempt, as compared to other group of students, who choose opt-in option," the plea said, while seeking quashing of the announcement made in this regard on June 15. "The said 'opt-out' option discriminates between those underprivileged group of CA students/ aspirants, who are living in remote areas of the country or living in the containment zones and thus are slated to lose one precious 'examination attempt' by choosing 'opt-out' option amidst ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, as compared to that privileged group of students/ aspirants, who are living in big cities/ green zones and thus they have no problem in appearing in the said examination," it said. The petition has further sought an increase in the number of examination centres so as to ensure that at least one examination centre is there in every district of India. It said that around 4.67 lakh aspirants are scheduled to appear in the examinations at about 259 examination centres in India and five centres abroad. It has said that free transportation and accommodation should be provided to the aspirants near their respective examination centres. It has further sought directions to the authorities to conduct mandatory free Covid-19 test of all aspirants and teachers and staffs deployed at the examination centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icai-to-file-affidavit-on-plea-regarding-ca-exams-sc-to-hear-on-june-29-854044.html
26-06-2020||National||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain tests negative for coronavirus, discharged from hospital||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain was on Friday discharged from hospital after he tested negative for Covid-19. The 55-year-old AAP leader was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on June 15 with Covid-19 symptoms and was later shifted to Max Hospital in south Delhi's Saket where he was administered plasma therapy. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17. He was shifted to Max Hospital's ICU after his condition worsened. He was shifted out of ICU on June 22, two days after he was admitted to Max Hospital. Jain, a close aide of Kejriwal, has been in the forefront of the Delhi government's activities against the spread of the pandemic. He has been holding regular media briefings every morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-discharged-from-hospital-854053.html
26-06-2020||National||Dismissing canards against power reforms, R K Singh says making sector viable only challenge left||Brushing aside canards being spread by certain lobbies against reforms, Power Minister R K Singh on Friday said the only challenge left is to make the sector viable through efforts like amendments in the Electricity Act and revising tariff policy. "India is a power surplus nation. We are well connected (in terms of power transmission). Over one lakh MW electricity can be transmitted from one region to another region in the country. We have met all challenges in the sector but the only challenge left here is making it viable," Singh told PTI in an interview. He said three canards are being spread against various reforms in the power sector which includes a claim that there would be infringement of states' rights to appoint members of state power regulators and this power is being transferred to the central government under the proposed Electricity Act. The minister explained that there is no proposal to take away the power of appointment of members/chairpersons of State Electricity Regulatory Commissions (SERC) from state governments. As per the draft of the Electricity Amendment Bill (circulated in April this year), the appointments of members/chairpersons of SERCs will continue to be made by state governments. The Selection Committee currently has equal number of members from the Centre and states – one member from the central government and one from state governments. The proposed Selection Committee in the draft Bill also has equal number of members from the Centre and states as earlier. The only difference is that instead of the Selection Committee being presided over by a retired Judge of a High Court, it is proposed that the committee be headed by a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court, the minister explained. Instead of multiplicity of Selection Committees, there will be one Selection Committee for drawing up of panels for the vacancies in the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) and SERCs, he said. He assured that the appointments will continue to be made by the Centre for CERC and by state governments for SERCs as before. The reason for this proposed amendment is that currently every state has to constitute a separate Selection Committee for each fresh vacancy and this took time. In some cases, the time taken for appointment was up to 2 years leading to disruption of work of the regulatory commission. However, based on the suggestions received, the Centre is now considering to continue with the existing separate Selection Committees for each state – but make them Standing Selection Committees so that there is no need for constituting them afresh every time a vacancy occurs. The minister said the second misconception is the DBT (direct benefit transfer) is against the interest of consumers, especially farmers. "It has been argued that if states are not able to pay the subsidies on time, the electricity supply to the consumers may get disconnected. This is baseless," he claimed. As per Section 65 of the Electricity Act, 2003, the state government is required to pay the amount of subsidy in advance to the distribution companies. The subsidy is now being proposed to be given into the account of the consumers maintained by the distribution companies through DBT. He said it is being provided in the new tariff policy that the electricity supply shall not be discontinued even if the state government is unable to pay the subsidy in time or even if it fails to pay the subsidy for 3 to 4 months. The DBT will benefit the distribution company by making sure that the subsidies due are received as per the number of beneficiaries. It may be noted that the Centre has implemented DBT for 419 schemes pertaining to 56 ministries with cumulative savings of Rs 1.70 lakh crore. He said the third misconception on reforms in the sector is that the power to set retail power tariff is being transferred from state to central government. "Another misconception is that currently state governments fix tariff for retail supply of electricity to consumers and this is proposed to be taken over by the central government. This is again absolutely baseless. Presently, the tariff is determined by SERCs and no change has been proposed in the present arrangement," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dismissing-canards-against-power-reforms-r-k-singh-says-making-sector-viable-only-challenge-left-854057.html
26-06-2020||National||Scheduled international flights suspended till July 15 but some on selected routes may be allowed: DGCA||India on Friday extended the ban on scheduled international commercial passenger flights till July 5 as the Covid-19 outbreak showed no signs of abating. However, the restrictions will not apply to international cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), the sectoral regulator. The DGCA said international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case by case basis. The civil aviation ministry is in talks with countries such as the US, UK, Germany and France for bilateral arrangements for air travel as demand on these routes continue to remain high even after evacuation of stranded passengers. India has suspended all scheduled commercial passenger flights on both the domestic and international routes in March as the country went into lockdown in March to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.  The government opened up the domestic aviation sector on May 25 with Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri announcing that he would wait for operations to reach 50-55% of the pre-Covid-19 levels before thinking of re-starting scheduled international operations. The minister had said India will take a decision on the resumption of international passenger flights in July if coronavirus behaves in a "predictable manner" and the entire aviation ecosystem and state governments are on board. Domestic air travel is picking up gradually with nearly 38 lakh passengers taking to the skies since May 25. During the pre-Covid days, India used to see three lakh passengers traveling by air every day in the domestic sectors. On June 25, the number of air travelers had reached 62,580 per day, still short of the one-third mark substantially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scheduled-international-flights-suspended-till-july-15-but-some-on-selected-routes-may-be-allowed-dgca-854058.html
26-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Indian economy in deep trouble, says S&P||In today's episode, S&P Global Ratings says Indian economy is in deep trouble, The CBSE has notified the four-point assessment scheme, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said that there will no fresh lockdown in Bengaluru.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-indian-economy-in-deep-trouble-says-sp-854062.html
26-06-2020||National||Monsoon covers entire country 12 days before normal date; 10 deaths reported in lightning strikes||The monsoon covered the entire country on Friday, 12 days before the normal date of coverage, as some regions received heavy rainfall, while Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand cumulatively reported 10 deaths in lightning strikes. “Southwest Monsoon has advanced into remaining parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab and thus it has covered the entire country today, the 26th June 2020,” the IMD said in its special Daily Weather Report. It said the normal date for monsoon to cover the entire country is 8th July. “Therefore, the Southwest Monsoon this year has covered the entire country 12 days prior to normal date.” In the recent past, such early coverage of Southwest Monsoon over the entire country occurred in 2013, when it covered the entire country on June 16, it said. During past 24 hours, there has been fairly widespread rainfall activity over West Rajasthan and adjoining Punjab & Haryana in association with the cyclonic circulation at lower tropospheric levels over northeast Rajasthan, it said in a bulletin at 5 pm. “Considering southwest monsoon onset and advance over the country as a whole, there has been normal progress over south and east India, about a week delay advance over northeast India and about 7-12 days early advance over central & northwest India,” it said. The early advance over the central & northwest India was facilitated by formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards and another cyclonic circulation over central India, it said. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely at a few places over East Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand during next four-five next days, the IMD said. Light to heavy rainfall was recorded in parts of Rajasthan where Lohawat in Jodhpur recorded a maximum 7 cm precipitation till Friday morning. Osian (Jodhpur) and Kushalgarh (Banswara) recorded 6 cm and 5 cm rainfall, respectively. Several other places recorded below 5 cm rains during the period.   Churu, Dabok (Udaipur) and Jaipur also received 16.2 mm, 7.3 mm and 3.2 mm rainfall till Friday evening since morning, according to the Met department in Jaipur. Meanwhile, the day temperatures remained below 42.2 degree Celsius, recorded by Bikaner. The Uttar Pradesh government revised the death toll in Thursday lightning strikes to 30, even as monsoon picked up pace in the state on Friday, bringing rains and thundershowers at most places. On Thursday, the government had said 24 people died in lightning strikes in the state. "The death toll in lightning strikes in various parts of the state on Thursday reached to 30. Chief Minister (Yogi Adityanath) has directed officials to raise awareness among people about precautions to be taken to save themselves from such incidents," Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said on Friday. According to the MET office, chief amount of rainfall in the state was recorded in Salempur - 12 cm, Elginbridge - 9 cm, Fursatganj - 8 cm, Chandradeepghat - 7 cm, and Ramnagar (Barabanki), Fatehpur (Barabanki), Ankinghat and Balrampur -- 6 cm each. Churk, Safipur, Jaunpur, Akbarpur (Ambedkarnagar), Kannauj, Sultanpur (FM) recorded 5 cm rainfall each Four people were killed and six others injured on Friday in lightning strikes in Jharkhand’s Palamu district, police said. Of the four, one died outside his house, while another on a road in Chhatarpur in the district. In Nawadih, one person died and six others got injured when they were struck by lightning as they stood under a tree during a downpour. Another man died while he was grazing his cattle in the same area, the police said. The injured were rushed to nearby health centres, the police said. The maximum temperatures remained below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Friday, as the monsoon covered remaining parts of the two states. However, there was not much rainfall activity in the two states. Meteorological stations did not record rainfall. Chandigarh recorded a high of 35.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal limits, according to the Meteorological Department here. In Haryana, Narnaul's maximum temperature settled at 30.7 degrees Celsius, nine notches below normal, while Hisar recorded a high of 35.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-covers-entire-country-12-days-before-normal-date-10-deaths-reported-in-lightning-strikes-854063.html
26-06-2020||National||SC approves CBSE's plan for assessment scheme and cancel exams||The Supreme Court on Friday (June 26) approved the CBSE's move to cancel the remaining Class X and XII examinations and declare the results based on the assessment of their performance in other subjects, by July 15. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna also allowed cancellation of ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) in remaining papers which were scheduled to be held between July 1 and 14. Presenting the fresh notification issued on June 25, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed that the court that the CBSE will conduct an optional examination for Class XII in the subjects as soon as conditions are conducive. "The candidates whose results will be declared based on the assessment scheme will be allowed to appear in these optional examinations to improve their performance, if they wish so," the notification said. However, the marks obtained by a candidate in these optional examinations will be treated as final, it added. For Class X, no further examination would be held and the result would be declared based on the assessment scheme. The assessment scheme prepared by the CBSE stated that those who appeared in the examination of more than three subjects, an average of the marks obtained in the best three performing subjects will be awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted. Those who appeared in only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two performing subjects will be awarded in the remaining subjects, it added. The CISCE, for its part, said if the situation is deemed conducive, in the near future, it may give an option to candidates to write any or all of the remaining papers of the ICSE and ISC examination for the Year 2020 at a later date. It also told to notify its assessment scheme within a week. The court, thus, closed proceedings in the matter related to class X and XII examinations of CBSE and ICSE, in the top court as well as in any other high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-approves-cbses-plan-for-assessment-scheme-and-cancel-exams-854064.html
26-06-2020||National||Mild, medium colour blind citizens can obtain driving licence||Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Friday said it has allowed mild to medium colour blind citizens to obtain driving licence. Now there will be restrictions only on the severe colour blind citizens from driving. The colour blindness will be tested through Ishihara chart, known test for such problems, said an official in the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways issued a notification for amendment  to the FORM 1 and FORM 1A of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 for enabling the citizens with mild to medium colour blindness in obtaining driving licence. Debarring people with colour blindness would impact around 3 per cent population. In India, existince of congenital colour blindness is about 8 per cent in males and 0.4% in females, said the official. Earlier, the Ministry had received a number of  representations from various organisations stating that the colour blind citizens are not able to have driving licences. The Ministry had constituted an expert committee, comprising opthamologusts from AIIMS, Delhi and sought their suggestions. The committee had said that there is no need to test colour blindness for licence to drive private vehicles, including two-wheelers. The panel also said that for commercial vehicle drivers, license can be issued if the deficiency is mild or moderate. In case of serious deficiencies, no license should be issued, the panel said. The panel also suggested the government to make traffic lights colour blindness friendly as per the International Commission on Illumination. The panel also noted that European Union has removed the restriction on people with colour blindness in obtaining driving licence while in United States, licences are not issued to such persons for driving commercial vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mild-medium-colour-blind-citizens-can-obtain-driving-licence-854065.html
26-06-2020||National||Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi tests positive for Covid-19||Congress leader and party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi has home quarantined himself after testing positive for Covid-19, sources close to him said on Friday. While he has mild symptoms like fever, the sources said, his wife has also tested positive for the virus and has isolated herself at home as per the government guidelines. After Singhvi tested positive, his son and other family members and staff are also being tested for the virus. Singhvi is the second Congress leader after Sanjay Jha to test positive for COVID-19. Jha has since recovered in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-abhishek-manu-singhvi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-854066.html
26-06-2020||National||Indian Navy inducts indigenously developed anti-torpedo decoy system||The Indian Navy said on Friday it has inducted an advanced anti-torpedo decoy system called 'Maareech' that is capable of being fired from all frontline ships. 'Maareech' has been designed and developed indigenously by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) and it is capable of detecting, locating and neutralizing incoming torpedo. In a release, the Navy said, "The prototype of this system installed onboard a nominated naval platform had successfully completed all user evaluation trials and demonstrated the features as per the Naval Staff Qualification Requirements." This induction not only stands testimony to the joint resolve of the Indian Navy and DRDO towards indigenous development of defence technology, but has also given a major fillip to the government's 'Make in India' initiative and the country's resolve to become 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) in niche technology, the Navy said. Bharat Electronics Limited, a defence PSU, would undertake the production of this decoy system, the Navy stated. "Anti - Submarine warfare capability of the Indian Navy has received a major boost today with the conclusion of a contract for advanced torpedo decoy system Maareech capable of being fired from all frontline warships," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-inducts-indigenously-developed-anti-torpedo-decoy-system-854071.html
26-06-2020||National||Mukesh Ambani pushes for clean, affordable energy; tech to restore carbon balance||In his biggest push for clean and affordable energy, billionaire Mukesh Ambani on Friday said it was imperative to adopt technologies that can recycle to set the carbon balance right. With Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Al-Saud, Energy Minister of the world's largest oil exporter Saudi Arabia, listening, Ambani said there is a need to provide efficient, clean, and affordable energy. "The way I see is that in the progress that humankind has made (between) industrial revolutions, we have disturbed the carbon cycle and now it is time to use technology... to reset that balance and adopt the carbon cycle right," he said speaking at the FII Investment Institute Conference over a video link. He went on to stress the need for technologies that can recycle carbon dioxide. Statement by the Chairman and Managing Director of Reliance Industries Ltd, India's most valuable company, is significant considering that his firm operates the world's biggest oil refining complex at Jamnagar in Gujarat. "I think that, where we are, if we take a clean sheet of paper and adopt technologies whereby we can complete the energy cycle, we can adopt new technologies particularly biochemical photosynthesis. Instead of treating carbon dioxide as a liability - we can make that as raw material," he said. "It's not only imperative for us to be net carbon zero but I think that we should opt to recycle carbon." Ambani said for those in the energy business, it is not so much about the decarbonisation but about completing the cycle for zero carbon emission. "Energy is an essential requirement for all 8 billion people on this earth. There is a need to provide efficient, clean, affordable energy. And we have to do it in a responsible way. That's the business. We should not confuse that between clean and unclean," he said. The oil-to-telecom conglomerate head said no one solution will fit all. "The important thing also is to allow energy equally. That means, everybody has to have access to clean energy for their quality of life at an affordable price," he said. Ambani's company buys a significant quantity of crude oil from Saudi Arabia for processing at its twin refinery complex at Jamnagar. It is in talks to sell a fifth of its oil-to-chemical business to Saudi Aramco for an asking of USD 15 billion. "The new supply of energy on an affordable basis is the prosperity of the planet. And only after these two, there can be prosperity for the companies and the shareholders, and I think with where we are today, in the coming decades we have no choice, but to meet these challenges to complete the carbon cycle. "And serve the energy needs of all its customers rather than thinking in terms of fossil and renewable and wind and so forth," he added. Saudi sovereign wealth fund PIF has picked up a 2.3 per cent stake in Ambani's digital arm Jio Platforms Ltd. "For us, particularly in India, we have high growth so it is important that one works with consumers in spreading awareness. This virus itself has helped everybody realise the benefit of low carbon mindset," he said. "Real touch with the community, understanding the community on the ground level and understanding different sectors of the economy and getting them involved in the energy movement is critical as for having a part of restoring the carbon cycle."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mukesh-ambani-pushes-for-clean-affordable-energy-tech-to-restore-carbon-balance-854077.html
26-06-2020||National||SC stays proceedings in 3 FIRs lodged against scribes in West Bengal||The Supreme Court Friday stayed further proceedings in three FIRs lodged in West Bengal against some persons, including editors of a news web portal, regarding articles published by them. The apex court also issued notices to the West Bengal government and the Centre seeking their replies on a plea filed by Nupur J Sharma, the editor of English language Opindia.com, and others including its founder and CEO. "Issue notice. Further proceedings in pursuance to the FIRs are stayed," a bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and B R Gavai said in its order. The bench was hearing a petition filed by Sharma and others including the founder and CEO of news portal and editor of its Hindi language publications who have claimed that the West Bengal government and its "authoritarian Kolkata Police" is misusing FIRs and "brute police-powers" to intimidate journalists. The petitioners were represented in the apex court by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani and lawyer Sandeep Kapur. "The petitioners are constrained to invoke the extra-ordinary writ jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 of the Constitution against the patently extortionist and mala fide actions of the Government of West Bengal to impose illegal censorship in the state by threatening, scuttling, and gagging honest media houses through misuse of state police," the plea claimed. The petitioners claimed they were informed that cause of one of the FIRs lodged by police was an article published by the news web portal on the issue of alleged hiding of data related to COVID-19. The plea claimed that one of the FIRs lodged pertained to news report published by the web portal in October last year. It alleged that to undermine the freedom of press, the state has rather chosen to "hound down" the petitioners by registering multiple FIRs in order to "bargain for deletion of news articles by putting the petitioner's life and liberty at bait". It claimed the state and the police are not only intimidating the journalists, but also threatening their family members to seek deletion of media reports which bring to the public notice "the actual state of affairs in the state of West Bengal during these difficult times". The plea alleged that while the authorities are using FIRs to "scuttle free speech" and issuing notices to the petitioners, the police has despite repeated requests refused to share the copy of these FIRs or to upload the same on their official website. "What is glaring is the manner in which the powers under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and the investigative powers of the police, are being blatantly misused by the state of West Bengal (Respondent No. 1) to scuttle and silence bonafide but critical instances of journalism, capable of causing inconvenience to its political executives, in total disregard to the constitutional guarantees contained in Articles 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution," it said. It alleged that the police had intimidated some of the petitioners to get the news articles deleted. "Accordingly, the officers while insulting and demeaning the petitioner no. 1, asked her to use her influence to get the articles removed or to face the brunt of state's political executives," it claimed. The plea claimed that deleting any content from the internet has a nationwide effect and any decision to delete any content has to be left to be taken by the Centre and not by state governments. It has also sought a direction to exclude the role of police in the matter of deletion of content on the internet “particularly since there exists regulatory mechanism for overseeing such content” and restricting any mischievous contents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-proceedings-in-3-firs-lodged-against-scribes-in-west-bengal-854082.html
26-06-2020||National||IPS officer's letter expressing apprehension about his safety triggers controversy in J&K||A letter, purportedly written by senior IPS officer Basant Rath expressing apprehension about his safety due to "certain activities" of the Jammu and Kashmir Police chief, has gone viral on the social media, triggering a controversy. The June 25 letter, addressed to the Gandhinagar police station SHO, does not seek registration of an FIR, but wants it to be made "a part of daily diary". Gandhinagar police station SHO Gurnam Choudhary, however, denied having received any such letter. "I'm writing you to take note of my genuine apprehensions about my safety and reputation. I am doing it as a private citizen of the country. In my personal capacity. Not as a civil servant. Not as a policeman," states the letter, purportedly written by Inspector General of Police (IGP) Rath. "I am not asking you to lodge an FIR against the person mentioned above. I am just asking you to make this letter a part of the daily diary in your police station.... In case something bad happens to me, you should know whose number you should dial. With due respect," adds the letter, in whose subject line the name of the Jammu and Kashmir Police chief is handwritten. The letter, which has gone viral on the social media, has triggered a controversy in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officers-letter-expressing-apprehension-about-his-safety-triggers-controversy-in-jk-854090.html
26-06-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh CM unveils mobile app to strengthen RBKs||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday launched a mobile app to monitor the services being rendered by Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) to farmers from time to time. The app will give updates on the government policies and schemes on agriculture and its allied fields besides the facilities available at RBKs and their utilities among others. In a statement, the government said the app will also help in giving feedback to the government on the various programmes it has been implementing. "The data of all the activities of RBKs will be stored in the App and it will be monitored by the government at a high level," it said. The app will oversee the functioning of various RBKs through the dash board, draw a comparison and suggest measures of better performance. Agriculture Minister K Kannababu, Agriculture Mission Vice Chairman MVS Nagi Reddy, Agriculture Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malkondaiah, Agriculture Commissioner Arun Kumar and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-cm-unveils-mobile-app-to-strengthen-rbks-854092.html
26-06-2020||National||Maharashtra not hiding Covid-19 deaths, says Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the state government was not "hiding" Covid-19 deaths and rise and drop in figures on some days were due to reconciliation of case numbers. Tope was in Pune to attend a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the region. "We are not hiding any deaths. Sometimes, more death cases are reported on a particular day. It happens due to reconciliation of past deaths. There is no question of hiding death cases," he told reporters when queried about allegations from opposition parties on this count. Due to the reconciliation in death cases, the numbers may differ here and there, but the intention of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is very clear as it believes in principles of honesty and transparency, Tope said. Answering a query on whether testing for the infection in Pune was less, Tope said. "In Mumbai, 22,000 tests are done per million (people). In Pune, 15,000 tests are done per million. So it is inappropriate to say tests in Pune are less. We are testing as per ICMR guidelines." Tope said the number of cases in the state was high because of higher number of tests being carried out, while in some states this was not the case and, therefore, they had lesser number of cases. Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had recently said the number of tests being carried out in Pune was less than what was required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-not-hiding-covid-19-deaths-says-rajesh-tope-854095.html
26-06-2020||National||Most Indian millennials, Gen Z say stress legitimate reason to take time off work: Survey||Approximately three out of four millennials and Gen Z in India feel stress is a legitimate reason to take time off work, much higher than the global average, a survey said. While the Covid-19 crisis has been unprecedented, 85 per cent millennials and 74 per cent Gen Zs in India agreed that policymakers had taken the appropriate actions to support workers during the pandemic, according to the ninth Deloitte 'Global Millennial Survey'. Millennials included in the study were born between January 1983 and December 1994, while the Generation Z respondents were born between January 1995 and December 2003. The survey consisted of two parts -- a 'primary' survey of 18,426 millennials and Gen Zs across 43 countries conducted between November 2019 and early January 2020. It was followed by a 'pulse' survey of 9,100 individuals in 13 countries taken between April and May in the midst of the worldwide pandemic. Indian respondents were part of both the surveys. "The Covid-19 pandemic has radically shifted our way of life -- how we work, socialise, shop, and more -- and young generations were especially impacted," Deloitte Global Chief People and Purpose Officer Michele Parmelee said. However, despite uncertain and discouraging conditions, millennials and Gen Zs expressed impressive resiliency and a resolve to improve the world, she added. Regarding mental health, the survey said in India, approximately three in four millennials and Gen Zs felt that stress is a legitimate reason to take time off work, much higher than the global average. In December, 69 per cent of millennials and 67 per cent of Gen Zs had taken time off work due to stress, it said, adding this percentage fell slightly in May perhaps because people were working from home. Millennials and Gen Zs in India were more stressed about their general financial situation than their counterparts among global respondents, the survey said. In the pulse survey, around half of India's millennials and Gen Zs believed that their financial situation will improve, down from the almost two-thirds in the primary survey. However, both generations in India were more optimistic than their global counterparts, it added. When it comes to global challenges, climate change is the top concern for millennials in India, just like their global counterparts, which is followed by unemployment, the survey said. "For businesses, the increased confidence that millennial and Gen Zs have shown towards them should serve as a catalyst for further measures to help people grow and thrive. It's clear that purpose-driven organisations will have an upper hand in the post-Covid world," Deloitte India Chief Talent Officer S V Nathan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-indian-millennials-gen-z-say-stress-legitimate-reason-to-take-time-off-work-survey-854102.html
26-06-2020||National||Migrant workers start returning to big cities: Railways||With economic activities picks up in many parts of the country, the migrant workers have started returning to big cities as several special trains occupancy have increased, said a top railway official. "It is heartening to see that movement in the reverse direction from states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and West Bengal has begun with migrant workers returning to the states that they had left due to the coronavirus pandemic. It is indicating improving economic situation," Railway Board chairman V K Yadav told reporters here. Several trains returning from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or West Bengal to cities like Bengaluru, Mumbai or Ahmedabad have increased occupancy for past few days. "We are keeping a watch on the occupancy of the special trains. Very soon we will begin more special trains depending on demand from states, occupancy, the Covid-19 situation," the chairperson said.  He also said that while it may not be possible to run all regular trains in the near future given the coronavirus situation, more special trains will be introduced soon. Though railway suspended regular mail/express train services till August 12, it is operating 100 pair special timetabled trains and 15 pair special Rajdhani trains connecting all major cities in the country. On Covid-19 isolation coaches, he said that the railways is spending an estimated Rs 2 lakh per isolation coach for its maintenance, food, and linen for patients onboard and protective gear for the staff. This was the budgetary estimate of the Railways for the 5,213 coaches which have been modified as isolation coaches and the money for it has already been received from the central Covid-19 care fund. The railways received Rs 620 crore from the central Covid-19 care fund. Yadav said the Railways has identified 160 projects for returnee migrant workers which will generate around nine lakh man-days of work under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan in 6 states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-start-returning-to-big-cities-railways-854104.html
26-06-2020||National||Covid-19: 1,100 teams formed to conduct house-to-house survey in Delhi||At least 1,100 teams comprising two members each have been formed to conduct a mega exercise to screen the national capital's population for the novel coronavirus, officials of the Delhi government's revenue department said on Friday. An official said around 100 teams have been formed in every district and each team has accredited social health activists (ASHA) and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) as its members. According to the 2011 Census, there were over 34.35 lakh households in the national capital, including 33.56 lakh in urban areas and 79,574 in rural areas. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has not engaged municipal employees for the mega exercise in those districts where the case-load is not high.  The process of screening every household, which has to be completed by July 6, has already started in the municipal wards of some districts. The teams are armed with a mobile application -- SS Corona -- which will send real-time details to a dedicated web portal set up by the government. Apart from basic details like name, age, address and contact number, the teams are feeding the mobile application with information such as every individual's travel history, whether or not they use the Centre's Aarogya Setu app and if they have symptoms of influenza. The official said the same mobile application is being used in carrying out screening in the Covid-19 containment zones in the national capital. "Training of the ASHA workers and ANMs has been done. The exercise has started. We hope to meet the July 6 deadline," another official said. "We will engage domestic breeder checkers, sanitation workers and teachers of municipal corporation schools for the survey, if we require their services in the coming days," he added. This is a trust-based exercise, the official said, adding, "We cannot force somebody to undergo the test. We only update the information based on the answers to our questionnaire and conduct the rapid antigen test on those who have Covid-19-like symptoms." According to a revised Covid-19 response plan issued by the Delhi government, the house-to-house screening will be completed by June 30 in the containment zones and July 6 in the remaining areas of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-1100-teams-formed-to-conduct-house-to-house-survey-in-delhi-854109.html
26-06-2020||National||Gujarat: Covid-19 death rate goes below 6% first time in two months||The number of people dying with Covid-19 in hospitals in Gujarat daily has fallen in the past couple of days, bringing the death rate below 6% for the first time in over two months," officials said. As of Friday, the mortality rate stood at 5.87%. Although the state is still worse in death rate compared to the national average which is below 3%, senior officials said that in the coming weeks they are expecting the fatality rate coming down further. On Thursday, the state recorded 17 deaths, its lowest single-day death toll in nearly two months, and on Friday 18 deaths were recorded. In the month of May, the average daily deaths were nearly 27 per day which increased to over 28 deaths till June 20. The state has reported a total of 1,772 deaths across the state out of which Ahmedabad alone has contributed to over 1408, which is nearly 80%. Also, Ahmedabad continues to be the worst affected as a city in terms of a high mortality rate that is over 7%, the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-covid-19-death-rate-goes-below-6-first-time-in-two-months-854116.html
26-06-2020||National||China-India border dispute: Indian Army gears up for a long haul in Ladakh||Within hours of his return from Ladakh, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Wednesday briefed the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on what would be the Army’s requirement in case the stand-off stretches as forces have now geared up for a long haul. Notwithstanding the pullback of some of the men and equipment in the Galwan valley, the Indian Army is wary of the Chinese game plan with officials observing that it may take weeks and months before the status quo is restored in eastern Ladakh, which is on the boil for the last 50 days. During his two and half-day stay at Ladakh, Gen Naravane received detailed briefs from local commanders, visited two forward locations on more than 800 km long frontage of the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and met the soldiers who fought valiantly with the Chinese troops. In his one-hour-long meeting, the Army Chief appraised the Defence Minister about the outcomes of the Corps Commander level meeting on June 22 and the withdrawal plans once the disengagement starts. But he also conveyed to the minister on the Army’s requirement if the stand-off continues for a long time, which looks like a real possibility at the moment. While Chinese People’s Liberation Army troops are heavily present at the Galwan valley and Depsang bulge in the north, it is the Finger areas on the northern banks of Pangong lake that would pose the biggest troubles for India. The PLA now not only prevents the Indian troops at Finger 4 – earlier Indian troops used to patrol up to Finger 8 through which Indian perception of the LAC runs – but also constructed pillboxes (temporary weapon storage) among other structures on the northern banks of the 135 km long pristine lake. Chinese dominance of the Depsang bulge, on the other hand, would compromise the 255 km long Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road, which is crucial to maintain the supply in Sub-Sector North and Daulat Beg Oldie, the world’s highest airfield operated by the Indian Air Force. As the border situation remains tense, the IAF continues with its combat patrolling in Ladakh with Chinook and Apache helicopters and Su-30MKI and MiG-29 fighter jets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-india-border-dispute-indian-army-gears-up-for-a-long-haul-in-ladakh-854125.html
26-06-2020||National||Action against anti-CAA protesters designed to send chilling message: UN Rapporteurs||A group of United Nations Special Rapporteurs on Friday demanded the release of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (anti-CAA) protesters from jail, saying their arrests appeared to be "clearly designed to send a chilling message" to India’s vibrant civil society that criticism of government policies will "not be tolerated". The Rapporteurs said there was "insufficient evidence" against them and they were apprehended "often simply on the basis of speeches" they made criticising the "discriminatory nature" of the CAA. The Rapporteurs said, "these human rights defenders, many of them students, appear to have been arrested simply because they exercised their right to denounce and protest against the CAA and their arrest seems clearly designed to send a chilling message" to India’s vibrant civil society that criticism of government policies will not be tolerated,” they said in a joint statement. The statement cited the arrest of Safoora Zargar, who was detained for over two months having "allegedly been kept in conditions equating to solitary confinement, denied regular contact with her family and legal representative, and having not been provided adequate medical care or diet". She was granted bail on June 23 in her sixth month of pregnancy, on humanitarian grounds, they said. Many of the 11 individual cases -- Meeran Haider, Gulfisha Fatima, Safoora Zargar, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Khalid Saifi, Shifa Ur Rehman, Dr. Kafeel Khan, Sharjeel Imam and Akhil Gogoi -- include serious allegations of human rights violations, several relating to due process failings during arrest and detention, as well as allegations of torture and ill-treatment. Flagging concerns about police invoking counter-terrorism or national security legislation, and using procedural police powers, to deny bail to protesters and issue charges carrying heavy sentences, they said the authorities’ response to the protests "seemed discriminatory". "It appears they have not similarly investigated allegations of incitement to hatred and violence made by CAA supporters, some of whom are reported to have chanted 'shoot the traitors' at counter-rallies," it said. “Although demonstrations ended in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and India’s Supreme Court issued a recent order to decongest jails because of health concerns related to the pandemic, protest leaders continue to be detained. The reported spread of the virus in Indian prisons makes their immediate release all the more urgent,” they said. The Special Rapporteurs included Mary Lawlor (situation of human rights defenders),  David Kaye (promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression), Clément Nyaletsossi Voule (rights to peaceful assembly and of association), Fernand de Varennes (minority issues), E. Tendayi Achiume (contemporary forms of racism), Ahmed Shaheed (freedom of religion or belief), Fionnuala D Ni Aolain (promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism) and Nils Melzer (torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment). Working Group on Arbitrary Detention Chair-Rapporteur Leigh Toomey, Vice-Chair Elina Steinerte, and members Jose Guevara Bermudez, Seong-Phil Hong and Setondji Adjovi were also part of the joint statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-against-anti-caa-protesters-designed-to-send-chilling-message-un-rapporteurs-854129.html
26-06-2020||National||Why US President Donald Trump's H-1B visa freeze will hurt India most||Illegal immigration has long been the subject of fervid debate in the US. Now President Donald Trump is making “legal immigration a scapegoat” with an eye on the upcoming election, says Poorvi Chotani, a managing partner at Law Quest, an immigration law firm with offices in the US and India. “How can the US recover more than 17 million lost jobs due to the pandemic by keeping out a little more than half a million foreign workers for the rest of the year?” she told me. Ms Chotani is mainly alluding to the H-1B visa programme that currently admits 85,000 immigrants each year, many for skilled jobs in the tech industry. On Tuesday, Mr Trump suspended this and other work visas that allowed foreigners to work in the US until the end of 2020. The move will hit India hard. Three quarters of the H-1B visas issued every year still go to India-born workers although the top seven Indian tech companies now pick up only 6% of the total visas under this programme. Rise of Indian-Americans “This is testimony to the skill sets of Indian nationals. And it has little to do with immigration. The H-1B is about temporary movement of high skilled workers. It doesn’t impact net immigration numbers,” Shivendra Singh, vice president of global trade development at Nasscom, the Indian technology industry trade group, says. The H-1B visa programme is also the reason for the “rise of Indian-Americans into the highest educated and highest earning group, immigrant or native in the US,” say the authors of The Other One Percent, a study of Indians in America. US-based researchers Sanjoy Chakravorty, Devesh Kapoor and Nirvikar Singh found that by the early 2010s, some 60% of the 100,000 India-born people entering the US each year through skilled-based paths were on the H-1B programme. They were mainly employed in computer-related occupations. Nearly half of a million H-1B visas issued between 2004 and 2012 went to Indians. Along with their dependants they accounted for more than a fourth of the Indian-American population, which is currently around 3 million. The new entrants, the researchers noted, spoke different languages, and lived in different places from earlier Indian immigrants. Hindi, Tamil and Telugu language speakers increased in size. Traditional Indian-American clusters in New York and Michigan were replaced by larger clusters in California and New Jersey. In many ways, the skilled visa programme, led to the birth of a “new map of Indian-Americans”. The future is beginning to look uncertain now. For long critics have said these visas have allowed Silicon Valley companies to outsource American jobs to lower-paid foreign employees. The share of Indian companies among the top ten visa recipients has dropped. “For Indian companies there has been a downward trend because local hiring has increased, and there have been changes in global delivery models and the nature of domain expertise,” Mr Singh told me. Bridging the skills gap What puzzles Indians is the objective behind Mr Trump’s move, which has already met resistance from tech firms like Google. Mr Trump says the move will create jobs for Americans hurting economically due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The problem is in the details. It is as if all jobs are perfect substitutes for each other and skills and training don’t matter. As if the tech sector which has not suffered much is the same as the hospitality sector which has suffered grievously. Will a foreign tech worker who’s stopped at the border save a restaurant job for an American worker?” Sanjoy Chakravorty, a professor of geography and urban studies at Temple University, told me. Also, Indian experts say, Mr Trump had been reducing legal immigration even when there were enough jobs. And at a time when the US is truly staring at millions of people out of jobs due to the pandemic, unemployment in computer occupations has actually<em> declined</em> from 3% in January to 2.5% in May. As of 14 May, there were 625,000 computer occupation jobs vacancies in the US. “The numbers tell you a completely different story. The H-1B workers bridge a critical skills gap. And now they will become essential workers in the post Covid recovery process in every field - cyber security, online education, vaccine research and so on,” says Mr Singh. Many in India say that Mr Trump’s measure is part of a plan to make permanent changes to immigration laws to discourage foreign workers. Ms Chotani believes getting a H-1B visa will become more expensive for Indian companies - foreign employees pay up to $6,460 for each visa petition. Resultantly, US tech firms will pick up more of these visas, hiring graduates from US universities, and recruiting directly from local firms and from overseas. These visas could be in future only restricted to highly-paid skilled foreign workers and keep out those engaged in mid-level and low-cost back office services. “Even this,” says Mr Singh, “will lead to disruption because a lot of such work happens with teams with a senior supervisor who is an immigrant with a team of local hires”. The future of the H-1B visa programme has been always difficult to predict, and has been susceptible to anti-immigration pressures. Steve Yale-Loehr, a Cornell law professor told the New York Times that this was the largest crackdown on work visas </a>that I have seen in my 35 years of practice”. It is unclear what will happen next. With the pandemic showing the world how to work remotely, will a post Covid future see a drastic reduction in the visas and more professionals working from home as businesses reduce dependencies on visas? Will short-term “technology visas” ease out relatively long term ones like H-1B? “An overhaul of the immigration system has long been in process. Things have now been pushed over the edge because of the upcoming US presidential polls. It’s all driven by populism, exacerbated by the pandemic and the rise in unemployment” says Ms Chotani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-us-president-donald-trumps-h-1b-visa-freeze-will-hurt-india-most-854137.html
26-06-2020||National||Covid-19: Bajaj Auto plant in Maharashtra's Wahuj has 140 cases, two deaths||Bajaj Auto on Friday said there are 140 cases of coronavirus infections at its Wahuj plant in Maharashtra that employs more than 8,100 people and two of them who were infected have died. The company's CHRO Ravi Kyran Ramasamy said there are more than 8,100 employees and contractors employed at the Waluj plant. "Our current incidence of 140 cases of COVID is less than 2 per cent of our strength. Two of our infected employees with underlying conditions of hyper tension and diabetes have unfortunately succumbed to the infection," he said in a statement. The plant is located in Aurangabad. In another statement to PTI, Ramasamy said the company has planned downtime for routine maintenance on Saturday as it was not operating at full capacity. "Post lock down we have had similar routine shutdown on Saturdays as a cost saving measure many times due to subdued demand. Also our weekly off is on Sunday when we are normally closed. Our business operations continue to be unaffected," he added. His statement came in response to queries on reports that Aurangabad District Collector has said that the facility would be shut for two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-bajaj-auto-plant-in-maharashtras-wahuj-has-140-cases-two-deaths-854142.html
26-06-2020||National||Army intensifies vigilance along LoC in wake of infiltration threat in Jammu and Kashmir||With intelligence inputs of a large number of terrorists waiting on launching pads along the LoC to infiltrate into India taking the cover of ceasefire violations, the Army has put its troops on alert and intensified vigilance along the Indo-Pak border, officials said on Friday. The Army and police have also created an anti-infiltration obstacle setup on infiltration routes along the Line of Control. The armed terrorists belonging to Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al-Badr and Hizbul Mujahideen have been staged in 23 launching pads along the LoC, mostly opposite to Rajouri-Poonch border districts, and are ready to infiltrate into the Union territory, they said. "The troops have been put on alert and vigilance through manual and electronic surveillance equipment has been intensified," an officer said. The Army and police have identified 19 infiltration routes along the LoC in Baramulla, Kupwara, Poonch, Rajouri and Bandipora districts of J&K, they said. All police stations and posts have been alerted to keep a tab on suspected movement in the border areas apart from activation of Village Defence Committees in border belts, they said. There have been several times increase in the ceasefire violations along the LoC in Baramulla, Poonch and Kupwara districts in the past one month, they said. This year, the Pakistan army has violated ceasefire along the LoC in J&K over 800 times and has unsuccessfully carried out 30 infiltration attempts to push in armed terrorists in the Union territory, they said. Over 13 infiltrating terrorists have been killed when troops of the Indian Army foiled several such bids along the LoC this year, they said. The Army is also keeping very close vigil on the aerial LoC movement in the wake of inputs of threat of drones carrying weapons and explosive material into the Kashmir Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-intensifies-vigilance-along-loc-in-wake-of-infiltration-threat-in-jammu-and-kashmir-854145.html
26-06-2020||National||Medium intensity earthquake hits Ladakh||A medium intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.5 hit Ladakh on Friday evening, the National Centre for Seismology said.  The quake occurred at 8.15 pm at a depth of 25 kilometres, it added. The Himalayan region is highly prone to earthquakes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medium-intensity-earthquake-hits-ladakh-854148.html
26-06-2020||National||Jharkhand government extends coronavirus lockdown till July 31||The Jharkhand government announced an extension of the lockdown till July 31 on Friday to contain the spread of COVID-19. "Considering the seriousness of the situation, the state government has decided to extend the lockdown till July 31," Chief Minister Hemant Soren said in a tweet. The extension order shall come into force with immediate effect, Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh said, adding that the movement of individuals shall continue to remain prohibited between 9 pm and 5 am. "All activities permitted prior to this order shall remain permitted. The activities to remain prohibited are the closure of schools, colleges, educational, training and coaching institutions, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls, shopping malls...," the order said. Interstate and intrastate bus services, hotels, lodges, inns and dine-in restaurants will not be in operation during this period, it added. Spas, salons and barbershops will continue to remain closed till July-end. Face masks have been made compulsory at public places, workplaces and during transport, the order said. "Movement of individuals into the state by private vehicles, taxis shall continue to require an e-entry pass. There shall be no requirement of an e-pass for any other movement of individuals within the state or for leaving the state," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-government-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-july-31-854158.html
26-06-2020||National||Army Chief MM Naravane briefs Rajnath Singh on eastern Ladakh situation||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane on Friday briefed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on the overall situation in eastern Ladakh as well as India's military preparedness in the region where Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a bitter standoff, official sources said. The Army Chief was in Ladakh on a two-day visit from June 23 to take stock of the situation. "The Chief of the Army Staff apprised the defence minister about the situation in eastern Ladakh," said a military source. Singh was on a three-day visit to Russia from June 22-24. On Thursday, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastaba said the conduct of the Chinese forces in the region is in "complete disregard" of all mutually agreed norms, and warned that "continuation of the current situation would only vitiate the atmosphere for the development of the relationship" between India and China. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last six weeks, and the tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. Senior military commanders of the two armies on Monday held a nearly 11-hour meeting during which they arrived at a "mutual consensus" to "disengage" from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh in a gradual manner. The two sides on Wednesday held diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs. In the diplomatic talks, both sides agreed to ensure expeditious implementation of the understanding on disengagement of troops from eastern Ladakh as decided in a meeting of senior military commanders on June 6. Following the Galwan Vally clashes, the Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the Line of Actual Control in various sectors including in Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Sikkim. The IAF has also moved a sizeable number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft and Apache attack helicopters to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar following the clashes. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. Prior to the clashes, both sides had been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it was necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-mm-naravane-briefs-rajnath-singh-on-eastern-ladakh-situation-854168.html
26-06-2020||National||India's coronavirus tally crosses 5 lakh-mark||India’s Covid-19 count on Friday crossed the grim landmark of five-lakh confirmed cases even as the government focused its efforts to control the spread of the disease in emerging hotspots such as Telangana. India added one lakh infections within a span of seven days, reporting an increase of an average of 14,000 cases daily since it crossed the four-lakh mark on June 20. According to the Health Ministry, India added 17,296 fresh infections as of Friday morning, taking the total cases to 4,90,401, while the death toll climbed to 15,301. According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker, India has 5,04,079 confirmed cases of Covid-19 at 8:30 p.m. on Friday– an intra-day increase of 13,678 cases. Maharashtra reported an intra-day increase of 5,025 new infections, an all time high so far. Centre has dispatched a team of health ministry officials to Maharashtra, Gujarat and Telangana to assist the states in management of the Covid-19 outbreak.    Telangana has been adding an average of 875 new cases daily with active cases doubling every five days, the fastest in the country, while the total cases double up every seven days. Assam, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the Northeast region, announced a two-week lockdown in Guwahati from Monday after the state reported a sharp spike in infections over the past ten days. According to the Health Ministry, the gap between patients under active medical supervision and those recovered from the disease is widening every passing day. The recovered cases have exceeded the active cases by 96,173, a health ministry official said. On the testing front, India had conducted 2,15,446 tests on Thursday through its network of 1,016 diagnostic laboratories. Cumulatively, India tested 77.76 lakh samples for Covid-19 since the outbreak was first reported in the country in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-tally-crosses-5-lakh-mark-854169.html
26-06-2020||National||Ministry of Defence holds third meeting with OFB employees' unions on its corporatisation||The Defence Ministry held a meeting with three employee unions of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to address their concerns regarding its corporatisation, according to an official statement on Friday. The meeting on Thursday was the third such deliberations the government held with the unions. As part of the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) package, the central government had announced on May 16 that it would improve autonomy, accountability and efficiency in ordnance supplies by corporatisation of OFB. "Third HLOC (high level official committee) meeting was held on June 25 with three associations: All India Association of Non-Gazetted Officers (AIANGOs) of Ordnance & Equipment Factories and Quality Assurance Organisations; All India Association of Clerical Employees of Ordnance Factories (AIACEOF) and Indian Ordnance Factories Non-Technical Supervisory Staff Association (IOFNTSSA)," said the ministry in its press release. At the meeting, the "intent of the government to implement aforesaid decision with involvement of all the stakeholders was conveyed and suggestions were invited from the members of the associations on ways to safeguard the benefits/interests of employees in terms of wages, salary, retirement benefits, health facilities and other service matters etc, while converting OFB into one or more 100 per cent government-owned corporate entities", the ministry noted. The first and second meetings took place on June 5 and June 16. The discussions at the June 25 meeting took place in a cordial atmosphere, the ministry stated. "The request of the associations to hold more meetings with them was considered by the Committee headed by V L Kantha Rao, Additional Secretary, DDP (Department of Defence Production), Ministry of Defence, and it was assured that the engagement with the federations/associations will continue," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-defence-holds-third-meeting-with-ofb-employees-unions-on-its-corporatisation-854175.html
26-06-2020||National||Covid-19: Central forces report 100 fresh cases; total over 3,300||The number of COVID-19 cases in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and the two other federal forces of NSG and NDRF have shot up to 3,300 with 100 fresh infections being reported on Friday, an official data said. These forces have so far recorded 23 deaths due to the disease, according to the data. The CAPFs are the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Border Security Force (BSF), the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB).   The highest of 1,000 cases have been reported in the CRPF, followed by 868 in the BSF, 733 in the CISF, 306 in the ITBP and 139 in the SSB, according to the data accessed by PTI. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has 184 cases, while the SSB has 139. Of the total 3,300 Covid-19 patients in the seven central forces, 1,999 personnel have been cured and 1,278 are undergoing treatment at various health facilities across the country, the data said. Hundred fresh cases were reported in these forces on Friday, with the highest of 32 in the CISF, followed by 31 in the CRPF, 12 each in the BSF and the NDRF and 10 in the ITBP among others. Test reports of over 590 troops are awaited, it said. A senior CAPF officer said a number of fresh cases in these forces are of those personnel who have been placed under quarantine after they joined duty post the nationwide lockdown was announced. The CRPF and the CISF have had the maximum seven fatalities due to Covid-19, followed by the BSF five and the ITBP and the SSB two each. These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations and disaster rescue and relief under the command of the Union home ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-central-forces-report-100-fresh-cases-total-over-3300-854177.html
26-06-2020||National||India, Germany resolve to boost cooperation in combating Covid-19 pandemic||India and Germany on Friday vowed to boost cooperation in dealing with the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic, including supply of medicines, equipment and technology. India and Germany held virtual Foreign Secretary level consultations with Harsh Vardhan Shringla and his German counterpart Miguel Berger discussing bilateral cooperation in various areas. They exchanged views on regional and global issues of mutual interest, a Ministry of External Affairs statement said. "The two sides took stock of the extensive cooperation in addressing the challenges of Covid-19, including supply of medicines, equipment and technology," the MEA said. They agreed to advance the various areas of bilateral cooperation and initiate consultations in the context of India’s upcoming membership of the UN Security Council (2021-22) and G20 Presidency (2022), and Germany's present membership of the UN Security Council and forthcoming Presidency of the European Union, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-germany-resolve-to-boost-cooperation-in-combating-covid-19-pandemic-854182.html
26-06-2020||National||India warns China that attempts to alter status quo will have 'ripples, repercussions'||India on Friday warned China that trying to alter the status quo on the ground by resorting to force will not just damage the peace that existed on the border areas but can also have "ripples and repercussions" in the broader bilateral relationship, and demanded that Beijing stop its activities in eastern Ladakh. The only way to resolve the current military standoff along the LAC in eastern Ladakh was for Beijing to realise that trying to "change the status quo by resorting to force or coercion, is not the right way forward,” India’s ambassador to China Vikram Misri said in a hard-hitting interview to PTI. Asserting that actions taken by the Chinese forces on the ground have damaged "considerable trust" in the bilateral relationship, the Indian ambassador added that it was entirely the responsibility of the Chinese side to take a careful view of the relations and to decide which direction the ties should move. Noting that maintenance of peace and tranquillity "on the border is sine qua non for progress in the rest of bilateral relationship between India and China", Misri said: "The resolution of this issue is quite straight forward from our perspective. The Chinese side needs to stop creating obstruction and hindrances in the normal patrolling patterns of the Indian troops,” he said. He also rubbished China’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley in Ladakh as "completely untenable”, and asserted that these kinds of exaggerated claims are not going to help the situation. “Whatever activities we may be carrying on have always been on our side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), so the Chinese need to stop activities to alter the status quo. It is very surprising that they should attempt to do so in a sector which has never before been a sector of concern.” he said. Emphasising that India is "very aware and very clear about the alignment of the LAC in the Galwan Valley," he said our troops have been patrolling up to these areas without any difficulty for a very very long period of time. Misri's strong comments came in response to the recent claims by the Chinese military and the foreign ministry of sovereignty over Galwan Valley. On the Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong’s assertion on Thursday that the onus is on India to deescalate tensions, Misri said, “I think we have been very clear, and very consistent in pointing out that it has been Chinese actions over an extended period of time, that are responsible for the current situation”. “In fact beginning with the time frame of April and May, I would say there were a number of Chinese actions along the LAC in the Ladakh sector in the western sector that interfered with and hindered with the normal patrolling activities of our troops in that sector. This led obviously to a few face-off situations," he said. During an interview with PTI, Sun refused to reply to questions about China’s transgressions of the LAC. He was asked why China has not been allowing Indian patrols from Finger 4 to Finger 8 areas in Pangong Tso even though the areas belonged in the Indian side of LAC. He was also asked why China has resorted to massive build up of troops in almost all areas of the 3500 km LAC. But Sun sidestepped the questions and remained mum. Misri said he "would underline the remarks of our External Affairs Minister (S Jaishankar) when he spoke to Foreign Minister Wang Yi that these developments cannot but have an impact on the bilateral relationship." "The bilateral relationship is of great value to the two countries. It is important not just for us but also regionally important”, he said. “So I think there should be a realisation on the Chinese side that there is no gain in trying to alter the status quo on the ground especially by resorting to force ... that will not just damage the peace and tranquillity that existed on the border but it can have ripples and repercussions in the broader bilateral relationship,” Misri said. “We have no wish and desire for that. Therefore, it is entirely the responsibility of the Chinese side to take a careful view of our bilateral relations and to decide which direction the bilateral relationship to move forward”, he said. “To my mind there is only one answer, I do very much hope that the Chinese side will also see it in that way”, he added. Noting that in the Galwan Valley especially there has never been any difference as to where the LAC lay, the Indian envoy said :"It is very surprising that they should have chosen to, in the context of these recent developments, to do this kind of thing in a sector which has never before been a sector of concern." “So for China to now voice these kinds of claims is completely untenable. These kinds of exaggerated claims are not going to help the situation. The kind of language that has been used is not helpful to the resolution of this situation,” he said. In the ongoing meetings including at the military level that are going on "we hope that the Chinese side will realise its responsibility in de-escalation and disengagement", he said. "That would be a true resolution of this issue”, he said. Misri's comments came a day after the external affairs ministry said China has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May, and warned that continuation of the current situation would only vitiate the atmosphere for the development of the relationship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-warns-china-that-attempts-to-alter-status-quo-will-have-ripples-repercussions-854187.html
26-06-2020||National||Body of soldier who died in Ladakh arrives at Pune airport||The mortal remains of Naik DSV Sachin More, who lost his life on June 24 during construction of a road and bridge in Leh in Ladakh, arrived at Pune Airport on Friday evening where Army officials paid tribute. A Southern Command defence release said personnel of Headquarters Dakshin Maharashtra and Goa Sub Area received the mortal remains at the airport with full military honour befitting a soldier. It said More was "the brave son of Maharashtra who made the supreme sacrifice of his life in service to the nation during the construction of road and bridge in extreme weather conditions in Leh". A wreath on behalf of the Army Commander and all ranks of Southern Command was laid in honour of the valiant soldier by Station Commander, Pune, it added. More belongs to Sakori village of Nashik district and is survived by his wife Sarika. The last rites will be held with full military honours on Saturday in his hometown, the release informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/body-of-soldier-who-died-in-ladakh-arrives-at-pune-airport-854201.html
26-06-2020||National||Govt allows airlines to fly 45% of their pre-Covid-19 domestic passenger flights||The government on Friday permitted Indian airlines to increase their number of domestic passenger flights to 45 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 capacity, according to an official order. The Ministry of Civil Aviation had restarted domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate only one-third of their pre-Covid-19 capacity. Modifying its previous order of May 21 where it had put the limit on the number of domestic flights, the ministry issued an order on Friday stating that, "One Third (1/3) capacity may be read as 45 per cent capacity." Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday tweeted, "In one month since recommencement of calibrated domestic civil aviation operations in the country, our skies & airports have been busy. 18,92,581 passengers have flown so far on 21,316 flights across the country." Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-airlines-to-fly-45-of-their-pre-covid-19-domestic-passenger-flights-854222.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||Has PM Narendra Modi misled nation on Chinese incursions in Ladakh, asks Congress||The Congress on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean on whether he has misled the nation by saying there has been no intrusion into Indian territory in Ladakh and cited reports quoting experts that China's PLA has returned to the Galwan valley. Addressing a joint virtual press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala and spokesperson Pawan Khera demanded answers from the Prime Minister on what his government was doing to secure Indian territory from Chinese incursions. Surjewala said experts and reports, citing satellite images, say that instead of withdrawing from Indian territory the People's Liberation Army (PLA) has returned with bigger strength to the Galwan valley where 20 Indian soldiers were recently killed while protecting the country's territorial integrity. "Did the Prime Minister mislead people in the all-party meeting?" he asked. "Has the Chinese Army erected their tents on PP-14 point in Pangong Tso Lake area from finger 4-8? Are they trying to make fresh incursions? The Prime Minister and Raksha Mantri need to come clean and take the nation into confidence," Surjewala said. Twenty soldiers of the 16 Bihar regiment including Colonel B Santosh Babu were martyred on June 15 night at Patrol Point 14 in Ladakh in a clash with the Chinese Army. Surjewala said the PM at the all-party meeting made a "shocking" remark that no one entered Indian territory nor were Indian posts taken over, a comment that the Chinese media quickly lapped up as the PM gave a clean chit to the Chinese PLA. The Congress leader said the very next day on June 20, India's Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in a written statement contradicted the PM's remarks. "This is unprecedented and shameless. They also confirmed that the Chinese did make incursions," he noted, adding that when the Indian Army was valiantly pushing the Chinese army away from Indian territory, the Prime Minister was "undermining their morale by misleading the country by giving contradictory statements". Posing a set of questions to the Prime Minister, Surjewala asked why he was trying to contradict all the reports that suggest that the Chinese have made several incursions. "What is he (PM) trying to hide?" he asked. Khera said the Modi government is repeatedly telling the country that they are talking to China to ensure restoration of the status quo ante as of April 2020 in the Galwan valley, Pangong Tso Lake and the area of Hot Springs. He said a former Army general was quoted in the media saying Chinese are seen constructing roads in the Galwan river area and one can see a lot of military vehicles and bulldozers present there and also their camps. The Chinese Army has also come in the Depsong sector, the Daulat Beg Oldies road, where also one can see a lot of Chinese army vehicles including armoured vehicles, he claimed. "This is unprecedented. The Chinese were never present there. We demand answers from the Prime Minister on behalf of the country," Khera said. "Has the Chinese Army come and made tents on PP-14 point at the Pangong Tso lake area from finger 4 to finger 8, new bunkers being constructed by the Chinese Army? Are they trying again to make fresh incursions, the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister need to come clean, take the nation into confidence," he said. Khera said the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister are expected to take every Indian into confidence by talking about what is the way ahead and how he is ensuring that the country's land and borders are safe. "Has the Chinese Army also come into the Daulat Beg Oldies road, the Depsand sector, the Eastern Ladakh area with armoured vehicles? Has the Prime Minister and the Modi government taken notice of this fresh incursion? The nation wants to know," Surjewala asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/has-pm-narendra-modi-misled-nation-on-chinese-incursions-in-ladakh-asks-congress-853796.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||BJP president Nadda attacks Congress over PMNRF donation to RGF; Opposition party accuses BJP of deception||BJP president J P Nadda said on Friday the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund donated money to the "family-run" Rajiv Gandhi Foundation when the Congress-led UPA was in power, claiming it was a "brazen fraud" and big betrayal of the people of India. Nadda, who on Thursday targeted the Congress and the Gandhi family for allegedly accepting donation to the foundation from the Chinese embassy, also posted a photograph of documents to back his fresh charge. But Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala accused BJP and Nadda of playing a "diabolical game of deception" to divert attention from the alleged Chinese occupation of Indian territory. The BJP and the Congress are locked in a bitter war of words over the two issues. "PMNRF, meant to help people in distress, was donating money to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in UPA years. Who sat on the PMNRF board? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Who chairs RGF? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Totally reprehensible, disregarding ethics, processes and not bothering about transparency," Nadda said on Twitter. PMNRF, meant to help people in distress, was donating money to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in UPA years. Who sat on the PMNRF board? Smt. Sonia Gandhi Who chairs RGF? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Diverting the hard-earned money of the people of India to a family-run foundation is not only a "brazen fraud" but also a "big betrayal" of the people, he added. "One family's hunger for wealth has cost the nation immensely. If only they have devoted their energies towards more constructive agenda. The Congress’ Imperial Dynasty needs to apologise to the unchecked loot for self-gains!" the BJP chief said. Later, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra demanded a response from Congress president Sonia Gandhi, saying she is "no queen" and should explain the charge. He also alleged that Gandhi has written the script of corruption in the country. The Congress has become synonymous to corruption and conspiracy, he told reporters, and alleged that the Gandhi family floated "shell companies" like the RGF to become "rich". Hitting back, Surjewala said, "The diabolical game of deception, diversion and disinformation is being played out by the BJP and J P Nadda to divert the attention of the country from the Chinese occupation of Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso and now Depsang up to the Y-junction, 18 kms inside the LAC." "This is the greatest disservice that the BJP and PM Narendra Modi are doing to the country. Instead of fighting China and defending our country, they are fighting the Congress party and undermining India's territorial integrity," Surjewala alleged. Patra said the PMNRF donated money to RGF thrice when the UPA was in power. Gandhi as Congress president was on the board of the PMNRF and also headed the RGF, Patra said. The audit company for the PMNRF was headed by a former Congress MP and Union minister, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-president-nadda-attacks-congress-over-pmnrf-donation-to-rgf-opposition-party-accuses-bjp-of-deception-853937.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||India should to hit back at China instead of targeting Congress: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Accusing the Centre of being indecisive over the Chinese aggression at Ladakh Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday said that India should retaliate and recapture the territory occupied by the Chinese Army in the Galwan Valley. He also said that the Centre should focus on hitting back at China instead of attacking Congress. “BJP is attacking Congress to hide its own Himalayan strategic blunders. I dare the BJP leadership to prove their allegation that Congress compromised national security. If they can do so I will immediately resign as an MP,” said Chowdhury in a video message. “It was the Indira Gandhi-led Congress government which took over Siachen which took over Siachen in 1984 with operation Meghdoot and broke Pakistan by helping Bangladesh to gain independence in the 1971 war,” added Chowdhury. He further alleged that China was taking advantage of the Modi government’s indecisiveness over the Ladakh issue and said that if the situation demands there should be counter-violence. “Our national mantra is ‘Do or Die.’ In the current scenario, counter-violence is needed. We must prove that China is not invincible and nothing but an international rogue,” said Chowdhury. He also said that the situation at the border with China was grim and India should hit back that at “the dragon” to bring it under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-should-to-hit-back-at-china-instead-of-targeting-congress-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-853982.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||China has occupied Indian land, PM's denial will benefit neighbouring country: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak up and tell the truth to the country on whether China has occupied any Indian territory. He said if the Prime Minister says no Indian territory has been occupied by China, while satellite images show otherwise, then China stands to benefit from his statement. "If you (the PM) say Indian land has not been taken by China and it has actually been taken, then China will stand to benefit," Gandhi said. In a video message, part of the Congress party's 'SpeakUpForOurJawans' campaign in honour of martyred Indian soldiers, Gandhi said the Prime Minister had stated that not even an inch of Indian territory has been taken away by anyone and there has been no intrusion, but satellite images and experts say China has occupied Indian territory at three points in eastern Ladakh. Noting that the entire country is standing together behind the Prime Minister, the former Congress chief said, "We have to together fight China and throw them out". "Prime Minister ji, speak up and do not be scared. You will have to tell the truth to the country. Don't be scared to say that yes, China has taken our land and we are going to act against them. The whole country is with you," he said. प्रधानमंत्री जी, Referring to the 20 Indian soldiers who died following a clash with the Chinese army personnel at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh earlier this month, Gandhi asked the government to explain who had sent the Indian soldiers without weapons to the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/china-has-occupied-indian-land-pms-denial-will-benefit-neighbouring-country-rahul-gandhi-853995.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi govt has lowered morale of armed forces by denying Chinese incursions in Ladakh: Congress||The Congress on Friday said the intelligence and diplomacy of the Modi government has failed to stop Chinese incursions in Ladakh and asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi was lying to the nation by saying no one has occupied Indian territory. The party said by denying Chinese incursions in eastern Ladakh the government has lowered the morale of the armed forces. Addressing a joint press conference, Congress leaders MM Pallam Raju, Jitendra Singh and Pawan Khera said according to reports China has occupied Indian territory up to 18 km inside the LAC in Depsang plains, posing an alarming threat to India's national security and territorial integrity. They said satellite images suggest China has made fresh transgressions and new constructions between June 6 and June 24 and has reoccupied PP-14 in Galwan Valley, the area that witnessed violent clashes on the night of June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Raju said reports and observations by retired generals and defence experts with the help of satellite imagery suggest the Chinese forces are now 7 km short of the Ladakh town of Burtse, on the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road, and have come as close as 25 km from the crucial airstrip of Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO), that is within artillery range. "Is the prime minister lying to the nation," Raju asked, alleging that there has been a diplomatic and intelligence failure. "Why is the Modi government afraid of acknowledging Chinese incursion in Galwan Valley and in the Depsang plains? Why is the Modi government demoralizing our brave solders by issuing contradictory statements? Why is the Modi government's diplomacy not helping in protecting and restoring India's territorial integrity," the former union minister asked. "What has India gained from the prime minister's personal outreach to various countries in general and China in particular," Raju asked. Former Minister of State for Defence Jitendra Singh said this is the same Depsang area, called 'Bottleneck or Y-junction', where the Chinese had made incursions in 2013 during UPA but had to withdraw. "The Modi government is a weak government as it unfortunately refuses to even acknowledge any incursions, thereby weakening the morale of our soldiers," he said. Khera alleged that while the nation has confidence in the country's armed forces to throw out the Chinese from Indian territory, there is doubt in the party about this government's political will. "The sad part is that the prime minister does not even accept the reality," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-govt-has-lowered-morale-of-armed-forces-by-denying-chinese-incursions-in-ladakh-congress-854004.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||Seems Congress leaders are spokespersons for China, they don't dare to question it: Pralhad Joshi||Hitting out at the Congress for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the standoff between India and China in Ladakh, senior BJP leader and Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said it seems the opposition party's leaders have become "spokespersons of China as they never dare to question it". He also targeted the Congress for allegedly accepting donation to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation from the Chinese embassy, saying the "silence" of the opposition party leaders on the donation and their MoU with Chinese Communist Party is "striking" and asked "are these dynasts influenced by donations". "It seems Congress leaders are spokespersons for China. They only talk against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and never dare to question China," Joshi said in a tweet. Amid an ongoing war of words over the Sino-India standoff in eastern Ladakh, the BJP on Thursday attacked the Congress over an alleged by donation by the Chinese embassy to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation during UPA rule and in lieu of which the foundation advocated for free trade agreement between the two countries. The Congress have dismissed the charge as an attempt to divert the attention of the country from issues of national security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/seems-congress-leaders-are-spokespersons-for-china-they-dont-dare-to-question-it-pralhad-joshi-854114.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||Those who surrendered Aksai Chin to China questioning Modi govt: Union min||In an apparent dig at the previous Congress governments, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday said the "pro-China elements", who had surrendered Aksai Chin in the Ladakh region to China, are questioning the BJP government, while asserting that no one could bully the country as long as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leading it. Speaking at a "virtual rally" for the people of West Bengal, the Union minister of petroleum and natural gas said the "pro-China elements within India, who do not have faith in the country's armed forces and external affairs minister, are taking advice from the Chinese ambassador". "We have forgotten those who had shouted pro-China slogans during the war in the sixties (1962). These pro-China elements are still there in the country, who do not have faith in the Indian armed forces and external affairs minister. They are taking advice from the Chinese ambassador," he said. "Those, whose ancestors had gifted China the Aksai Chin region by saying it was a barren land, are now questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our PM has given full freedom to the armed forces. Now nobody can bully India. The times have changed. As long as we have Prime Minister Modi, we are safe and secure. A recent survey has indicated that over 73 per cent people in the country have faith in the prime minister when it comes to national security," Pradhan said. His comments come a day after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief J P Nadda alleged that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) had accepted USD 300,000 from China and the Chinese embassy in 2005-06 for conducting studies that were not in the national interest. The Congress, however, dismissed the allegation as an attempt to divert the country's attention from issues of national security. Speaking on the prevailing political situation in West Bengal, Pradhan said the people of the state would give a befitting reply to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for "pursuing the politics of vendetta" and send her on a "long quarantine after the 2021 Assembly polls". "My party colleagues told me how our public representatives are not being allowed to step out of their homes in Bengal and have been kept in quarantine. I want to tell the TMC and Mamatadi that the people of the state would give a befitting reply to their politics of vendetta and violence and send Mamatadi on a long quarantine after the 2021 Assembly polls," he said. Terming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state a complete failure, the BJP leader said the people of Bengal should give a chance to the saffron party to take the state to new heights. "A change is needed to take Bengal forward. The change will take place in the state in 2021," he said. Pradhan, a senior BJP leader from neighbouring Odisha, alleged that TMC workers have unleashed a reign of terror in the state among the workers of the saffron party for indulging in any kind of democratic opposition movement. He assailed the West Bengal government for not joining several central schemes meant for the poor. On Bengal's "unwillingness" on bringing back migrant labourers, Pradhan said it was the only state that was not willing to take back its workers. "The migrant labourers would never forgive you Mamatadi for the treatment you have meted out to them," he said. The issue of bringing migrant workers back to Bengal has snowballed into a major political row over the last few weeks with the BJP and the Centre alleging that the state government is not keen to take them back. The TMC dispensation in the state has rebuffed the claim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-surrendered-aksai-chin-to-china-questioning-modi-govt-union-min-854212.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||Gandhi dynasty dominates Congress party: BJP's Sudhanshu Trivedi||BJP national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sudhanshu Trivedi on Friday said that internal democracy of Congress revolves around one family, which dominates the party, unlike the BJP. "I want to ask the leaders who accused the BJP of ending democracy, why the internal democracy of the Congress revolves around the Gandhi family? In the BJP, any worker can become party president. In the last 40 years, many workers have beautified the post of the president. At the same time, the Gandhi dynasty dominates the Congress," Trivedi said in a virtual web dialogue under the Atma Nirbhar campaign started by the Centre. Replying to a question on "self-reliant India", he said there is indeed a necessity for people to change their mindset to understand 'vocal for local' and 'local to global' concept. The government is still playing its role as it has ended an agreement with China for contract work in railways recently and has banned the use of Chinese products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gandhi-dynasty-dominates-congress-party-bjps-sudhanshu-trivedi-854216.html
26-06-2020||National Politics||All grants to RGF duly accounted for: Congress||Breaking its silence, Congress on Friday dismissed allegations of wrongdoings in the funds that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) received from the Chinese embassy and the Prime Minister's Relief Fund, and accused the Modi government of diverting attention from its "failures" to the "cacophony of manufactured" controversy. In a statement on Friday night, Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said the grants received by the RGF have been duly accounted for and reported to the Income Tax Department as well as the Home Ministry. Surjewala said the Chinese Embassy had extended a grant of Rs 1.45 crore to the RGF for a welfare program for disabled persons and research on Sino-India relations. "This grant was used for the purposes specified. RGF accounts were duly audited and statutory returns were filed under Foreign Contributions Regulation Act (FCRA) to the Government of India," he said. The Congress spokesperson said that the RGF had received a "modest" grant of Rs 20 lakh from the PMNRF for carrying out relief work in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami. "We want to tell PM Modi and BJP President Nadda that their total failure to protect national security and territorial integrity of India cannot be washed away in the cacophony of manufactured and desperate allegations vis-à-vis grants received by the RGF foundation which has been duly audited and reported both to the Income Tax as also to the Home Ministry," Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-grants-to-rgf-duly-accounted-for-congress-854217.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Two engineering graduate-turned-militants among three ultras killed in Kashmir||Continuing with its relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces killed three more local militants in a 15-hour long overnight gunbattle in the volatile Tral area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday. The encounter erupted after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Chewa Ular area of Tral on Thursday evening after ‘specific input’ about the presence of militants in the area, the report said. As the search party moved towards the suspected spot, the hidden militants fired, which was met with retaliation by the security forces, triggering an encounter. A police official said as the night approached, the operation was suspended, but the cordon was tightened to “ensure trapped militants don’t escape taking advantage of the darkness.” “With the first light of the morning, the firing resumed and all the three militants hiding in the area were killed,” he said, adding that the slain militants were local residents. Sources identified them as Mohammad Qaasim Shah alias Jugnu, Basit Ahmad Parray and Haris Manzoor Bhat. Qaasim was pursuing a B. Tech in civil engineering prior to joining militancy in March 2017. Basit had joined militant ranks just a month ago and had a Bachelor's degree in Science in Information Technology while Haris had disappeared in April 2020 and was believed to have joined militancy, they said. The bodies of the slain militants will be taken either to Sonamarg in central Kashmir or Boniyar in Baramulla for a quiet burial. Lately, police have been denying the bodies of militants to their families as their funerals attract large crowds. Security forces have launched relentless counter-insurgency operations across Kashmir since the last few weeks in which dozens of militants have been killed. In June 38 militants were killed in a dozen encounters in just in south Kashmir. From January this year, 110 militants have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces. Last week Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that 100-200 militants were still active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-engineering-graduate-turned-militants-among-three-ultras-killed-in-kashmir-853880.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Petrol price crosses Rs 80-mark in Delhi for first time since 2018, diesel at new high||Petrol price in the national capital on Friday crossed Rs 80 per litre-mark, for the first time in more than two years, as oil companies continue to raise petrol and diesel prices in line with costs. Oil companies hiked petrol price by 21 paise per litre and diesel by 17 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 80.13 per litre from Rs 79.92 while diesel rates were increased to Rs 80.19 a litre from Rs 80.02. Rates have been increased across the country but the final retail selling price differs from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT. In Mumbai, petrol is priced at Rs 86.91 per litre and diesel at Rs 78.51. Petrol price has crossed Rs 80-mark for the first time in more than two years, while diesel rate is at an all-time high. Petrol had last crossed Rs 80 mark in September 2018. While the diesel price has been hiked for the 20th straight day, petrol price has been raised on 19 occasions in less than three weeks. The cumulative increase since the oil companies started the cycle on June 7 now totals to Rs 8.87 for petrol and Rs 10.8 in diesel. Diesel had for the first time become costlier than petrol in Delhi on Wednesday. However, diesel is costlier than petrol only in the national capital where the state government had raised local sales tax or VAT on the fuel sharply last month. It costs less than petrol in other cities. On June 7, oil companies restarted revising prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus during which they adjusted steep excise duty hikes by the government against the fall in benchmark international oil rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/petrol-price-crosses-rs-80-mark-in-delhi-for-first-time-since-2018-diesel-at-new-high-853881.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||I'm Indira Gandhi's granddaughter, not an undeclared BJP spokesperson: Priyanka dares UP govt||"I am Indira Gandhi's granddaughter, not an undeclared BJP spokesperson like some of the opposition leaders," Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said, as she alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government is threatening her through various departments for speaking the truth. The Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh East has accused the Yogi Adityanath government of indulging in propaganda instead of dealing with the pandemic.  "As a public servant, my duty is towards the people of Uttar Pradesh. And this duty is to put out the truth before them and not to put forth government propaganda. The UP government is wasting its time by threatening me through its various departments," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "They can take whatever action they want, I will keep putting forth the truth. I am Indira Gandhi's granddaughter not an undeclared BJP spokesperson like some of the opposition leaders," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/im-indira-gandhis-granddaughter-not-an-undeclared-bjp-spokesperson-priyanka-dares-up-govt-853887.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Mosque in Maharashtra converted into Covid-19 facility||The facility at Makkah Masjid in the Shanti Nagar area of the power loom town has been set up by the local chapter of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), Movement for Peace and Justice and the Shanti Nagar Trust, which runs the mosque. Apart from putting up five beds equipped with oxygen cylinders, the JIH also delivers them for free to patients homes if required, an office-bearer of the JIH said, adding the makeshift facility is open to all communities.  So far, the Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipality has recorded over 1,332 Covid-19 cases and 88 casualties. It has a mortality rate of 5.26 percent, a release stated. "Bhiwandi-Nizampur has been hit hard by the pandemic as it is a congested city. It doesn't even have proper health infrastructure. The situation has only worsened during the pandemic as general medical practitioners have shut their clinics fearing the virus spread," said Ausaf Ahmed Falahi, president of the JIH's Bhiwandi chapter. As a majority of people here lack awareness about the viral disease and are unable to afford treatment, a facility like this one was the need of the hour, he said. Over 70 persons have benefited from this facility, which has two doctors, while 15 oxygen cylinders have been delivered to the homes of eight Covid-19 patients, Falahi said. People irrespective of their religion have been availing treatment at the mosque, he added. "Makkah Masjid has been shut for prayers since the lockdown. So, we decided to use a part of the premises to help those who can't avail treatment elsewhere," said Qaiser Mirza of the Shanti Nagar Trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mosque-in-maharashtra-converted-into-covid-19-facility-853894.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||CRPF personnel, minor killed in militant attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||A paramilitary personnel and a minor were killed when militants attacked a CRPF party in the Bijbehara area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Friday. Reports said that militants opened fire on troops of 90 Battalion Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) near Padshahi Bagh, Bijbehara, 45 kms from Srinagar, injuring a paramilitary personnel and a five-year-old boy. They were rushed to a local hospital where doctors declared them dead. The slain CRPF man was identified as Shyamal Kumar of West Bengal while the slain boy was identified as Naheen of neighbouring Kulgam district. Immediately after the attack, the area was cordoned off to nab the assailants, reports said. The CRPF party which came under attack was deployed for the security of convoys moving on Srinagar-Jammu national highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-personnel-minor-killed-in-militant-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-853923.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Central team visits micro-containment zones in Ahmedabad||A central team, led by Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, visited different areas of Ahmedabad city on Friday morning to review the measures undertaken by the authorities to contain the spread of coronavirus, said officials. The team started its visit from Vasantnagar township in the Gota area of the city, a micro-containment zone, and collected information about the steps taken by the authorities to contain the spread of the virus, said the officials. The team also understood the functioning of mobile clinic vans, named as'Dhanvantari Arogya Rath', launched earlier this month by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to conduct health check-up of people and distribute medicines.  The team then visited micro-containment zones in different areas, including a housing society near Mansi circle, a locality in Shahpur and another society in the Shahibaug area. In the evening, the team is expected to meet Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and health department officials. On Thursday, the Union Health Ministry had announced that its teams will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and 29 to take stock of the coronavirus situation in these states. Gujarat has so far reported over 29,500 coronavirus cases and 1,750 deaths. The Covid-19 death rate of Gujarat is amongst the highest at 5.93 percent in the country. In Ahmedabad, which has so far registered 19,839 cases and 1,390 deaths, the death rate is as high as 7 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-team-visits-micro-containment-zones-in-ahmedabad-853927.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Migrant labourer commits suicide due to financial woes in Uttar Pradesh||A migrant labourer, who returned from Surat about three months ago, allegedly committed suicide as he did not have money for his wife's treatment, police said on Friday. Shiv Murat (30) killed himself by hanging from a tree in his village on Thursday, they said. According to his wife who is unwell, the couple had an argument about her treatment and he left the house saying that he had no money for it, the police said. Later, his body was found hanging from a tree. The body was handed over to his family after postmortem and an investigation into the incident was underway, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-labourer-commits-suicide-due-to-financial-woes-in-uttar-pradesh-853928.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Serological survey to begin in Delhi||A serological survey to undertake a comprehensive analysis of Covid-19 in Delhi and prepare a broad strategy to combat the pandemic will be carried out in the national capital from Saturday, the Union Home Ministry has said. The announcement came a day after Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla reviewed implementation of various decisions on the coronavirus-related situation in Delhi, which were taken on June 21 in a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. "As per the directives of HM @AmitShah, the discussion was done on the serological survey in Delhi, which will be carried out jointly by NCDC and Delhi Government. "Survey will begin from June 27, training of all the concerned survey teams was completed yesterday," a home ministry spokesperson tweeted. The home minister has already approved the combined use of 'Aarogya Setu' and 'Itihaas' apps as strong predictive tools for future detection of Covid-19 outbreaks in population clusters. Training on the combined use of apps was imparted by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) trainers to the district teams of the Delhi government on Thursday. The meeting, chaired by Bhalla, was attended by Member Niti Aayog, Director AIIMS, Director General ICMR along with Delhi's Chief Secretary and Health Secretary. The home ministry had earlier said the serological survey will be done for entire Delhi between June 27-July 10 in which 20,000 people will be sample tested.  This will enable authorities to undertake a comprehensive analysis of Covid-19 in the city and then a broad strategy can be prepared to combat the pandemic in the national capital, a ministry statement had said. Serology (antibody) tests are largely used for surveillance among the community. They can be used on people who have already been tested positive for the virus or even those who are asymptomatic, and can reveal insights on immunity against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-serological-survey-to-begin-in-delhi-853930.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt will set up ICU beds on a large scale at its 3 hospitals: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said his government will set up ICU beds on a large scale at three state-run hospitals in wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Addressing an online media briefing, he said Delhi has reported around 74,000 cases so far; of them, 45,000 patients have recovered. The rise in number of cases is a matter of concern but there is no need to panic as the Covid-19 situation is "still under control", Kejriwal asserted. "We have increased our capacity of testing by three times and hence, cases are rising in the city," he said. In LNJP Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and GTB Hospital, the government is going to set up more ICU beds on a large scale, he said, adding the Delhi government has already set up 3,500 beds for Covid-19 patients in hotels in the last 10 days.  The chief minister also said that Covid-19 patients under home isolation have been given pulse oximeters and that this will act as a "Suraksha Chakra" against the disease. He said the government has got permission to conduct plasma therapy on 200 patients in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-will-set-up-icu-beds-on-a-large-scale-at-its-3-hospitals-kejriwal-853942.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||SC dismisses anticipatory bail plea of DHFL promoters in Yes Bank money laundering case||The Supreme Court Friday dismissed the anticipatory bail pleas of DHFL promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan in a money laundering case of Yes Bank being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The Wadhawans, now arrested, have challenged the Bombay High Court's May 12 order rejecting their plea for pre-arrest bail. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai dismissed a batch of four pleas after senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the Wadhawans, said that he was not pressing his prayer for relief. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ED said that both the accused have been arrested and hence their plea for anticipatory bail becomes infructuous. The bench dismissed the pleas as withdrawn. The high court had refused to grant pre-arrest bail to DHFL promoters, noting that their custodial interrogation was required to unearth the conspiracy and modus operandi in the multi-crore scam. The Wadhawans are in jail after being earlier arrested by the CBI in a separate case related to the Yes Bank scam. They had moved the high court for an anticipatory bail in the money laundering case and another case pertaining to alleged irregularities in the investment of employees' provident fund of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL). The high court had noted in its order that the applicants were not co-operating with the process of law and that the ED had issued several summonses to both Kapil and Dheeraj seeking their presence for questioning in the cases. The court said although the Wadhawans responded to the summonses and notices issued to them by the ED, they evaded investigation by not appearing before the agency. The response to the summonses speaks of apathetic and an indifferent approach. The lackadaisical approach of the applicants can be well noted in their response to the prosecuting agency, the court had said. Wadhawans' counsel had contended before the high court that no case has been made out for money laundering and the transactions in question were made in normal course of business. They had argued that there was no case for any arrest or arrest warrant at this stage for his clients in the midst of the Covid-19 lockdown in a matter of financial nature which is being investigated for the last six months. The Wadhawans have claimed they have been made "scapegoat of political quandary" in the state. The court, however, refused to accept the excuse of the Covid-19 pandemic and had said this shall not deter the ED from investigating a serious offence of money laundering which has shaken the economy of this country. Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan were arrested in April by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the Yes Bank scam. According to the CBI FIR, the scam started taking shape between April and June 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit DHFL. In return, the Wadhawans allegedly "paid kickbacks of Rs 600 crore" to former Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor and his family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd held by the wife and daughters of Kapoor, the CBI has claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-dhfl-promoters-in-yes-bank-money-laundering-case-853943.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel seeks extension of Centre's food scheme till September||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has urged the Centre to extend the 'Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) till September, an official here said on Friday. In Chhattisgarh, 51.50 lakh ration card-holding families have been identified under the National Food Security Act. The state government has been distributing food grains to 14.10 lakh ration card-holding beneficiaries through its various schemes, he said. Moreover, Baghel also sought that these 14.10 lakh ration card-holding families also be covered under the PMGKAY, the official said. Although the coronavirus-induced lockdown has been gradually relaxed and economic activities were resuming in a phased manner, it will take time for things to normalise, the letter had stated. In view of this, the chief minister has sought an extension of the PMGKAY for three more months to ensure relief to the crisis-affected families, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-seeks-extension-of-centres-food-scheme-till-september-853946.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||PM Modi praises UP CM Yogi Adityanath for handling of coronavirus, says it helped save 85,000 lives||Showering praise on Yogi Adityanath for his handling of COVID-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the vast preparations made by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister saved at least 85,000 lives, something that was unthinkable before 2017. Modi, who launched the "Atma nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rozgar Abhiyan" seeking to promote local entrepreneurship with industrial associations to provide employment, said Adityanath managed to turn the epidemic into an opportunity which the governments prior to 2017 would have avoided. The prime minister referred to the pre-2017 period when the state was mostly ruled by non-BJP governments, saying, "Whichever government or system was in place, the circumstances were such that they would have avoided the challenge but the Adityanath government took it seriously and worked on a war footing." He referred to a stampede in Allahabad during the Kumbh Mela, when a former prime minister was in power who was also an MP from the city, saying the PM made all efforts to brush the "deaths of hundreds of thousands" pilgrims under the carpet.  Modi said UP's population of 24 crore is same as that of four European countries put together but, in UP the death toll is 600 due to coronavirus and lauded the efforts of Adityanath in tackling the pandemic. "UP's achievement is massive... The population of 24 crore is bigger than that of many countries. The population of England, France, Italy and Spain put together comes to 24 crore but they saw 1.30 lakh deaths due to coronavirus," he said, adding that these four countries lost more lives than UP even though they are developed nations and have no dearth of facilities. Referring to the scenario in United States, he said, "You must have seen reports of America. They have everything but even then 1.25 lakh lives have been lost till now." "If Yogiji and his team had not made proper preparations, today 85,000 people would have lost their lives if we compare with other countries. We can say that the hard work done by the UP government saved so many lives," he said.  Modi, who interacted with villagers of six districts through common services centres and krishi vigyan kendras , said this achievement has been managed when 30 to 35 lakh labourers have returned to the state by hundreds of shramik trains. Speaking about the works done by the Adityanath government, he said the chief minister's dedication was evident in the fact that he opted to miss his father's last rites. Modi said that he always talked about the double engine for development which was working for Uttar Pradesh and hoped that other states would also bring in schemes like UP. He stressed that he is concerned about the state as a citizen and also because he is an MP from here. "Whoever shows courage in crisis gets success. What you have done is an example for the world," he said, adding that Uttar Pradesh has a great role in making the country self-reliant. He also hailed the work done by the UP government in the past three years and reminded that the fight against coronavirus was on and cited three steps of social distancing, covering face with a mask and sanitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-praises-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-for-handling-of-coronavirus-says-it-helped-save-85000-lives-853964.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi Congress chief detained near India Gate||Police detained Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar and his party colleagues after they gathered near India Gate without permission on Friday to pay tribute to the Indian soldiers killed in a border clash with Chinese troops, officials said. Five Delhi Congressmen were sitting near Amar Jawan Jyoti to pay homage to the soldiers killed in Galwan Valley in Ladakh on June 15, the Delhi Congress chief said. हम इंडिया गेट पर शांतिपूर्ण देश के शहीद हुए 20 जवानों को श्रद्धांजलि दे रहे थे, लेकिन हमें दिल्ली पुलिस ने हिरासत में ले लिया । "The policemen came and without listening to us shoved us into a vehicle and took us to Tilak Marg police station," he said. A senior police officer said a few people had gathered near National Stadium without any permission. "They were told to disperse immediately in view of the directives of the Central and Delhi government. When they refused, they were detained," he said. Twenty Indian Army soldiers were killed in violent clash with Chinese troops along Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-congress-chief-detained-near-india-gate-853985.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Year-long celebrations to mark Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday||The Central Tibetan Administration will observe a ‘Year of Gratitude’ from July 1 to mark the 85th birthday of the Dalai Lama. The Dharamshala-based CTA, also known as Tibetan government-in-exile, in a statement on Friday said its Kashag (parliament) will mark the 85th birthday of the 14th Dalai Lama with a series of worldwide virtual events from July 1 to June 30 the following year. The Tibetan spiritual leader turns 85 on July 6. The CTA and Tibetans around the world will observe the whole year from July 1 as the 'Year of Gratitude' to the Dalai Lama in appreciation of all his “outstanding contributions” and to share, promote and celebrate his teachings,” the CTA said. CTA president Lobsang Sangay said the main event would be celebrated on July 6 by a gathering of up to 50 dignitaries at the Tibetan parliament in Dharamshala. The restriction on number of dignitaries at Kashag has been imposed because of the Home Ministry’s guidelines to curb the spread of coronavirus, the CTA statement said. It added that Tibetan settlements throughout India too will mark the occasion with ceremonies, while ensuring strict adherence to the guidelines of respective states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/year-long-celebrations-to-mark-dalai-lama-s-85th-birthday-853990.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records 750 fresh Covid-19 cases, 19 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 19 novel coronavirus fatalities and 750 infections, as the the state's virus count neared 21,000 while the death toll rose to 630, a senior official said. The fresh cases pushed the tally to 20,943 in Uttar Pradesh, Additional Chief Secreatry, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said here. He said 13,583 people have so far been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, leaving 6,730 active Covid-19 cases in the state. The official said over 6.42 lakh samples have so far been tested for Covid-19, of which a record 19,387 samples were examined on Thursday. He said said accredited social health activists (ASHA) workers have tracked over 18.69 lakh migrant workers and 1,643 of them were found symptomatic. "Of the symptomatic people, 225 have tested positive and are undergoing treatment. The state government is emphasising on surveillance to check the spread of Covid-19 and break the chain of its transmission," Prasad said. He said the chief minister has directed officials to use Covid Care Fund for setting up coronavirus testing laboratories in every district and has directed to start rapid antigen test in the state as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-750-fresh-covid-19-cases-19-more-deaths-853994.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Punjab chief secretary shunted, Vini Mahajan becomes first woman to hold top job in state||Weeks after a showdown with two Punjab ministers, Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh was on Friday replaced by Vini Mahajan, who becomes the first woman to head the bureaucracy in the state. The Indian Administrative Services officer was shunted out just ahead of his retirement next month, the move following protests by two Punjab ministers over his behaviour at a meeting. While Vini Mahajan, a 1987-batch IAS officer, is now the top bureaucrat in Punjab, her husband Dinkar Gupta heads the state police force as Director General of Police. Mahajan’s last posting was as Additional Chief Secretary, Investment Promotion, Industries & Commerce, IT and Governance Reforms and Public Grievances, said a government statement. She also headed the state’s Health Sector Response & Procurement Committee. Mahajan is currently the only Punjab cadre officer in the state empanelled to hold a Secretary’s post at the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-chief-secretary-shunted-vini-mahajan-becomes-first-woman-to-hold-top-job-in-state-854043.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||NHRC seeks report from Uttar Pradesh government on journalist's murder||Seeking a report from the Uttar Pradesh government about the killing of journalist by sand mafia in Unnao, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday said that it was the duty of the State to provide adequate safety and security to media persons who take "great risks" to highlight illegal activities. The Press Council of India also took suo motu congnizance of the murder case and issued a notice to the UP Chief Secretary seeking a report. The NHRC has given the Chief Secretary and Director General of Police four weeks time to file the report on the murder of journalist Shubham Tripathy. It also directed the state government to order an impartial enquiry into the matter by an independent agency, preferably the State CB CID and to ensure safety of the family of the victim and the witnesses in the matter. "It is the duty of the state to provide adequate safety and security to the media persons who in the public interest, keep taking great risks to highlight the illegal activities prevailing in the society. The death of Shubham Tripathy in this case is a matter of concern for the Commission and also an issue involving violation of human rights," the NHRC said. The action came as the NHRC took suo motu cognizance of a media report about the murder, which also mentioned that in many cases the media persons have been targeted by the anti-social elements and in most of the cases no action against the culprits have been taken by the police authorities. "In the democratic system of Government, the media is considered as its fourth pillar which cannot be allowed to be victimised by the anti social elements in such a cruel manner," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-seeks-report-from-uttar-pradesh-government-on-journalists-murder-854069.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Granting domicile to outsiders aimed at disempowering J&K residents politically, economically, says NC||The National Conference on Friday opposed the “unconstitutional and anti-people process” of grant of domicile certificates to the people not originally from Jammu and Kashmir, saying the measure is aimed at disempowering the permanent residents politically and economically. The party demanded immediate revocation of the domicile order and rules by the Centre. NC vice president and former chief minister of the erstwhile state Omar Abdullah said the people of Jammu and Kashmir will be the sufferers of these new domicile rules. “All our misgivings about the new domicile rules in J&K are coming to the fore. We in  @JKNC_ opposed the changes because we could see the nefarious design behind the changes. The people of J&K on both sides of the Pir Panjal mountains will be the sufferers of these domicile rules,” he said in a Tweet. The government notified the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, on May 18 this year and allowed different categories of non-locals, including non-local government employees, to register for domicile certificates. As per the new domicile law, non-permanent residents who have residency proof of at least 15 years in J-K are entitled to get domicile certificates. Prior to the nullification of Article 370 and Article 35A, only state subjects were allowed to buy land and apply for government jobs in Jammu and Kashmir. National Conference chief spokesperson Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi said the party reiterates its opposition to Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules 2020.  Mehdi, in a statement, said the party unequivocally rejects the “unconstitutional and anti-people process of grant of domicile certificates to outsiders” and demanded immediate revocation of the domicile order and rules. “All the misgivings raised after the domicile laws were changed in J-K are coming to fore with J-K government's issuance of domicile certificates to non-residents of J-K. The first and foremost casualty of this process will be our jobs and the land holdings which were earlier reserved for the permanent residents of J-K irrespective of their religion or region,” the NC chief spokesperson said. He said the measure is aimed at disempowering the permanent residents politically and economically. “Domicile Order and Rules will never be acceptable at any point of time because the measures are aimed at disempowering the people of Jammu and Kashmir. Its implementation will push people with valid state subject certificates to uncertainty and unnecessary hardship,” Mehdi said. He said the procedure for grant of domicile certificate is made in exercise of power under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act 2019, challenged in a number of petitions before the Supreme Court, and the hearing before the Constitution Bench has commenced and is proceeding ahead.  “With the constitutional validity of the Act impugned and the petitions under consideration of the Court, the Government of India in tune with the universally accepted principle of 'constitutional proprietary', is under an obligation to desist from exercising powers under the impugned Act including the power to promulgate Domicile law and Rules in question,” Mehdi said. He said the NC has taken a principled stand on the floor of Parliament and outside that the decisions of August 5, 2019 -- taking away special status and constitutional guarantees available to Jammu and Kashmir and dividing and downgrading the state -- are “unconstitutional and unilateral”. “The Government of India should immediately revoke the Domicile Order and Rules,” he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/granting-domicile-to-outsiders-aimed-at-disempowering-jk-residents-politically-economically-says-nc-854086.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Schools in Delhi to remain closed till July 31, says Deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Schools in Delhi will continue to remain closed till July 31 in view of the Covid-19 situation, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Friday. "Reopening schools is not merely a technical work, rather, it is a creative work that would give schools a new and bigger role. Schools will continue to be closed in Delhi till July 31," Sisodia said. Sisodia, who is also the Education Minister, made the announcement after a meeting with officials of the Directorate of Education (DoE) on how to reopen schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-schools-in-delhi-to-remain-closed-till-july-31-says-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-854091.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||SC notice to J&K admin on plea against detention of Bar leader||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Jammu and Kashmir administration on a plea by Kashmir Bar Association President Mian Abdul Qayoom against his detention under the Public Safety Act since scrapping special status of the erstwhile state on August 5, 2019, under Article 370 of the Constitution. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai sought a reply from the J&K administration by the second week of July. Qayoom, led by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, challenged the validity of the High Court's judgment of May 28 dismissing his plea against the detention. The 70-year-old petitioner, a senior advocate, contended that the HC's order was illegal, unconstitutional, and untenable as it erred in relying upon four FIRs lodged against him in the year 2008 and 2010. The court directed the authorities in the Tihar jail here, where Qayoom is at present lodged at, to provide him summer clothing and other essentials for his benefits. He was brought here during the winter season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-jk-admin-on-plea-against-detention-of-bar-leader-854100.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi Violence: Police files before court chargesheet against four in murder case||The Delhi police has filed a charge sheet before a court here on Friday against four persons in a case related to the alleged murder of a person during communal violence in north east Delhi in February. The Crime Branch of the Delhi police filed the charge sheet on June 25 before Metropolitan Magistrate Vijayshree Rathore in the murder case of Suleman. The four persons arrested included two juveniles which were based on CCTV footage and call detail records, said the charge sheet. According to the charge sheet, on February 26, a mob of about 30-40 rioters surrounded four men, including Suleman, near Shree Ram Chowk at Karawal Nagar and asked for their identification. While one of them managed to escape, Sunil Kumar was asked to leave the spot but he insisted on taking Sanobar and Suleman with him, said the charge sheet. It further said that the mob then allegedly thrashed Sunil and sent him away. They started beating Sanobar and Suleman mercilessly, when one of the rioters hit an iron rod on Sanobar's head and he fell unconscious, the charge sheet said. After a while, Sanobar regained consciousness and managed to escape while the mob allegedly continued to assault Suleman, it added. The mob had allegedly paraded Suleman towards Prem Vihar pulia and kept hitting and prodding him with dandas (sticks) and rods, it said. It further alleged that the mob threw him near a toilet from where he was taken to GTB Hospital by the police where he died during the treatment on the same day. The charge sheet was filed under sections 302 (murder), 147 and 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 365 (kidnapping), 395 (dacoity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The offences entail a maximum punishment of death penalty. They were part of the mob that had been rioting and committing arson in the area and according to eyewitnesses, all four were actively involved in assaulting the victim, it claimed. Suleman was working at a construction site of a school in the area and lived in a tin shed at the site, police said. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-police-files-before-court-chargesheet-against-four-in-murder-case-854151.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi municipal corporations propose use of schools, community centres for Covid-19 patients||The three BJP-ruled municipal corporations have proposed to the Delhi government to use their schools and community centres for readying over 24,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, party's Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta said on Friday. He hoped that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will react positively to the proposal amid a rapid growth in the number of coronavirus patients in the national capital. In a joint press conference with the newly-elected mayors of South, North and East Delhi municipal corporations, Gupta said this is not time for politics and the need is to work together to save people in the city from the pandemic. North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said the North Delhi Municipal Corporation(NDMC) is readying 607 beds in its six hospitals, 6,804 beds in 71 schools and 634 beds in 12 community halls with all basic facilities. The Delhi government has been preparing venues like banquet halls as quarantine facilities for people who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain said that the East Delhi Municipal Corporation is preparing 1,140 beds in community centres and 3,180 beds at schools in its jurisdiction. He said the municipal corporation covers 16 Assembly constituencies and preparations have been made to construct an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients in each one of them. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has the capacity of 10,538 beds in its school buildings and 1,100 beds in community halls, mayor of the civic body Anamika Mithilesh said. Delhi BJP chief said after the intervention of the Narendra Modi government, 1.33 lakh people in the city have been tested for COVID-19 since June 16 and 29,000 of them were found positive. Besides, six lakh people are being tested for free through rapid antigen testing in the city, he said. Gupta said the Delhi government's health system has collapsed and it is now taking credit for steps taken by the Centre. He claimed that eight employees of the three civic bodies died due to Covid-19 while serving the people of Delhi but their kin have not received financial assistance of Rs 1 crore as announced by the AAP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-municipal-corporations-propose-use-of-schools-community-centres-for-covid-19-patients-854165.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Punjab destroys several quintals of drugs to mark International Day Against Drug Abuse||The Punjab police on Friday said it has destroyed several quintals of illicit drugs at various places in the state, in a symbolic gesture to mark the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The destruction of the drugs came amid Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's assertion that his government would not rest till every single drug smuggler or trader lands behind the bars with drug mafia eliminated from Punjab and the state freed from the menace. Singh declared that while the back of the drugs mafia has been successfully broken, the war against narcotics was still on with narco-terrorists from across the border continuing to push drugs into Punjab, using drones and other routes. Giving details of the drugs destroyed, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said teams of Punjab police took over the task of destroying 62.140 kg of heroin, along with 326.52 quintals of poppy husk, 12.536 kg of Charas and other narcotics including smack and brown sugar. Also, 41.880 kg of opium was deposited in the Government Opium and Alkaloid Factory, said Gupta in a statement here. He said there was a marked increase in the number of drug users joining the state government's de-addiction programme since the imposition of the Covid-19 lockdown in Punjab. Around 1.30 lakh drug users have joined the de-addiction programme since March, indicating a reduction in the availability of drugs in villages and towns. The concerted efforts of the Punjab police, including the Special Task Force (STF), have led to manifold increase in heroin seizure in the state in less than four years -- from 207 kg in 2016 to 410 kg in 2018, 464 kg in 2019 and 504 kg in 2020. The police made a single largest seizure ever of 504 kg heroin in 2020, said the DGP. Since the Congress-led government took over in March 2017, a total of 180 'big fish' among drug smugglers have been arrested, with properties worth Rs 118 crore forfeited. DGP said the property forfeiture of major drug smugglers has gone up by more than thrice since 2017, when forfeiture stood at Rs 18 crore, to Rs 58 crore in 2020. Property worth Rs 118 crore has been frozen by the competent authority in this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-destroys-several-quintals-of-drugs-to-mark-international-day-against-drug-abuse-854166.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||No Hizbul militant in south Kashmir’s Tral now, first time since 1989: Police||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday claimed that there was no presence of Hizbul Mujahideen militants in the Tral area of Pulwama district now -- the first time since the outbreak of militancy in the Valley in 1989. The police's claim came after three militants were on Friday killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in the Chewa Ular area of Tral in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. “After today's #successful ops (operations), no presence of HM #terrorist in #Tral area. It has happened for first time since 1989,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar said in a tweet on the Kashmir zone police's official Twitter handle. The Hizbul Mujahideen was a dominant force in Kashmir after the militancy broke out in the valley as the outfit had several thousand cadres at the peak of insurgency. Several top commanders of the outfit, including Burhan Wani and Zakir Musa, were from the Tral area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-hizbul-militant-in-south-kashmir-s-tral-now-first-time-since-1989-police-854172.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 'situation still under control', Delhi govt will set up ICU beds on large scale, says Arvind Kejriwal||As coronavirus cases continued to spiral in the national capital and crossed the 77,000 mark on Friday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government will set up ICU beds on a large scale, but asserted that the Covid-19 situation in the city was “still under control”. The national capital saw 3,460 cases on Friday, taking the coronavirus count to 77,240. With 63 fresh deaths, the toll climbed to 2,492. There are 27,675 active cases in Delhi.  The Delhi government has also formed at least 1,100 teams comprising two members each to conduct a mammoth exercise to screen the national capital's population for the novel coronavirus, officials of the revenue department said. The survey has already commenced in some districts. According to a revised Covid-19 response plan issued by the Delhi government, the house-to-house screening will be completed by June 30 in containment zones and the deadline for the rest of Delhi is July 6. Addressing an online media briefing earlier in the day, Kejriwal said Delhi had reported around 74,000 cases till Thursday. Of them, 45,000 patients have recovered. With 3,390 fresh instances, the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 73,780 on Thursday. The death toll was 2,429. The rise in the number of cases is a matter of concern but there is no need to panic as the Covid-19 situation is "still under control", Kejriwal asserted. He said Delhi has largely reported mild cases over the past week and that's why out of the total 13,500 beds in hospitals only 6,000 have been occupied. "We have increased our capacity of testing by three times and hence, cases are rising in the city... If we conduct 1-2 lakh tests daily in the coming days, it is natural to observe a spike in the number of coronavirus cases," he said. At the LNJP Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and GTB Hospital, the government is going to set up more ICU beds on a large scale, he said, adding, the administration has already set up 3,500 beds for Covid-19 patients in hotels in the last 10 days. Kejriwal said his Cabinet held a meeting on Friday and a decision to set up 450 additional beds at Burari Hospital was taken, adding that funds were sanctioned for it. Even though there is no sudden requirement of beds in hospitals, the Delhi government was working round-the-clock to ensure more beds are added in the foreseeable future, he said.  The chief minister also said Covid-19 patients under home isolation have been given pulse oximeters and that this will act as a "Suraksha Kawach" against the disease. On plasma therapy, he said the government has got permission to conduct it on 200 patients.  The Delhi government-run LNJP and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospitals will conduct the trials. Private hospitals have also sought permission to conduct plasma therapy, he said. On the house-to-house surveys, the Delhi government has formed at least 1,100 teams having two members each to conduct a mega exercise to screen the national capital's population for the novel coronavirus. An official said around 100 teams have been formed in every district and each team has accredited social health activists (ASHA) and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM). The government will also engage domestic breeder checkers, sanitation workers and teachers of municipal corporations for the surveys if it requires their services in the coming days, the official added.  This is a "trust-based" exercise, the official said, adding, "We cannot force somebody to undergo the test. We only update information based on reply to our questionnaire. We conduct rapid antigen test on those who have Covid-19-like symptoms." According to the 2011 Census, there were around 34.35 lakh households which included 33.56 lakh households in urban areas and 79,574 in rural areas in the national capital. Every team is armed with a mobile application -- 'SS Corona' app -- which will send real-time details to a dedicated portal set up by the government. Apart from basic details like name, age, address and contact, the teams are feeding the 'SS Corona' app with information such as every individual's travel history, whether or not they use the Aarogya Setu app, and if they have symptoms of flu.  The official said the same mobile application was being used for carrying out screening at containment zones in the national capital.  In a related development, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal visited the newly created Covid-19 care facility here with over 10,000 beds and reviewed its preparedness. The large Radha Soami Beas establishment in Chhatarpur area of the national capital, as per officials, will have two segments -- a COVID care centre (CCC) where asymptomatic positive cases will be treated and a dedicated COVID healthcare centre (DCHC).  The border guarding force took over the centre on Wednesday after being directed by the Union Home Ministry to act as the nodal agency.  Three Indian Army medical teams each comprising one medical officer, two nursing assistants and one ambulance have been assigned to function at the COVID care facility at the Shakurbasti railway station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-still-under-control-delhi-govt-will-set-up-icu-beds-on-large-scale-says-arvind-kejriwal-854191.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||IAS officer from Bihar is first bureaucrat to get domicile rights in J&K||Navin Kumar Choudhary, a senior IAS officer from Bihar, has become the first bureaucrat to get domicile rights in the Union territory. Choudhary, a 1994-batch J&K cadre officer, is currently posted as the principal secretary in the Agriculture Production Department. He is a resident of Darbhanga district in Bihar. Tehsildar of Bahu area, Jammu, Rohit Sharma issued him the domicile certificate on June 24. Over 30,000 people have till now received domicile certificates online in Jammu and Kashmir after the Centre changed laws to grant residency to different categories of non-residents in the Union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ias-officer-from-bihar-is-first-bureaucrat-to-get-domicile-rights-in-jk-854220.html
26-06-2020||North and Central||3 booked for illegal entry into temple where Lord Jagannath, siblings are on divine sojourn||At least three persons were booked on Friday for illegally entering the Shree Gundicha temple in Puri, where Lord Jagannath and his divine siblings are on a nine-day sojourn, police said. While two local residents were caught after they entered the temple by impersonating as servitors, another was found with a fake identity card of a priest engaged in Rath Yatra duty, they said. Smruti Ranjan Mohanty (22) of Markandeswarsahi and Abhijit Mohapatra (22) of the Kumbharapada area of the pilgrim town allegedly went inside the temple in the servitors' attire, the police said, adding that both were taken to the Kumbharapada police station. They were booked under the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act, a police official said. They were inside the Gundicha temple when a special ritual was underway. When some servitors questioned them about their identity, the two failed to give satisfactory answers and were handed over to the Jagannath temple police personnel, the official said. They have been detained at the Kumbharapada police station for further questioning, he added. Another man was caught trying to enter the temple by showing a fake identity card and posing as an assistant of a servitor engaged in Rath Yatra duty. After the historic Rath Yatra was held successfully in this pilgrim town on June 23, Odisha Director General of Police (DGP) Abhay and the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) have urged people to refrain from visiting Puri as no one is allowed to have a "darshan" of the trinity -- Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra. On July 1, the deities will be brought back to their respective chariots, which will be pulled back to the main temple, which is known as the Bahuda Yatra (return car festival).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-booked-for-illegal-entry-into-temple-where-lord-jagannath-siblings-are-on-divine-sojourn-854226.html
26-06-2020||Opinion||India's economy is ailing from more than Covid-19||By Mihir Sharma The IMF’s projection is by and large in line with estimates from investment banks and other international organizations. Indian officials have been reticent about their own estimates. This is not surprising: India’s economy has not contracted since 1979. For the government, this is uncharted territory. A slowdown of this magnitude will have enormous human consequences. By some estimates, the loss of three months’ income would leave nearly half of the country’s population mired in poverty, reversing all the gains made since the economy was liberalized in the early 1990s. Worse, the government’s finances are strained. Tax revenues are set to crash and India’s hitherto relatively stable debt-to-GDP ratio may spike up toward 90%. Controlling the spread of the pandemic will bleed state resources, leaving little for the welfare measures that will be essential in the coming months. Such economic pressures help explain why the government lifted India’s stringent lockdown even though the spread of Covid-19 clearly hadn’t been controlled. India now has the world’s fourth-largest number of Covid-19 cases. While the country may be partly protected from a tide of deaths by its favorable age distribution, there is every reason to suppose that more lockdowns to protect its inadequate health infrastructure will be required. If nothing else, this complicates predictions for the medium term and makes the task of reviving the economy that much harder. But don’t let anyone tell you the pandemic is the main reason India’s growth has gone off a cliff. The economy had already been weakened by years of mismanagement before this crisis struck. Figures released by national statisticians at the end of May explain what went wrong. Even before the pandemic properly hit India, in the financial year ending in March, GDP only grew at 4.2%. The sequence of quarterly GDP growth numbers leading up to that point tells a clear story: 7% growth shrunk to 6.2%, then to 5.6%, 5.7%, 4.4% and finally 3.1% in the quarter that ended with the lockdown. What was behind this slowdown? The answer is a lack of investment. Investment shrank by almost 3% over the year. Until then, India hadn’t seen investment shrink for almost two decades, according to World Bank data. (It grew about 10% in 2018-19.) And this shrinkage began well before the pandemic — in April 2019. In India, the virus struck an economy with pre-existing conditions. The investment crisis and India’s large debt pile have the same cause: a government that thinks its own spending is what will fuel economic growth. According to official statistics, government spending increased by 12% last year, more than twice the growth rate of private consumption. Government spending was similarly higher than the other components of GDP in the previous year as well. As a consequence, the government last year — again, before the pandemic properly hit — had a fiscal deficit 4.6% higher than the one it inherited six years ago. This is pretty embarrassing, given the government has long claimed that its stewardship had provided macroeconomic stability following the turbulent last years of its predecessor. This should all be enough to sober any government. Yet, policymakers in New Delhi seem to be oddly sanguine. On Tuesday, they posted a cheerful update praising their “prompt policy measures” and touting an “increase in economic activity.” It’s true that May looked like a better month than April when the lockdown was at its height. But pretty much every indicator for May 2020 is in the red when compared to May 2019. And most analysts believe any recovery will now take two years or so, rather than a couple of months. The government’s confidence is inexplicable. It has not done enough to reinvigorate the economy. Its big weapon — spending — has failed and there is little left in its armoury. Recovery needs reform. India has postponed competitiveness-enhancing measures long enough. In a crisis of this magnitude, there are no excuses left.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-economy-is-ailing-from-more-than-covid-19-853843.html
26-06-2020||Opinion||America didn’t give up on Covid-19. Republicans did.||Earlier this year much of America went through hell as the nation struggled to deal with COVID-19. More than 120,000 Americans have now died; more than 20 million have lost their jobs. But it’s looking as if all those sacrifices were in vain. We never really got the coronavirus under control, and now infections, while they have fallen to a quite low level in the New York area, the pandemic’s original epicenter, are surging in much of the rest of the country. And the bad news isn’t just a result of more testing. In new hot spots like Arizona — where testing capacity is being overwhelmed — and Houston the fraction of tests coming up positive is soaring, which shows that the disease is spreading rapidly. It didn’t have to be this way. The European Union, a hugely diverse area with a larger population than the U.S., has been far more successful at limiting the spread of COVID-19 than we have. What went wrong? The immediate answer is that many U.S. states ignored warnings from health experts and rushed to reopen their economies, and far too many people failed to follow basic precautions like wearing face masks and avoiding large groups. But why was there so much foolishness? ] Well, I keep seeing statements to the effect that Americans were too impatient to stay the course, too unwilling to act responsibly. But this is deeply misleading, because it avoids confronting the essence of the problem. Americans didn’t fail the COVID-19 test; Republicans did. After all, the Northeast, with its largely Democratic governors, has been appropriately cautious about reopening, and its numbers look like Europe’s. California and Washington are blue states that are seeing a rise in cases, but it’s from a relatively low base, and their Democratic governors are taking actions like requiring the use of face masks and seem ready to reverse their reopening. So the really bad news is coming from Republican-controlled states, especially Arizona, Florida and Texas, which rushed to reopen and, while some are now pausing, haven’t reversed course. If the Northeast looks like Europe, the South is starting to look like Brazil. Nor is it just Republican governors and state legislatures. According to the new New York Times/Siena poll, voters overall strongly favor giving control of the pandemic priority over reopening the economy — but Republican voters, presumably taking their cue from the White House and Fox News, take the opposite position. And it’s not just about policy decisions. Partisanship seems to be driving individual behavior, too, with self-identified Democrats significantly more likely to wear face masks and engage in social distancing than self-identified Republicans. The question, then, isn’t why “America” has failed to deal effectively with the pandemic. It’s why the GOP has in effect allied itself with the coronavirus. Part of the answer is short-term politics. At the beginning of this year Donald Trump’s reelection message was all about economic triumphalism: Unemployment was low, stocks were up, and he was counting on good numbers to carry him through November. He and his officials wasted crucial weeks refusing to acknowledge the viral threat because they didn’t want to hear any bad news. And they pushed for premature reopening because they wanted things to return to what they seemed to be back in February. Indeed, just a few days ago the same Trump officials who initially assured us that COVID-19 was no big deal were out there dismissing the risks of a second wave. I’d suggest, however, that the GOP’s coronavirus denial also has roots that go beyond Trump and his electoral prospects. The key point, I’d argue, is that COVID-19 is like climate change: It isn’t the kind of menace the party wants to acknowledge. It’s not that the right is averse to fearmongering. But it doesn’t want you to fear impersonal threats that require an effective policy response, not to mention inconveniences like wearing face masks; it wants you to be afraid of people you can hate — people of a different race or supercilious liberals. So instead of dealing with COVID-19, Republican leaders and right-wing media figures have tried to make the pandemic into the kind of threat they want to talk about. It’s “kung flu,” foisted on us by villainous Chinese. Or it’s a hoax perpetrated by the “medical deep state,” which is just looking for a way to hurt Trump. The good news is that the politics of virus denial don’t seem to be working. Partly that’s because racism doesn’t play the way it used to: The Black Lives Matter protesters have received broad public support, despite the usual suspects’ efforts to portray them as rampaging hordes. Partly it’s because the surge in infections is becoming too obvious to deny; even Republican governors are admitting that there’s a problem, although they still don’t seem willing to act. The bad news is that partisanship has crippled our COVID-19 response. The virus is winning, and all indications are that the next few months will be a terrifying nightmare of rampant disease and economic disruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/america-didn-t-give-up-on-covid-19-republicans-did-853870.html
26-06-2020||Opinion||India must plan disengagement with Chinese economy well||China’s border aggression against India has led to calls for a major drawdown of Chinese imports as a means to shape Beijing’s geopolitical behaviour. Unfortunately, given the total quantum and nature of trade, it is unlikely that Zhongnanhai will moderate its current revanchism due to such moves. On the other hand, removing dependence on imported Chinese parts & components (P&C) should in any case be a national imperative as it would increase India’s own geostrategic freedom while boosting potential growth. The motive for reducing imports from China is important since it will inform the manner in which the same will be executed. Rather than a knee-jerk jingoistic reaction, what is instead required is a well-thought out time-bound implementation strategy that significantly increases the size of India’s own supply-chain. India imported around $70 billion worth of goods and services from China in the financial year (FY) 2019-20. This figure is definitely on the decline in 2020-21 due to the pandemic-induced shock. However, it must be noted that even the figure for FY 2019-20 is a mere 0.5 per cent of China’s estimated nominal gross domestic product (GDP) for that period. Now, if one were to take into account an export multiplier effect (i.e. the impact of a change in exports on overall GDP) of 1.5-1.6 for China based on old World Bank (WB) estimates, a $70 billion loss in exports would translate to a decline of $105-112 billion in China’s nominal GDP. This would still amount to less than a percent of China’s annual GDP.  So, even a total boycott of all Chinese imports by India will at most reduce China’s GDP by around one per cent. The impact of a complete Indian rejection of China’s exports on Chinese wage income and employment may seem less minor though. In 2016, WB estimated that every $100 of Chinese gross exports support $42 in wages. So, a $70 billion hit to China’s exports will result in around $29.4 billion in terms of lost wages. And since, China’s exports have also been found to be a key source of labour demand, the overall loss in terms livelihoods will not be insignificant. Nevertheless, the magnitude of these losses is unlikely to be enough to change Chinese geopolitical behaviour towards India in the short-term. Especially, since Beijing knows that due to the nature of India’s basket of imports from China, New Delhi won’t be able to eschew Chinese supply altogether. This in turn means that the actual losses to Beijing will be even lower than the maximal calculations made above. Apart from consumer items, a majority of Chinese imports are in the form of capital goods that build things and P&C that are used to build things. ‘Electrical machinery and equipment’ & ‘Machinery & mechanical appliances’ together account for nearly half of all imports from China. India’s supply-chain dependency on China in sectors such as electronics, power, automobiles, pharmaceuticals and even garments ranges from considerable to acute. Unsurprisingly, at the moment, New Delhi seems to be concentrating its economic pushback in scrutinising inward Chinese investments, making it difficult for Chinese firms to bid for Indian government contracts and imposing tariffs on lower-end finished Chinese goods to promote import substitution. However, the industrial lockdowns that followed the viral outbreak in China has convinced large Indian industrial players of the need to escape Beijing’s industrial web. In fact, reports suggest that Indian companies are already worried about a second disruption in the event of hostilities with China. As such, there may be a move towards more local sourcing as well as imports from the West even if costs are higher. The Indian government can of course make things easier by rolling out an ‘encouragement’ framework akin to what it has already done for the electronics sector such as production-linked incentives, a scheme for promotion of local component manufacturing and support for cluster development. In the post-pandemic era, there is a worldwide realisation that the doctrine of comparative advantage can no longer occupy the commanding heights of trade policy. Instead, considerations related to resilience, dependency and national security are going to become more important. Trade is getting weaponised and India would do well to remove whatever leverage China has on this front, particularly when dealing with vital sectors such as pharmaceuticals. So, India must localise supply chains at the earliest. Obviously, this ‘earliest’ would still take a few years, and that in addition to the fact that India’s imports are a small fraction of Chinese GDP, means that a realistic boycott will not serve as much of a punitive deterrent against China’s aggression. That aggression should ideally be met with a mature military response even as India increases its geostrategic freedom by disengaging with China’s economy in a phased but decided manner. (Saurav Jha is the author of the forthcoming book Negotiating the New Normal: India's Economic Choices in the Post-Pandemic World. He tweets at @SJha1618)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-must-plan-disengagement-with-chinese-economy-well-853889.html
26-06-2020||Opinion||No getting rid of the shade card inside us||So, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) is dropping ‘Fair’ from the name of its iconic brand ‘Fair & Lovely’. To showcase a more “inclusive vision of beauty”, as a company statement said. This is a move 45 years in the making. Now, the brand is set to become ‘Glow & Lovely’, if reports in the media are anything to go by.   Instead of equating beauty, success and all things aspirational with ‘fair/fairness’, ‘white/whitening’ and ‘light/lightening’, we will be encouraged to apply a cream that helps us ‘glow’. The more you glow, the more you grow. Get it?  Performative activism Is this performative activism? More likely, this is a token acknowledgment of the changes wrought about by the Black Lives Matter movement in the US. There, companies have been forced to quickly change their branding and image to continue to do business. Especially those in the fashion and beauty sectors.  However, in February this year, the Health and Family Welfare Ministry proposed a draft amendment to the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements Act, 1954). Advertisements promoting fair skin, sexual enhancement etc., are set to attract a five-year jail term and a fine of up to Rs 50 lakh. But this is still a proposed amendment.    No wonder then that Unilever (the British-Dutch multinational parent company) is now more mindful of its imaging in the Indian sub-continent and further.  While the name change is a step in the right direction, only the name is changing. The formulation will apparently stay the same. Not surprising. After all, ‘Fair & Lovely’ is part of a winning formula. It is the “leading fairness cream brand in India”, controlling a “third of the segment”, as a news report puts it. The brand brings in Rs 2,000 crore in annual revenues. Colourism inside our collective consciousness But the longing for lighter skin is all-pervasive in the Indian psyche. That may well boost the earnings of ‘Made in Bharat’ Patanjali Ayurved. The desi company promises to bestow both atma nirbharta and fairness on desh-bhakts through its ‘Soundarya Swarna Kranti’ fairness cream, Rs 999 for 50 gm. Compare this to ‘Fair & Lovely’ which is Rs 97 for 50 gms! But then, Forest Essentials has a ‘Soundarya Radiance Cream’ with 24 K gold that is Rs 4,800 for 50 gm.  Meaning, ‘Fair & Lovely’ is but one aspect of the colourism inside our collective consciousness. The truth is, each of us has a colour-related story, independent of gender. Perhaps our parents have as well. And their parents too. For generations, we have been told that the shade of our skin is to be equated with our successes and failures. Popular culture reinforces that message through the films we see, the advertisements we are bombarded with, the stories we are told.  So yes, we may spout the need to recognise ‘inner beauty’, but we will continue to apply ubtans (scrubs or soaps or masks) and other radiance-inducing potions on ourselves and our children. And we may well reject the repackaged ‘Glow & Lovely’. But consider this: The ‘India’s Got Colour’ video got 466,775 views. Top-rated YouTube videos for fairness and skin-whitening routinely attract 1 million views upwards. One titled ‘feet-whitening pedicure’ has 23 million views! ‘Fair & Lovely’ used to come with a shade card (depicting the degrees of lightness/fairness achieved with regular use). That card may or may not exist in the re-branded version.  But what about the shade card inside us?  (Divya Sreedharan has over 20 years' experience working across newspapers, magazines and digital media. She writes/blogs on gender, ageing and urban lifestyles and also teaches journalism) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/no-getting-rid-of-the-shade-card-inside-us-853978.html
26-06-2020||Panorama||Sitting all day may increase your risk of dying from cancer||Sitting for hours on end could heighten someone’s risk of later dying from cancer, according to a sobering new study of the relationship between inactivity and cancer mortality. The study was epidemiological, providing a snapshot of people’s lives, so it cannot prove cause and effect. But the findings suggest that extremely sedentary people can be as much as 80 percent more likely to die of cancer than those who sit the least. Still, there is hope. The study also indicates that getting up and strolling, even if you do it slowly and for only a few additional minutes a day, might lower the risk of dying from cancer, potentially offering another appealing incentive to move. We already have plenty of evidence, of course, that spending all day in a chair is not good for us. Past studies have linked prolonged sitting to higher risks for heart disease, Type 2 diabetes, obesity and premature death. A few studies also have found associations between inactivity and cancer deaths. But most of those studies relied on people’s notoriously undependable recollections of how many hours they spent in chairs. The studies also rarely examined whether and how occasional spurts of exercise might alter the risk equation. So, for the new study, which was published in June in JAMA Oncology, researchers at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston and other institutions around the country decided to re-examine data already collected as part of a large, nationwide study of risk factors for strokes. That study had enrolled a multiracial group of more than 30,000 middle-aged and older men and women and, starting in 2002, gathered details about their health, lifestyle and medical conditions. Some of those volunteers also agreed to wear a sophisticated activity tracker for about a week, to objectively record how often and vigorously they moved and how much they sat. Now, the researchers gathered the records for about 8,000 of the volunteers who had worn a tracker at some point. These men and women were at least 45 years old when they joined the study, with health ranging from good to iffy. Some were overweight, smokers, diabetic or had high blood pressure or other conditions. Others were relatively lean, and some reported that they exercised regularly. The researchers checked the data from these volunteers’ activity trackers, noting how many hours per day, on average, they objectively had spent unmoving. Most were, in fact, quite sedentary. As a group, they had spent about 13 of their 16 waking hours most days in a chair or otherwise inactive. But there were differences. Some people had been up and moving rather often, either completing light-intensity activities like strolling, housecleaning and gardening or actively exercising, according to the readouts from their activity trackers (which measured how many — or few — steps they took every minute). The researchers divided the volunteers into thirds, based on how much daily time they spent sitting. Then they checked death records for everyone, looking to see who might have passed away recently from any type of cancer. Finally, they examined whether, statistically, sitting more upped the likelihood of dying from cancer. And it did, substantially. The men and women in the group that had spent the most hours sitting were 82 percent more likely to have died from cancer during the study’s follow-up period than those in the group that had sat the least. This association held true when the researchers controlled for people’s ages, weight, gender, health, smoking status, education, geographic location and other factors. In other words, sitting for hours increased the likelihood that someone eventually would die of cancer, even if he or she otherwise was well. But the scientists unearthed a more-encouraging finding when they statistically modeled how those risks might change if someone, theoretically, started moving more. In those models, for every 30 minutes that someone exercised instead of continuing to sit, the risk of later dying from cancer fell by 31 percent. Even if someone did not formally work out, but substituted at least 10 minutes of his or her usual sitting time with gentle strolling, housework, gardening or other light-intensity activities, the risk of dying from cancer fell by about 8 percent. Taken as a whole, these data suggest that “even a small amount of extra physical activity, no matter how light it might be, can have benefits for cancer survival,” says Dr. Susan Gilchrist, a cardiologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center who works with cancer patients and led the new study. The study has many limitations, though. It looked at cancer mortality, not the risk of developing the disease in the first place, and lumped all cancer types together. Perhaps most important, this kind of prospective study is not a randomized experiment and cannot tell us that sitting more causes increased cancer mortality, only that the two are linked. It also offers no clues about how sitting raises that risks, and whether inactivity directly changes our bodies or if other factors, including what we eat or drink while seated, influence how sitting raises our risk of dying from cancer. Dr. Gilchrist says that she and her colleagues hope to examine some of those issues in future studies. But even with the caveats, she thinks that the data from this study should be rousing. “The tangible takeaway is that we can tell people they do not have to go out and run a marathon” to potentially reduce their risk of dying from cancer, she says. “It looks like just getting up and walking around the living room for a few minutes every hour or so could make a meaningful difference.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/sitting-all-day-may-increase-your-risk-of-dying-from-cancer-853873.html
26-06-2020||South||Senior IPS officer and Director of Telangana State Police Academy seeks premature retirement, writes to MHA||Senior IPS officer and Director of Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA), VK Singh, has sought permission from the Centre for premature retirement, saying he joined the service with great hopes to change the police system but failed to achieve his ambitions. Singh, a 1987 batch IPS officer, in a letter addressed to Union Home Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs requested to permit him to retire from October 2, 2020. Confirming his letter on seeking premature retirement Singh told PTI: "Yes. I have written to the MHA." He is scheduled to retire in November this year. Singh said he feels that his services can be better utilised outside the government. "I want to work for reforms among people and service to the state of Telangana.So, I decided to go for pre-mature retirement from October 2, 2020 the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi the apostle of truth and justice," he said. "I joined police with great hopes to change the police system but I think I have failed in my ambitions. The Government of Telangana has also not been much impressed with my services. My advise to better the services in the government also, did not cut much ice, " Singh said in the letter. "Perhaps my opinion was not considered worth it.I have my considered opinion that I should not be burden on the government," he added. Singh further clarified that he has nothing against any government. "The police service, if done with sense of justice and clear conscience, is just unmatchable. If anybody wants to join government service, my advice is, he must join only police," he said. Singh earlier served as Commissioner, Printing, Stationery and Stores Purchase and Director General (Prisons and Correctional Services) and held other posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-ips-officer-and-director-of-telangana-state-police-academy-seeks-premature-retirement-writes-to-mha-853799.html
26-06-2020||South||Contributions pour in for Kerala girl whose post seeking help for mother's liver transplant goes viral||The plight of a hapless girl to meet the expenses of her mother's liver transplant met with overwhelming support. The girl's post went viral on social media and she was flooded with contributions to the tune of Rs. 75 lakh in just one day, while she pleaded for only Rs. 19 lakh. Varsha, a degree student hailing from a humble background in Taliparamba in Kerala's Kannur district, was shell shocked when the doctors at a private hospital in Kochi told her that a liver transplant was required within three days to save her mother's life and the cost would be around Rs. 19 lakh. In order to help her, a group of charity workers made a video wherein Varsha could explain her problem and ask for help. Varsha broke down when sharing her plight. Varsha said that she and her mother, Radha P, were eking out a living with the wages her mother earned from an ice cream shop job. They had no other members in the family and no relatives to support. Her mother developed liver ailments following jaundice. When she took her mother to the hospital she just had Rs. 10,000 at her disposal. When doctors said that liver transplant was the lone option she did not think twice before offering her own liver. But when doctors told her about the cost she was taken aback. She somehow managed to borrow Rs. 1 lakh. Though she approached some government agencies for assistance, they turned her down, citing the Covid situation. She then came across social worker Sajan Kechery and contacted him. Her plight was shared on social media during the late hours of June 23 by Sajan and some other social workers, including social worker Feroz Kunnumparambil. By evening the contributions to her bank account crossed Rs. 50 lakh. Sajan said that despite the financial difficulties many NRIs contributed as they were moved by Varsha's plight. Some could only contribute very small amounts owing to their own weak financial conditions. But even those were a big support to the hapless girl. Varsha's bank account was flooded with contributions from philanthropists and well-wishers 16 hours after her story was posted on social media. Within those 16 hours, her account had over Rs 50 lakh. On the evening of June 24, Varsha, along with Sajan and others, put up another post to thank the contributors and request them to stop contributions as she now had teh required sum. "From being in a hapless situation, now I feel as if god appeared in front of me in the form of these philanthropists," she said. But contributions kept coming in and Varsha received around Rs. 75 lakh, according to Sajan. Varsha plans to use the excess amount for others facing a similar crisis. Hospital authorities said that the transplant was performed on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/contributions-pour-in-for-kerala-girl-whose-post-seeking-help-for-mothers-liver-transplant-goes-viral-853924.html
26-06-2020||South||Hyderabad’s Begum Bazar under voluntary Covid-19 lockdown for a week||The largest wholesale market at Begum Bazar here will remain shut for eight days from Sunday in view of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in recent days and some merchants testing positive, the city Kirana Merchants Association said on Friday. An emergency executive committee meeting of the association held on Thursday took the decision after it came to light that more than 400 coronavirus cases have so far been reported in the Goshamahal division of the city corporation where the market area is located. The decision of closing down shops from June 28 to July 5 was taken as a precautionary measure. Some of our member merchants also tested positive of coronavirus. Keeping in view of the safety of our merchants, their family members and customers, we took the decision, association president Laxminarayan Rathi told PTI. The traders in Begum Bazar and some other wholesale markets have cut down their working hours recently. The merchants' body also issued instructions to its members to go for quarantine if they have any symptoms of Covid-19 and consult health authorities. Telangana has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases for the past several days with 920 people testing positive and five succumbing to the virus on Thursday, taking the tally to 11,364 and the toll to 230. Telangana BJP MLA Raja Singh, who represents Goshamahal constituency, had on Thursday said so far five of his staff -- two drivers and three gunmen -- tested positive for coronavirus and the results of five more were awaited. The state has stepped up testing for Covid-19 manifold and declared 50,000 samples would be screened in the city and neighbouring districts with high caseload.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-s-begum-bazar-under-voluntary-covid-19-lockdown-for-a-week-853931.html
26-06-2020||South||30 COVID-19 cases in Puducherry; tally climbs to 534||Puducherry registered 30 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing the tally of those infected with the virus in the Union Territory to 534. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters that the 30 new cases were identified after testing 590 samples during the last 24 hoursending 10 am on Friday. Of the 30 patients,27 were admitted to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College hospital in neighbouring Kadirkamam and the remaining three patients were admitted to the GH in Karaikal. The overall tally includes two persons belonging to Puducherry already taking treatment in Cuddalore and Chidambaram in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The total active cases were 322 while 203 patients were treated and discharged. The fatalities continued to remain at 9 while no death was reported during the last 24 hours. Rao appealed to the people to be very careful and adhere to norms of lockdown. He noted that Puducherry had been witnessing not less than 25 cases on an average every day. He said people should consider the prevailing situation and adhere to the norms of lockdown so that there would be no spread of the pandemic. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar, who was also present, said while eight containment zones were removed from the list of zones, 17 new areas were declared as containment zones in Puducherry in view of the occurrence of the pandemic. To reduce the burden in the medical college hospital, around 45 patients were shifted to the Government Dental college and to a private hospital, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/30-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry-tally-climbs-to-534-853940.html
26-06-2020||South||Murder accused absconding for 25 years returns to Kerala from Sharjah, arrested||Twenty-five years after he fled to the UAE, a key accused in the 1995 murder of a Muslim League worker in Kerala has landed in the police net in Kozhikode when he arrived by a chartered flight carrying evacuees from Sharjah. Shafeek Malangadan, nephew of Nilambur indepdenent MLA P V Anwar, was arrested on Wednesday after immigration officials at the international airport identified him based on a pending look out notice, police said. The man, now 50, had escaped to the Gulf soon after the brutal killing of Othayi Manaf Palliparamban on April 13, 1995 in a fallout of a family feud and been absconding since then, they said. Anwar was also among the accused in the case but had been exonerated along with 21 others by the trial court. An appeal against the acquittal filed by Manaf's brother is pending in the Kerala High Court. In all, there were 26 accused, including Shafeek and his brother Sherif who also remained absconding along with two others. After the high court ordered police to issue a look out notice against them, the three surrendered before the court and were arrested. Airport sources said Shafeek was hopeful of sneaking out under the shadow of evacuation as part of the Covid-19 pandemic, but the immigration officials were alert enough to identify him when he landed on Tuesday night. He was later handed over to the Edavanna police, where the murder case has been registered, they said. Shafeek was produced before a Magistrate court which remanded him to judicial custody for 14 days. After the three surrendered, Shafeek was the only accused who had remained at large, Edavanna Circle Inspector Sibin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/murder-accused-absconding-for-25-years-returns-to-kerala-from-sharjah-arrested-853979.html
26-06-2020||South||Kerala's expats protocol cannot be implemented: Centre||The Centre has informed Kerala that state-specific protocols, as demanded by it, for bringing back expatriates from overseas cannot be implemented since it cannot interfere with procedures in foreign countries, Union Minister V Muraleedharan has said. "The VBM flights carrying expats to India will follow the same Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) and state-specific protocol cannot be implemented. The ministry has informed the state government," he told the media here on Thursday. According to the SOP, any expatriate coming from abroad will undergo all tests that were being conducted in those countries in accordance with the norms applicable there, the Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra said. "Rest of the guidelines and restrictions suggested by Kerala is impractical for the external affairs ministry and we have informed the same to the state," he said. The Kerala government had earlier made pre-flight Covid-19 testing mandatory for those travelling from abroad to avoid chances of co-passengers getting infected from the positive patient, a decision which drew flak from the opposition Congress-led UDF. However, taking into view non-availability of facilities in certain nations, it had relaxed the condition and issued fresh guidelines on Wednesday, saying those who did not have the negative certificate will have to undergo rapid antibody test on arrival in the state from Thursday.  The guidelines also said the passengers should wear an N- 95 mask, face shield and gloves among other measures. It also said passengers from certain countries, where there are no testing facilities, must wear personal protective equipment (PPE) while flying into the state. Hailing these measures, the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday appreciated the state government for its "pragmatic approach" in trying to contain the spread of the virus. The Passport and Visa Consular and Overseas Indian Affairs Secretary Sanjay Bhattacharyya sent a letter of appreciation to Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta on the safety measures. "I must compliment the government of Kerala for its pragmatic approach in trying to contain the spread of the virus. The measures proposed by you of wearing N95 masks, face shields, hand gloves etc. will minimise the chances of transmission," he said. He also said the Kerala government may discuss the special requirements directly with the airlines concerned for their cooperation. "We shall share your approach with our Ambassadors in the Gulf. This would greatly facilitate a smooth flow of Indians back home by VBM flights," Bhattacharyya added. Muraleedharan said the Centre wanted to bring back all those who wish to return and the guidelines will remain common for all the states. He said Kerala was informed that Centre was unable to interfere in the health protocol of other countries. The Union Minister claimed the state was conducting less number of Covid-19 tests. While the Congress had questioned the LDF government's earlier stand of insisting on Covid-19 negative certificate, the state unit of the BJP had sought to know how PPE kits will be made available to the passengers. The government has earlier said it was ready to provide the kits and testing materials, if required and made it clear that it was not against Covid-19 positive patients returning to the state.  Such people should be brought in a separate flight so that they don't pose risk to other passengers and also to prevent further outbreak in the state, it had said. Kerala, which had early last month claimed to have flattened the curve, has been recording fresh cases on a regular basis since non-resident Keralites started returning with the easing of lockdown restrictions. On Thursday, it reported over 100 Covid-19 cases for the seventh consecutive day, taking the total number of infections in the state to 3,726.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-expats-protocol-cannot-be-implemented-centre-854023.html
26-06-2020||South||Kerala SNDP leader in the defensive over close confidant's death||Vellapally Natesan, who has remained as an unchallenged leader of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam (SNDP) that represents the Hindu Ezhava community in Kerala over the last two decades, is now in the defensive as another leader of SNDP who ended life on Wednesday, allegedly accused Natesan of making him scapegoat in a cheating case. While the anti-Natesan groups have found it as an opportunity to put an end to Natesan's supremacy, the ruling left-front government may face embarrassment as Natesan was close with the left-front. Natesan's son and Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) president Thushar Vellapally, who contested against Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad, is NDA convenor in Kerala. KK Mahesan, who was a close confidant of Natesan and secretary of the Kanichikulangara union of SNDP, was found hanging in the union office, which is close to Natesan's house in Alappuzha district, on Wednesday. Close on the heels various letters, purported to be suicide notes of Mahesan, are doing the rounds in the social media. One of the letters says that Mahesan was being made a scapegoat in an ongoing Crime Branch probe into an Rs. 1.5 crore cheating case pertaining to a micro-finance scheme of the SNDP. Another letter says that he and his wife will end life in front of Natesan's house if Natesan tries to trap him in the case. Mahesan, who was state coordinator of the microfinance scheme, was said to be given the responsibility of giving training to the members and was not involved in the financial dealings. But he is also among the eight persons arraigned in the case, including Natesan and Thushar. Mahesan was recently quizzed by the Crime Branch in this regard and he was under pressure to call on in-person Crime Branch ADGP Tomin Thachankary. These developments made him highly suspicious that he was being made a scapegoat to protect Natesan. Apart from the anti-Natesan lobbies in the SNDP, Maheshan's family has also come up with the demand for a probe against Natesan in connection with Mahesan's unnatural death. Natesan came up with a defense that Mahesan ended life owing to character assassination against him by another faction in connection with elections in the SNDP. He also maintained that Mahesan was not involved in the financial dealings pertaining to the micro-finance scheme. The Hindu Ezhava community constitutes close to 25 percent of Kerala's population and hence Natesan enjoyed political influence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sndp-leader-in-the-defensive-over-close-confidants-death-854080.html
26-06-2020||South||Grand birth centenary year to venerate PV Narasimha Rao's role in the making of resurgent India||About three decades after he had set the economic reforms ball rolling and over a decade and half after his demise, former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao will perhaps be receiving his due recognition now. Extolling his wide and immense contributions for the nation, the K Chandrasekhar Rao government has planned a yearlong activity in honor of the first Prime Minister from south India. PV, as he is popularly referred to, was born on June 28, 1921 in Telangana (then Nizam’s Hyderabad state) and expired on December 23, 2004 in New Delhi. The birth centenary events could have the participation of prominent personalities associated with the late PM like Manmohan Singh, Pranab Mukherjee, Bill Clinton, John Major, as proposed by CM Rao in a meeting held earlier this week with senior officials and PV’s children, Prabhakara Rao and Vani Devi. The CM decided that the Telangana legislature would send a resolution to the centre demanding Bharat-Ratna posthumously for the 'son of the soil'. A memorial like that of former President APJ Abdul Kalam at Rameshwaram, would be developed in reverence of PV in Hyderabad where he was cremated in December 2004. Several political and economic analysts believe that PV, who led a minority government successfully for a full term (1991-96), never got the credit he deserved as the architect of transformation of India into a strong economy. Speaking in Lok Sabha in June last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi castigated the Congress leadership for allegedly disregarding the contribution of PV, besides that of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Singh.     Though the ex-PM breathed his last in New Delhi, during the Congress led UPA-1 tenure, his body was moved to Hyderabad for cremation.   The TRS government now wants to install the polyglot’s bronze statue in New Delhi and his portrait in Parliament. PV’s statues would also come up in Hyderabad, Warangal, Karimnagar and his native Vangara. PV was the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh from 1971 to 1973. A Lok Sabha member of six terms, PV had served as a minister holding decisive portfolios like defence, external affairs, home at the centre.    A memorial award, special souvenirs, photo exhibitions, and hoardings about PV in places including Bengaluru are among other things planned. “Programmes should be organised at such levels that the whole country would recognise PV’s greatness,” CM said. A big event is being designed, in which President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Modi could join.   The remembrance year would begin on Sunday, June 28 at PV Gnana-bhoomi (his cremation ground) in Hyderabad, simultaneous programmes at 50 locations world-wide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/grand-birth-centenary-year-to-venerate-pv-narasimha-raos-role-in-the-making-of-resurgent-india-854081.html
26-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 3,500-plus coronavirus cases for second straight||Tamil Nadu on Friday reported 3,645 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest in a day so far, taking the infection count to 74,622 while 46 people died pushing the toll to 957, the government said. As the trend of new cases witnessing a new high daily continued, Chennai accounted for 1,956 of the fresh infections today, a health department bulletin said. This is the second successive day of 3,500 plus fresh virus cases. Chennai's share of the state's tally of positive cases stood at 49,690. Active cases were 32,305 and 1,358 patients got discharged from various hospitals and 41,357 people have recovered so far. With aggressive testing continuing to be the focus, 33,675 samples were tested today, which is again the highest for a single day and in total, 10,42,649 specimens have been examined. In 31 government hospitals and 15 private facilities, 46 people died, of whom 44 had co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-3500-plus-coronavirus-cases-for-second-straight-854084.html
26-06-2020||South||Custodial death of father, son leads to storm in Tamil Nadu; celebrities pitch in to demand justice||The custodial deaths of a father and son in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district has led to a major outrage with celebrities, including cricketer Shikhar Dhawan, and political parties demanding justice for the men who were taken to a police station following an argument and sent home back as lifeless bodies. The death also triggered a massive political outrage with principal Opposition DMK leading the call for “strict action” against policemen involved in the “horrific incident” and demanding answers from Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. In a video released on Friday, Stalin said the buck stops at the table of Palaniswami, under whose control the police department comes. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi also jumped onto the bandwagon on Twitter by tweeting using #JusticeForJeyarajAndFenix hashtag, which was trending on the micro-blogging site. "Police brutality is a terrible crime. It’s a tragedy when our protectors turn into oppressors. I offer my condolences to the family of the victims and appeal to the government to ensure #JusticeForJeyarajAndFenix," Gandhi wrote on Twitter. The custodial death triggered a major outrage with cricketer Shikhar Dhawan, Bollywood actor Riteish Deshmukh, and over half-a-dozen popular figures from the Tamil film industry speaking against “police brutality” and seeking action against those responsible. Superstar Rajinikanth, who has not yet spoken on the issue, became a target on Twitter for his “golden silence". What led to outrage? P Jayaraj (61), and his son Emmanuel Bennix (31), were taken into custody by police in Sathankulam town in Thoothukudi district on June 19 following an argument over keeping their shops open beyond 9 pm. The duo is alleged to have been tortured by police during custody and was shifted to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 21. However, the son died on June 22 and the father on June 23 triggering massive protests by family members and relatives. Following an outrage, the government suspended two policemen. The family received the bodies only on Thursday after the autopsy was performed in the presence of doctors appointed by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court and buried them the same evening. Though Palaniswami toed the police line that the duo died of existing medical conditions, the Chief Minister also announced a solatium of Rs 20 lakh and a government job for a family member. The DMK, whose Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi is at the forefront of seeking justice for the duo, announced Rs 25 lakh relief for the family. Kanimozhi handed over the cheque personally to the family members, while the AIADMK also announced the same amount as a relief to the next kin of the deceased, hours after the DMK’s statement. Celebrities seek justice “Horrified to hear about the brutality inflicted upon Jeyaraj & Fenix in Tamil Nadu. We must raise our voice and make sure justice is given to the family. Folded hands,” Dhawan wrote. Deshmukh went a step further to call the incident a “national shame”. “This is tragic & absolute National Shame. It sends shivers down my spine even reading about it. We all must stand together against this barbaric brutality,” the actor said. Actors ‘Jayam’ Ravi, Aishwarya Rajesh, Varalakshmi Sarathkumar, Janani Iyer, and music directors D Imman and G V Prakash Kumar said they were “horrified to hear about the brutality inflicted” upon the father and son and demanded justice for them. “Terrified to hear the brutality inflicted upon Jeyaraj & Fenix. Totally inhuman and could not digest the torture they must have gone through. Let us raise our voices for this ruthless act India! Jeyaraj and Fenix are the George Floyd of India,” Imman wrote on Twitter. Actor Aishwarya Rajesh wrote: “Sathankulam incident is horrifying. It is totally inhuman. Really not acceptable. Justice in the delay is injustice.” Petition on Change.org A petition launched by Chennai-based student Keshav Ramesh on www.change.org received over 10,500 signatures at the time of writing. The petition was seeking to achieve increasing awareness among the common public, especially students who have the power to take this pressing issue to the attention of higher authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/custodial-death-of-father-son-leads-to-storm-in-tamil-nadu-celebrities-pitch-in-to-demand-justice-854088.html
26-06-2020||South||Kerala reports 150 new Covid-19 cases||As many as 150 more persons were tested Covid-19 positive in Kerala on Friday, which included six CISF personnel and three Army DSC canteen staff in Kannur district. With 65 patients recovering, the number of active patients in the state reached 1,846.  Kerala has been witnessing over 100 Covid-19 cases daily over the last eight days and hence there are serious concerns that the numbers would escalate further in the coming weeks as more flights are scheduled to operate. Kerala has started enhanced screening of NRIs coming down from abroad by chartered flights from Friday. PPE kits, N-95 masks, and gloves were mandated for those coming down without undergoing the Covid-19 test. All such persons would be subjected to COVID screening at airports in Kerala. Of the 150 tested positives on Friday, 91 were from abroad and 48 from other states. About 90 percent of Covid-19 cases in Kerala were on NRIs and persons from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-150-new-covid-19-cases-854108.html
26-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 dead bodies moved for cremation in earth movers, tractors||In a shocking incident, more so for the locals in Palasa living under the fear of the pandemic, the body of a Covid-19 positive deceased person was taken for cremation in an earth mover. The town, in Srikakulam district, close to the Odisha border is under a lockdown again after several cases have surfaced lately. The septuagenarian with ailments was unwell for the last few days. While his death occurred on Thursday evening, swab samples taken showed him as Covid-19 positive on Friday morning. This has panicked the relatives and neighbors in Udayapuram area of Palasa, who put pressure on the officials to remove the body from there immediately. In a short video apparently shot by a neighbor, few municipality workers in PPE suits could be seen moving the body loaded in front of the heavy machine. The district administration alerted by the video has launched a probe.       Speaking to DH, collector J Nivas said they are suspending the municipal commissioner Nagendra Kumar and the local sanitary inspector. “This was very unfortunate and also in gross violation of the protocols (for disposal of Covid-19 dead bodies). It is apparent that the local officials acted in haste. They should have consulted the higher officials,” Nivas said. In another such incident from Sompeta of the same district, the body of a Covid-19 positive woman was carried away in a tractor by personnel in PPE suits. This incident, Nivas said, is under probe.   Opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu took to Twitter, blaming the Jaganmohan Reddy government for the “inhumane treatment of the mortal remains.” “Utterly shocked to see the deceased bodies of Coronavirus victims wrapped in plastic and transported on JCBs and tractors. They deserve respect and dignity even in death. Shame on YS Jagan,” Naidu tweeted. According to a local trader, the town is believed to have at least 50 cases and is wearing a deserted look by 11 AM after shopping for daily essentials. Interestingly, Srikakulam was the last of the 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh to have reported a Covid-19 case – on 25 April. As of Friday morning, the district has 544 cases. While 62 cases are of locals, 482 are the returned migrants. Srikakulam, considered a backward region, has a seacoast and thousands of local fishermen are employed in far-off places like Gujarat’s Veraval. Andhra Pradesh till Friday, reported a total of 11489 cases and 146 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-covid-19-dead-bodies-moved-for-cremation-in-earth-movers-tractors-854174.html
26-06-2020||South||AIADMK vows justice in the deaths of father-son duo, DMK targets govt||The ruling AIADMK on Friday vowed to do justice for the deaths of a father-son duo following alleged police torture while main opposition DMK accused the government of allowing police to take law into their own hands. Each of the two key parties of Tamil Nadu announced a solatium of Rs 25 lakh to the family of the two men who died in Tamil Nadu's Tuticorin district days ago. In the backdrop of the outrage against the deaths of the father and son, AIADMK top leaders, O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami asserted that their party would never allow such incidents and vowed to do justice. The deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Fennix was "very unfortunate, anguishing and the AIADMK would never allow such agonising incidents," Pannerselvam, who is the party coordinator and deputy chief minister, and Palaniswami, co- coordinator and chief minister said in a statement. Describing their party as a fortress for the people, they said Rs 25 lakh will be provided to the family for assistance and assured that the AIADMK will "uphold justice" in the matter of the deaths of the two men. DMK president M K Stalin, who earlier in the day announced a solatium of Rs 25 lakh to the family of the two men, targeted the AIADMK government over the deaths. The alleged brutal assault on the two men by police was "a result of the AIADMK government allowing them to take law into their own hands at a time when they have to ensure the safety of the public during the lockdown," he said in a statement. Jayaraj and his son, arrested for 'violating' lockdown norms by allegedly extending business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with the relatives alleging that they were severely thrashed at the Sathankulam police station by police personnel earlier. The incident had triggered a furore in the state, leading to the suspension of four policemen, including two sub-inspectors. Traders had downed shutters, protests were held. The Madras High Court had also sought a report from police. The State Director General of Police later issued fresh guidelines, Standard Operating Procedures to govern arrests. Stalin, Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, said all those responsible for the alleged 'barbarity' should get tough punishment and his party would support all legal action for it. Expressing sympathies to wife of Jayaraj, he announced Rs 25 lakh financial assistance to the family by the DMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-vows-justice-in-the-deaths-of-father-son-duo-dmk-targets-govt-854199.html
26-06-2020||South||Seven deaths, 985 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana||The surge in Covid-19 cases continued unabated in Telangana on Friday, with as many as 985 new cases and seven deaths being reported, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 12,349 and fatalities to 237. Out of the 985 fresh cases, 774 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Ranga Reddy district, neighbouring Hyderabad, with 86 cases. A state government bulletin said 4,766 people have been discharged so far, while 7,436 were under treatment. According to the bulletin, 4,374 samples were tested on Friday. Cumulatively, 75,308 samples have been tested. Meanwhile, the bulletin said an inspection of Covid-19 testing by 16 private labs has shown several shortcomings on the part of the labs. The inspection was undertaken after a lot of discrepancies were reported in the data uploaded by the private labs on June 24, according to the bulletin.  The major findings in the report observed in some of the labs include lack of safety measures like staff not wearing PPE, improper training of staff conducting the tests and measures for Quality Control and Validation of Tests not being followed in some of the labs. "Committee (which examined the inspection reports) also expressed (view) that there is suspicion in some labs of pooled testing being done, when all cases are reported as positive without doing individual testing leading to some negative cases also being shown as positive. It will be studied by experts using the amplification plots generated by RTPCR machine," the bulletin said. It is also suspected that there is a possibility of contamination of samples leading to high positivity rate because safety measures and protocols are not followed meticulously, it said. In addition, disparity in numbers uploaded by the labs in the data entry made into ICMR and state portals has also been seen.The expert committee will conduct further inspection to study the problem in detail, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-deaths-985-new-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-854233.html
26-06-2020||State||Differently-abled SSLC student wins accolade in Karnataka||A differently-abled SSLC student in Bantwal in coastal Karnataka has become a toast of the town for his determination to write the examination. The boy did not allow his inability to write with his hands come in the way to pursue his academic career. On Thursday when the SSLC or the 10th class exams started in the state, Kaushik Acharya sat on the floor, fixed the pen between his toes and wrote the examination. Studying in the SVS High School, Kaushik has been using his toes to write. His determination won accolades from Karnataka Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh who showered praises on the boy. Sharing his photograph of writing the examination, Kumar wrote on his Twitter: "My affection to this boy Kaushik from SVS High School in Bantwal who wrote the entire examination using his toes without taking anybody's assistance." Kumar added that people like Kaushik add meaning to life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/differently-abled-sslc-student-wins-accolade-in-karnataka-854159.html
26-06-2020||State||Six new Covid-19 cases in Kodagu||Six fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kodagu on Friday, according to a bulletin issued by DC’s office. A family of three comprising husband, wife and a two-year-old child - all have tested positive. The family had a travel history to Bengaluru. After their return to the district, they stayed at Undi in Virajpet taluk and Nelyahudikeri in Somwarpet taluk. Other cases are—A 24-year-old person from Shanivarasanthe in Somwarpet taluk, who had returned from Pune, a 23-year-old person from Kondangeri of Virajpet taluk, who had a travel history to Sharjah and a 46-year-old person from Hulase, Kushalnagar, who had returned from Bengaluru. All six infected have been admitted to the district Covid-19 hospital in Madikeri, the bulletin stated. In fact, on Thursday, the district had reported two fresh cases. One patient is from Karkalli Bane of Somwarpet taluk. A teenager, 14, had contracted the virus from a 36-year-old patient who had Covid-19 and was from Shirangala in Kodlipet. Another person is 26-year-old and belongs to Kolagadale of Madikeri taluk and has international travel history to Qatar. In the wake of newly confirmed cases, Undi, Nelyahudikeri and Hulase have been brought under containment zones and the total number of containment zones in the district has risen to 18. The Covid-19 tally of the district is 36. Three have already been discharged and the number of active cases is 33. Shops to close after 2 pm Kodagu District Chamber of Commerce and Industry president M B Devaiah said that the shopkeepers had voluntarily decided to carry out business from 6 am and 2 pm from June 27 as Covid-19 cases are rapidly increasing in the district. Shops will remain closed on Sundays. Meanwhile, hairdressers in the district to have decided to close the salons till June 30. Salon owners are at high risk as they come in close contact with customers. The salons have been closed from Thursday itself. More than 490 hairdressers in the district have refrained from work, Savita Samaja Madikeri taluk president Madhu said and added that the members would take a decision on reopening the shops after looking into the Covid-19 cases in the district, in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-kodagu-854188.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Many students take boats, travel miles to cross SSLC hurdle||As if braving the pandemic to write the SSLC exams was not enough, some students came by boat and others crossed other hurdles to face their first board exam. Armed with their masks and sanitiser bottles besides their exam essentials, 555 students from the neighbouring states of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana appeared for the exams on Thursday. Of the 614 students registered from outside the state, 555 crossed into Karnataka for the exam. As many as 27 students from Kasaba Bengre locality on the Kerala border came by boat to write the exam in Mangaluru. The department of public instruction authorities ensured that their health screening was done and provided buses to ensure they reached their respective centres. For students from Goa, arrangements were made by the authorities to conduct the examination at two centres in Goa. To oversee the exams, officials from the state education department were deployed. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the authorities came in early and collected the question paper and answer booklets from the border and conducted the exams successfully. In Gadag district, autorickshaw drivers picked up and dropped students free of cost. In another instance, police personnel in Shirahatti droped two students to the exam centre when they were unable to get transport. At one centre in Gangavati, Koppal district, teachers created a festive atmosphere and gave a warm welcome to the students to boost their confidence. A student who was travelling to the centre in Raichur lost his 53-year-old father when the duo met with an accident. He will take the supplementary exam in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/many-students-take-boats-travel-miles-to-cross-sslc-hurdle-853794.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Curbs at Legislators’ Home||The Assembly Secretariat on Thursday decided to impose curbs on movement of people at the Legislators’ Home (LH), after some police personnel on duty there tested positive for Covid-19. It has been decided to immediately get the building sprayed with disinfectants. According to a release, all visitors to the LH  must part with their name, mobile number and reason for their visit. Only four people can accompany a legislator, including the PA, driver and bodyguard. Only legislators’ vehicles will be allowed to park inside. Those, staying unnecessarily, will beevicted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/curbs-at-legislators-home-853795.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||At RGUHS convocation, scientist laments decline of varsities||Dr P Balaram, former director Indian Institute of Science (IISc), took the Central and state governments to task for their "negligence towards health sector which has left the people underprepared to face the Covid-19". Addressing the 22nd annual convocation of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) on Thursday, he said, "Years of neglect of health sector, underfunded and underappreciated by both Central and state governments have left our public hospitals underprepared to deal with the major pandemic." "While most literate people have now become amateur epidemiologists talking with ease on infection, mortality rates, discussing masks, PPE kits and ventilators with familiarity, we are confronted with an uncomfortable fact: There are no therapeutic or vaccines available to combat this virus. Politicians, whose ignorance only matched by their arrogance, can quickly claim success with chloroquine even as infection spreads and more people succumb," he said. However, he continued and said, "Medical scientists, who influence policies, can make many claims for the impending arrival of vaccines, but it's almost clear that the virus would have done all the damage it has by this happens. " Dr Balaram said that higher education in India has required intensive care for a very long time. "As the universities have been in steady decline over the decades. Our response to failing institutions has been to start new ones and to activate the process by which universities can swing up. Overnight by decree," he mentioned. According to Balaram, the higher education began to decline when artificial boundaries on disciplines and created lines of actual control which were not crossed without conflict. "Bacteriology and Virology, which were important in colonial India, are no longer subjects at the centre of medical research. Yet, it is an infectious disease that exacts the heaviest price in most parts of the world. The coronavirus has served to jolt us out of our condolences, " he said. Speaking about the lockdown, he said, "There are no drugs or vaccines in sight, even in the US and Europe as everyone moves to an unlocked world. The politicians and their advisers are already preparing us for this future, by pronouncing that the coronavirus is here to stay and the world must get ready to coexist with the latest addition to the pantheon of viruses. nature as always must have the last word. Constant exposure to microbial pathogens can enhance the level of human immune competence". Governor VR Vala and Medical Education Minister Dr Sudhakar attended the convocation virtually. 'Varsity should arrange a photoshoot later' Over 36,434 candidates received their graduation certificates by attending virtual convocation and 158 gold medals were given. Around 60 gold medalists were present in-person to receive medals. However, the gold medalists were unhappy and cursed Covid-19 pandemic which made them not to celebrate their achievements. "It was a dream of my parents to witness me getting a gold medal. But they were not allowed to be present today. That way I am unlucky," said one of the medalists. "Even to pose for the photo, I had to wear a mask. I request the university to arrange for a photoshoot post-Covid-19," said another medalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-rguhs-convocation-scientist-laments-decline-of-varsities-853816.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ease of doing business: Industries to get 3-yr window for approvals in Karnataka||Industrialists looking to set up ventures in Karnataka can commence work immediately after their proposals are approved by the government, without having to wait for any other clearances. Industries will be given three years’ time during which they can seek clearances from all other departments, the Cabinet decided on Thursday. Calling it a "historic" move, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said the government will amend the Karnataka Industrial Facilitation Act, 2002, for this. “We wanted to ensure ease of doing business and hence, this amendment. Karnataka will be the third state after Gujarat and Rajasthan to set up this model for clearance of applications. Even in these states, it is applicable only to small and medium-scale industries. Our amendment will be applicable to all industries,” he said, adding that an ordinance will be promulgated. New procedure An entrepreneur will simply apply online on the Karnataka Udyog Mitra portal by filing an investor memorandum. From there, the application will undergo scrutiny through the land audit committee, after which it will be scrutinised by either the district or the state-level committee. For investments below Rs 15 crore, permission will be given by the district-level committee concerned. For projects between Rs 15 crore and Rs 500 crore, the state-level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) chaired by the minister concerned will process the application. For those above Rs 500 crore, the State High Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) chaired by the chief minister will decide. As per the proposed amendment, once an investor gets the acknowledgement of approval from any of these committees, he/she can start the operations without waiting for clearance from other departments, such as the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, or building plan approval.   However, these clearances will still be mandatory. “Within three years, the industrial establishment has to show productivity and get other clearances,” Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said. The decision to amend the Industrial Facilitation Act follows a recent spate of other amendments to multiple legislation by the state government. In March, the state government had amended Section 109 of the Land Reforms Act, making it easier for conversion of agricultural land to industrial purposes. Recently, the government made another amendment to the same legislation, allowing non-agriculturists to own agricultural land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ease-of-doing-business-industries-to-get-3-yr-window-for-approvals-in-karnataka-853845.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stray dogs attack barking deers; 10 succumb to injuries||A pack of stray dogs allegedly entered inside the Pilikula Biological Park on Thursday (June 25) late night and attacked barking deers (Kaadu Kuri). In the melee, 10 barking deers have died and five have suffered injuries, said Park Director H J Jayaprakash Bhandary to DH. He said “when the dogs entered the enclosure of barking deer, the delicate animals started running helter-skelter and suffered injuries. This is the first time that the Park has encountered the problem of stray dogs. The staff has been deputed to check the entire Pilikula Nisargadhama covering over 400 acres, to check as to how the dogs gained entry inside the Park. The staff had noticed one fallen tree due to gusty wind, near the compound wall in one location. The dogs would have possibly entered inside the Park by climbing the fallen tree,” he suspected. “Further, a few villagers had even dumped soil near the compound wall of the Nisargadhama. This also would have helped the dogs to climb the compound wall,” he felt. The injured barking deers are treated by the veterinary doctors at the Park.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stray-dogs-attack-barking-deers-10-succumb-to-injuries-853959.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Puttur school faculty sell chips, laddu to tide over economic crisis||With uncertainty prevailing over reopening of the schools, Ambika Group of Institutions in Puttur has ventured into a new business of making jackfruit chips, laddu and other delicacies for sale.  About 35 staff members (teaching and non-teaching) have come together to manufacture homemade products under the brand name 'Shivam' to tide over the economic crisis.  "As parents are wary about paying fees for the academic year, the school including the college under its jurisdiction started facing a financial crisis. The salaries of teachers were cut by the management. To face the challenges, Shivam was started," said Ambika Vidyalaya President Subrahmanya Nattoja.  Since June 22, the staff has been gathering at the campus to prepare and package snacks. On June 22, jackfruit chips and jack seed laddu were prepared. The management has invested seed capital of Rs 50,000.  The condiments are prepared by adhering to cleanliness norms by wearing a mask, head cover, and gloves. The profit earned will be shared among the employees.  "We want to ensure that no injustice is meted at those who have trusted us all these years. There are 90 teaching faculties in the institution. Paying the salary is a challenge for us. We have their responsibility. Hence, the home product initiative was started by a team of 35 members," Subrahmanya said.  Teacher Sathish K, who is leading the initiative said "initially, parents only will be our consumers. We will start an online purchase and home delivery system shortly." There are nearly 1200 students pursuing their studies in schools and colleges. The institute's hostel has a kitchen that is used for preparing the food. Based on the response, we will scale up the production, he added.  Vice Principal Malathi D said "priority has been given for preparing nutritious delicacies. Already jackfruit chips, jack seed laddu have been prepared."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/puttur-school-faculty-sell-chips-laddu-to-tide-over-economic-crisis-853965.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dakshina Kannada school staff make snacks to offset financial burden due to Covid-19 lockdown||With uncertainty prevailing over reopening of the schools, Ambika Group of Institutions in Dakshina Kannada's Puttur has ventured into a new business of making jackfruit chips, laddus and other delicacies for sale. About 35 staff members (teaching and non-teaching) have come together to manufacture homemade products under the brand name 'Shivam' to tide over the economic crisis. "As parents are wary about paying fees for the academic year, the school, including the college under its jurisdiction, started facing a financial crisis. The salaries of teachers were cut by the management. To face the challenges, Shivam was started," said Ambika Vidyalaya President Subrahmanya Nattoja. Since June 22, staff members have been gathering in the campus to make and package snacks to sell. On June 22, jackfruit chips and jackfruit seed laddus were prepared. The management has invested seed capital of Rs 50,000. The condiments are prepared by adhering to cleanliness norms by wearing a mask, head covers and gloves. The profits earned will be shared among the employees. "We want to ensure that no injustice is meted to those who have trusted us all these years. There are 90 teaching faculties in the institution. Paying them salaries is a challenge for us right now. But we are responsible for them. Hence, the initiative for making home products was started by a team of 35 members," Subrahmanya said. Teacher Sathish K, who is leading the initiative said "initially, parents only will be our consumers. We will start an online purchase and home delivery system shortly." There are nearly 1200 students pursuing their studies in the institute's schools and colleges. The institute's hostel has a kitchen that is used for preparing the food. Based on the response, we will scale up the production, he added. Vice Principal Malathi D said "priority has been given for preparing nutritious delicacies. Already jackfruit chips, jack seed laddu have been prepared."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dakshina-kannada-school-staff-make-snacks-to-offset-financial-burden-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-853993.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah, Congress MLAs want another lockdown in Karnataka||A section of Congress legislators, including leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, mounted pressure on the Karnataka government to impose another lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 as cases are rising with each passing day.  “Now is when we need the lockdown,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “The previous one was wrong and untimely. Cases are increasing now - June, July and August. Experts say it’ll go up till September,” he said, adding that the “untimely” lockdown spoiled both health and economy. “The state and the centre have failed in handling the pandemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-congress-mlas-want-another-lockdown-in-karnataka-854110.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||2 more doctors, 8 health workers contract Covid-19||The state continued to see a surge in Covid-19 infections among doctors and health workers. Two more doctors and seven health workers tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. Two private doctors in Shivamogga, aged 35 and 38, have tested positive for Covid-19. They got themselves subjected to tests after developing breathing problems. The reports came back positive on Friday. Six health department staff are among 36 fresh infections reported in Koppal district on Friday. This includes a 21-year-old man who used to work at BBMP hospital in Bengaluru. The government hospital in Guledgudd in Bagalkot district was sealed on Friday after a staff tested positive for the virus. A few staffers of the hospital have been sent for institutional and home quarantine. A makeshift hospital has been opened at Ambedkar Bhavan in the town. A woman from KGF working at the R L Jalappa Hospital and Research Centre in Kolar also tested positive. She has been shifted to the S N R District Hospital. Meanwhile, the Kodagu district administration has requested those who visited the infected district hospital doctor, who also runs a private scanning and diagnostic centre in Madikeri, to get screened for Covid-19 symptoms at the nearest government hospital. On Thursday, two doctors and five medical staff of the district hospital and a private hospital in Madikeri had tested positive for Covid-19. Exam invigilator tests positive An SSLC exam invigilator in Pavagad, a civic worker from Tiptur, a 19-year-old engineering student in CN Halli, a police constable from Surya City police station in Anekal and a primary school teacher from Hunasgi in Yadgir are among the 445 cases reported on Friday. Meanwhile, Ballari and Dharwad districts continued to see a spike in Covid cases on Friday. Ballari reported 47 fresh infections while Dharwad recorded its biggest single day surge of 30 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-more-doctors-8-health-workers-contract-covid-19-854193.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to launch work on 108-foot Kempegowda statue today||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will lay the foundation stone for the construction of a 108 feet statue of Bengaluru founder Kempegowda near the city’s airport on Saturday. Former prime minister H D Devegowda, Adichunchanagiri Mutt pontiff Nirmalananda Swami, JSS Mutt pontiff Sri Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami and Siddagagna Mutt pontiff Siddalinga Swamy, among others will attend the event, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan told reporters. Narayan is also the chairman of the Kempegowda Development Authority that is executing the project that is estimated to cost Rs 78 crore. He said it will be completed within a year. “The height of the statue will be 108 feet. It’s not a competition. The height was decided based on technical reasons and enough homework has been done,” he said. Narayan said that the government will develop Kempapura in Magadi taluk, where Kempegowda's tomb exists, as a historical destination. “The entire village will be developed in the name of Kempegowda and will be converted into an all-season tourist centre,” he said, adding that Infrastructure Development Corporation (Karnataka) Limited (iDeCK) was working on a design to develop the village and Kempegowda’s burial place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-launch-work-on-108-foot-kempegowda-statue-today-854194.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt plans new policy to fix rate for KIADB land||The state government will come out with a new policy to fix rates for land allotted to industries by the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB), Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Friday. “There are several anomalies in fixing the rates for the land allotted by the KIADB. It is necessary to adopt a scientific way in this regard. It is therefore felt necessary to bring in separate policies that apply to the old cases of land allotment and the new ones,” Shettar said. He directed officials to take action in this regard. Shettar was speaking at a meeting to review the KIADB functioning. Apparently, many industrialists and industry associations have complained about this. Presently, there is one rate for allotment of land and one at the time of sale deed. In many cases, this is more than 50% the initial rate. “We need to take action to bring about uniformity in these rules. In this backdrop, new policies are needed to remove anomalies in the previously allotted land and to allot new land,” Shettar said. The minister also instructed the board to expedite the process of granting compensation to the land owners whose land had been acquired. “There is a lot of delay in compensating the land owners. In some cases, landlords need to visit offices to get relief for several years,” Shettar said, adding that guidelines for the acquisition and settlement of land within a time limit should be framed. Officials were also instructed to take up a survey of industrial land use in the state to understand the total land extent, the extent of land acquired so far by the KIADB, land allotted to the industry, details of industries set up on the allotted land, the reasons for the non-commencement of industries after the allotment of land in industrial areas and so on. Information regarding the land should be uploaded on the website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-plans-new-policy-to-fix-rate-for-kiadb-land-854195.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka launches 'e-Manas' a statewide mental health registry||Karnataka launched e-Manas, a statewide registry of all facilities and professionals providing mental healthcare, here on Friday. It provides online registration, provision for recording basic health records of patients, provides access to patient health records by registered professionals with the consent of the patient, enables grievance redressal of patients and caregivers, and allows integration with Ayushman Bharath – Arogya Karnataka, 104, and 108. This web solution brings all the stakeholders in mental health in Karnataka together: Karnataka State Mental Health Authority, Karnataka State Mental Health Review Board, all public and private mental healthcare establishments, mental health professionals (psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, mental health nurses), persons with mental illness and their caregivers. Access to this portal will be made available to all mental health professionals and establishments in Karnataka, in the public and private sector. Dr B N Gangadhar, Director, NIMHANS, said, “The e-Manas system will allow health information about patients to be accessed by their doctor, with their consent, at any time and any clinic or hospital, thus significantly improving the quality of medical care that can be provided.” During 2019–2020, more than 10 lakh consultations were undertaken under the District Mental Health Programme for those who needed care. The department started counselling services for migrant workers and those in quarantine facilities. Till date, more than 1.65 lakh people have received counselling, apart from 52,000 migrants and more than 1,500 Corona warriors. Nimhans north campus The software was launched alongside the ‘virtual’ foundation stone laying ceremony of NIMHANS’ north campus in Kyalasanahalli on Friday by the chief minister for which 40 acres of land has been provided by the government. Dr B N Gangadhar sought support facilities and financial grant to build full OPD complex and the trauma centre in the new campus.  The CM promised support for the trauma centre and said he would consider sanctioning additional land and necessary infrastructure to the premier mental health institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-launches-e-manas-a-statewide-mental-health-registry-854196.html
26-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||This Bantwal boy with crippled arms deserves full marks for his spirit||He was born with the deformed arms, but that didn’t deter Kaushik Acharya from Bantwal, Dakshina Kannada, from pursuing his education. He used his toes to write the SSLC exam on Thursday, and his feat, rather unwavering spirit, didn’t go unnoticed. The boy has won the heart of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar. Posting the photo of Kaushik writing the exam with his toes, the minister tweeted saying, “Such individuals teach us the meaning of life.” Kaushik, a student of S V S Kannada Medium School in Bantwal, had overcome all obstacles by sheer hard work and determination. He has put in hours of practice to write gripping pen between his toes. He wrote SSLC exam on Thursday without a scribe. Son of Rajesh Acharya and Jalajakshi Acharya of Kanchikarapete in Bantwal, Kaushik is good in academics with decent scores all through. He also pursues other interests like drawing, yoga, swimming, cricket with his feet At a time when students end life over fear of exams or not scoring good marks, Kaushik emerges as a role model. His grit and never-say-die attitude would instil confidence among people, his teachers said. Indeed, Kaushik’s story is a shot in the arm not just to specially-abled children...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/this-bantwal-boy-with-crippled-arms-deserves-full-marks-for-his-spirit-854197.html
26-06-2020||West||Families of Maharashtra police who succumbed to Covid-19 can now stay in official residence||In a major initiative by Maharashtra government,  families of police personnel who lost their lives to Covid-19 can continue living in official residence till the concerned police personnel's date of retirement.In Maharashtra, more than 50 police personnel have died battling the coronavirus "No bereaved family of a police personnel who lost their lives on the frontline in the war against coronavirus should be worried about having a roof over their heads," Maharashtra's home minister Anil Deshmukh said."All the families of the police personnel who have succumbed to Covid-19 will be able to continue to reside in their officially assigned residence till the concerned personnel's retirement date," he announced. The home minister said the government has taken this decision on humanitarian grounds."This is the least we can do in lieu of the police personnel's supreme sacrifice," he pointed out underlining how 4,326 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the line of duty. "It is heartening that 3,282 of these have recovered but it is tragic that 54 of them have succumbed," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/families-of-maharashtra-police-who-succumbed-to-covid-19-can-now-stay-in-official-residence-853897.html
26-06-2020||West||Major fire doused at Raguvanshi Mills in Mumbai||The major fire that broke out at a commercial building in Raghuvanshi Mill compound at Lower Parel here was completely doused on Friday, after nearly 23 hours of fire-fighting efforts, an official said. While no casualties were reported in the incident, one of the fire brigade officers sustained a minor cut injury during the operation, the official said. The blaze had erupted on the ground floor of the three-storey P-2 building in Raghuvanshi Mill compound at around 9.30 pm on Thursday. The fire soon spread to the upper floors of the structure and was tagged as a 'level-4' fire by afternoon. According to a civic officer, the blaze was brought under control after 18 hours of efforts in the early hours of the day and was completely doused by 8.20 am. After visiting the scene, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the blaze was triggered by a short circuit and the heavy smoke made it difficult for the firefighters to find the source of the flames.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-fire-doused-at-raguvanshi-mills-in-mumbai-853912.html
26-06-2020||West||Sheena Bora murder case: Court rejects Sanjeev Khanna's bail plea||Khanna was arrested in August 2015 for his involvement in Sheena's killing and has since been lodged in Arthur Road Jail. While rejecting the accused's interim bail plea on Wednesday, special CBI judge J C Jagdale said, "Undoubtedly, some of the inmates of Arthur Road Jail have been affected by Covid-19, but at present, the situation is far better." According to the authorities, of the 181 Covid-19 cases detected in the jail so far, 151 patients had recovered and only 30 were in treatment, he noted. He pointed out that no one had died of the deadly infection at Arthur Road Jail, indicating that the recovery rate there was better than other parts of Mumbai. The judge also noted that Khanna had tested negative for the infection.  The accused, a resident of Kolkata, had told the court that he would stay with a relative in suburban Bandra if he gets bail. The judge observed that the number of Covid-19 cases in Bandra was increasing at an "alarming rate" with each passing day. All precautionary measures were being taken in the jail and adequate medical facilities were also made available there, he said and scrapped Khanna's plea.  Sheena (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by her mother Indrani Mukerjea, her driver Shyamvar Rai and Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. Former media baron Peter Mukerjea, who was later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy, is currently out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sheena-bora-murder-case-court-rejects-sanjeev-khannas-bail-plea-853951.html
26-06-2020||West||Maha asks AMC to deploy staff to verify Covid-19 bills||The Maharashtra government has asked the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to deploy its staff in the city's private hospitals to verify the medical bills being charged from the COVID-19 patients. Shiv Sena leader and Member of the state Legislative Council (MLC), Ambadas Danve, told this to PTI. He said the instructions were given to the AMC during a meeting of all-party representatives in Aurangabad with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday. The meeting, which was held on Thursday night, was attended by state Industries Minister Subhash Desai, state Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta and others. The public representatives urged the government to take necessary steps to control COVID 19 pandemic in the district. AIMIM leader and Lok Sabha member Imtiaz Jaleel raised the issue of shortage of medicines, while Rajya Sabha member Dr Bhagwat Karad demanded adequate number of staff for the super specialty wing of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), a district official said.  Talking to PTI after the meeting, Ambadas Danve, who is also Shiv Sena's district unit president, said, "The government assured that issues related to medicines will be addressed in a couple of days and orders to that effect have been issued. The process to get the adequate medical stqaff is also on. It was decided to increase the testing and quarantine the number of contacts of COVID-19 patients" On the issue of hefty fees being charged by private hospitals, Danve said, "The state administration has ordered the AM to deploy its staff in private hospital to carry out the audit of bills."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-asks-amc-to-deploy-staff-to-verify-covid-19-bills-853957.html
26-06-2020||West||Covid-19: Bombay HC stays Maharashtra order for academic institutions on no fee hike||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted an interim stay on a Maharashtra government resolution that directed all the educational institutions in the state to not hike their fees for the academic year 2020-21 due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. On May 8, 2020, the state government had issued the resolution saying that no educational institution in the state shall hike their fees for the academic year 2020-21. The resolution also directed all the institutions to not collect any balance fees of the year 2019-20 or fees for the year 2020-21 at one go, but give parents an option to deposit it monthly or quarterly. Aggrieved by the order, several educational trusts running schools across the state approached the high court seeking for the same to be quashed and set aside.  In an interim order, a division bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla on Friday stayed operation of the government resolution pending final hearing and disposal of the petitions. The petitioners include the Association of Indian Schools, Global Education Foundation, Kasegaon Education Trust and Dnyanseshwar Mauli Sanstha. The Kasegaon Education Trust, which runs a school in Navi Mumbai, argued through their lawyers Milind Sathe, Saket Mone and Prateek Seksaria, that the resolution was violative of their fundamental rights and curbed their rights to administer their educational institutions which includes right to regulate and fix fees. "The petitioner is further aggrieved by the impugned notice in as much that the same threatens action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The decision of the government is an illegal exercise of statutory power," the petition filed by the Kasegaon Education Trust said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bombay-hc-stays-maharashtra-order-for-academic-institutions-on-no-fee-hike-853988.html
26-06-2020||West||KVIC promotes bamboo, sandalwood plantation||The Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) is exploring the untapped but highly profitable venture of sandalwood and bamboo tree plantation to monetise its assets. To encourage commercial plantation of sandalwood and bamboo, the KVIC began a drive with the plantation of 500 saplings each of sandalwood and bamboo at its Nashik training center spread over 262 acres. Union Minister for MSMEs Nitin Gadkari lauded this initiative of KVIC,  a press statement said. The KVIC procured sandalwood saplings from the Fragrance and Flavour Development Centre (FFDC) Kannauj, a unit under the Ministry of MSME, from Uttar Pradesh and bamboo saplings from Assam. The plantation ceremony was launched through video-conference by KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena. The plantation of sandalwood has been planned keeping in mind its monetary value. It is estimated to fetch KVIC between Rs 50 crore to Rs 60 crore in the next 10 to 15 years. A sandalwood tree matures in 10 to 15 years and, based on the current rate, sells at Rs 10 lakh to Rs 12 lakh each.Likewise, a special variety of bamboo, Bambusa Tulda, used for making Agarbatti sticks, from Assam has also been planted in Maharashtra with an aim to support the local Agarbatti industry and to create regular income for the training center. A bamboo plant gets ready for harvest in the third year. Each matured log of bamboo, weighing approximately 25 kg, sells at an average of Rs 5 per kg. At this rate, one mature log of bamboo fetches nearly Rs 125. This bamboo plant has a unique quality. Each plant, after the third year, produces a minimum of 5 logs and doubles thereafter. This means, the 500 bamboo saplings will provide at least 2500 bamboo logs in the third year and will generate an additional income of nearly Rs 3.25 lakh to the institution which will grow nearly twice every year. In terms of quantity, 2500 bamboo logs will weigh approximately 65 MT (metric tonne) of bamboo that will be used for making Agarbatti sticks.. In the last few months, KVIC planted nearly 2500 trees of Bambusa Tulda in different parts of India. 500 saplings of Bambusa Tulda have been planted in each of the cities like Delhi, Varanasi and Kannauj apart from the latest plantation in Nashik to ensure local availability of raw material for Agarbatti manufacturers at a reasonable cost. “Plantation of sandalwood and bamboo trees on vacant land aims at monetisation of the property. At the same time, it will serve the dual purpose of meeting the huge global demand of Sandalwood while Bamboo plantation will support the local Agarbatti manufacturers in the light of the recent decision taken by the Central government to make India ‘Aatmanirbhar’,” KVIC Chairman, Shri Vinai Kumar Saxena said. “We are identifying more such properties of KVIC across the country where such plantations can be launched,” Saxena said, adding that if farmers start planting just two sandalwood trees in their fields, they would be economically self-dependent to meet any financial eventuality. Plantation of sandalwood trees has high potential in the export market as well. Sandalwood and its oil have high demand in countries like China, Japan, Taiwan, Australia and the USA. However, sandalwood is in short supply which makes this initiative an opportunity for India to increase sandalwood plantation and be a global leader in sandalwood production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kvic-promotes-bamboo-sandalwood-plantation-854020.html
26-06-2020||West||Yusuf Memon, 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict, dies in jail||Notorious absconding terrorist and Mumbai serial blasts' mastermind Tiger Memon's younger brother Yusuf Memon died in Nashik prison on Friday.  Yusuf, who faced multiple health issues,  was undergoing a life term in the Nashik central prison.  His body is being taken to Dhule, where the post-mortem would be conducted. The Memon family members were considered the prime conspirators of the 12 March 1993 serial blasts, in which 257 persons were killed, 713 injured and property to the tune of Rs 26 crore was damaged.  Ibrahim alias Mushtaq alias Tiger  Memon and his wife Shabana,   his brother Ayub Memon and his wife Reshma are reportedly in Pakistan sheltered by ISI.  The entire Memon family was arrested - Abdul Razzak Memon,  his wife Hanifa,  their sons and daughter-in-laws Yakub and Rahin, Arif alias Suleiman and Rubina,  and two unmarried sons Yusuf and Anjum alias Essa.  Abdul Memon died in 2001 before the trial was underway while Hanifa was acquitted along with son Suleiman and Yakub's wife Rahin.  Suleiman's wife Rubina, Essa and Yusuf got life terms. Yakub was sentenced and hanged till death on 30 July 2015. Yusuf was convicted and sentenced to jail for life for criminal conspiracy and allowing his house to be used for preparations for the act of terror.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yusuf-memon-1993-mumbai-serial-blasts-convict-dies-in-jail-854031.html
26-06-2020||West||Covid-19 cases increasing in Maharashtra's interiors||The Mumbai-Pune belt is the worst Covid-19 affected zone of India but the virus is creating big problems in some other districts in Maharashtra as well. Besides the six districts of the Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions, the four worst-affected districts are Solapur, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and Nashik. The Solapur district in Western Maharashtra has recorded 2,440 cases and 236 deaths while Aurangabad in Marathwada region recorded 4,084 cases and 211 deaths. In North Maharashtra, Nashik recorded 2,652 cases and 204 deaths while Jalgaon recorded 3,276 cases and 194 deaths. The state's winter capital of Nagpur in the Vidarbha region has recorded 1,408 cases and 13 deaths. The Mumbai Metropolitan region (MMR) comprising five districts - Mumbai City,  Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad - reported 1,07,714 cases and 5,065 deaths while Pune has 18,015 cases and 659 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-increasing-in-maharashtras-interiors-854036.html
26-06-2020||West||Four dead as car overturns on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway||Four persons died on the spot and another was seriously injured when their car hit the road divider and jumped over to the opposite lane on Mumbai- Ahmedabad highway on Friday evening, the police said. The accident took place near Dapchari in Maharashtra's Palghar district around 5.30 pm when the car was heading towards Gujarat, said district police spokesperson Sachin Navadkar. The speeding vehicle first slammed into the divider and then jumped onto the opposite lane and overturned, he said. The injured person was rushed to a hospital, the spokesperson said, adding that the victims were yet to be identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-dead-as-car-overturns-on-mumbai-ahmedabad-highway-854068.html
26-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Sharad Pawar, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, Rajesh Tope, Anil Deshmukh review Pune Covid-19 situation||NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state health minister Rajesh Tope and state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Pune district at a meeting in the Council Hall here. The NCP chief asked officials to ramp up testing for the infection while the deputy CM directed district, civic and police officials to work in coordination to contain the outbreak. The NCP chief asked officials to regularly review the situation in containment zones and to also ensure private hospitals do not overcharge patients. Ajit Pawar, also state finance minister, said he would talk to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to mitigate the financial burden on Pune Municipal Corporation due to the coronavirus outbreak. Tope asked the Pune district and civic administrations to implement the "Mumbai pattern" to fight the outbreak. He said after antigen tests, the state government had decided to conduct antibodies tests, which will help detect people with the infection in containment zones. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced that families of police personnel who died of Covid-19 can stay in official quarters till the time the deceased would have retired in the normal process. He also said there was an increase in cyber crimes during the lockdown, and experts had been brought in to curb the menace. The leaders also visited the PMC's "war room" set up to coordinate coronavirus combat efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sharad-pawar-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-rajesh-tope-anil-deshmukh-review-pune-covid-19-situation-854085.html
26-06-2020||West||Gujarat Covid-19 case count crosses 30,000-mark; 18 new deaths||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat crossed the 30,000-mark on Friday, with 580 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours, the state health department said. This is for the second time that 580 new cases were reported in a day. Earlier, as many number of cases were reported on June 21. It is the highest single-day spike. With the addition of 580 new cases, the number of positive cases in the state mounted to 30,158, the department said in a statement. During the same period, 18 coronavirus positive patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll due to infection to 1,772 in the state, it said. According to the statement, as many as 532 persons were discharged from various hospitals post-recovery. This took the number of recovered patients to 22,038. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 30,158, new cases: 580, deaths: 1,772, discharged: 22,038, active cases: 6,348 and people tested so far: 3,51,179.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-case-count-crosses-30000-mark-18-new-deaths-854131.html
26-06-2020||West||Covid-19: Community transmission has begun, says Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said community transmission of the novel coronavirus had begun as Covid-19 cases were coming from all parts of the state. A total of 44 cases were detected during the day, taking the Covid-19 count to 1,039, while the number of active cases was 667, a health official said. "We will have to admit that community transmission has begun in the state. But the infection has been traced to some common sources," Sawant told reporters. He said the state government had enforced a stringent standard operating procedure under which all those entering the state had to either get themselves tested or be home quarantined for 14 days. Mangor Hill in Vasco and Morlem village in Sattari taluka are containment zones while a few areas have been designated mini-containment zones in the state. Goa's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 1039, new cases: 44, deaths: 02, discharged: 370, active cases 667, samples tested till date: 60,305.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-community-transmission-has-begun-says-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-854133.html
26-06-2020||West||Maharashtra coronavirus cases tally crosses 1.5 lakh||Maharashtra's progressive Covid-19 cases crossed the 1.5 lakh-mark with a record high of 5,024 cases being reported on Friday.  Maharashtra's total progressive cases now stands at 1,52,765, of which 79,815  have been treated and discharged.  Meanwhile, the death toll crossed the 7,000-mark touching 7,106 with 175 deaths being reported on Friday.  Of these, 91 were reported in last 48 hours and 84 earlier. Of the 8,71,875 tests being conducted,  1,52,765 have tested positive - 17.52 per cent. Nearly 6 lakh persons are in quarantine - home or institutional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-cases-tally-crosses-15-lakh-854153.html
26-06-2020||West||22-year-old hangs self in Yavatmal, kin blames PUBG addiction||A 22-year-old man addicted to online game PUBG allegedly committed suicide at his home in Maharashtra's Yavatmal district, some 700 kilometres from here, police said on Friday. Nikhil Purushottam Pilewan was found hanging in his home in Pimpri Mukhtyar village in Ner tehsil on Thursday evening, an official said. "Nikhil worked in a private firm in Pune and had come down to attempt his final year BA exams. He got stranded due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, and ended up playing PUBG for upto 16 hours daily," he informed. "On Thursday, he killed himself when his parents and brother had gone to their farm. His elder brother has said Nikhil ended his life due to PUBG addiction," the official added. PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds is a multi-player survival combat game.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/22-year-old-hangs-self-in-yavatmal-kin-blames-pubg-addiction-854171.html
