27-06-2020||Comment||Child labour: Focus on working children||For decades now, Bhima Sangha, a union of working children, and those of us working with them, have cried hoarsely ‘let anti-child labour not be anti-child’. But responses to child labour continue to push working children and adolescents into even more perilous situations – captive in institutions or invisible. The plight of the migrant workers has held a naked mirror to the cruelty of the state and apathy of the well-heeled.  Among them are lakhs of Jeeta Madkamis, their stories unheard. Many youngsters have lost their livelihoods and the scale of their collective horror is unprecedented. Even before the pandemic, these youngsters have faced exclusion and discrimination. Their families are among the most vulnerable, with no access to basic facilities or protection. The state grossly under-reports working children since acknowledging them is acceptance of failure. Even when they become part of statistics as ‘children in need of care and protection’, they are treated as criminals. In the case of working ‘adolescents’, the state turns a complete blind eye to their struggle for survival. Given this apathy, these youngsters have only each other to rely on, to keep their families afloat. Their remarkable courage and fortitude, instead of being valued and built upon, is rebuked and neglected. The belief that ‘all school is good and all work is bad’ is far from true. The conditions imposed by the education system warrant the exclusion of many children. Even the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS), set up especially for children who cannot access formal education, does not allow children who do not have ‘documentary proof’ of existence or who do not have the money required to pay for their exams. For many children who make a tremendous effort to attend schools, the system provides precious little. It does not equip them for life in terms of empowerment, livelihood or even provide a favourable learning experience. Many of them work to continue their studies.  For those who wish to go beyond secondary school or learn a vocation, there are simply no viable options.  Many children chose work over schooling because their work experience provides them knowledge and skills for the future. They have found a purpose, recognition, respect from their work – all of which have been denied to them in their schooling. In the child labour discourse, the recognition that for young persons work is an important part of learning and socialisation; and that the problem lies in ‘exploitative’ work as also in ‘exploitative’ schooling is sadly missing.  Following any large scale epidemic or disaster, like floods in north Karnataka, children feel the need to take on new roles and responsibilities to supplement household income. Any job, no matter how hazardous, is preferred over starvation. It is chilling to hear working children and adolescents narrate their challenges for the future. A teenager who sold brooms prior to lockdowns said “I have no idea what will happen next. I have no strength right now to think about the future.”  The weight of this uncertainty is unbearably heavy on these young shoulders. One child is worried about finding money for her father’s chemotherapy. Another is depressed about not being able to support her sister’s schooling. If only ‘we can get a safe job, any job’ they say. Though the relevant law states that adolescents are entitled to safe work, they do not have any opportunities to access safe occupations. Labour inspectors do not review their workspaces to ensure their safety and wellbeing. Even under MGNREGA, hailed as an economic lifeline, there are no provisions for adolescents to access safe occupations. Working children have to be recognised as individuals with a right to self-determination. The state must pay heed to their well-grounded recommendations, several of them, listed below, were shared by Bhima Sangha as early as 1985.   Learning spaces Many working children need learning spaces that recognise their need to work. Adolescents have a right to access Flexi-schools and evening high-schools with state or NIOS curriculum.  Vocational education interwoven into formal education should be available to children in their panchayats. For this, outreach programmes of the IITs and Koushalyakar programmes could be linked to them.    If not safeguarded, the legal provision for ‘safe work’ for adolescents may create ‘cheap’ and easy to exploit workforces to ‘Make in India’. To ensure their safety, their work could be linked to MGNREGA, ITIs and to Apprenticeship Act and overseen by the local governments. Safe work during school holidays would be very useful. Apprenticeships which combine practical as well as theoretical inputs could be certified to ensure employability and linked to a ‘Development Fund’ to scholarships, skill-upgradation or seed capital. Scholarships must be provided to these youngsters under the NIOS programme. Those under the Anthyodaya or BPL schemes and SC, ST Communities and minorities need special focus. For those children who have travelled back to their villages, Residential Child Care Institutions linked to the nearest government schools are crucial.  Bhima Sangha, in 2002, was instrumental in the first-ever children’s grama sabha in Karnataka. But the participation of working children in the children’s Grama Sabhas is ignored deliberately or by neglect. ‘To be heard’ is a right of children, not an act of adult benevolence and participation of these youngsters have to be ensured in the children’s Grama Sabhas, to raise their issues for redressal. These conversations are critical for creating child rights friendly communities for the future.  As the International Movement of Working Children, of which Bhima Sangha is a founder member, told the ILO, “We are not pests to be eradicated. We are not the problem. We are part of the solution’. (The writer is Director (Advocacy), The Concerned for Working Children)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/child-labour-focus-on-working-children-854244.html
27-06-2020||In Perspective||Common syllabus not the way forward||The Department of Higher Education in Karnataka has announced a series of measures that are intended to come into force shortly. The adoption of online modes of instruction and teaching as measures of continuing education while maintaining social distancing in the Covid crisis, is generating considerable debate and discussion. These are around issues of suitability, level at which this mode of instruction is appropriate, etc.  Close on its heels is the proposal to adopt a common syllabus and pattern of instruction across all universities in Karnataka.  This article’s intention is to examine this proposal in terms of its intent and the possible unfolding of consequences that such a move would bring about, if adopted. It is important to do so now before it is adopted and becomes irreversible. Also, other states may be planning to introduce similar measures, and therefore the debate is relevant for them as well.    First of all, the intention of the higher education department is not clear. The response provided recently by the Higher Education Council to criticisms in the media and elsewhere against adopting uniform “model” syllabi in higher education, mainly highlights the need to adapt to the rapidly changing developments in the knowledge sector and cites Karnataka’s achievements in the IT sector. The move is ostensibly to train our graduates and post-graduates to become job-worthy in current times.  But a cursory examination of this reveals that the motive does not stem out of academic concerns that would necessarily have been focused on the nature and content of syllabi or discussions on the flexibility and changes in response to developments in knowledge. Rather, this appears to be a move that is aimed merely at cost-cutting in the higher education sector and is part of the ongoing process that seeks a rapid reducing of the higher education enterprise into a collegiate level government service. Is there any purpose or advantage that the uniform syllabus proposal carries?  None whatsoever when it comes to higher education.  And the key word here is higher education. To be sure, standardisation measures at the primary and secondary education across the state can have merits in terms of enforcing certain minimum standards in learning that would benefit all school-going children. It can also ensure that the “must-learns” of that phase of education in a young adolescent’s life happens, and happens for all school going children.  It takes no expert in education to realise, however, that this is hardly the case when it comes to higher education. On the contrary, the watchword in designing course curricula or structure at the higher education stage ought to be diversity.  Even in the hard sciences where one could, arguably, establish the universal nature of knowledge in these areas, beyond the very basic learning, at the higher education stage, it is again all to do with specialised knowledge and areas of study. And this knowledge generation and dissemination can only happen through academia specialised in these areas.  These are the departments that can provide trained personnel in a particular branch of knowledge and expertise when a situation demands it.  This is exactly the reason why universities should be encouraged to grow by hiring those teaching and research scholars who can strengthen the particular sub-branches in different subjects.  Diversity in content In the arts and humanities, diversity in content is even more crucial. A particular specialisation, say in Dharwad, in the music or sociology department that documents and analyses the flowering of Hindustani classical musical traditions in that city, cannot find the same resonance or relevance as a subject of study in Mysore university.  A particular university department may have, over the years, developed excellence in insect biology and therefore may offer a specialisation in this area. Innovation requires an emphasis on knowledge creation through trans-disciplinary activity and this requires the growth and nurture of expertise in diverse areas. The need for knowledge and learning as a cultural requirement of a civilisation, and not to merely train workers for a knowledge economy, is another matter. Without invoking this aspect, even consideration of the demands of the “new economy” call for flexibility and diversity in knowledge. The move towards implementing common syllabi across universities in the state can only mean one thing: getting rid of the need to develop and nurture specialisations.  One can have for teaching, some modules, of questionable content, developed by a committee that can now be used by all.  Since anyway what is taught is the same across the state, transfers instead of hiring afresh can compensate for shortage of teaching faculty at any department. This proposal - inimical to imparting training to our graduates to face new challenges, and to the autonomy of the universities alike - should be immediately scrapped. Universities are places where ideas are generated through ‘higher’ education and not merely training centres for job markets. And even on that front, the world over, it is acknowledged that those who are ‘better educated’ remain ‘more trainable’ all their lives, and therefore more suited to the needs to a fast-changing nature of the job market.  (The writer Professor of Physics, Central University of Hyderabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/common-syllabus-not-the-way-forward-854245.html
27-06-2020||Kalaburagi||Despite rape attempt the previous night, audacious SSLC student goes to write exam||A married man allegedly attempted to rape an SSLC student while she was studying late into the night at a Tanda in Kamalapur taluk of the Kalaburagi district. The incident occurred on the night of June 24, but came to light on Saturday. The girl was preparing for the June 25 examination on the night of June 24 under a street light near her house. The man who arrived at the spot, spoke to her and stuffed a piece cloth into her mouth to keep her quiet. He then dragged her to a secluded place where he attempted to force himself on her. When the girl screamed for help, the villagers came running. The man fled from the scene. The girl registered a complaint at Ratkal police station the following day after which she directly went to write her examination. The complaint stated that a man who returned to the Tanda after the nationwide lockdown, committed the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/despite-rape-attempt-the-previous-night-audacious-sslc-student-goes-to-write-exam-854382.html
27-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||No plan to implement Sharavathy underground project: KSE||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa claimed that no survey had been conducted for the Sharavathy underground pumped storage project and the government would not allow for the implementation of such a project. Speaking to media persons in Shivamogga on Saturday, he made it clear that the government has not granted permission for the execution of the Sharavathy underground pumped storage project under any circumstance. The reports that experts came by air to inspect the project site and the survey work is in progress are far from truth, he said He also claimed that the state government is leaving no stone unturned to contain Covid-19 effectively and it would not allow for the execution of the Sharavathy project and he would not support it also. Replying to a query on the project aimed at drawing water from the river Sharavathy to Bengaluru, he said he was not aware of any such project but would not allow for the implementation of such a project. Drawing water from the river Sharavathy to Bengaluru is no light matter and is not feasible, the minister said. On the underground pumped storage project, he said environmentalists have already urged the government not to implement any new project in Sharavathy valley as it would cause damage to ecological balance. Save Sharavathy Valley campaign has already commenced. People of Sharavathy valley are facing many challenges and many are yet to get compensation for giving away their land and houses for the construction of Linganamakki dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-plan-to-implement-sharavathy-underground-project-kse-854396.html
27-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Car turns turtle in Chikkamagaluru, two from Bengaluru killed||Two persons lost their lives and two suffered injuries after the car in which they were travelling in turned turtle, at Karthikere in Chikkamagaluru taluk, in the wee hours of Saturday. According to the police, the deceased were Manjunath (30) and Muthuraj (28), both hailing from Bengaluru. The injured have been shifted to hospital for treatment. They were on their way to Dharmasthala from Bengaluru when the mishap occurred. The driver of the car lost control over the vehicle, resulting in a turning turtle.  The police suspect that rash and speed driving caused the mishap. A case has been registered at Chikkamagaluru rural police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/car-turns-turtle-in-chikkamagaluru-two-from-bengaluru-killed-854399.html
27-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 lockdown brings 'shrink space' mindset for big buildings||Sanjay Deshpande, a noted architect and interior designer in the region, and a partner of Axes Architectural Consultants in Hubballi, has reduced a building size, with which he is involved, from G+15 to G+4 in a district bordering Maharashtra. Thanks to financial disturbances caused by lockdown, and preceding slowdown, along with a shortage of skilled workers. "We have also reduced the size of an apartment being constructed in Dharwad. Though the demand for residential places had come down earlier also, we have received some inquiries from IT-BT professionals working in Bengaluru, who want to have houses here, as the duration of work from home (WFH) is uncertain," he explains the change in the mindset of some of his clients now. For another noted architect and interior designer Vasudev Patil of Vasudev Patil & Associates, managements of commercial firms, showrooms, shops, and banks want to shrink their working space, due to financial problems, and he has already given eight such proposals. 'Interiors put off' "The lockdown has affected apartment construction size too, but not individual houses which were planned well in advance. However, they want to delay the interior designing, as lockdown has brought a savings mentality and simplicity. As projects are delayed now, payment is also very dull," Vasudev Patil explains. Some firms want to merge workplaces and earn revenue from remaining space. If work from the home culture in Bengaluru continues for a long time, some people hailing from here may want to construct houses here, he observed. However, Dinesh Hangal & Associates proprietor Dinesh Hangal, who usually takes up mid and high end projects, sees no change in the demand of customers but is experiencing more demand. WFH effect There was an expectation that interior designers here would get more demand to convert a part of residential space into work space when more people come to Hubballi when work from home (WFH) is given. That is also happening, but not for all architects and interior designers. According to Sphoorthi Kabbur of Kabbur Architects, the demand for a spacious house has become more in the individual segment, and also for segregated workspace as the WFH culture is picking up. "Manufacturing plants are also thinking to have godown together, and we are doing such a project in Dharwad. Some banks and other commercial firms, who have moved to smaller places, will definitely come back to bigger space when total normalcy returns, and business improves," she said. However, this is not the case with some other interior designers. Zahir of Cloud 9 Interior & Exterior and Sayed of Fancy Furniture & Interiors lamented that the business did no see any spike after the lockdown. Pradeep Kallimath of Life Science Interior Designer noted that there was no response, as people working from home just need the existing room, a laptop, tablet, chair, and some electrical fittings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-lockdown-brings-shrink-space-mindset-for-big-buildings-854503.html
27-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Second Covid-19 hospital in Mysuru as cases rise: MP||Mysuru is likely to get a second designated Covid Hospital as the number of patients are on a rise. MP Pratap Simha urged officials to complete the works of 100 bedded mother and child hospital and proposed it to convert as Covid-19 hospital. The MP, who inspected the construction works of Mother and Child Hospital in Lakshmipuram on Saturday, directed the officials concerned to complete the works soon. As the cases of Covid-19 are on the rise, the new hospital will be used to treat Covid-19 patients, if needed, the MP said. The new hospital is being constructed after demolishing 30-bedded Seth Mohandas Tulsidas Hospital. The 100-bed hospital with the state-of-the-art facilities planned at the cost of Rs 20 crore is sanctioned by the Union government. While Rs 16.5 crore is spent on construction of the building, Rs 3.5 crore is utilised for purchasing necessary equipment. The new hospital has a facility to treat women and infants. The building consists of Out Patient Department (OPD), Operation Theatre, labour wards, dressing room, laboratories, administrative office, wards and other departments like pediatric, said an officer of the Health Department. The dissent between MLA S A Ramdass and MP Pratap Simha came to fore. The members of Tulsidas Hospital Development Committee expressed displeasure over the MP as the local corporators and the MLA were not invited for the inspection. The members questioned the MP why he did not inform the local representatives. However, the MP said there was some confusion in communication. The MP also said that he has informed the MLA on Friday itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/second-covid-19-hospital-in-mysuru-as-cases-rise-mp-854521.html
27-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Will start PSSK within 30 days after order: Nirani||Former minister and BJP MLA Murugesh Nirani, who has leased Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK) for a period of 40-year, on Saturday said that the factory will start functioning within 30 days after he receives the orders from the government.  Speaking to media persons during a session organised by Mysuru District Journalist Association here, he said, "The machineries in the factory are in dilapidated state as the factory was defunct for last four years. The factory will be facilitated with modern equipment." "Salary of the employees, who have not received payment from last three year, will clear within 24 hours after the factory start crushing sugarcane," he assured. Nirani said that he has spoken with 130 workers and majority of them are already working. They can rejoin the factory if they wish, he said. He also said that he has plans to upgrade the factory in phase manner. Once the factory is fully up-graded, it will need more employees and priority for employment will be given to regional people. The factory will not only limit for sugar production. It is planned to generate electricity, ethanol, CNG, sanitiser, fertilizer and other products. Nirani said, "Tthere is no politics in connection with PSSK. Though I am a BJP MLA, I am also a businessman. I have asked support of all the MLAs, irrespective of political party, in the region for development of PSSK,” he said, adding that he is ready to take responsibility of BJP in the region, but there is no politics in PSSK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-start-pssk-within-30-days-after-order-nirani-854522.html
27-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||In Kalaburagi, quarantined policemen learn cleaning work||The police, known for their discipline in their profession, do not seem to be so in real life. Policemen in institutional quarantine here are being taught lessons in hygiene and cleanliness.   Spitting paan is a common habit in Kalyana Karnataka and North Karnataka. They are being advised that they should spit the paan in the washbasin and flush it, not anywhere they like. They are also being trained on how to keep their rooms tidy. As many as 14 police personnel, including women, have been quarantined as a rape accused who was arrested earlier tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night. A police officer said, “we have provided mops, bedsheets, pillows, Vicks, paper cups and other essentials to the quarantined. They do not sweep their rooms despite being idle throughout the day. They demand that a maid be deployed for cleaning their rooms.  City Police Commissioner N Satish Kumar told DH that awareness on cleanliness was less among the police here. “We have to first safeguard our staff from Covid-19 as they are the frontline warriors to maintain law and order and stop people from roaming unnecessarily,” he said.   Police stations coming under the commissioner are being sanitised twice a week. Masks and hand sanitisers are being distributed to each staffer, besides advising them to maintain socialdistancing.  Two blocks of the PWD quarters near Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences have been handed over to the police commissioner to quarantine the cops. Another block has been designated as a supervised isolation center, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police D Kishorebabu said there is 673 police personnel, excluding the City Armed Force, under the commissioner. They are being subjected to the virus test batch-wise. About 30 throat swab samples are being collected every day for tests. Till Wednesday, throat swabs of 457 cops have been collected. Of these, 162 samples came back negative and the results of 295 samples are awaited, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/in-kalaburagi-quarantined-policemen-learn-cleaning-work-854555.html
27-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Districts grapple with a surge in coronavirus cases||On Saturday, the state witnessed an explosion of Covid-19 cases with Bengaluru alone clocking close to 600 infections. The day also saw the districts overwhelmed by fresh infections. As many as 15 districts recorded new cases in double digits. While the state capital topped the single-day case tally with a spine-chilling 596, Dakshina Kannada came a distant second with 49 cases. Among the new cases reported in the coastal district, 14 are international returnees while 22 people contracted the disease from the infected. Contract tracing for six is underway and seven are cases with some chronic respiratory issues. A total of 38 patients had been discharged post recovery from Wenlock District Hospital. Virus-hit Kalaburagi saw 33 new cases with Maharashtra returnees accounting for most of them. Ballari district recorded 24 new cases on Saturday with Toranagallu hobli alone reporting 10 cases, including that of a 29-year-old doctor. 9-month-old tests +ve  Dharwad and Gadag districts, which are grappling with growing Covid-19 cases, witnessed 24 and 19 fresh cases respectively on Saturday. A nine-month-old boy from Khadarbhag, a containment zone, in Savanur of Haveri district, tested positive for the virus on Saturday. A government hospital doctor in Tavarageri, Koppal district, and an Indian Army jawan from Yerigonal in Kushtagi taluk tested positive for virus in the last 24 hours. Koppal district, which had maintained a clean slate of Covid cases till second week of May, saw a flurry of cases in the last two to three weeks, taking its tally to 81. Lab asst, SI contract virus All four old Mysuru districts have reported infections in double digits in the last 24 hours -Hassan (14), Chamarajanagar (13) and Mysuru, Mandya (12 each). A staff of Chamarajanagar medical hospital’s Covid lab has tested positive for Covid-19. The 29-year-old woman and her husband from Badanguppe have contracted virus. The district also saw a sub-inspector (wireless dept) and an employee of Land Survey and Settlement department test positive for virus on Saturday. Chamarajanagar district reported its first Covid case on June 9. In just three weeks, it saw 33 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/districts-grapple-with-a-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-854567.html
27-06-2020||Main Article||China opening new fronts along LAC||Although Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas,” tensions continue to rise along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Satellite images reveal that China is yet to dismantle its tents and other prefabricated and other semi-permanent structures that it has been erecting at the Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso. According to some reports, China has, in fact, expanded some of its structures, including a monitoring post in the Galwan Valley. This was reportedly destroyed during the faceoff on June 15 but satellite images indicate that the People’s Liberation Army has rebuilt this post. The situation with regard to Chinese military personnel at face-off sites along the LAC is unclear. Some reports suggest that they are thinning out while others are drawing attention to the PLA amassing troops here. Worryingly, the PLA appears to be opening new fronts. Depsang plains, which lies further north of the Galwan Valley and is closer to Daulat Beg Oldi, is said to be witnessing a significant build-up of troops. Since the June 15 face-off, Chinese officials have repeated claims over the Galwan Valley. Talks between military officials and diplomats of the two sides have taken place. But have these talks resulted in a narrowing of the gap in positions between the two sides? Importantly, does New Delhi have greater clarity on thinking in Beijing? It may be recalled that for several weeks, the Narendra Modi government denied the amassing of Chinese troops along the LAC or their incursions into Indian territory. As recently as a week ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi denied that intrusion had taken place. New Delhi has been displaying a bit more transparency about unfolding events along the LAC. A couple of days ago, MEA officials admitted that China “had been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC” since May. Hopefully, this new openness will result in better crafting of strategy. However, concerns remain. The Modi government’s preoccupation with fighting off Opposition criticism of its mishandling of the crisis rather than focusing all its energies on the situation at the border continues. China’s continuing build-up along the LAC indicates that the crisis is not about to end or even de-escalate. Even if Beijing is not eyeing another face-off along the LAC, it is evident that it is looking at pressuring India militarily in the coming weeks and months to wrest concessions from it at the talks table. Is the Modi government prepared to defend Indian territory and national security robustly?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/china-opening-new-fronts-along-lac-854243.html
27-06-2020||National||Dedicated Covid hospitals in Delhi to have CCTVs in all wards||Covid-19 dedicated hospitals in Delhi have been directed to immediately install CCTV cameras in all wards to enhance patient care, according to an official order issued on Friday. The Delhi health department order also said that all dedicated Covid-19 facilities shall permit one attendant of the patient in hospital premises who will remain in an area earmarked by the hospital. The directions have been issued in compliance with a June 19 order of the Supreme Court. Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla said the instructions are for "immediate compliance". "All Covid-19 dedicated hospitals are directed to ensure that CCTV cameras shall be immediately installed in all wards of a hospital," it said. The PWD has already been directed to assist the hospital management in finding out the requirements of patients admitted in Covid wards and to ensure transparency in their care, it added. The order said all dedicated Covid-19 hospitals are also directed to ensure that footage from the CCTV cameras shall be made available to the inspecting or supervising expert team as per the directions of the central government. "All Coviddedicated hospitals shall create a helpdesk, accessible physically as well as by telephone from where the well-being of patients admitted in the hospital can be enquired," it said. The dedicated Covid-19 facilities under the Delhi government are LNJP Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), GTB Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital and Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital. Besides, Max Smart Hospital in Saket in south Delhi is a private fully-dedicated COVID-19 facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dedicated-covid-hospitals-in-delhi-to-have-cctvs-in-all-wards-854234.html
27-06-2020||National||No. of Covid-19 containment zones to increase in Delhi: Officials||The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi will increase in the coming days after a re-mapping of such areas as authorities have decided to divide them into micro clusters for better surveillance and contact-tracing, officials said on Friday. In Northwest district, where the exercise has been concluded, there has been a rise in the number of containment zones from 21 to 28, an official said. In some districts, the process is yet to begin as officials are still redrawing the boundaries of the containment zones, another official said. As on Friday, there are 280 Covid-19 containment zones in the city. According to a revised Covid-19 response plan issued by the Delhi government, the re-mapping of the containment zones should be completed by June 30. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had recently advised the Delhi government to implement the containment strategy recommended by the V K Paul Committee. The committee had recommended that the containment zones be drawn afresh and strict vigil and control maintained on their borders and the activities taking place in these areas. The amended or new limits of the containment zones should be ready by June 26, a 100-per cent survey of the zones should be done by June 30 and a comprehensive survey for the rest of Delhi should be done by July 6, according to the timetable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-of-covid-19-containment-zones-to-increase-in-delhi-officials-854235.html
27-06-2020||National||Reform of all multilateral entities needed: Jaishankar||Asserting that the world stands at a "transformative moment", External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday said dispassionate scrutiny and reform of all multilateral entities were needed to make them purpose-built for the current times and representative of this century. Addressing a virtual ministerial meeting of Alliance for Multilateralism, Jaishankar said the world is facing a two-pronged attack of a pandemic and misinformation going viral. "Today, once again, we stand at a transformative moment. A pandemic has devastated our globalised economic system; apart from taking a toll of over 400,000 lives, it has fundamentally affected the way we live, work, travel and indeed, relate to each other," he said. "While it is too early to say that the coronavirus has altered our way of life forever, it has reduced humanity's instinctive comfort in the presence of others," Jaishankar said. Suspicion of human interaction is fuelled, more often than not, by fake news, wrong information and targeted disinformation, he said. "So widespread are these phenomena today that we are truly facing a two-pronged attack of a viral pandemic and misinformation going viral. In other words, this is an era of both a health crisis and an infodemic," he said. He asserted that the way forward to address both the challenges is similar and said that there is a need to strengthen the belief in scientific approaches. "That means, we must set aside politics and focus on facts—whether it is the effort to dispassionately analyse the causes and drivers of the current coronavirus pandemic, or to assess what changes our multilateral health mechanisms need to implement to improve preparations for a future pandemic," Jaishankar said. The resolution adopted at the World Health Assembly last month is an opportunity to use facts and science to assess our response to this pandemic and take those lessons to prepare better for the future, he said, adding that as Chair of the WHO Executive Board, India is ready to work towards these goals. "We need to restore our faith in meaningful and equal partnerships. Trust, partnership and cooperation draw people, societies and countries together especially during crises, particularly when fake news and disease engender isolationism and unilateralism," he said. In this context, India was pleased to be a part of cross-regional group presenting a statement on the ongoing ‘Infodemic’ in the context of COVID-19 at the UN, he noted. "It is an empirical fact that every process and institution must evolve to meet the needs of its time. No institution, howsoever important, can remain frozen at the moment of its foundation," Jaishankar said. "Just as we need to consider the resourcing and regulatory parameters set out for the World Health Organisation, to address and resolve shortcomings, so too do we need dispassionate scrutiny and reform of all multilateral entities, to make them purpose-built for our times, and representative of this century," he said. This is why India continues to call for ‘reformed multilateralism’--one that is relevant for the age in which we live, not when this architecture was erected, he said. "Our alliance must stand for a dynamic multilateralism; for a purposeful reform of existing structures, which must continue to serve the international community even more in this complex and uncertain time," he said. The "Alliance for Multilateralism" launched by the French and German foreign ministers is an informal network of countries united in their conviction that a rules-based multilateral order is the only reliable guarantee for international stability and peace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reform-of-all-multilateral-entities-needed-jaishankar-854258.html
27-06-2020||National||273 new COVID-19 cases in Assam; number rises to 6,919||As many as 273 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Assam on Friday, raising the tally in the state to 6,919, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. Among the fresh cases, 203 are from the Guwahati city alone, where a complete lockdown will be imposed from June 28 midnight, he said. "273 new Covid-19+ cases detected in Assam today. Guwahati city alone sees a surge of 203 cases today and time for us to follow lockdown instructions. Your cooperation is vital", Sarma tweeted. Out of the total 6,919 positive cases in the state, 965 alone are in Guwahati. There are 2,660 Covid-19 active cases in the state presently, while nine patients have died of the disease. Three others have migrated out of the state. A total of 214 more patients were released on Friday from different hospitals across the state, taking the total number of discharged persons to 4,247 and the recovery rate to 63.4 per cent, the minister said. The number of hospital beds in Guwahati currently is 890 and at the rate in which the cases are increasing, it ''will be filled up in four days and we will have to take the patients to Covidhospitals in other towns,'' Sarma said. "A 800-bed temporary hospital for #Covid patients is under construction at Khanapara field in Guwahati and will soon be functional, adding up to our treatment capacity," he said. A total of 3,62,713 samples have been tested so far in different laboratories in the state, Sarma said. “We are leaving no stone unturned in order to contain #Covid in Assam", he added. Currently, 30,750 people are in institutional quarantine and 1,26,960 people in home quarantine, according to the bulletin issued by the state health department There are at present 395 containment zones in the state with Kamrup (Metro) having the highest at 207, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/273-new-covid-19-cases-in-assam-number-rises-to-6919-854259.html
27-06-2020||National||DH Toon | Central Vista Project: 'Right time to blame Delhi's vastu for this'||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista Project for setting up a new Parliament building, saying it can't restrain authorities from acting as per law. The court, however, also said if the government went ahead with the project, it would be at its own cost and risk as the novel coronavirus cases in the city continue to surge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-central-vista-project-right-time-to-blame-delhis-vastu-for-this-854261.html
27-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 27||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 5 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 5,28,016 as of June 27 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 16,090   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,08,951  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-27-854262.html
27-06-2020||National||1,700 kg of ganja seized from Odisha's Koraput||In a major haul, Odisha Police have seized 1,700 kilograms of ganja and arrested 26 people in this connection from Koraput district, an official said on Friday. Police said the banned drug was procured from Machkund area of the district, from where it was being smuggled to other states. "Owing to the lockdown, ganja smugglers are supplying the contraband in vehicles meant for transporting essential commodities to give the police the slip. However, we have intensified our raid in the past few months and have enhanced our patrolling on suspected ganja corridors in the district," Koraput SP Mukesh Kumar Bhamoo said. Police seized 10 four-wheelers in which around 1,700 kilograms of ganja was being smuggled on Thursday, on the eve of the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, "We were tipped-off about the consignments and accordingly the vehicles were intercepted at various locations," the SP said. Raids were conducted at Sunabeda, Semiliguda, Pottangi, Boipariguda, Machkund and Jeypore Sadar police station areas. According to the SP, since August 2019, the district police have seized 25,462 kilograms of ganja and have arrested 263 people for smuggling the contraband. "Also, we have destroyed around 19,000 cannabis plants spread over 550 acres in the district in past few weeks," the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1700-kg-of-ganja-seized-from-odishas-koraput-854263.html
27-06-2020||National||Petrol, diesel, prices rise yet again; 21st consecutive day of hikes||Petrol and diesel prices rose again on Saturday, marking the 21st straight day of increase in the prices of fuels after an 82-day hiatus in the wake of Covid-19. In Delhi, petrol price rose by 25 paise per litre, while diesel was up 21 paise per litre. Diesel is now at a record high in Delhi, while prices of both fuels have now crossed the Rs 80-mark in the UT. Petrol will now cost Rs 80.38 a litre and diesel Rs 80.40 per litre in the national capital. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, people will now pay Rs 82.99 for a litre for petrol and Rs 76.45 for each litre of diesel. Rates of petrol and diesel differ from state to state depending on the incidence of VAT. While the price for diesel has been hiked for the 21st straight day, the price for petrol rose for the 20th time in less than three weeks. The cumulative increase in the price of fuels since oil marketing companies started raising the prices since June 7 now totals to Rs 9.12 for petrol and Rs 11 for diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-rise-yet-again-21st-consecutive-day-of-hikes-854274.html
27-06-2020||National||India passes 500,000-mark with 18,552 new Covid-19 cases||India now has more than 500,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, according to government figures released Saturday that showed a record daily leap of 18,552 new infections. Authorities said 15,685 people had died after another 385 fatalities were added to the toll in 24 hours. The pandemic is not expected to peak in India for several more weeks and experts say the number of cases could pass one million before the end of July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-passes-500000-mark-with-18552-new-covid-19-cases-854296.html
27-06-2020||National||Mumbai attack convict David Headley cannot be extradited to India; Tahawwur Ranafaces extradition: US attorney||Mumbai terrorist attack convict David Headley cannot be extradited to India, but Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman co-conspirator Tahawwur Rana faces extradition, a US attorney has told a federal court while opposing his bail plea. Rana, 59, a childhood friend of David Coleman Headley, was recently rearrested on June 10 in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He is a declared fugitive in India. According to the federal prosecutors, between 2006 and November 2008, Rana conspired with Headley, also known as "Daood Gilani”, and others in Pakistan to assist Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Harakat ul-Jihad-e-Islami, both US-designated terrorist organisations, to plan and carry out the Mumbai terrorist attacks. Pakistani-American LeT terrorist Headley was involved in plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. He was made an approver in the case, and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack. The US is yet to file India’s request for Rana’s extradition but is expected to do it soon. It is evident that the offences for which Rana was tried in the Illinois court will differ from the Indian offences mentioned in the complaint. Rana in his defence has argued that US’ decision not to extradite his co-conspirator, Headley, to India is inconsistent and bars his extradition. However, Assistant US Attorney John J Lulejian told a federal court in Los Angeles on Friday that unlike Rana, Headley immediately accepted responsibility for his conduct and pleaded guilty to all of the charges in the Superseding Indictment. “Because Headley fulfilled the required terms, the plea agreement established that Headley would not be extradited to India. Rana’s situation is different because he neither pleaded guilty nor cooperated with the United States. “As a result, he is unable to avail himself of the benefits afforded to Headley through his negotiated plea. Thus, he cannot complain that he faces extradition, while his co-defendant does not,” the US attorney said. Rana’s bail application is due for hearing next week. Early this week, his attorney told the court that the 26/11 convict is not a flight risk and has proposed a $1.5 million bond for his release. "Rana should be released on a robust bond: secured by approximately $1.5 million in property pledged by family and friends and under the supervision of his daughter, Lemaan Rana, a matriculating medical student and PhD candidate,” Amy Karlin, the Interim Federal Public Defender, said in the court submission on behalf of Rana. India seeks his arrest on a number of offences, including the conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to commit forgery for the purpose of cheating, and murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He is sought for his role in the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. The US attorney urged the court to continue his detention pending the extradition proceedings to India. Describing Rana as a flight risk, the attorney said that no matter what bond package he offers, Rana poses an unacceptable flight risk. If the US extradites Rana to India and he is convicted of the charges, he may be eligible for the death penalty. Given what is at stake, Rana has an extreme incentive to flee and avoid facing these extradition proceedings, Lulejian said. “He could accomplish this by going into hiding within the US, but he has a particular incentive to go to another country that may not extradite him without assurances from India that it will not seek, impose or carry out the death penalty,” the attorney argued. If Rana were to flee to Canada, his extradition from Canada to the US would take years and would require substantial resources by the governments of both Canada and the United States, and there is no guarantee that Canada would ultimately grant that extradition request, he said. However, even if Canada granted the request from the US, the terms of the US-Canada extradition treaty would prohibit the US from extraditing Rana to a third country, such as India, unless Canada granted its consent to do so, Lulejian said. Not only does Rana have an incentive to flee, but he has numerous international connections who can help facilitate his flight, he told the court. Rana ran an international immigration business for many years in Chicago, which allowed him to develop professional and personal relationships around the world. “Moreover, he was convicted of plotting an attack with and providing material support to an international terrorist organisation based in Pakistan. These international connections enhance Rana’s flight risk because they can provide the means to flee this jurisdiction and potentially avoid extradition to India,” Lulejian added. The 2008 Mumbai attack was one of India’s most horrific terrorist attacks in which 166 people were killed and over 300 injured as 10 heavily-armed terrorists from Pakistan created mayhem. Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the lone terrorist captured alive, was hanged to death on November 21, 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-attack-convict-david-headley-cannot-be-extradited-to-india-tahawwur-ranafaces-extradition-us-attorney-854327.html
27-06-2020||National||ED questions Ahmed Patel in money laundering case||A fortnight after he refused to appear citing Covid-19, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday questioned senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel at his residence in connection with a money laundering case against Sandesara brothers of  Vadodara-based pharma firm Sterling Biotech. The investigators went to the 23-Mother Theresa Crescent Road residence of Patel, a Rajya Sabha MP, at around 11:30 AM and recorded his statement under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for his alleged links with Nitin Sandesara and Chetan Sandesara, who are absconding. Last year, the ED had questioned Patel's son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui in this case and recorded their statements based on a statement from Sandesara group employee Sunil Yadav who claimed he bore expenses of Rs 10 lakh for a party attended by Faisal, arranged his entry in a night club and once delivered Rs five lakh to his driver in Delhi. The Patels had denied the allegations. "The people of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi-ji and (Home Minister) Amit Shah-ji came. They came, asked me questions, I replied and they left," Patel was quoted by ANI as saying. In a separate statement released after around eight-hour-long questioning., he said there is a "clear pattern" that the investigating agencies become active on the instructions of "one individual" whenever there is an election or the government is facing a crisis. "‪Unfortunately, this time the Modi government’s failure to manage a economic, health and national security crisis is now so huge, that none of the agencies can help spin the narrative‬. Rather than fighting the pandemic and China, this government is more keen to fight the Opposition. ‪Nonetheless, our conscience is clear. We have nothing to hide, nor are we afraid to criticise and expose the government’s failures ‬and their past corruption," he said. The money laundering case involving the Sandesara brothers is the offshoot of a CBI case and chargesheet filed in court against them in connection with the Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud. Patel was earlier asked to appear before the investigators on June 9, which was the second time, but he responded saying he is above 65 years and it would be risky for him to step out due to Covid-19. Patel (70) was assured that adequate precaution would be taken at the ED headquarters but the Rajya Sabha MP cited that there were cases of Covid-19 in the agency's office. He was then told that he would be quizzed at his residence. The ED calls it a bigger scam in volume compared to the case against Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi where the total scam is pegged at Rs 13,400 crore. Last year, the ED had questioned Patel's son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui in this case and recorded their statements based on a statement from Sandesara group employee Sunil Yadav who claimed he bore expenses of Rs 10 lakh for a party attended by Faisal, arranged his entry in a night club and once delivered Rs five lakh to his driver in Delhi. The Patels had denied the allegations. The Sandesaras brothers, who are simultaneously probed by CBI and Income Tax Department, are suspected to be now in Nigeria. They are also suspected to have a nexus with high-profile politicians. The ED had also attached Sandesara brothers' assets worth around Rs 14,000 crore in India and abroad, including oil rigs in Nigeria and ships registered in Panama. In July 2018, the ED had filed a chargesheet against Gujarat-based  Sterling Biotech Ltd Director Rajbhushan Omprakash Dixit. It had claimed that the loans were sanctioned by a consortium of banks like the Andhra Bank, UCO Bank, State Bank of India, Allahabad Bank and Bank of India. The banks have declared several  outstanding loan accounts of various companies of Sterling Group including Sterling Biotech Ltd, Sterling Port Ltd, PMT Machines Ltd., Sterling SEZ and Infrastructure Ltd and Sterling Oil Resources Ltd as fraud Three persons -- Delhi-based businessman Gagan Dhawan, former Andhra Bank director Anup Garg and Dixit were earlier arrested in the case. The ED had alleged that Dhawan helped the Directors of SBL in purchasing several properties. "The facts of the case reveal that the amount involved in money laundering was layered through various inter-bank transfers and thereafter, integrated and then utilised by Dhawan to acquire the immovable property and rights therein attempting to show the same as untainted property which is likely to be concealed, transferred or dealt with in a manner which may frustrate the proceedings under the Act (PMLA)," the ED had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-questions-ahmed-patel-in-money-laundering-case-854330.html
27-06-2020||National||PM has surrendered in Covid-19 fight: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took a fresh jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of surrendering in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic that has infected more than five lakh persons across the country “PM is silent. He has surrendered and is refusing to fight the pandemic,” the former Congress President said referring to a report that pointed out that neither the national taskforce of medical experts nor the ministerial panel to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic has met for two weeks. “Covid-19 is spreading rapidly into new parts of the country. GOI (Government of India) has no plan to defeat it,” Rahul said, repeating the ‘surrender’ jibe at the Prime Minister.  On Sunday last, Rahul had accused the Prime Minister of maintaining silence on the reports of Chinese intrusion into Indian territory and surrendering before China, remarks that stung the BJP hard. Rahul has been targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic since the nation-wide lockdown was announced in March and kept up the attack on the government through the migrant workers' crisis and the impact of the pandemic on the economy. Earlier this month, he targeted Modi by referring to the high mortality rate due to Covid-19 in Gujarat, the Prime Minister’s home state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-has-surrendered-in-covid-19-fight-rahul-gandhi-854331.html
27-06-2020||National||India much better placed than many other countries on Covid-19 casualties: PM Modi||As the Covid-19 cases breached the five-lakh mark, Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised against “letting your guard down” and the need to be “even more careful now” while the GoM chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had detailed deliberations on the strategy to counter the pandemic. Asserting that powered by Corona warriors, India is “firmly fighting Covid-19,” Modi also said that earlier this year, some people had predicted that the impact of the virus in India would be very, very severe but due to the lockdown and many initiatives taken by the Government as well it being a people-driven fight, “India is much better placed than many other nations. India's recovery rate is rising.” Just two hours before Modi’s remarks at his virtual address in the 90th Birthday Celebrations of Reverend Dr. Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi alleged the “government has no plan” to defeat the pandemic as Covid-19 is spreading rapidly into new parts of the country.” “PM is silent. He has surrendered and is refusing to fight the pandemic,” Rahul Gandhi said. The Prime Minister, however, noting that any loss of life is unfortunate, due to Covid-19 or otherwise, asserted India's death per million due to the virus is under 12.  “To place this in context, the death rate in Italy is 574 per million. The figures in America, Britain, Spain, and France are also much higher than India. Lakhs of villages, home to 85 crore people, remain almost untouched by coronavirus,” Modi said. Appreciating the country's people-driven fight that has given good results so far, Modi chose to remind everyone “but can we let our guard down?  No. Not at all. In fact, we have to be even more careful now.  Wearing masks, social distancing, do gaj ki doori, avoiding crowded places, regularly hand washing hands, these remain important. “ Four days before Unlock 1.0 kicked in with renewed focus on economic development, Modi underlined the need to focus on economic growth and prosperity for 130 crore Indians.  “The wheels of trade and commerce have to move.  Agriculture has to flourish. In the last few weeks, the Government of India has addressed both short-term and long-term issues relating to the economy,” the Prime Minister said “from the sea to space, from the farms to the factories, people-friendly and growth-friendly decisions have been taken."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-much-better-placed-than-many-other-countries-on-covid-19-casualties-pm-modi-854338.html
27-06-2020||National||Locals help troupe get through tough Covid-19 lockdown months||The gates are padlocked, the once vibrant striped yellow and blue big top is faded and sagging and the carousel with its dancing horses has long stopped. It’s the quiet of the lockdown but somewhere in the forlorn Rambo Circus camp the cheer still echoes.   The circus came to town in February to entertain the people of Navi Mumbai’s Airoli locality and is now indebted to them for helping out in these months of crisis when the lockdown stalled the fun and games, said Rambo Circus manager Biju Nair.    Four months on, Nair said he can’t thank the locals enough. When he came and set up camp in Airoli with his 90-member troupe, including artistes and circus technicians, 14 canines and one pony, they didn’t know anyone.   And now, they do.   In fact, his team has been surviving thanks to the magnanimity of the locals, Nair told PTI.   Some vendors ensured a steady supply of fresh vegetables through the hot summer months and there were others who helped with rations. Among those who have helped them survive these long months has been NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal who contributed towards their food supplies, Nair said. They had managed only four shows before they had to shut down. The peak holiday season when schools are closed for summer came and went and the troupe, used to shifting base every few months, stayed put, right where they had been since February.   They spend their days in their tents, huddled around a television set, on their mobile phones or cooking meals on stoves. Outside, the grass is overgrown, a lifesize rhino model and some ducks serve as a reminder of the circus buzz and the chairs are stacked up, waiting for audiences to stream back in.     Though the team is used to staying in tents, Cyclone Nisarga earlier this month left a trail of destruction, compounding their many problems.   “There was no loss of life but the cyclone damaged a generator and a few air conditioning units,” Nair said, adding that repairing the damage is a huge challenge with no money coming in and no immediate prospect of performances resuming.   All the while, Covid-19 cases continue to rise. There has been a spurt in cases in Airoli and Nair said he has to take special efforts to ensure the staff stays within the confines of the camp without mingling with outsiders.   From 300 circus companies a few decades ago, barely 10 or 11 survive, say industry insiders. Full of gratitude to the locals who made his troupe their own and reached out to help them survive these difficult months, Nair has made them a solemn promise --  a free show on the other side of the lockdown.    But when will that be?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locals-help-troupe-get-through-tough-covid-19-lockdown-months-854369.html
27-06-2020||National||Health Ministry adds inexpensive, widely used steroid dexamethasone to Covid-19 treatment protocol||India on Saturday approved the use of widely available drug dexamethasone to treat Covid-19 patients with moderate and severe symptoms after clinical trials proved its efficacy to reduce mortality. The Health Ministry revised its ‘Clinical Management Protocol: Covid-19’ to include steroid drug dexamethasone as an alternative to methylprednisolone to treat Covid-19 patients. India had 5,08,953 Covid-19 patients on Saturday morning after the highest single-day spike of 18,552 new infections on Friday. The death toll too shot up by 384, taking the total fatalities to 15,685. The revised clinical management protocol said that dexamethasone, which is used to reduce inflammation in other diseases such as arthritis, has been cleared for patients in need of oxygen support and those who have excessive inflammatory response. “The drug has been tested on hospitalised patients with Covid-19 in the recover clinical trial and was found to have benefits for critically ill patients and has shown to reduce mortality by about one third for patients on ventilators, and by about one fifth for patients being maintained on oxygen therapy,” an official statement said. In India, dexamethasone is part of the National List of Essential Medicines and is widely available, the health ministry said. Dexamethasone, a low-dose steroid, has been on the market for over 60 years and usually serves to reduce inflammation.   Clinical trials by a team of researchers from the University of Oxford administered dexamethasone to more than 2,000 severely ill patients hospitalised with the Covid-19. Among those who could only breathe with the help of a ventilator, it reduced deaths by 35 per cent. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan chaired a meeting of the Group of Ministers on Covid-19 response to assess the preparedness across the country to deal with the pandemic. India has set up 1039 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals with 1,76,275 isolation beds, 22,940 ICU beds and 77,268 oxygen supported beds; 2,398 dedicated Covid Health Centres with 1,39,483 isolation beds, 11,539 ICU beds and 51,321 oxygen supported beds. Besides, 8,958 Covid Care Centres with 8,10,621 beds are now available to combat the infectious pandemic in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-adds-inexpensive-widely-used-steroid-dexamethasone-to-covid-19-treatment-protocol-854376.html
27-06-2020||National||Police college trainees boycott Chinese goods, delete apps||At a time when debates on banning Chinese goods and apps are on, a police training college in Karimnagar, Telangana, has suggested to its trainees to ban Chinese products and delete mobile apps developed by the neighbouring country. The college imparts training to directly recruited constables and head constables and assistant sub-inspector promotees. Principal in-charge of the college G Chandramohan said though there is no official order to keep off Chinese products or to delete apps, the trainees are boycotting those goods after the recent killing of Indian soldiers, including Colonel Satish Babu, by the troops of the neighbouring nation. There was a banner also put up at the entrance of the the college saying "Chinese apps, products are prohibited in this college," There is no official order to ban the products or apps. But we are sensitising our cadets to the importance of keeping hands off the Chinese goods which will increase the sales of domestic products. We feel that buying Chinese goods will strengthen their economy. We have witnessed what they have done to our soldiers recently in the Galwan Valley, the official told PTI. He said besides that, the college is sensitising its cadets to cruelty against animals and the importance of a plastic-free environment. The training college currently has 880 trainees and about 150 staff and majority of them has deleted Chinese apps from their phones, he said. We cannot stop anyone from buying Chinese goods if they wish to. But our intention is to discourage them, he further said. The death of 20 Indian Army personnel has triggered a countrywide debate on the boycott. There were sporadic incidents of agitations demanding the Centre to ban goods made in that country. Union Minister Ramdas Athawale had, on Friday, called for a ban on TikTok to impact China economically, saying 15 crore Indians use the Chinese app and the foreign country makes profits running into crores of rupees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-college-trainees-boycott-chinese-goods-delete-apps-854383.html
27-06-2020||National||Railway station development projects receive good response from investors||Although Covid-19 pandemic led to slowdown in economy, the Indian Railways station development project has received good response from investors as 32 private players have shown interest to participate in modernisation of four major railway stations in the country.   Major players including JKB Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., GMR, ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments, Kalpataru Power Transmission Ltd, Monte Carlo Limited,  Kalyan Toll Infrastructure Ltd and Cube Construction Engineering have shown interest for redevelopment of Nagpur, Gwalior, Amritsar and Sabarmati — railway stations through Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode.  "Overwhelming response has been received from developers and fund houses despite the current Covid-19 scenario," S K Lohia, Managing Director, Indian Railway Station Development Corporation ( IRSDC), said.  IRSDC, a nodal agency in the Railway Ministry to redevelopment of stations, said the total indicative cost of redevelopment of four stations will be around Rs 1,300 crore. "Out of the 32 applications, 9 applications have been received for Sabarmati station (Ahmedabad). The applicants include two ‘Funds’ (ISQ Capital andFairFax ) apart from reputed developers,” Lohia said. "The total built up area (BUA) allowed for commercial development is 54 lakh square feet. No land use change and prior environmental clearance is required for these projects as these are Railway projects under Railway Act 1989," he said. These four  projects hold distinction of being the first railway projects to have in principle approval of Public Private Partnership Appraisal Committee  (PPPAC), formed by Centre' s PPP projects. These four stations are also the first ones to have provision of pre-determined user charges on passengers and visitors as one of the main revenue stream for the concessionaire of the redeveloped stations. These redeveloped hubs will be called as ‘Railopolis’, as it will attract huge investment and business opportunities, Lohia said. After shortlisting the applicants, Request for Proposal will be called in which bids will be submitted by the bidders. It is likely that the work will start soon in all the four projects, Lohia said. The Indian Railways earlier unveiled ambitious project of modernising 400 major railways stations across the country with  PPP.  Habibganj Station in Bhopal is the first railway station being modernised through PPP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-station-development-projects-receive-good-response-from-investors-854410.html
27-06-2020||National||'Sheer profiteering' by Centre, says Yashwant Sinha on fuel price hike||Former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha on Saturday alleged that the Centre is resorting to "profiteering" by increasing fuel prices on a daily basis. On one hand, the Centre announced a Rs 20-lakh crore package to uplift the economy, while on the other, it "robbed" people who travel by motorbikes, scooters and other vehicles, he said. While diesel rates were hiked for the 21st straight day on Saturday, petrol prices have been increased on 20 occasions in three weeks. "There are occasions when the price hike in petrol and diesel (prices) becomes imperative. But I can tell you on the basis of my experience that it is nothing but sheer profiteering in today's circumstances," Sinha said at a press conference here. "It is unfortunate and saddening to know that the government is resorting to profiteering," he said. Sinha said it is well known that "crude oil price is soft in the international market". On Saturday, the price of petrol was hiked by 25 paise per litre and diesel by 21 paise per litre, taking the cumulative increase in rates in three weeks to Rs 9.12 and Rs 11.01, respectively. On June 7, oil companies had restarted revising prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day hiatus during which they adjusted steep excise duty hikes by the government against the fall in benchmark international oil rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sheer-profiteering-by-centre-says-yashwant-sinha-on-fuel-price-hike-854412.html
27-06-2020||National||8 states contributed 85% Covid-19 caseload, 87% deaths: Health Ministry||Eight states, including Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu, contributed 85.5 per cent of the active COVID-19 caseload and 87 per cent of the total deaths due to the disease in India, according to the Union Health Ministry. The ministry said it briefed the Group of Ministers on COVID-19 on the coronavirus situation in the country and the efforts to boost healthcare infrastructure on Saturday. "It was mentioned that presently eight states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal - contribute 85.5 per cent of active caseload and 87 per cent of total deaths in India," it said in a statement. India has reported five lakh COVID-19 cases with the worst single-day jump of 18,552 cases on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 15,685. The health ministry said it also briefed the GOM during its 17th meeting about the recovery and mortality rates, doubling rate and ramped up testing in various states. It told the GOM 15 central teams consisting of public health experts, epidemiologists and a senior joint secretary-level officer have been deployed to provide support to the states. Another central team is currently visiting Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana to strengthen ongoing efforts for management of COVID-19, it said. The GoM was also briefed about the utility of ITIHAS and Aarogya Setu in contact-tracing and prediction of potential hotspot areas. The Group of Ministers was told that the key focus areas continually communicated to states and UTs are strict containment measures and surveillance, utilizing full testing capacity and focus on monitoring of co-morbid and elderly population and predicting emerging hotspots leveraging digital tools such as Aarogya Setu. They have also been asked to ensure seamless patient admission processes, fatality mitigation by effective clinical management; focus on infrastructure preparedness (critical care beds, oxygen, ventilators and logistics) and ensuring that non-COVID healthcare services are not impacted. Balram Bhragava, the ICMR Director General, gave a detailed presentation on the testing strategy. He explained about the serological survey and the increasing capacity for enhanced per-day testing through various tests. The samples tested in the last 24 hours have increased to 2,20,479, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 79,96,707, the statement said. India now has 1,026 diagnostic labs dedicated to COVID-19. This includes 741 in the government sector and 285 private labs, Bhargava told the Group of Ministers. The GoM was also apprised that as of June 27, the COVID-related health infrastructure has been strengthened with the availability of 1,039 dedicated COVID Hospitals with 1,76,275 isolation beds, 22,940 ICU beds and 77,268 oxygen-supported beds, the ministry said. Also, 2,398 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,39,483 isolation beds, 11,539 ICU beds and 51,321 oxygen-supported beds have been operationalised.  Moreover, 8,958 COVID Care Centres with 8,10,621 beds are now available in the country. The Centre has provided 185.18 lakh N95 masks and 116.74 lakh Personal Protective Equipment to the states, UTs and Central institutions. In a detailed presentation by K Shivaji, the chairman of the Empowered Group-10, the GoM was briefed that the stipulated redressal time on COVID-19 public grievances was brought down from the usual 60 days for normal public grievances to three days. The National Dashboard for COVID-19 was launched on April 1 for exclusive monitoring of related public grievances. From March 30 to June 24, the Empowered Group disposed 93.84 per cent of the 77,307 grievances received for central ministries and  63.11 per cent of the 53,130 grievances received pertaining to state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-states-contributed-85-covid-19-caseload-87-deaths-health-ministry-854419.html
27-06-2020||National||Despite opposition, J&K govt continues to issue domicile certificates||Despite huge opposition from regional political parties and separatists, Jammu and Kashmir government continued to issue domicile certificates to non-locals, who fulfill the eligibility according to the new Domicile law. On Saturday Divisional Commissioner, Jammu Sanjeev Verma distributed 50 domicile certificates among those sections of the society who have been residing in J&K for the last more than 70 years but were not eligible for citizenship rights due to Article 370. The certificates were distributed among West Pakistani refugees, people belonging to the downtrodden sections such as the Balmiki Samaj, Gorkhas and others, an official spokesperson said. West Pakistani refugees were part of the Parliamentary electoral roll but not of the erstwhile state electoral roll. The new domicile law was passed after the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A, which gave special status to the erstwhile state by prohibiting outsiders from buying land, and reserving jobs for residents of J&K. Under the new domicile rules, all those persons and their children who have resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or have studied for seven years and appeared in class 10th or 12th examination in an educational institution in the Union Territory are eligible for grant of domicile. Children of Central government officials, all India service officers, officials of PSUs and autonomous body of Central government, public sector banks, officials of statutory bodies, Central universities and recognised research institutes, who have served in J&K for a total period of ten years will also be eligible for Domicile status. Regional parties, including People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and National Conference (NC), and Hurriyat Conference have termed the issuance of domicile certificates to non-locals as “first major step towards changing the demography of the Muslim-majority region by the government at the behest of the RSS.” The reactions came after Navin Kumar Choudhary, a senior IAS officer of J&K cadre from Bihar, became the first bureaucrat, among 25,000 “non-residents”, who were granted a domicile certificate on Friday. To fast track the procedure of issuing domicile certificates, J&K government has set a timeline of 15 days for the issuance of the certificate in favour of the applicants and the Tehsildar who is competent to issue the certificate can be fined Rs 50,000 in case he/she fails to issue it on time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-opposition-jk-govt-continues-to-issue-domicile-certificates-854426.html
27-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM Modi speaks on Covid-19; India warns China on altering status quo||In today's episode, Prime Minister Narendra Modi says that India was much better placed than many other nations on the Covid-19 situation, India warns China on trying to alter the status quo on the ground, Petrol and diesel prices hiked, the Enforcement Directorate questions senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel and Facebook says it would ban a "wider category of hateful content" in ads.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-speaks-on-covid-19-india-warns-china-on-altering-status-quo-854428.html
27-06-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally surges from 1 to 5 lakh in 39 days; medical experts point to increased testing||It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach one lakh, while just 39 days more to go past the five lakh-mark. Medical experts have pointed to the ramped up COVID-19 testing, now available more extensively and at a reasonable price, as a big reason for the spike in cases recently. Six days after recording four lakh infections, India's COVID-19 tally went past the five lakh-mark on Saturday with the highest single-day surge of 18,552 cases, while the death toll climbed to 15,685, according to Union health ministry data. The COVID-19 caseload increased to 5,08,953, while 384 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, the updated figure at 8 am showed. This was the fourth consecutive day when coronavirus infection increased by more than 15,000, while there has been a surge of 3,18,418 infections from June 1 till 27. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh are the top contributors to the rising tally. It took 64 days for COVID-19 cases in India to touch the (May 19) one lakh-mark from 100 cases, and another fortnight to cross two lakh cases on June 3. It took 10 days for the tally to touch the three lakh-mark and another eight days for the cases to climb to four lakh. The nationwide lockdown was first imposed on March 25 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. It was further extended till May 31. The lockdown is now restricted only in containment zones across the country and will continue till June 30. A large number of social, economic, religious and sports activities are currently allowed to function under what the Ministry of Home Affairs termed as 'Unlock 1'. After the government initiated the unlock procedure to make-up for the economic cost of the lockdown, the COVID-19 cases started to gallop. Dr. Monica Mahajan, Director, Internal Medicine, Max Healthcare, said it is important to understand the reason for the exponential rise in cases. The numbers are doubling at such a fast rate due to factors such as the high reproduction number of the virus (the number of cases, on average, an infected person will cause during their infectious period), she said. Also, with the lifting of lockdown norms people's behaviour has changed again as they are not acting as responsibly as before in terms of social distancing, and testing has become more liberal, Mahajan told PTI. She said the price of the test has come down and test kits are more easily available, so more cases are being detected. Noted city-based lung surgeon Dr Arvind Kumar said definitely a big reason for cases going up is increased testing. The percentage of people turning out to be positive from among those tested is also going up as due to lifting of the lockdown people have completely forgotten social distancing norms and are out on the streets with scant regard for the pandemic, said Kumar, who works at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 79,96,707 samples have been tested up to June 26 with 2,20,479 samples being tested on Friday, the highest in a day since the beginning of the pandemic. The government has ramped up its testing infrastructure across the country significantly with the ICMR validating around 1,007 diagnostic labs, of which 734 are in the government sector and 273 private sector. The per day testing capacity which was around 1.4 lakh on May 25 has been increased to three lakh per day now. Starting with one single laboratory, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and having 100 laboratories in the beginning of the lockdown, the ICMR on June 23 validated 1000th testing laboratory. The real-time RT-PCR is the gold standard test for detecting cases of COVID-19 and the average time taken is around 4-5 hours from receipt of sample to getting the result. It requires a specialised laboratory set-up because of which this test cannot be performed at every district-level lab which does not have molecular virology facilities, the ICMR said recently. Thus the TrueNat and the CBNAAT systems have also been deployed for diagnosis of COVID-19 in view of availability of customised cartridges. Besides, the ICMR recently also approved the use of rapid-antigen test for coronavirus infection that gives results in 30 minutes and has also advised carrying out rapid antibody tests only for surveillance purposes. India reported its first case of coronavirus infection on January 30 from Kerala. The number of active cases currently stands at 1,97,387 while 2,95,880 people have recovered and one patient has migrated. "Thus, around 58.13 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia. According to Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling COVID-19 data from all over the world, India is at the eighth position in terms of the death toll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-surges-from-1-to-5-lakh-in-39-days-medical-experts-point-to-increased-testing-854440.html
27-06-2020||National||India Railways completes several pending projects during lockdown period||Taking nationwide lockdown to fight against COVID-19 as an opportunity, Indian Railways has completed over 200 long pending projects in its network. Some of the works including yard remodeling, repair and re-girdering of old bridges, doubling and electrification of rail lines and renewal of scissor crossovers, which were pending for several years, have been completed, the railways said in a statement. While ensuring supply chains of all essential commodities running through parcel trains and freight trains, the railways also executed these long pending maintenance works during this lockdown period when passenger services were suspended. The railways suspended passengers train services on March 23 while freight train operated as usual to ferry essential commodities. "During lockdown period, railways focused on several long pending projects. They were planned during lockdown period considering it ‘Once in a lifetime opportunity’ to wipe out these maintenance arrears and take up the execution of work without affecting the train service," said the railways. These works taken up for removal of bottlenecks and enhance safety include 82 rebuilding/rehabilitation of bridge, 48 limited height subway/road under bridge in lieu of level crossing gate, 16 construction/strengthening of foot over bridge, 14 dismantling of old foot over bridge, 7 launching of road over bridge, 5 yard remodelling, 1 commissioning of doubling and electrification and 26 other projects. Following  works completed : Yard Modification work in Jolarpetti (Chennai Division, Southern Railway) was completed on May 21, 2020.  It resulted in easing out of curve and enhancing the speed up to 60 Kmph on Bengaluru and facilitated Simultaneous reception and dispatch. Work of re-girdering of bridge on Tunga River (Mysuru Division, South Western Railway) was completed on May 3, 2020. Dismantling of unsafe deck of Kopar Road ROB near Dombivali (Mumbai Division, Central Railway) was completed on April 3, 2020, resulting in enhanced safety. This deck was declared unsafe for road users in 2019 and covered 6 railway tracks below. The dismantling work of Railway Over Bridge crossing 8 railway tracks in the approach of Chennai Central Station was completed on May 9, 2020. Completion of several works, which were earlier considered as bottleneck, will help smooth movement of trains in several sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-railways-completes-several-pending-projects-during-lockdown-period-854456.html
27-06-2020||National||Man gets 7-year jail term for attempting to kill doctor||The Supreme Court has upheld the conviction and seven years jail term of a man for attempting to kill a doctor and VHP functionary in Ahmedabad in 2002, within months of the communal riots in Gujarat.  The court, however, found that the police could not prove that the incident was part of a larger conspiracy of targeting of Hindu community as a sequel to communal riots after the Godhra incident in February 2002.  A bench of Justices R Banumathi and Indira Banerjee dismissed an appeal filed by Mustak alias Kanio Ahmed Shaikh against the High Court's judgment which enhanced sentence from six to seven years jail term for him. The findings by the trial court as well as the High Court did not warrant our interference, the top court said.  The bench noted both the victim, Dr. Jaideep Patel, VHP city unit general secretary and his driver Jignesh G Vyas, had duly identified the convict as the person who was driving the motorcycle and another accused Salim alias Salim Chaurala Yakubhai Patel as the one who had on December 3, 2012, fired shots at the victim, resulting into grave injuries to him below left eye and head. A third accused, Abhasbeg Habibeg Mirza was acquitted by the trial court in the case due to a lack of sufficient evidence. "The involvement of the appellant in the offences alleged has, in our opinion, duly been established inter alia by the injury of the victim; extraction of a bullet from the body of the victim; linking of the bullet to the weapon recovered on the confession of the appellant upon Forensic examination," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-gets-7-year-jail-term-for-attempting-to-kill-doctor-854473.html
27-06-2020||National||Supreme Court rejects review plea on fake news||The Supreme Court has dismissed a plea to reconsider its order that had declined to entertain a PIL for framing guidelines to check fake news on social media to curb mass hysteria, mob lynchings, among others. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Sanjiv Khanna rejected a review petition filed by advocate Anuja Kapur against the April 8, 2019 order passed by the court. "We have carefully gone through the review petition and the connected papers filed therewith. We do not find any ground, whatsoever, to entertain the same. The review petition is, accordingly, dismissed," the bench said. In her plea, Kapur asked the court to revisit its order that dismissed her petition seeking directions to the Centre to frame guidelines to check fake news on social media. She had cited different fake news and misinformation on Indo-Pak tension having flooded the social media in the weeks in April 2019 after Airstrike. She contended there is no set-laws to restrict the fake news, which travels on various social handles very fast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-rejects-review-plea-on-fake-news-854474.html
27-06-2020||National||Alternative bridge opened for traffic near Sino-India border in Uttarakhand: BRO official||The BRO on Saturday opened an alternative bridge for traffic, days after a bailey bridge collapsed nearly 50 km from the Sino-India border in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district. The alternative bridge, which is very important for high altitude villages of the district, was built in five days, a BRO official said. "The construction of the bridge has reconnected 15 high altitude villages with the sub-divisional headquarters at Munsyari and made it convenient for the security personnel who commute through the route," BRO official PK Rai said. The bailey bridge in Senargar on Munsiyari-Milam road had crashed on Monday when a truck carrying a JCB machine was crossing it, an official said. The truck driver and the JCB machine operator were injured as the 40-ft-long bridge, built in 2009, crashed under the combined weight of the truck and the JCB machine, Munsyari SDM AK Shukla had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alternative-bridge-opened-for-traffic-near-sino-india-border-in-uttarakhand-bro-official-854480.html
27-06-2020||National||India's internal and external security priority of Modi government: Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said India's internal and external security is a priority for the BJP-led central government, asserting that the Modi government has done in six years what the Congress could not do in 55 years of its rule. He said there has been a rapid change in the country's infrastructure and the borders are secure with state-of-the-art technology. He said road construction projects were started in full swing near Nepal and China borders from Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand to reach Mansarovar and the projects will be completed in next six months. "We do not want to occupy any country and land. We do not want to enter any country. We have brotherly relationship with Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh and in every situation we stand by them," he said. "We don't want to attack anyone but if anyone casts an evil eye (tirchi nazar) on us that eye will be gouged out," Gadkari told BJP workers from Rajasthan during an online address in Hindi. The union road, transport and highways minister said Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave a special status to Jammu and Kashmir, was a temporary provision and those who framed it expected it would be removed soon. "But this was not possible during the rule of Congress," he claimed, adding it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah who removed Article 370. He said internal and external security of the country is "our priority", highlighting that incidents terrorism are almost nil and Maoism and Naxalism are on the verge of elimination. "We have been saying from day one that nationalism is our goal," he said. "We want this nation to become happy, prosperous and powerful. We have worked with this idea to make India free from fear, hunger, terror and corruption. So, today, all our borders are safe," Gadkari told BJP workers from Rajasthan via an online address. "If you look at the history of 55 years of the Congress rule and the six years of the Modi government, it will become clear that the work that could not be done in 55 years of the Congress rule was done in the six-year tenure of the Modi government," he said. Gadkari said terrorists were trained by Pakistan and sent to attack in India. "Recall the history of the last 25 years, how many bomb blasts, attacks on temples, killings of innocents happened? But the Congress governments bent down on knees before the terrorists," he said. He said the Modi government has reinforced the process of development in Jammu and Kashmir by curbing terrorism. His ministry alone, he said, is constructing roads, tunnels and highways worth Rs 60,000 crore in the union territory. On the development of vaccines for the coronavirus, Gadkari said scientists from all over the world are trying to make them and soon a vaccine will be available in India. Until that vaccine is developed, the minister said, people have to learn to fight the virus and live with it.  "The coronavirus crisis is deep, but it is not the first crisis for our country. Our history tells us our country has faced many crises and emerged victorious," he said, adding people such as Maharana Pratap have inspired us with their struggle against the Mughals. "Our ancestors have sacrificed their lives for the country's culture, identity and freedom," he said. He said people have courageously faced the fight with Pakistan and China, even earthquakes and other natural disasters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-internal-and-external-security-priority-of-modi-government-nitin-gadkari-854482.html
27-06-2020||National||RGF got funds from China to Mehul Choksi: BJP||BJP, which has been facing a sustained attack from Congress on issues of Chinese incursion and its handling of Covid-19, mounted a fresh offensive against the main Opposition party, posing 10 questions including the alleged links of the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation with China as well as Mehul Choksi. “Some months back, we saw a huge hue and cry over Mehul Chokshi. The crown prince of Congress used the most obnoxious language for the PM. However, it has also come to light that Mehul Chokshi was also a donor for the RGF. Sonia Gandhi should answer, first take money from Mehul Chokshi, then help him with bank loans and then blame the present PM for his actions,” said BJP chief J P Nadda. Rahul Gandhi had in 2018, launched a sustained campaign against the BJP government at Centre, accusing it of complicity in the multi-core PNB scam in which Choksi was accused. As soon as in April this year when the RBI released a list of 50 wilful defaulters accused of cheating Indian banks, Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter saying “I asked a simple question in parliament – tell me the names of 50 biggest bank scammers. The Finance Minister refused to reply. Now RBI has put names of Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi, and other BJP friends on the list. This is why they hid the truth from parliament.” Nadda said Sonia Gandhi should not shy from answering the serious questions under the cover of border disputes with China and the coronavirus crisis, insisting “Gandhi family should answer for their sins”. Alleging that national interest was “sacrificed” and donations into the family-run foundation were accepted, Nadda asked why countries like China donated to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation every year between 2005 and 2009. Congress has repeatedly dismissed Nadda's attack on the RGF over alleged donations to it from the Chinese embassy and the Prime Minister National Relief Fund as a "diabolical game of deception" by the ruling party to divert attention from the alleged Chinese occupation of Indian territory. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi would assure the country that China would vacate Indian territory and restore status quo ante at the border if the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation returned Rs 20 lakh it had taken as donation earlier. Congress has said the money received by the RGF from the Embassy of China was for the purpose of a welfare programme for differently-abled people and research on Sino-India relationships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rgf-got-funds-from-china-to-mehul-choksi-bjp-854491.html
27-06-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries exceed active cases by 98,493: Health ministry data||The total number of recoveries has fast outgrown the number of active Covid-19 cases, with the difference between the two nearing one lakh fast, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. The recovered cases have exceeded the active cases by 98,493 as of Saturday. The number of active cases stood at 1,97,387 while 2,95,880 patients have recovered, the ministry said, adding, "With this encouraging status, the recovery rate is touching 58.13 percent amongst COVID-19 patients." India's COVID-19 tally raced past the five-lakh mark on Saturday with the biggest single-day surge of 18,552 cases, while the death toll climbed to 15,685 with 384 fatalities. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 79,96,707 samples have been tested up to June 26 with 2,20,479 samples being tested on Friday, the highest in a day since the beginning of the pandemic. The top 15 states in terms of absolute numbers of COVID-19 recoveries are Maharashtra with 73,214, Gujarat with 21,476, Delhi with 18,574, Uttar Pradesh with 13,119, Rajasthan with 12,788, West Bengal with 10,126, Madhya Pradesh with 9,619, Haryana with 7,360, Tamil Nadu with 6,908, Bihar with 6,546, Karnataka with 6,160, Andhra Pradesh with 4,787, Odisha with 4,298, Jammu and Kashmir with 3,967 and Punjab with 3,164. Top 15 states in terms of recovery rate are Meghalaya at 89.1 percent, Rajasthan 78.8 pc percent, Tripura 78.6 percent, Chandigarh 77.8 percent, Madhya Pradesh 76.4 percent, Bihar 75.6 percent, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 72.9 percent, Gujarat 72.8 percent, Jharkhand 70.9 percent, Chhattisgarh 70.50 percent, Odisha 69.5 percent, Uttarakhand 65.9 percent, Punjab 65.7 percent, Uttar Pradesh 65 percent and West Bengal 65 percent. As a testimony to the ramped-up testing facilities, India now has 1,026 diagnostic laboratories dedicated to COVID-19. This includes 741 in the government sector and 285 private laboratory, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-exceed-active-cases-by-98493-health-ministry-data-854501.html
27-06-2020||National||Early onset of monsoon triggers rainfall in most parts of India as locust attack fears increase||The early onset of monsoon triggered moderate-to-heavy rainfall across India on Saturday, barring a few places on the west coast, providing a breeding ground for the crop-threatening locusts that invaded the country via Pakistan towards the end of April. Several areas in Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh reported locust attacks as authorities struggled to chase them away or kill them by spraying pesticides. The short-horn hoppers even descended on Gurgaon near the national capital, where the humidity levels oscillated between 49 and 82 per cent. The Delhi government has put all its districts on alert as a small swarm covering 1 sq km can consume the food 35,000 people can eat in one day. Experts say the desert locusts usually arrive in India with the onset of the southwest monsoon, a wind system blowing from the Arabian Sea to the mainland, aiding the movement of the hoppers from Africa and West Asia. The humid weather and intermittent rainfall provide a fertile ground to the pink immature adults to multiply very rapidly. Several parts of north India, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab have been witnessing moderate-to-heavy rainfall for the past few days and this possibly has led to increased locust movement and breeding. On Saturday, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai chaired an emergency meeting with senior officials after the locusts reached the Asola Bhatti area in South Delhi. Officials said the insects were now headed to Palwal and Faridabad and from there they could enter UP, which is already battling a number of swarms in several of its districts including Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Pratapgarh and Bhadohi. A swarm has also attacked the UP agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi's 's home district Deoria. Shahi said the districts where the swarms will take shelter, chemicals will be sprayed on them and they will be killed. Other districts have been alerted, he added. The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration on UP's western border with Delhi has set up a helpline – 0120 2977986 - to assist the general public against the locust menace, which has been declared as a disaster by the state government. The district, which also borders Haryana, has set up a task force and asked residents to chase the locusts away by making high-decibel sounds by beating drums, utensils; playing high-volume music, bursting crackers, and burning neem leaves. It also asked the people to spray chemicals during the night, when locusts rest on crops. In Rajasthan, where the monsoon appears to have weakened after reaching on June 25, the weather department said not much rainfall is likely for next three-four days. The monsoon may pick up again and heavy rainfall is likely in Kota and Udaipur on June 30. Bikaner was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 41.8 degrees Celsius. "For a month-and-a-half, there has been intermittent locust attacks in districts sharing a border with Pakistan. Operations are on to control them. Older swarms have been killed but new swarms are entering Rajasthan," said Deputy Director of Agriculture Department in Rajasthan B.R Kadwa. The mercury neared the 40 degrees Celsius-mark in Delhi, just two days after monsoon clouds reached the city. However, UP witnessed heavy rainfall on Saturday and the weather department has said more rainfall is likely during the next three days. Also, the Union Agriculture Ministry said more teams from Rajasthan have been deputed to help control the locust spread in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The control operations are underway in Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, it added. The Haryana government has issued a high alert after a swarm entered Rewari and Gurgaon. Officials asserted that all necessary measures have been taken, including deploying tractor-mounted spraying facilities. Alarmed by the invasion of locusts, which settled on trees, rooftops and plants, many residents of Gurgaon shared videos from their high-rise perches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/early-onset-of-monsoon-triggers-rainfall-in-most-parts-of-india-as-locust-attack-fears-increase-854505.html
27-06-2020||National||China-Ladakh Clash: India moves air defence system close to China border||Consolidating the border defense, the Indian armed forces have moved some of its air defense missile systems closer to the disputed Sino-Indian boundary in eastern Ladakh which is witnessing a tense stand-off between the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army for more than 50 days. The deployment of the advanced surface-to-air missile systems to guard the skies coincides with the Indian Air Force launching combat patrolling in Ladakh in which Su-30MKI and MiG-29 fighter aircraft, and Apache and Chinook helicopters are regularly taking off from Leh and Srinagar airbase and flying close to the border areas. "As part of the ongoing build-up in the sector, the air defense systems of both Indian Army and Indian Air Force have been deployed to prevent any misadventure by the Chinese Air Force fighter jets or the PLA choppers,” news agency ANI reported, quoting unnamed sources within the BJP-led NDA government. When asked the Indian Army and IAF refused to disclose any information on such a deployment on operational grounds. However, independent sources within the armed forces told DH that in such a heightened state of readiness, necessary measures had been taken by all services working in an integrated environment to ensure that the armed forces were ready for all eventualities. In the last fortnight, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane and Indian Air Force Chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited Ladakh to oversee the preparations of the forces in guarding the Line of Actual Control against any PLA offensive campaign. Over the last one and half months, the Army too has moved two of its divisions in Ladakh besides the 3 Division that is already stationed in that area. Along with thousands of troops, the army also brought in howitzer guns, tanks, and other weapons in the arid cold desert that witnessed a clash between Indian and Chinese troops in 1962. So far the PLA aircraft, however, didn’t cross the LAC as they are flying maintaining the 10 km distance from the disputed boundary. The frequency of flying has increased with the PLA Air Force strengthening its air bases in the depth areas of Tibet. In a shift from the past practice, the Chinese troops also heavily intensified its positions on the northern banks of the 135 km long Pangong lake, stopping the Indian Army from patrolling the areas that India used to patrol in all these years. The Chinese have increased its troop strengths on the southern banks of the lake too. Other areas in eastern Ladakh where the PLA augmented its strength are Patrol Point-14, PP-15, PP-17 and PP-17A in the Galwan valley as well as the Depsang bulge, north of Galwan, aiming to cut Indian troops access to areas closer to the LAC and compromising the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road that connects the world’s highest airstrip Dault Beg Oldi airfield near Karakoram pass to Leh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-ladakh-clash-india-moves-air-defence-system-close-to-china-border-854507.html
27-06-2020||National||Darkness at noon in Faridabad, Gurugram as locust swarms descend||Guided by favourable winds, marauding swarms of locusts descended in Gurugram, Faridabad and adjoining parts of the national capital, alarming residents of fast growing cities. The locust swarms had traveled from Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan, where they were first noticed on Friday morning, prompting state authorities to launch pesticide spraying operations to control their forward march. The locust control operations were largely successful, but some leftover swarms re-grouped and reached Rewari in Haryana, about 100 km from here. Already alerted about the movement of the swarms, locust control operations were carried out all through Friday night which divided the swarm into three groups which descended in Gurugram and Faridabad in Haryana and parts of Dwarka and Chhatarpur localities of the national capital. Many residents of the localities shared videos of the swarms, which almost turned the afternoon sky dark by their huge numbers. Swarms were seen settled on trees, rooftops and even some high-rise buildings in the industrial townships adjoining the national capital. The immature swarms of locusts are ravenous eaters who target food crops, trees or anything green. A one square kilometer swarm comprises 80 million locusts and are capable of eating food consumed by 35,000 people in a single day. The swarms moved towards Palwal further south-south-east of the national capital and were expected to move towards Aligarh-Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The Locust Warning Organisation under the Agriculture Ministry has been tracking the swarms and carrying out control operations through the night when the pests settle down after dark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/darkness-at-noon-in-faridabad-gurugram-as-locust-swarms-descend-854509.html
27-06-2020||National||Prasar Bharati threatens to cancel PTI subscription over 'anti-national' reporting||The state broadcaster Prasar Bharati has threatened to discontinue subscribing to the country's prominent news agency Press Trust of India (PTI), accusing it of "anti-national" reporting of recent events involving India-China border row. The broadcaster has written to the news agency, which is jointly promoted and owned by a large number of newspapers, saying it was reviewing its relationship with PTI as it is "no longer tenable" to continue the "relationship", sources said. The Prasar Bharati's move came soon after PTI published an interview with Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong on Thursday, followed by another interview of Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri on Friday, indicating that the broadcaster is unhappy with the coverage. On Friday night, PTI had tweeted quoting Misri as saying that the Chinese troops needed to move back to their side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This triggered an intense Twitter discussion, as it contradicted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's remarks during an all-party meeting that no one has intruded into Indian territory. Interestingly, this particular tweet posted at 8:45 pm — India hopes China will realise its responsibility in de-escalation and disengaging by moving back to its side of LAC: Indian envoy to China — did not find a place in the news copy released by PTI at around 10:15 pm on Friday. PTI had released 11 one-liners between 8:03 pm and 9:10 pm on the wires regarding the interview while there was no denial from the government on the controversial tweet.. The agency had come under criticism after the Chinese Embassy tweeted the interview with a section accusing it of amplifying Beijing's perspective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prasar-bharati-threatens-to-cancel-pti-subscription-over-anti-national-reporting-854513.html
27-06-2020||National||BJP MP writes to Amit Shah demanding SIT probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's death||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey on Saturday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding a probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput by a Special Investigation Team comprising officers from the CBI, NIA, ED and the Income Tax department. Dubey said a "legal framework" is immediately required to "regulate the day-to-day affairs" of the film industry and to control various "illegal activities" being continued in one form or the other. Alleging that the film industry is being controlled by people with "links to mafia", he said they don't let talented actors from small towns grow. "... No aspiring actors, no newcomers from small towns are able to make it in the film industry and if someone talented from a small town like Sushant Singh Rajput tries to make it, they (people having links with mafia) torture him to the point which results in their death," the BJP MP said. Dubey said the film industry and its actors/characters cast a huge impact on the lifestyle of almost everyone, therefore, it is of immense importance that it does not cast a negative impression on the people otherwise the society would become unworthy of living in. "A legal framework is immediately required to regulate the day-to-day affairs of the industry and to control and various illegal activities being continued in one form or the other. The formation of a committee is required to take note of the prevailing situation and to improve further with a legal framework," he said. The BJP MP from Jharkhand also claimed that illegal money is invested in the film industry. "Sir, I would like to request to you to constitute a SIT consisting of officers from Enforcement Directorate, Central Bureau of Investigation, Income Tax, and National Intelligence Agency to look into these allegations, have a thorough investigation, and find out the truth about Sushant Singh Rajput death and links of people in film industry to the mafia," Dubey said in his letter to the home minister. He claimed that even after 'Chhichhore', which was the actor's last movie, he had seven film offers but in the span of six months all were taken from him. Dubey also alleged that the actor had signed a contract with a big production house which did not allow him to work with other production houses. The actor was found hanging at his Mumbai home on June 14. He was cremated the next day in the presence of family members and close friends from the film and TV industry. Rajput starred in films such as ‘Shuddh Desi Romance’, ‘Raabta’, ‘Kedarnath’ and 'Sonchiriya'. But his most prominent role came as cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni's in the 2007 biopic, ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-writes-to-amit-shah-demanding-sit-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-854523.html
27-06-2020||National||Gujarat reports its highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases, 'diamond city' emerges as new hotspot||Gujarat's new daily coronavirus cases topped 600 for the first time on Saturday, taking the state's tally to 30,773 while the death toll climbed to 1790 as 18 more patients succumbed to the virus in 24 hours. Among the infected are ex Gujarat Chief Minister 80-year-old Shankersinh Vaghela in Gandhinagar and 11 BSF personnel in Bhuj, Kutch district. The situation in Ahmedabad, which is the worst affected in the state, is improving with the city reporting 197 cases, its lowest daily in nearly two months and 10 casualties. Ahmedabad has a caseload of over 20,000, while the death toll crossed 1,400 on Saturday. But, what has started worrying the government is rising figures in "diamond city" Surat which recorded 184 cases, its highest in a day. Saturday was also the eighth consecutive day when the city reported over 100 cases in a day. Health officials who visited the city earlier this week told DH that the sudden spike in the cases is due to diamond cutting and polishing units resuming work after lockdown. "Of 4,200 total cases, Katargam area, that houses majority of the diamond units, has over 1,000 cases alone. And, all these cases have been reported from people working in these diamond units. Many units have been closed after the sudden spike but there are many which are still operating. We have had meetings earlier this week and we are trying to control the situation," said a senior health officer. The health officials in a release said that in the past one week, recovery rate and case doubling rate has increased substantially. They said that earlier the recovery rate was 68 per cent which has increased to 73 per cent whereas, the doubling rate has increased from 15 days to 28 days. The government said that the death rate in the past one week decreased to 3.88 per cent from 6.25 per cent. The overall death rate has also come down to 5.8 per cent which is still said to be highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-reports-its-highest-single-day-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-diamond-city-emerges-as-new-hotspot-854536.html
27-06-2020||National||Delhi govt proposes ways to make Burari Covid hospital functional in 'shortest possible time'||The Delhi government issued an order on Saturday proposing ways in which the 450-bed Covid-19 hospital in Burari can be made functional "in the shortest possible time", with 150 being made functional in a week. Earlier, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his cabinet held a meeting on Friday and a decision to set up 450 additional beds at the Burari hospital was taken, adding that funds were sanctioned for it. According to the order, 38 newly-joined chief district medical officers (CDMOs) have already been posted while specialists and experienced doctors shall be posted on a diverted capacity basis. "Nursing and paramedical staff shall be engaged by the hospital against the already created posts. However, some nursing and paramedical staff shall be provided from other hospitals to start the operation," the order said. The government's focus has been on increasing the bed capacity in the national capital amid a spurt in the number of coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-proposes-ways-to-make-burari-covid-hospital-functional-in-shortest-possible-time-854553.html
27-06-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi has left no stone unturned to loot India for her children: Smriti Irani||Union minister Smriti Irani on Saturday hit out at Sonia Gandhi over the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation row, alleging that the Congress president left "no stone unturned to loot the country for her children". She also suggested that like Amethi, the Congress will face electoral defeat in Nehru-Gandhi family's pocket borough of Rae Bareli. Addressing a virtual rally of party workers from Awadh and Kanpur-Bundelkhand region, Smriti Irani said, "One daughter of Bundelkhand sacrificed her life for the nation. There was a mother, who tied her son to her back, and challenged the British to free the country". "Unfortunately, there is an MP from Rae Bareli, who through the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, has not left any stone unturned to loot the country for her children. "Could any Indian imagine her entering into a pact with China, and money comes from China in the treasury box, whose keys are with Sonia Gandhi," she said. In a statement issued by the UP BJP, Irani alleged that Sonia Gandhi shook hands with the enemy. "Does Sonia Gandhi has so much enmity ... took money from thieves, made the (then) prime minister a remote control, and also took money from the Prime Minister Relief Fund," the minister said. The BJP has targeted the Congress and the Gandhi family for the RGF allegedly accepting donations from the Chinese embassy. The Congress has said that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) issue raised by the BJP government was a "manufactured charge" and "diversionary tactic" to deflect attention from the LAC crisis. Irani said Prime Minister Narendra Modi considered the Constitution as his religion, and worked as a 'pradhan sevak'. "Some people had ridiculed the Jan Dhan Yojana. The country had seen a time when a Congress leader had said that if one rupee is sent from Delhi, only 10 paisa reaches the poor. In other words, the Congress leader had accepted that brokers of Congress siphoned off 90 paise. Narendra Modi has stopped this brokerage," Irani asserted. She also said that during the Congress government's tenure, the banks used to close their doors to the poor. "Now, Modiji has opened those closed doors of the banks for the people. People, who had not built a single toilet in Amethi-Rae Bareli in 70 years, are now feeling restless," Irani said. "Did anyone think that the UPA Chairperson will establish such institutions, from where people like Mehul Choksi won't hesitate in taking money. Your clock has stopped ticking in Amethi, and it will not take much time to change the (poll) results of Rae Bareli," the BJP leader, who had defeated Rahul Gandhi in the 2019 polls, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-has-left-no-stone-unturned-to-loot-india-for-her-children-smriti-irani-854569.html
27-06-2020||National||NSUI office-bearer shot dead in MP, two arrested in Chhattisgarh||A 28-year-old leader of the National Students' Union of India (NSUI), the Congress's student wing, was shot dead at Mandla in Madhya Pradesh, following which two men were arrested in neighbouring Chhattisgarh, officials said. The killing, a fallout of some past enmity, took place during the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, the Madhya Pradesh police said. "Sonu Parochia, the local office-bearer of NSUI, was returning home after celebrating the birthday of his uncle at a roadside eatery in a suburban area of Mandla," Additional Superintendent of Police Vikram Singh Kushwaha said. Accused Mayur Happy Yadav (30) fled from the spot after the crime, he said. "As per the preliminary information, Parochia's two-wheeler was hit by Yadav's car. Yadav allegedly opened fire on Parochia who died on the spot," Kushwaha said. Parochia was accompanied by two friends when the incident occurred, he added. NSUI's district president, Akhilesh Thakur, said that Parochia was the general secretary of the Mandla district unit. He said that the accused hails from Jabalpur and has been living in Mandla for the last five to six years. "We had complained to the police against him on several occasions," he said. Hours later, the Chhattisgarh police arrested Mayur Yadav (32) and Piyush Maravi from Gudhiyari area of Raipur. Mandla is around 250 km away from Raipur. On Saturday afternoon, Raipur police received a tip- off about two persons from Mandla looking for a room on rent and the duo were taken into custody, he said. "During the interrogation, the two confessed to their involvement in the killing. We have informed Mandla police about the arrest and their team has left for Raipur," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsui-office-bearer-shot-dead-in-mp-two-arrested-in-chhattisgarh-854576.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||BJP speaking half truth on Rajiv Gandhi Foundation funds: P Chidambaram||Congress on Saturday stepped up attack on the Modi government over transgressions by Chinese troops in Ladakh as BJP kept up the heat on the grand old party over links between the Chinese Embassy and the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF). In a late-night statement on Friday, Congress had admitted that RGF had received funds from the Chinese Embassy as well as the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for specific purposes and asserted that no wrongdoing was involved. “What has the grant to RGF 15 years ago got to do with China’s intrusion into Indian territory in 2020 under the watch of the Modi government,” former Home Minister P Chidambaram said. He accused the BJP of speaking “half-truth” on the funds received by the RGF and hiding the fact that PMNRF has given Rs 20 lakh to it for carrying out relief work in Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the aftermath of the 2004 tsunami. Addressing a press conference here, former Law Minister Kapil Sibal demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi assure the notion that any attempts to occupy Indian territory would be pushed back. “Some quick action is required,” he said adding that the people and the entire opposition would stand with the prime minister if he promises to push back those occupying Indian territory. Sibal said he expected some “strong action” from the government against China. “The quality, nature and the timing of that action has to be decided by the government,” the senior Congress leader said. BJP President J P Nadda kept up the attack on Congress accusing it of favoring the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement involving ASEAN nations and its trading partners including China. “What was the need to be part of the RCEP? ...Was this a quid pro quo arrangement with the Chinese embassy that funded the RGF,” Nadda told a press conference here adding that the Modi government walked out of the RCEP last year to uphold the interest of the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-speaking-half-truth-on-rajiv-gandhi-foundation-funds-p-chidambaram-854336.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||Sena slams BJP over RGF donations amid China standoff||The Shiv Sena on Saturday hit out at the BJP over its charge that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) had accepted donations from the Chinese embassy, and asked it whether the issue had any connection with intrusion by the neighbouring country in Ladakh and the martyrdom of 20 Indian soldiers. The Sena also alleged that those raising questions against the government over the standoff with China were being labelled as Chinese agents by the BJP. BJP chief J P Nadda had on Thursday targeted the Congress and the Gandhi family saying that the RGF had allegedly accepted donations from the Chinese embassy. Hitting back, the Congress had said that the RGF issue raised by the BJP government was a "manufactured charge" and "diversionary tactic" to deflect attention from the LAC crisis. "What do you mean by Congress gets money from China? Instead of responding to the issues raised by Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi over the Chinese incursions, the BJP leaders accused the Congress of receiving funds from China," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "Will BJP's revelations about the donations stop the Chinese activities along the border? The BJP should tell what connection does these donations have with the Chinese incursion and the martyrdom of 20 soldiers," it added. "In our country, many political leaders and parties, and not just the Congress, are beneficiaries of foreign countries. The BJP speaking about this is like throwing stones in the mud," it said. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party said that Chinese President Xi Jinping visited India twice in the last six years. "He was hosted in Gujarat. But it is a fact that China has betrayed. Holding talks on the one hand and continuing with the offensive along the border on the other hand is China's old policy," it said. In the present scenario, the entire country stands firmly with PM Modi. This crisis is not for the BJP or the Congress, but for the entire country, whose prestige is at stake, it said. "The BJP can fight with the Congress any time later. But now is the time to fight against China. It should speak on that," the Sena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sena-slams-bjp-over-rgf-donations-amid-china-standoff-854351.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||China had captured about 45,000 sq kms of Indian land after 1962 war: NCP Chief Sharad Pawar||Amidst a war of words between the Congress and the BJP over the face-off with China, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said matters of national security shouldn't be politicised and added one cannot forget China had captured about 45000 sq kms of Indian land after the 1962 war. Pawar's comments came in response to a query about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's charge that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese aggression. Pawar also said the Galwan Valley incident in Ladakh cannot immediately be labelled as a failure of the Defence Minister, as Indian soldiers were alert during patrolling. Speaking to reporters here, the former Union minister said the entire episode is "sensitive" in nature. It was China which played the provocateur in the Galwan Valley, he said. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash with their Chinese counterpart in eastern Ladakh on the night of June 15. The former defence minister further said India had been constructing a road in Galwan Valley within its limits meant for communication purposes. "What happened was they (the Chinese troops) tried to encroach on our road and were pushed physically. It was not somebody's failure. If somebody comes (within your territory) while you are patrolling, they may come at any time. We cannot immediately say it is the failure of the Defence Minister sitting in Delhi," Pawar said. Patrolling was on there. There was a scuffle, which means you were alert. Had you not been, you would not even have realised when the they (Chinese troops) came and went. Hence, I don't think it is right to make such an allegation at this juncture, he said. Responding to the allegation raised by Rahul Gandhi, Pawar said one cannot forget that China captured around 45,000 sq km of India's land, after the 1962 war between the two countries. "That land is still with China. I don't know if they (China) have encroached on some area now again. But when I make an allegation, I should also see what had happened when I was there (in power). If such big land was encroached upon then, it cannot be ignored. It is a matter of national security and it should not be politicised is what I feel," he said. Pawar further hit out at the Centre over the rising prices of fuel, saying he had never seen the rates going up daily. He noted the people are already in trouble and the economy is in crisis due to the extended lockdown. The Centre should take decisions that will bring the economy back on track, he said. "The rise in fuel prices does have an impact on the economy. I think the Centre is taking this decision as there already is lockdown. "People are not speaking up during this period. Due to some other reason, there already is a feeling among the people to tolerate what is going on (and) they (the Centre) are taking disadvantage of this situation (to raise prices)," he said. Asked about BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar's recent remark against him, the NCP chief said the legislator was rejected by voters in the elections previously and there is no need to take note of his remark. Padalkar had said that "Pawar was a corona that has infected Maharashtra". Pawar also made light of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis' claim that the NCP had wanted to join hands with the BJP two years ago. "Right now, he has a lot of time. Hence, he keeps something or the other for publicity," Pawar quipped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/china-had-captured-about-45000-sq-kms-of-indian-land-after-1962-war-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-854378.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi should condemn China publicly for incursions, take strong, quick action: Congress||The Congress on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to publicly condemn China for its "brazen incursions" into Indian territory and urged the government to take "strong and quick action" to resolve the Line of Actual Control (LAC) issue. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said at a virtual press conference that the prime minister should address the nation and promise that anyone capturing Indian territory would be pushed back. He said the entire nation and the entire opposition would stand behind him and his promise. Alleging that the last six years have seen the biggest diplomatic failure under the Modi government, the former Union minister said "some quick action" should be taken to resolve the LAC issue with China. "Some quick action is required," he said seeking early resolution of the border dispute with China, while noting that diplomacy and economic blockade with China would not work. "Yes, the action should be strong (against China). The quality, nature and the timing of that action has to be decided by the government," he said when asked what "quick action" he was asking for. Sibal said it was for the government to decide and not the opposition. The Congress leader alleged that China has erected tents and structures near PP-14 in Galwan Valley, the place where 20 Indian soldiers sacrificed their lives. He added that satellite imagery also reflects the construction of new black top roads by Chinese forces on the Galwan riverbed, erection of large numbers of military tents and presence of bulldozers and other heavy equipment. "What is our government doing about it? The PM must clear the air and condemn these brazen Chinese incursions," he said. Asking why the prime minister does not openly and publicly condemn the "brazen acts of infiltrations, incursions and occupation" of Indian territory by China, he said, "I want the PM to publicly condemn China. We will support the prime minister." Sibal said the situation is such that the PM's statement that nobody intruded into India is being used by the Chinese globally. "We want the prime minister to address the nation and promise that if anyone has captured Indian territory, we will push them back. If you say so, the public and the entire opposition will stand behind you and your promise," he said. There has been a standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in the eastern Ladakh area for over a month and a bloody clash took place between them on the night of June 15 in the Galwan Valley, resulting in the death of 20 Indian soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-should-condemn-china-publicly-for-incursions-take-strong-quick-action-congress-854388.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi must condemn China publicly for incursions, take 'strong, quick action': Congress||The Congress on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to publicly condemn China for its "brazen incursions" into Indian territory and urged the government to take "strong and quick action" to resolve the Line of Actual Control (LAC) issue. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said at a virtual press conference that the prime minister should address the nation and promise that anyone capturing Indian territory would be pushed back. He said the entire nation and the entire opposition would stand behind him and his promise. Alleging that the last six years have seen the biggest diplomatic failure under the Modi government, the former Union minister said "some quick action" should be taken to resolve the LAC issue with China. "Some quick action is required," he said seeking early resolution of the border dispute with China, while noting that diplomacy and economic blockade with China would not work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-must-condemn-china-publicly-for-incursions-take-strong-quick-action-congress-854395.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||BJP president J P Nadda attacks Cong over RGF, China||Intensifying his attack on the Congress, BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday asked the opposition party 10 questions, including about alleged links between the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation and China. "Under the garb of China and Covid-19 crisis, one should not shy away from questions the nation wants to know," Nadda told reporters while attacking Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Amid standoff with China, he asserted that India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is safe and secure, and that its brave armed forces are fully capable of protecting the country. Nadda alleged that the RGF, which is headed by Sonia Gandhi, continuously received donations from the Chinese embassy between 2005-09, from the "tax haven" of Luxemburg between 2006-09 and NGOs with commercial interests. National interest was "sacrificed" and donations into the family-run foundation were accepted, Nadda said. The Congress had on Friday dismissed Nadda's attack on the RGF over alleged donations to it from the Chinese embassy and the Prime Minister National Relief Fund as a "diabolical game of deception" by the ruling party to divert attention from the alleged Chinese occupation of Indian territory. Nadda asked the Congress on Saturday to come clean on its "links" with China, and the details of its MoU with the Communist Party of China. He said India's trade deficit with China soared to USD 36.2 billion in 2013-14 from USD 1.1 billion in 2004 and asked if it was "quid pro quo" from the Congress. The Congress-led UPA was in power between 2004-14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-president-j-p-nadda-attacks-cong-over-rgf-china-854423.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||Ram Temple settlement, CAA were not possible without PM Narendra Modi's leadership: Anurag Thakur||Union Minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday said the settlement of the Ram Temple issue and the amendment to the Citizenship Act were not possible without the strong leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Thakur said PM Modi has taken big and historic decisions during his tenure. Addressing a virtual rally of the Uttarakhand BJP Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of the party, the Minister of State for Finance said India has fought the battle against coronavirus effectively under Modi's leadership. During the virtual rally, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat described the BJP Yuva Morcha as the party's "power house". He said the young BJP workers, in collaboration with the administration, have done a commendable job by supplying relief material to the common people during the COVID-19 pandemic and creating awareness about the disease. The chief minister also said his government has fulfilled 85 percent of the commitments made in the party's vision document for 2017 assembly polls. "Gairsain has been made the summer capital of the state in accordance with the aspirations of the people and a massive crackdown has been launched against corruption," Rawat said. He asked the Yuva Morcha workers to become social media warriors and take the state government's programmes and policies to the people. "Your government has not only taken significant steps for the welfare of the poor, youths, women and farmers, but also for a section which belongs to no particular caste or religion," Rawat said. He said Uttarakhand government is the first in the country to give five percent reservation to orphaned children in educational institutions. The chief minister further said the state government is fully prepared to deal with the coronavirus pandemic with 19,000 beds at various COVID Care Centres in Uttarakhand. Five virtual rallies of Uttarakhand BJP Yuva Morcha were addressed by senior party leaders on Saturday, including Pauri MP Teerath Singh Rawat, Union Minister Jitendra Singh, Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt and BJP National Secretary Tarun Chugh, said the state BJP Vice President Devendra Bhasin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ram-temple-settlement-caa-were-not-possible-without-pm-narendra-modis-leadership-anurag-thakur-854436.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||Issues which concern nation are not taken up by judiciary on urgent basis, says Congress leader Kapil Sibal||Senior advocate Kapil Sibal on Saturday alleged that the issues which concern the nation are not taken up on an urgent basis by the judiciary and that casts a doubt on its independence. Sibal said that the Supreme Court has "failed to take up cases which should have been heard urgently", adding that pleas relating to abrogation of Article 370 provisions, demonitisation and issues relating to the coronavirus pandemic were not being immediately looked into. "Very important matters are not heard by the courts in a timely manner and these are the reasons that there exists a perception that the judiciary is not independent," Sibal said at a webinar organised by advocate J Ravindran on the topic 'Independence of Judiciary'. "The higher judiciary gives great credence to what the state says and it is not the liberal court as the constitution framers wanted it to be," Sibal said. The former union minister said that the courts should be the custodian of the rights of the marginalised. "The state is such a powerful entity, it cannot be disturbed. In fact, it's so powerful, it can disturb citizens. Judges must have a liberal attitude to protect the ones at the bottom of the ladder," Sibal said. He said the apex court should play a proactive role in ensuring the protection of constitutional values and ensuring rights of the citizens. Sibal also expressed dissatisfaction over the role of the Bar and alleged that they were not fulfilling their duty in upholding the independence of the judiciary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/issues-which-concern-nation-are-not-taken-up-by-judiciary-on-urgent-basis-says-congress-leader-kapil-sibal-854516.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||Yashwant Sinha virtually announces return to party politics||Former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha on Saturday virtually announced his return to party politics by saying that he will launch an outfit which will contest the assembly polls due later this year and dislodge the NDA government in the state to create a "better Bihar". Sinha's announcement, made at a meeting of his outfit 'Rashtra Manch' (National Forum) here, came as a surprise as he had taken 'sanyas' from party politics over two years ago and had vowed to work for saving democracy in the country. He had quit the BJP two years ago. Sinha, who held the finance and external affairs portfolios in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government and has been severely critical of the Narendra Modi dispensation's policies and style of functioning, left the door open to poll tie-up with the Grand Alliance in Bihar, which includes the RJD and the Congress. "We will welcome everyone who comes and joins us," he said. "So far as (Bihar assembly) elections are concerned my party will contest it. It's not that I have any kind of reservation for contesting elections. We (the proposed alliance) will fight the polls with all our strength in order to create a better Bihar," Sinha said. Quizzed about the parties interested in the proposed alliance by him, Sinha said it would be premature to divulge it but many leaders from Bihar were in touch with him over it. About the name of his party, Sinha said he will announce it as soon as the decision on it is taken. The veteran political leader replied curtly when asked by reporters whether he himself would contest the assembly polls. "I will cross that bridge when I come to it,” he said. Holding the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar "directly responsible" for the state's "poor" condition, he came out with a slogan 'Behtar Bihar Banao' (Make a better Bihar) to dislodge the present dispensation. "The NDA government in Bihar headed by Nitish Kumar has not made the desired progress despite being in power for about 15 years," he alleged and held it responsible for the "poor state of affairs" in almost all sectors affecting people's lives. "Until and unless the current dispensation is dislodged from the state, it will be quite difficult to work for making Bihar better. Dislodging the state government will be the first step for making a better Bihar," he said. Tearing into the state government's assertions of development, he said that despite its tall claims Bihar has remained at the bottom in various development indicators in the country. Elaborating, Sinha said Bihar remained at the bottom of Human Development Index (HDI) for the past 27 years and the state ranks among the poorest on poverty index. This is evident from the fact that the state's annual per capita income is Rs 47,541 which is one-third the national average. He said Bihar is also at the bottom of the list with regard to providing health care facilities and its farmers are among the poorest in the country. The state's share in the total industries of the country is just 1.5 per cent. Sinha alleged that the law and order has collapsed and corruption is at its peak in the state as "nothing moves without bribe". "We will be coming out with a fact sheet every week on issues concerning and affecting various aspects of life ... I will put it before the media along with facts and will not be beating 'thali' or clapping," he said in a veiled reference to such activity during the Janata curfew on March 22 in support of those in the frontline of the fight against COVID-19 at the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yashwant-sinha-virtually-announces-return-to-party-politics-854527.html
27-06-2020||National Politics||Kamal Nath as UPA minister 'connived' with China: BJP MP VD Sharma||The Madhya Pradesh BJP on Saturday claimed senior Congress leader Kamal Nath favoured China when he was commerce and industries minister in the UPA government at the Centre and reduced import duties on 250 items manufactured in that country. MP BJP chief VD Sharma said his party would burn effigies of Nath across the state on Sunday. "Nath, in connivance with China, gave exemptions ranging from 40 to 200 percent in import duty on such products, which were available in the country itself," Sharma alleged. This, he added, affected the livelihood of artisans, wood, bamboo, clay traders among others, rendered people unemployed and destroyed small and cottage industries. Hitting back, Nath, in a series of tweets, said the BJP's allegations were an attempt to divert the attention of people from real issues like fuel price hikes etc. "The BJP is an expert in raising issues that have nothing to do with today. Where was the BJP for so many years, why was it silent? Those who have been showing friendship with China for years, have been travelling there regularly, have been boasting friendship (with China), they are making false accusations today to save themselves," Nath tweeted. Meanwhile, MP Congress media cell in-charge and former state minister Jitu Patwari claimed imports from China had tripled under BJP rule at the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kamal-nath-as-upa-minister-connived-with-china-bjp-mp-vd-sharma-854550.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh forms commission to give jobs to returnee migrant workers||In a statement, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the Madhya Pradesh State Migrant Labourer Commission (MPSMLC) has been set up for the welfare of migrant workers. "The commission has been formed to create employment opportunities for the migrant labourers and for their welfare. It would provide livelihood and create infrastructure for the workers so that they can be retained in Madhya Pradesh," the statement issued on Friday night said.  The Department of Labour issued an order for the formation of the commission as per the chief minister's directive, it added. The commission will recommend to the state government measures for the welfare of migrant labourers, and ways to strengthen their socio-economic condition, it added. It will give its suggestions and recommendations to the government after obtaining a necessary advice from its members and other people, organisations, departments and boards, among others, the statement said. The state government will nominate the chairman of the commission, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-forms-commission-to-give-jobs-to-returnee-migrant-workers-854299.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||MP govt asks police dept to recruit over 4,200 constables||Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Madhya Pradesh government has decided to recruit over 4,200 police constables in the state, an official said. State Home Minister Narottam Mishra has asked the Director-General of Police (DGP) Vivek Johri to initiate the process to recruit 4,269 constables at the earliest, a public relations department official said. The minister gave the instructions during a review meeting held at the police headquarters here on Friday, he said. "Besides that, he also sought a proposal from officials concerned to set up police department hospitals on the lines of Army hospitals," the official said. Mishra said that these police hospitals should be like the military hospitals, where personnel of all ranks are given treatment, he added. "During the meeting, the minister also granted in-principle approval for other works like shifting of headquarters of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) from Singrauli to Bhopal," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-asks-police-dept-to-recruit-over-4200-constables-854300.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Hotels, ashrams repurposed for Delhi coronavirus surge||Staff at the luxury Suryaa hotel used to wear bright saris as they welcomed guests. Now they must don medical suits and handle gurneys as New Delhi desperately prepares for a predicted surge in coronavirus cases in the coming weeks. The pandemic is still raging in India with more than half a million cases. The capital, home to 25 million people, is the country's worst-hit city -- its hospitals at breaking point and authorities reaching deep to confront the crisis. "For doctors and nurses it is a part of their lives. For us this is a totally new experience and a very difficult one at that," said Ritu Yadav, operations manager at the five-star Suryaa, as staff in masks rush to deep clean the building. "We have got training from the hospital on how to wear the PPE and then take it off but this is something I never thought I would have to do when I chose hospitality as my career." Delhi, home to some of India's most crowded slums, has around 75,000 cases so far, but the city government predicts this will soar to half a million by the end of July. With newspapers full of reports about patients being turned away from overflowing hospitals, Delhi told the city's hotels earlier this month they would be roped in to provide hospital care. It is also converting wedding halls, and has several hundred repurposed railway coaches standing by -- without air conditioning despite outside temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius (105 Fahrenheit). The Delhi authorities have even started converting a spiritual centre or ashram into a coronavirus isolation facility and hospital with 10,000 beds, many made of cardboard. But for hotels, the move triggered outrage in an industry already reeling under losses because of travel restrictions. The owners of Suryaa and four others approached the court, arguing many staff were over 50 and therefore were high-risk themselves, with no experience of hospital care or handling bio-medical waste. "It came as a shock because we were not spoken to about it, we got to know through the press," Greesh Bindra, a top executive at the hotel, told AFP. "It's like you are sleeping in a hotel and the next morning when you wake up you are told your hotel has become a hospital. Your first reaction will be how is this possible. We are hospitality, not a hospital." The hotel won a reprieve from the court -- of sorts. Instead of becoming a hospital, it could act as a covid care centre, housing patients on their way to recovery with mild to moderate symptoms.  It and around 30 other hotels in Delhi are set to be attached to hospitals which will provide staff to deal with any emergency. The hotels can charge a maximum $66 a day, including meals. But they and their employees, used just to changing bedsheets and providing room service, have had to improvise and innovate. From using disposable plates and drawing red lines to ensure social distancing, they have minimum contact with their special guests. "You have to keep your staff safe as after all they are your people," said Bindra, whose hotel will be offering 200 beds. But whether the efforts of the Delhi government -- which is squabbling with the federal government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi -- will be enough is unclear. Delhi has just over 13,000 beds for coronavirus patients in state-run hospitals with another 10,000 in private ones. The city government forecasts it will need 80,000 beds by the end of July. The government has cancelled leave of all healthcare staff and plans to rope in volunteers to fight the crisis.     It has refused to reimpose a lockdown, as the southern city of Chennai has done. Many in Delhi are worried and are taking matters into their own hands. Some resident welfare associations are buying oxygen cylinders and other equipment, while using vacant flats as isolation wards -- exposing the lack of trust in authorities. "One of our residents lost his life just because he couldn't get a bed in time. Then we thought we should do something at our level," said Lokesh Munjal, the head of a west Delhi housing society. "We don't want to be at the mercy of government and hospitals."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hotels-ashrams-repurposed-for-delhi-coronavirus-surge-854325.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Migrant labourer commits suicide in Uttar Pradesh||A migrant labourer who recently returned from Surat allegedly committed suicide in Amlohara village here, police said on Saturday. Mani Shankar Mishra (35) killed himself by hanging from the roof of his house on Friday, Sub Inspector Incharge of Oran Chowki Sultan Singh said. The father of the deceased, Shambhu, told the police that Shankar and his wife worked in a factory in Surat but following the lockdown he returned to his village 20 days ago, Sultan Singh said. The body has been handed over to the family after post- mortem and an investigation is underway, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-labourer-commits-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-854326.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Police station in Himachal's Kinnaur sealed after three cops test positive for COVID-19||A police station in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district has been sealed after three cops posted there tested positive for COVID-19, a district official said on Saturday. The Bhawanagar police station was sealed and the entire staff placed under quarantine to check the spread of the virus, they said. Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Gopal Chand has issued an order to declare Bhawanagar town a containment zone. The three police officials have been shifted to a COVID care centre in Reckong Peo.  Contact-tracing is underway, Chand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-station-in-himachals-kinnaur-sealed-after-three-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-854328.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||UP Board 10th, 12th Result 2020 declared: How to check result||During a video press conference today, the Deputy Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Dinesh Sharma announced the Uttar Pradesh Board results for the students of classes 10 and 12. The overall pass percentage for Class 12 is 74.63% this year. At least 25,86,349 students had registered for Intermediate or Class 12 board exams this year. Of these, 24,84,489 students sat for the exams. Over 18 lakh students have cleared the 10th board exam. Here's how students can check the results:  Step 2: Click on the ‘result link’ flashing on the homepage Step 3: Enter the 7-digit roll number on the box Step 4: Results will appear on the screen Step 5: Download it, and take a print out for further reference. How to check result via SMS To check result, the students need to type UP10<space>ROLLNUMBER and send it to 56263. To pass both classes 10 and 12, candidates have to secure a minimum of 35 percent. If they fail in any of the subjects then the board will conduct a compartment exam. The dates of these exams will be released after the result declaration. Last year 70.2 percent students had cleared the class 12 and 80.7 percent cleared class 10 UP Board exam. This year 56 lakh students were registered for the UP Board examination out of which around 5 lakh students had skipped the examination. Out of the 56 lakh students, over 30 lakh students are registered for UP Board high school exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-board-10th-12th-result-2020-declared-how-to-check-result-854332.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Locust clouds over Gurugram, likely to spare Delhi||The skies over many parts of Gurugram turned dark on Saturday as swarms of locusts descended on the town, but the migratory pests are likely to spare the national capital, for now, officials said. The dark cloud of locusts spread across two kilometres crossed the suburban city, touched the Delhi-Gurugram border but did not enter Delhi. "The swarms moved from west to east. They entered Gurugram around 11.30 am," K L Gurjar of the Locust Warning Organisation, Ministry of Agriculture, told PTI. The pests, he said, were headed towards Palwal in Haryana. Alarmed at the invasion of the locusts, which settled on trees, rooftops and plants, many residents of Gurugram shared videos from their high-rise perches. Swarms of locusts were seen in condominiums such as Beverly Park, Garden Estate and Heritage City as well as buildings in Sikanderpur in the high-rise town bordering Delhi. In May, India battled a devastating desert locust outbreak. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and then spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locust-clouds-over-gurugram-likely-to-spare-delhi-854343.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi waging difficult war against Covid-19, will emerge victorious with time: CM Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government is combating the pandemic by increasing beds for Covid-19 patients, raising the number of tests, providing oxymetres and oxygen concentrators to patients in home isolation, providing plasma therapy, and through survey and screening, he said in a briefing.  In the past month, the number of beds has been raised significantly in hospitals and now there is no lack of beds. Out of 13,500 available, 7,500 are vacant, he said. Kejriwal also said that currently around 20,000 tests for Covid-19 are being undertaken daily in the city. He said a serological survey has started for ascertaining the level of coronavirus spread in the city. Under the survey started on Saturday, 20,000 samples will be collected, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-waging-difficult-war-against-covid-19-will-emerge-victorious-with-time-cm-arvind-kejriwal-854352.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Locust attack: Delhi environment minister calls emergency meeting||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Saturday called an emergency meeting here to discuss the situation following a locust attack in neighbouring Gurugram. The minister also directed the administration to be alert, an official said. "After the emergency meeting, an advisory will be issued on steps to be taken to deal with the situation," Rai told PTI. He asked the officials of the Agriculture department to make field visits to areas close to Gurugram. The development secretary, divisional commissioner, director, Agriculture department, and the district magistrates of South Delhi and West Delhi will attend the meeting, the official said.  Earlier in the day, the skies over many parts of Gurugram turned dark as swarms of locusts descended on the town. However, the migratory pests are likely to spare the national capital for now, officials said. The swarms of locusts, spread across two kilometres, moved from west to east. They entered Gurugram around 11.30 am, K L Gurjar of the Locust Warning Organisation, Ministry of Agriculture, told PTI. The pests, he said, were headed towards Faridabad and Palwal in Haryana. Alarmed at the invasion of the locusts, which settled on trees, rooftops and plants, many residents of Gurugram shared videos from their high-rise perches. In May, India battled a devastating desert locust outbreak. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and then spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. According to experts, broadly four species of locusts are found in India – desert locust, migratory locust, Bombay locust and tree locust. The desert locust is considered the most destructive. It multiplies very rapidly and is capable of covering 150 kilometers in a day.  This insect, a type of a grasshopper, can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometer of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people.  Experts blame the growing menace of desert locusts on climate change. They say breeding of locusts is directly related to soil moisture and food availability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locust-attack-delhi-environment-minister-calls-emergency-meeting-854353.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Can't expect poor Covid-19 patients to give proof for free treatment: Bombay High Court||The court on Friday was hearing a plea filed by seven residents of a slum rehabilitation building in Bandra, who had been charged Rs 12.5 lakh by K J Somaiya Hospital for Covid-19 treatment between April 11 and April 28.  The bench of Justices Ramesh Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar directed the hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh in the court. The petitioners had borrowed money and managed to pay Rs 10 lakh out of Rs 12.5 lakh that the hospital had demanded, after threatening to halt their discharge if they failed to clear the bill, counsel Vivek Shukla informed the court. According to the plea, the petitioners were also overcharged for PPE kits and unused services. On June 13, the court had directed the state charity commissioner to probe if the hospital had reserved 20 percent beds for poor and indigent patients and provided free or subsidised treatment to them. Last week, the joint charity commissioner had informed the court that although the hospital had reserved such beds, it had treated only three poor or indigent persons since the lockdown. It was unfathomable that the hospital that claimed to have reserved 90 beds for poor and indigent patients had treated only three such persons during the pandemic, advocate Shukla said. He further argued that Covid-19 patients, who are in distress, cannot be expected to produce income certificate and such documents as proof. However, senior advocate Janak Dwarkadas, who represented the hospital, said the petitioners did not belong to economically weak or indigent categories and had not produced documents to prove the same. A person who is suffering from a disease like Covid-19 cannot be expected to produce certificates from a tehsildar or social welfare officer before seeking admission in the hospital, the bench noted and asked the hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh in court within two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-expect-poor-covid-19-patients-to-give-proof-for-free-treatment-bombay-high-court-854363.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||ICMR gives 50,000 Rapid Antigen Tests, diagnostic material for 4.7 lakh RT-PCR tests to Delhi for free||To bolster Covid-19 management efforts in the national capital, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has supplied diagnostic material for carrying out 4.7 lakh RT-PCR tests to the 12 functional labs in Delhi till date, the Union Health Ministry said. It has provided 1.57 lakh RNA extraction kits essential for carrying out tests and 2.84 lakh VTMs (Viral Transport Medium) used for collecting and transporting swabs to laboratories. Besides, a 1,000-bed full-fledged hospital for Covid-19 patients in Delhi, developed by DRDO and to be manned by doctors and paramedical staff from the Army would be functional next week from an area near Dhaula Kuan, the ministry said. This new hospital would have a referral relationship with AIIMS, New Delhi and the facility would be equipped with oxygen, ventilators as well as an ICU, the ministry said in its statement. A 2,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur here has been made operational. The facility, which will have 10,000 beds, will function as an isolation centre for mild and symptomatic coronavirus patients. The entire operation of this Centre, including ensuring availability of requisite numbers of medical personnel, has been entrusted to the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), with Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) taking the lead in this process. In view of the sudden surge in coronavirus infections, the apex health research body ICMR has approved antigen-based rapid tests and supplied 50,000 such kits to Delhi government free-of-cost for supporting Covid-19 containment efforts, the statement said. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), under Ministry of Health has supported the efforts of Delhi Government through technical guidance on all aspects of Covid-19 surveillance and response strategy, the ministry said. The areas include identification and assessment of quarantine facilities and Covid Care Centres (CCC) in the beginning of epidemic, orientation training and technical support on surveillance, contact tracing and lab aspects including infection prevention and control, data analysis and timely feedback to the Delhi government on the gaps identified and suggested solutions.  The NCDC has also provided laboratory diagnostic support for processing of samples by RT-PCR including training of lab professionals of the Delhi government, the ministry said. Technical support by NCDC included deployment of multiple central teams of experts for situational analysis and subsequent recommendations accordingly, and deployment of public health experts to coordinate. The central agency also provided technical inputs to district level teams in implementation of revised Delhi Covid Response Plan and planning and execution of sero-prevalence study on coronavirus infection in the city. The Revised Delhi Covid Response Plan has been prepared with the active support of NCDC, the ministry said. The NCDC in collaboration with Delhi government will also conduct a serological survey across Delhi from June 27 to 10 during which blood samples from 20,000 persons will be tested to ascertain the presence of antibodies.     The government of India has centrally procured and distributed 11.11 lakh N95 masks, 6.81 lakh PPE kits, 44.80 lakhs HCQ tablets to Delhi. Besides, 425 ventilators were allocated to Delhi and have been delivered to various hospitals in the city. Delhi has 34 Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH), 4 Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC), 24 Dedicated Covid Centers (DCCC) to treat Covid-19 patients based on their severity. Thus, a total of 62 facilities in Delhi are engaged in treating Covid-19. The number of these facilities is being increased on a daily basis, the ministry said in a statement. A high-level committee set up by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on June 21 had suggested Delhi government that every case of death should be analysed from the point of when the person was admitted to hospital and from which area was the deceased brought. The panel said it should be very important to find if the deceased was in home isolation and if he or she was brought to the hospital on time. Every death has to be reported in a timely manner to Government of India. All hospitals have been given strict directions that there should be no delays in handing over the dead bodies to their next of kin and performing last rites of Covid-19 deceased patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/icmr-gives-50000-rapid-antigen-tests-diagnostic-material-for-47-lakh-rt-pcr-tests-to-delhi-for-free-854365.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana issues alert after swarms of locusts enter Rewari, Gurugram districts||The Haryana government has issued a high alert after a swarm of locusts entered Rewari and Gurugram districts, with officials on Saturday asserting that all necessary measures have been taken, including deploying tractor-mounted spraying facilities. Swarms of locusts from Rajasthan after passing through Mahendragarh district of Haryana settled in various villages of Jatusana and Khol blocks in Rewari district on Friday evening. On Saturday, they went towards Jhajjar and entered Gurugram district with insects covering the skyline in some parts of the "millennium city". Alarmed at the invasion of the locusts, which settled on trees, rooftops and plants, many residents of Gurugram shared videos from their high-rise perches.  At many places in Gurugram, residents kept their windows closed to prevent the insects from entering homes. "It was a huge swarm of 5 km in length and 2 km in width which passed through Mahendragarh and settled down in Rewari. In the night, this swarm was near Jatusana block," Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Sanjeev Kaushal told PTI. "Heavy insecticide spray was done during the night and early morning. About 35 per cent of the swarm was destroyed, but the rest which was still uge in number took off from there and crossed Jhajjar district and then got on to Gurugram," he said. Kaushal said that according to the inputs he had received from the central government, "it is likely that from the wind velocity and direction, it (locust swarm) will cross Palwal district and may then head towards Uttar Pradesh". About the measures taken by the Haryana government, he said, "We are fully on alert, our districts have been alerted. We have sufficient quantities of insecticides stored there. We have tractor-mounted spray guns and these were deployed wherever necessary." Officials said when locusts entered Rewari district, they settled on trees and standing crops like cotton and bajra, which had been recently planted. Any damage caused was being assessed, they said. To take stock of the situation, state Agriculture Minister J P Dalal visited Rewari and enquired from villagers and officials about the damage caused by locusts. Talking to reporters in Rewari, Dalal said Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Rewari districts had been put on alert on Friday itself. About Rewari district, he said 15 fire tenders, besides several tractor-mounted spray facilities were pressed into service during a night-long operation, which was carried out and personally monitored by Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh. Dalal said even experts from the central government who visited Rewari to take stock of the situation had appreciated the timely measures taken by the district administration. Replying to a question, he said that while the locusts are air-borne there was not much that could be done and measures are taken only after they have settled down on trees and in fields. In many villages where locusts were spotted, the farmers beat 'thalis' (plates) and other utensils in a bid to ward off the insects away while local administration deployed tractor-mounted spray facilities. Officials from the agriculture and other departments were keeping a close watch while supervision teams had been formed to tackle the situation. Village-level WhatsApp groups too had been formed to keep the farmers informed, the officials said. A month ago too Haryana had issued a high alert after locust swarms had attacked crops in neighbouring Rajasthan and a few other states, but luckily the insects had moved away from the state. Earlier in January, locusts were spotted in some villages in Punjab's Fazilka and Muktsar districts but were effectively contained then. Locusts, popularly known as ''tiddi dal'', are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-issues-alert-after-swarms-of-locusts-enter-rewari-gurugram-districts-854370.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Board declares Class 10, 12 results||The Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Board declared the results of Class 10 and 12 examinations on Saturday. Riya Jain of Baghpat and Abhimanyu Verma and Yogesh Pratap Singh of Barabanki bagged the first three spots in the High School examination, and Anurag Malik of Baghpat, Pranjal Singh of Allahabad and Utkarsh Shukla of Auraiya are the top three scorers in the Intermediate exam, Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said. Over 56.10 lakh students had registered for the High School (10th) and the Intermediate (12th) examinations conducted by the board, and over 52.57 lakh examinees had appeared in them. The passing percentage this time in the High School examination is 83.31 percent and in the Intermediate, it is 74.63 percent, Sharma said. He said the passing percentage among girl students was better than the boys. The schedule was announced 10 months in advance and the exams were conducted from February 18 to March 6, Sharma said, adding that evaluation of the answer books was completed in 23 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-madhyamik-shiksha-board-declares-class-10-12-results-854371.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Serological survey to analyse Covid-19 spread commences in Delhi||A serological survey to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi commenced in some parts of the city on Saturday amid a rise in the number of infections. As part of the survey, blood samples of 20,000 people will be tested to ascertain the presence of anti-bodies, the Union health ministry has said. The exercise will be carried out jointly by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Delhi government and will be held till July 10. "The serological survey has started from today and it will cover 20,000 people. The survey is being conducted door to door and it will reveal the extent of coronavirus spread in Delhi," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in an online briefing. The survey started in Central district on Saturday, officials said. According to an official from East district, the NCDC would train lab technicians on how to collect samples on Saturday and they were likely to commence the exercise from Monday. Similarly, in the Southeast district, the survey did not start on Saturday as logistics were being worked out. The serological survey is part of a new Covid-19 response plan prepared by the Delhi health department, as per the recommendations of a committee headed by NITI Aayog member V K Paul. The committee comes under the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/serological-survey-to-analyse-covid-19-spread-commences-in-delhi-854389.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Locust attack: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai asks South Delhi, West Delhi to remain on high alert||The Delhi government on Saturday put all districts on high alert and asked the district magistrates to coordinate with the fire department for spraying of pesticides and insecticides to prevent a possible attack of crop-destroying locusts in the national capital, after their swarms descended on neighbouring Gurgaon. An advisory issued by the Delhi development commissioner said that residents can distract the locusts by making high-decibel sound through beating of drums, utensils; playing high-volume music, bursting crackers, and burning neem leaves. The advisory asked the people to keep doors and windows closed and cover outdoor plants with plastic sheets. The district magistrates have also been advised to deploy adequate staff to make villagers and residents aware of these measure. "Swarms of locusts usually fly in daytime and rest during night. Therefore, they should not be allowed to rest during night time," it read. "Night spray of malathion or chlorpyrifos is useful. PPE kits may be used while spraying for safety, the advisory said. Earlier, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai chaired an emergency meeting of senior officials where he was informed that swarms have also reached the Asola Bhatti area in South Delhi. He asked district authorities to remain on high alert. The forest department was directed to take various steps to repel the swarms of locusts, the official said.   He also asked officials of the agriculture department to make field visits to areas close to Gurugram. The development secretary, divisional commissioner; director, agriculture department and district magistrates of South Delhi and West Delhi attended the meeting, the official said.  However, the migratory pests are likely to spare the national capital for now, officials said. The swarms of locusts, spread across two kilometres, entered Gurgaon around 11.30 am, K L Gurjar of the Locust Warning Organisation, Ministry of Agriculture, told PTI. The pests, he said, were headed towards Faridabad and Palwal in Haryana. The skies over many parts of Gurgaon turned dark as swarms of locusts descended on the city. Alarmed at the invasion of the locusts, which settled on trees, rooftops and plants, many residents of Gurgaon shared videos from their high-rise perches. In May, India battled a devastating desert locust outbreak. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and then spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.  According to experts, broadly four species of locusts are found in India – desert locust, migratory locust, Bombay locust and tree locust. The desert locust is considered the most destructive. It multiplies very rapidly and is capable of covering 150 kilometers in a day.  This insect, a type of a grasshopper, can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometer of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people.  Experts blame the growing menace of desert locusts on climate change. They say breeding of locusts is directly related to soil moisture and food availability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locust-attack-delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-asks-south-delhi-west-delhi-to-remain-on-high-alert-854392.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Woman held in Madhya Pradesh for eloping with teenage girl; 'marrying' her||A 20-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly eloping with her minor partner and "marrying" her at Guna town in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Saturday. The matter came to light, when a resident of Budhe Balaji area approached the Kotwali police station on Monday with a complaint that his 17-year-old daughter had gone missing, additional superintendent of police T S Baghel said. On investigation, it was found that a relative from a village Shivpuri district, who was living with the family, was also missing, he said. A team was sent to the village and the duo was caught on Friday, the official said, adding that the woman had married the minor, who claimed that she had eloped of her own volition. The woman was arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, while the minor was sent back to her family after counselling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-held-in-madhya-pradesh-for-eloping-with-teenage-girl-marrying-her-854398.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||19 new coronavirus deaths, 605 more test positive in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 19 novel coronavirus fatalities and 605 infections, as the state's virus count reached 21,584 while the death toll rose to 649, a senior official said. Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said  14,215 people have so far been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, leaving 6,684 active Covid-19 cases in the state. The recovery percentage of the state is 65.96 per cent, Prasad said . Referring to the sample testing, Prasad said the state touched a new benchmark on Friday by testing 20,028 samples in a day. In view of the continued cases being reported from the Meerut division, Prasad said almost 47 per cent of the total cases reported on Friday were from that region and a separate work plan is being prepared to break the chain of infection in that region. "A campaign on the lines of pulse polio campaign will be launched in the state between July 5 and 10 for breaking the chain of infection. In Meerut division, this campaign will start earlier in the first week of July," Prasad said. Under this, door-to-door surveillance and screening of infection would be undertaken in the rural and urban areas, Prasad said. He said the rapid antigen testing has also been started in the state and on Friday it was carried out in 10 districts -- six of them in Meerut division, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Varanasi. The official said the testing began in Kanpur on Saturday. He said a unique initiative is being taken in the state for crowdsourcing of ideas by encouraging people to make one-minute video on the coronavirus, precautions and what more needed to be done to check the spread of the disease and 100 best videos will be given a prize of Rs 10,000 each. Besides, 10 best ideas in 150 words will also be given a prize of Rs 10,000 each, he said, adding this will help get fresh ideas and involve people in breaking the chain of infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/19-new-coronavirus-deaths-605-more-test-positive-in-uttar-pradesh-854403.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi University postpones open book exams for final-year students by 10 days||Delhi University on Saturday postponed the online open book exams for final-year students, which were scheduled to begin from July 1, by 10 days "in view of the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic". The revised datesheets for all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes will be notified on July 3, the university said. Teachers and students have been opposing the open book exams (OBE) citing issues like absence of study material for many students and lack of internet connectivity in various parts of the country, among others.  "...all concerned are hereby informed that examinations scheduled for all final semester/term/year and ex-students as per date sheet in OBE mode examinations as an alternative mode of examinations in view of Covid-19 pandemic adopted as one-time measure for academic session 2019-20 for all streams of UG and PG including SOL and NCWEB stands postponed for ten days in view of the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic," a Delhi University notification stated. Under the prevailing situation, all concerned stakeholders, especially students, may find it difficult to attend their scheduled activities of examinations, it said. The new datesheets for all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes shall be notified by the university's examination branch on July 3 and examination will commence from July 10. Delhi is the worst-hit city by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. As of Friday, the contagious respiratory disease had infected 77,240 people and claimed 2,492 lives in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-postpones-open-book-exams-for-final-year-students-by-10-days-854404.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Police busts narco-terror module; 2 arrested, narcotic substance worth Rs 65 crore seized||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday claimed to have busted a narco-terror module with the arrest of two persons and seizure of narcotic substance worth Rs 65 crore in Kupwara district. The police said the security forces also recovered two pistols and four grenades from the possession of the arrested. "Kupwara Police & Army got huge success by arresting 02 #NarcoTerror #associates. Seized 13.5 Kg #narcotic substance worth of approx Rs 65 Cr (sic)," the Kashmir Zone Police said on its official Twitter handle. A case has been registered and an investigation is in progress, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-police-busts-narco-terror-module-2-arrested-narcotic-substance-worth-rs-65-crore-seized-854409.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Target should be to increase daily Covid-19 testing capacity to 25,000: UP CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday expressed satisfaction over the daily Covid-19 testing capacity in the state reaching the 20,000 mark, and said the target should now be to increase it to 25,000 each day, an official said. At a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister stressed on encouraging industrial, commercial and business establishments to set up Covid-19 helpdesks to keep people safe from the virus, Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi said. Adityanath said it must be ensured that social distancing is followed wherever five or more people are working, while continuous monitoring regarding precautions from the infection is carried out in industrial units. Directing officials to give special attention to the state's western districts, especially the Meerut division, the chief minister stressed on giving momentum to surveillance works and awareness drive.  He also directed medical, revenue and police departments to make preparations for a special programme in Meerut division from July 1 to 7, under which door-to-door medical screening would be undertaken. Rapid antigen test should be started in Meerut, Ghaziabad and Noida so that coronavirus cases can be promptly detected, Adityanath said, adding the effort should be to provide treatment at the earliest. The chief minister also emphasised on proper publicity through television, radio, newspaper, public-address system, posters and banners on precautions, symptoms and treatment of infection. He said that in Meerut division, the capacity of Covid-19 hospitals and screening in mandis, government, private and other establishments must be increased. So far, 1,658 trains have brought migrant workers to the state and two trains, one each from Karnataka and Tripura, are arriving on Saturday. As many as 82 trains have taken 1,42,767 brick-kiln workers to other states, Awasthi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/target-should-be-to-increase-daily-covid-19-testing-capacity-to-25000-up-cm-854414.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi asks govt to grant compensation to farmers affected by locust attack||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday urged the government to grant compensation to states and farmers who have suffered damage to crops due to locust attack. "Locusts have destroyed crops in Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, UP, MP, Gujarat and Maharashtra. "The Government Of India must provide support to the states and farmers who have suffered this menace," he said on Twitter. He said this amid reports of damage to crops by locust attack in the northern states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-asks-govt-to-grant-compensation-to-farmers-affected-by-locust-attack-854418.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan teams deputed to help in controlling locust swarm in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh: Centre||As crop-threatening locust swarm enters the outskirts of Delhi, the Union Agriculture Ministry on Saturday said more teams from Rajasthan have been deputed to help in the control operations being undertaken in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The locusts keep flying during day time and settle down only after dark in the evening. Ground control teams are constantly tracking them and will undertake major control operations once they settle down, it said, adding the control teams in Uttar Pradesh have been alerted in this regard. The control operations are underway in Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, it added. "More control teams from Rajasthan have been moved to Haryana and UP to help in the locust control operations being carried out in these two states," the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-teams-deputed-to-help-in-controlling-locust-swarm-in-haryana-uttar-pradesh-centre-854424.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Narendra Singh Tomar slams Congress in Punjab for 'misleading' farmers over ordinances||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday slammed the Congress-led government in Punjab, accusing it of trying to “mislead” farmers over the issue of ordinances related to the farm sector. While reiterating that the minimum support price regime will continue to stay, the Union minister said after the implementation of these ordinances, the farmers' income will grow. Attacking the Congress-led dispensation, Tomar said Punjab was moving towards “bankruptcy” and “lagging behind in development” under its regime and alleged that the ruling party has “failed” to fulfil its key promises of waiving complete farmers' loan and jobs for unemployed youths. Tomar's statement came days after many political parties, barring the BJP and the SAD, in Punjab pitched for the withdrawal of the three ordinances, dubbing them as “anti-farmers”. The Centre had recently promulgated three ordinances -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance. Addressing a virtual rally organised by the Punjab unit of BJP, Tomar said unlike other producers, farmers till now had no freedom to sell crops at their price. “Farmers had to go to mandis and license holders purchased their crop and they decided the price of their produce,” said Tomar. Farmers could not carry out inter-state trade either but traders could make profit by selling their crop at higher prices, said Tomar. “What is farmers' fault and why is this restriction imposed on them?” he asked. He said farmers now could sell their produce from any place be it home, field, warehouse or cold storage. There is no tax on sale and purchase of farm produce undertaken outside mandis, he said. Asserting that state mandis and state laws will stay, Tomar said farmers had now freedom to sell crops either in mandis or outside mandis. Tomar also alleged that Congressmen were trying to “confuse” farmers over the issue of ordinances. “I want to ask whether farmers will not benefit if mandi tax on them is removed and if they sell their produce at their own rates,” asked Tomar. “But Congressmen are trying to mislead the people of Punjab and I want to tell them that the Modi government was committed to welfare of farmers, villages and the poor,” he said. “After the implementation of this Act (ordinances), farmers' income will grow and they will get the right price of their produce,” he asserted. As far as MSP is concerned, it will continue to stay, he said. Tomar also attacked the Congress-led regime over its poll promises made before coming to power in 2017. “In Punjab, there is a Congress government and Captain sahib (Amarinder Singh) is chief minister,” he said. He said the Congress had promised complete waiver of farmers' loans besides promising jobs for each unemployed and making Punjab a drug-free state. “But I am pained to state that neither farmers' debt was waived, nor unemployment was eliminated or Punjab became drug-free,” alleged Tomar. “Under the Congress regime, Punjab is moving towards bankruptcy. Corruption is rampant in the state and Punjab is lagging behind in development. The Congress government is fully responsible for this,” he said. The Union minister said the Central government had always provided assistance for development projects in Punjab. Notably, on June 24, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had convened an all-party meeting to evolve a consensus on the three recent ordinances. The ruling Congress in the state had expressed apprehensions that these ordinances were a precursor to the disbanding the MSP regime and the assured marketing system. The Congress had also said the 'agriculture' and 'markets' are state subjects and these ordinances were against the spirit of Cooperative Federalism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narendra-singh-tomar-slams-congress-in-punjab-for-misleading-farmers-over-ordinances-854435.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Home Minister Amit Shah visits 10,000-bed Covid care facility in Delhi, reviews arrangements||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday visited a newly created Covid-19 care facility with over 10,000 beds in the national capital and reviewed arrangements. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal accompanied Shah during his visit to the sprawling facility in south Delhi. "Visited the 'Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre' in Delhi to review its preparedness. I thank Radha Soami Satsang Beas and all others who helped to create this huge Covid care facility. This 10,000-bed centre would provide huge relief to the people of Delhi," Shah tweeted after the visit. The home minister also applauded the "courageous" ITBP personnel, who would be operating the facility "during these trying times". "Their commitment to serve nation and people of Delhi is unparalleled. The Modi government at the Centre is committed to provide all possible help to its citizens," he said in another tweet. While leaving the facility, the home minister told officials there: "Zarurat na pade iski bhagwan se prarthna hai (I pray to God that not many people need to use it)." During his visit, the home minister took stock of the preparedness of the facility, a home ministry official said. Shah was briefed about the data management system at the Covid-19 care centre in which 10 per cent beds would be reserved for critical patients who need oxygen support. The facility in the Chhatarpur area will have two wings -- a Covid care centre where asymptomatic positive cases will be treated and a dedicated Covid healthcare centre. The Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has been given the responsibility for the management of the centre and act as the nodal agency. The national capital has reported nearly 80,000 coronavirus cases while the virus has claimed about 2,500 lives so far in Delhi. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, who also accompanied Shah, said the Covid-19 care centre is the largest of its kind. Meanwhile, the Delhi government said in a statement that the successful roll-out of the Covid-19 care centre is a phenomenal example of inter-governmental and organisational cooperation in the face of the coronavirus pandemic. In a tweet, Kejriwal said, "In this hour of difficulty, I sought help to save Delhi and everyone has come forward to contribute enthusiastically. With the support of the central government and Radha Soami Satsang Beas, such a large Covid centre has come up for Delhiites."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-minister-amit-shah-visits-10000-bed-covid-care-facility-in-delhi-reviews-arrangements-854441.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||29 foreign terrorists active in South Kashmir: Inspector General of Police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday revealed that around 29 foreign militants were active in the upper reaches of south Kashmir and they would be neutralised as soon as they come down. “They [foreign militants] are not in the hinterland but are hiding in the upper reaches of Kokernag, Tral, and Khrew. In these areas there are about 29 foreign terrorists,” said, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir range Vijay Kumar. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a wreath-laying ceremony of the CRPF jawan killed in a militant attack in the Bijbehara area of Anantnag district on Friday. “As soon they (foreign militants) will come down, our sources will inform and we will neutralise them,” Kumar said and added militancy has not been wiped out from south Kashmir despite all the major militant outfits receiving a major detent as due to killing of their cadre. The IGP asserted that the remaining militants will be killed soon. “Tral area that has been the hotbed of militancy has for the first time since 1989, no active Hizbul militant,” he said. Asked whether security forces have shifted their focus to north Kashmir, where more foreign militants are reportedly active, Kumar said, “Number of militants in north Kashmir is less compared to the south. We have already started anti-militancy operations in north Kashmir also.” The IGP said that both human, as well as technical intelligence, was helping them to develop credible leads about the presence of militants. “We develop leads and act against militants and later on identify the militant outfits they belong to,” he said. Asked about Friday's attack at Bijbheara in which a CRPF man and a five-year-old boy were killed, Kumar said eye-witnesses and police sources have identified the militant involved in the firing. “His name is Zahid Dar and he is affiliated with J&K Islamic State outfit. He came on a bike and fired indiscriminately. A massive manhunt has been launched to nab him (Dar).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/29-foreign-terrorists-active-in-south-kashmir-inspector-general-of-police-854447.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||All India Confederation of SC/ST Organisations' confederation to hold virtual rally on public sector undertakings privatisation||The All India Confederation of SC/ST Organisations will hold a virtual rally on the issues of reservation and privatisation of public sector undertakings (PSUs) on June 28, chairman of the outfit Udit Raj said on Saturday. Raj, a Congress leader and former Lok Sabha MP, said the Supreme Court's order that reservation cannot exceed 50 per cent is "against the interests of SC, ST and OBCs". "The government is eroding the base of reservation by privatising PSUs," he said in a statement. Raj accused BSP chief Mayawati of betraying the cause of SCs for power. He claimed that Mayawati shied away from struggling on issues like atrocities against deprived classes and privatisation of PSUs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-india-confederation-of-sc/st-organisations-confederation-to-hold-virtual-rally-on-public-sector-undertakings-privatisation-854472.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 2,948 COVID cases; 66 more die||The national capital recorded 2,948 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total case count across the 80,000-mark, and 66 more deaths due to the disease, authorities said on Saturday. After June 22, it was the first time that the number of cases per day fell below the 3,000-mark in the city.  The total number of COVID-19 patients in the capital now stands at 80,188. The death toll due to the disease is 2,558, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. As many as 49,301 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 28,329 active cases, it said.  As many as 19,180 tests were conducted. A total of 4,78,336 tests have been conducted till date -- 25,175 tests per million population, it said. The total number of COVID-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 17,381, it said. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by around 5 per cent everyday. For every 100 confirmed cases, three have died due to the virus in the city so far.  The recovery rate has increased to around 61 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-2948-covid-cases-66-more-die-854486.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police constable opens fire at colleague after argument||A Delhi Police constable allegedly fired at his colleague after a heated argument inside the Seemapuri police station in northeast Delhi, officials said on Saturday. The incident took place Friday night when constable Amod Bhadana returned to the police station after completing his beat duty, they said. While Bhadana was having dinner, another constable Ravindar Nagar entered the room at around 10.30 pm. They had an argument over some issue, following which Nagar took out his service pistol and fired at Bhadana, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said. The bullet hit Bhadana in the chest and he fell down. He was rushed to Swami Dayanand Hospital from where he was referred to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, police said. He is undergoing treatment there, they added. Nagar was arrested and a case under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal was registered against him, police said, adding further investigation on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-constable-opens-fire-at-colleague-after-argument-854489.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||BJP accuses National Conference of hoodwinking people on new domicile rules||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the BJP on Saturday accused the National Conference of “hoodwinking” the people over the new domicile rules and said the campaign unleashed by the party over the issue is going to “boomerang”. It said the “biased and discriminatory set of rules” under the erstwhile separate Constitution of J and K “stand buried deep down the earth for good.” "The laws and rules under Articles 370 and 35A are history now. Anyone barking upon those rules is simply trying to hoodwink the public opinion," in-charge J-K BJP Department of Political Affairs and Kashmiri pandit leader Ashwani Kumar Chrungoo said. The campaign unleashed by the NC on domicile issue is going to “boomerang”, he added. The NC on Friday had opposed the “unconstitutional and anti-people process” of grant of domicile certificates to the people not originally from Jammu and Kashmir and said the measure is aimed at disempowering the permanent residents politically and economically. The NC statement came soon after a purported domicile certificate issued to senior IAS officer from Bihar, Navin Kumar Choudhary, who has been serving in Jammu and Kashmir government for the past 26 years, went viral on social media. The government notified the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, on May 18 this year and allowed different categories of non-locals, including non-local government employees, to register for domicile certificates. As per the new domicile law, non-permanent residents who have residency proof of at least 15 years in J-K are entitled to get domicile certificates. Prior to the nullification of Article 370 and Article 35A, only state subjects were allowed to buy land and apply for government jobs in Jammu and Kashmir. Chrungoo said the NC leaders should stand out as "exemplary" and leave “hypocrisy” now. "I advise such leaders of NC to first dispose of their assets, land and properties in various parts of the rest of India and lead by example. You cannot have specific privileges for J&K residents at the cost of common Indians. "Indian constitution guarantees equal rights and opportunities to all its citizens irrespective of region, religion, caste and gender. The biased and discriminatory set of rules under the erstwhile separate constitution of J&K stands buried deep down the earth for good," he said in a statement here. The arguments put forth by the NC leaders in this connection demand that the politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen and other influential residents of the erstwhile state of J&K should immediately leave their landholdings, business share, lucrative jobs and palatial flats in other important cities and states of rest of India, the BJP leader said. "Even students from Kashmir engaged in educational, technical, professional and vocational trainings in cities like Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Jaipur and Hyderabad will have to wind up their pursuits as it is tantamount to divesting the local people of their political, economic and professional rights there," he said. Chrungoo said the NC leaders are trying to “exploit” the sentiments of the people in Kashmir, and "I further advise them to ask their cadres not to apply for domicile certificates as a first measure step and thus prove their sincerity and honesty". "They should not propagate an illegal opinion that the permanent resident certificates are valid documents. These PRCs lost their validity on August 5-6, 2019, when Article 370 was nullified by Parliament by a huge vote. However, these PRCs can be produced as documentary proof to get the domicile certificate issued. The days of one-way traffic are over", the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-accuses-national-conference-of-hoodwinking-people-on-new-domicile-rules-854508.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Over 1.68 lakh stranded residents brought back to Jammu and Kashmir||Over 1.68 lakh Jammu and Kashmir residents, who were stranded in other parts of the country due to the coronavirus-lockdown, have been brought back till now, an official spokesperson said. The Union territory administration has so far evacuated 1,68,334 people through special trains and buses via Lakhanpur amid strict observance of all necessary guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures, he said. He said 66 special trains with 53, 588 passengers have been received at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations from different states and Union territories. Also, 1,14,746 people have been evacuated through Lakhanpur. On Saturday, 21 domestic flights carrying 2,424 passengers arrived at Jammu and Srinagar airports. A total of 834 passengers aboard eight regular commercial flights arrived at the Jammu Airport, while 13 domestic flights with 1,590 passengers on board landed at the Srinagar Airport, the spokesperson said. All the passengers were tested for COVID-19 on their arrival and transported to their destinations at both the airports amid strict observance of all necessary preventive protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-168-lakh-stranded-residents-brought-back-to-jammu-and-kashmir-854512.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi govt links 1,055 beds in 8 banquet halls with state-run hospitals||The Delhi government on Saturday issued an order to set up 1,055 beds in banquet halls and linked them to state-run hospitals as the national capital continues to witness an alarming surge in coronavirus cases. According to the government's plan, the administration will set up 11,229 beds in 77 banquet halls to ramp up medical infrastructure to deal with the Covid-19 situation in the city. In each district, a banquet hall having more than 100 beds can be started by linking it to designated Covid-19 hospitals, the order said. Three banquet halls each may be linked to bigger hospitals -- Lok Nayak Hospital, GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi SS Hospital. One banquet hall each can be attached to Deep Cahnd Bandhu Hospital and Satyawadi Raja Harish Chandra Hospital, it said. The government on Saturday linked eight banquet halls with a total of 1,055 beds to these hospitals.  Kundan Banquet Hall in Southwest Delhi, Shehnai Banquet Hall in Central Delhi, and JJV Marketing and Hotels Limited were attached with Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Covid-19 hospital in Delhi. The LNJP Hospital was declared a Covid-19 facility on March 17 and since then it has successfully treated more than 2,700 coronavirus patients and sent them home.  The government said the district magistrate office will be responsible for providing housekeeping staff, and arranging sufficient beds with mattresses and pillows for patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-govt-links-1055-beds-in-8-banquet-halls-with-state-run-hospitals-854514.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||7 more Covid-19 deaths in Haryana, 543 fresh cases||Haryana on Saturday reported seven more deaths due to coronavirus, while 543 fresh cases pushed the tally in the state to 13,427, the state health department said. Gurgaon reported two fresh fatalities, while Faridabad, Sonipat, Karnal, Jhajjar and Rewari districts one each, according to a daily health bulletin. With this, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has mounted to 218. Among the districts which reported fresh cases to include Faridabad with 191 infections, Gurgaon 126, Sonipat 63, Bhiwani 52, Rohtak 24, Mahendragarh 26 and Rewari and Panipat 14 each. Gurgaon and Faridabad, the worst-hit NCR districts, now have a total of 83 and 71 fatalities, respectively, the bulletin said. Gurgaon alone accounts for 5,070 of the total cases, while Faridabad has 3,325. According to the health bulletin, 8,472 patients have been discharged after recovery. The number of active cases in the state stands at 4,737. The state's recovery rate on Saturday was 63.10 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-more-covid-19-deaths-in-haryana-543-fresh-cases-854515.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||India-China tension: Martyred soldier Lance Naik Saleem Khan put to rest in Patiala||The mortal remains of Lance Naik Saleem Khan, who lost his life in the line of duty in Ladakh, were laid to rest at his native village of Mardaheri in Punjab's Patiala district with full military honours on Saturday. He was 24. Deployed with the Bengal Engineer Group, Khan became a battle casualty on June 25 while patrolling at a river close to the LAC (Line of Actual Control) in Ladakh sector, said a government release here. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50 lakh, along with a government job to a family member of Khan. “Saddened to hear about the demise of Lance Naik Saleem Khan in Ladakh. He belonged to Mardaheri village in Patiala district. My sincere condolences to his family. The nation salutes the brave soldier. Jai Hind!,” Singh said in his tweet. Scores of people bid a tearful adieu to the soldier. Slogans of 'Saleem Khan Amar Rahe', 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' rent the air when his body, wrapped in the Tricolour, reached his native village. Villagers showered flower petals on the military vehicle when the mortal remains of Khan were being brought to his native place. Khan's family members were inconsolable when the body arrived. They also saluted him for the last time. Khan had joined the Army in February 2014. He is survived by his mother, brother and a sister. His father Mangal Deen had also served in the Army and passed away 18 years ago. Punjab Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot along with senior officials from the Army, police and civil administration and other political leaders paid their last respects to the soldier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-tension-martyred-soldier-lance-naik-saleem-khan-put-to-rest-in-patiala-854529.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||35 security personnel, among 204 test positive for Covid-19 in J&K, tally nears 7,000||204 persons, including 35 security forces personnel and 11 minors, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, taking the total tally to 6966 in the Union Territory. Among 204 new cases, 192 are from Kashmir while 13 are from Jammu, officials said. With new cases, the total number of positives in Kashmir reached 5457 out of which 3175 have recovered while 82 have died. The number of positive cases in Jammu is 1509 including 1050 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total number of active cases in Kashmir is 2200 and 498 in Jammu. With 145 more recoveries, the tally of total recoveries in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 4225 which is 60.65% of the total cases. Dr. G H Yatoo Nodal officer for Covid-19 at tertiary care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said that out of 2973 samples tested on Saturday, 109 were turned positives. He said among them 33 were from paramilitary CRPF/BSF battalions and eight minors. Officials from Chest Diseases hospital in Srinagar said that two soldiers and three minors were among the new persons tested positive on Saturday. As per the daily media bulletin, 272,041 persons in Jammu and Kashmir are under observation while 39,403 persons have been kept under home quarantine besides that 2648 persons are in hospital isolation while 31 persons are under hospital quarantine. According to the bulletin, 182,444 persons have completed surveillance period and 47,422 persons are under home surveillance besides that so far results of 345,426 samples are available. Out of 345,426, the number of samples tested negative stands at 338,460 while 6966 have been tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/35-security-personnel-among-204-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jk-tally-nears-7000-854530.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Union Minister Jitendra Singh avails online domicile certificate from home district Doda in Jammu and Kashmir||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday availed his domicile certificate online from his home district Doda in Jammu and Kashmir, an official spokesman said. Singh, minister of state in Prime Minister’s Office and Member Parliament from Udhampur-Doda constituency, applied for the domicile certificate through online mode by following all the rules, regulations and documentary formalities and accordingly tehsildar Doda issued domicile certificate in his favour, the spokesman said. The Union minister is a permanent resident of Kalhota village in Malhori tehsil of Doda. The spokesman said the mass distribution of domicile certificates is on in Doda district as per the directions of the Union Territory administration. Special camps are being organised by the district administration, where tehsildars concerned are issuing domicile certificates on the spot, he said. As per the district administration, around 8,980 domicile certificates have been issued across Doda by the respective tehsildars. The Union Minister appreciated the efforts of the UT administration for placing an online mechanism for the general public to get the domicile certificate at their doorsteps, the spokesman said. The government notified the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, on May 18 this year and allowed different categories of non-locals, including non-local government employees, to register for domicile certificates. As per the new domicile law, non-permanent residents who have residency proof of at least 15 years in J-K are entitled to get domicile certificates. Prior to the nullification of Article 370 and Article 35A, only state subjects were allowed to buy land and apply for government jobs in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-minister-jitendra-singh-avails-online-domicile-certificate-from-home-district-doda-in-jammu-and-kashmir-854538.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana govt to build 50,000 houses in outskirts of municipal areas with buyback option||The Haryana government has decided to come out with a scheme in which nearly 50,000 houses would be built in the periphery of municipal areas in the state. As per the scheme, houses will be given on a freehold or leasehold basis to all such people travelling every day from far-flung places of periphery areas to their workplaces. The scheme will be formulated with a buyback option, in which the owner at any given point of time will have an option to sell the same house back to the government, a decision to this regard was taken in the review meeting of 'Housing For All' department chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held here on Saturday. While empathising with the problem of all such commuters travelling a distance of several kilometres to reach their desired work destinations, the CM said, “The purpose of this scheme is to provide housing facilities to all such people who presently have to travel long distances to reach their working destination. However, with the construction of these houses they will get housing facilities to stay nearby their work area.” In order to promote industries in Haryana, it was also decided to allow 10 per cent of Floor Area Ratio for housing on industrial plots for entrepreneurs to set up industries in the state, so that entrepreneurs can arrange accommodation facilities for their workers within the industry premises, an official statement said here. Besides this, it was further decided that a similar provision will also be made for the industrial plots located in the industrial estates of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) for the same purpose. Meanwhile, HSIIDC will also construct houses for the industrial units, which will be given to them on rental basis to accommodate their workers. In the meeting,  Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Rajesh Khullar, Additional Chief Secretary of Housing Department T C Gupta were among others present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govt-to-build-50000-houses-in-outskirts-of-municipal-areas-with-buyback-option-854544.html
27-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 death toll started rising in Delhi in June first week due to shortage of beds: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal acknowledged on Saturday that because of a shortage of beds in hospitals for COVID-19 patients in the first week of June, the death toll due to the disease started rising in the national capital, but asserted that there is no such deficiency as of now. Ramping up the number of beds, testing and isolation, providing pulse oximetres and oxygen concentrators to the patients, plasma therapy, screening and survey are the "five weapons" being used by Delhi government in the fight against the coronavirus, Kejriwal said in a virtual briefing. He also said the virus spread faster than expected in Delhi after the lifting of lockdown restrictions and the death toll rose in the initial days as the city did not have the required number of beds for COVID-19 patients then. Listing his government's measures to combat COVID-19, the chief minister said it is a "difficult" war being waged by Delhi against the virus, it will win the war but it will take time. He said since the last one month, his government has significantly increased the number of beds for coronavirus patients through steps like reserving 40 per cent beds in hospitals for such patients and declaring some bigger private as well as government hospitals as dedicated for COVID-19.  By May 15, the virus had spread rapidly and from the first week of June, there was a shortage of beds and testing and hence, the death toll started rising, Kejriwal said. "By the first week of June, we found that there was a shortage of beds and testing in Delhi. As some people could not get beds due to the shortage, the death toll started rising," he said. "Earlier I used to get phone calls for beds in hospitals till late at night. That has stopped now. Currently, there is no shortage of beds for coronavirus patients, but we are still ramping up the number of beds," he said. The government had an option to either continue with the lockdown or fight the virus and it chose the latter after consulting people, the chief minister said. The government took the decision to attach hotels to hospitals and created 3,500 beds in these hotels. At the Radha Soami Satsang premises, arrangements for 2,000 beds have been made, Kejriwal said, adding that 10,000 beds will be arranged at the earliest. Also, at the Burari hospital of the Delhi government, 450 additional beds have been arranged and the government is working to ensure oxygen supply to all the beds, he said. Kejriwal said in March, when the virus was spreading across the world, around 35,000 people from abroad, particularly from the countries most affected by the pandemic, came to Delhi. "They were screened and those with fever were admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) and Safdarjung hospitals. These people went home and apparently, the virus spread from person to person," Kejriwal said. Those days there was little information and guidelines on coronavirus and even testing kits or laboratories were not available, he said. The number of COVID-19 tests, which was roughly 5,000 per day in the first week of June, has now been raised to 20,000. The Centre has helped the Delhi government start rapid tests and now nobody complains that tests are not happening, the chief minister said. A serological survey has started in Delhi from Saturday. It will cover 20,000 people and determine the extent of coronavirus spread in the national capital, he said. The asymptomatic COVID-19 patients and those with mild symptoms in home isolation have been provided with pulse oximetres and the government has procured 4,000 oxygen concentrators to provide artificial breathing to those who need it, the chief minister said. Plasma therapy is another important weapon that is being used for many patients, he said, adding that Delhi was among the first cities in the country to start the therapy, following a trial on 29 patients that gave successful results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-started-rising-in-delhi-in-june-first-week-due-to-shortage-of-beds-arvind-kejriwal-854548.html
27-06-2020||Opinion||We need more women leaders to handle the Covid-19 crisis||The novel coronavirus has created the biggest planetary crisis in generations sending shock waves through national health systems, economies, and societies around the world. We are faced with an unprecedented and an escalating situation, where both demand and supply is choked. Governments are focused on flattening the pandemic curve, reviving their economies, and forcing decision-makers to multitask. The situation necessitates more leaders, perhaps even heroes, more than ever before.    Does gender have a role to play in crisis leadership? Study of hormones That said, although studies quoted here overwhelmingly support leadership qualities of women, we can find an equal number of studies extolling the leadership qualities of men. It is futile to make an argument for preferring one over another. Bringing parity means bringing both men and women to a relatively equal level of a playing field. The reality is that we haven’t managed to achieve that level playing field just yet. India’s story India has a history of electing female leaders to top positions. India’s Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs and President of FICCI are women. Indian women, such as the Chief Scientist of WHO and Chief Economist of IMF, are providing crucial leadership in the global arena during the COVID-19 crisis. However, the overall picture isn’t delightful. India slipped to 112th spot from its 108th position in 2018 in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Index 2020, which covered 153 economies. India ranks 18th in ‘Political Empowerment’ category but the positions in other sub-indices (‘Economic Participation and Opportunity’, ‘Educational Attainment’, and ‘Health and Survival’) is gloomy. There is still a 31.4 per cent average gender gap that remains to be closed globally. With the COVID-19 outbreak, a harsh spotlight has been shone on neglected equality gaps. Women and girls are disproportionately impacted due to their relatively disadvantaged situation, distinct social obligations and responsibilities, and the high prevalence of gender-based violence. Diverse leadership for better direction COVID-19 showed us that even the leadership team of developed countries can fail to deliver. In an impending crisis, we need a diverse set of leaders for a better direction. By bringing to the fore the untapped reservoir of women leadership in all walks of life, we will be more resilient to tackle future crises. (Saumya Pandey and Kowthamraj V S are Young Professionals at NITI Aayog.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/we-need-more-women-leaders-to-handle-the-covid-19-crisis-854348.html
27-06-2020||Opinion||Is schooling the only way to learn? A Covid teaching moment||Classes, blackboards and chalk, whiteboards and pens, examinations...a lot of familiar things in the world of learning have come to a grinding halt since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. For a few weeks, we hoped this disruption would be short, but as the lockdown has gone on for months, we have been forced to imagine an altogether different way of doing things. Three things have been thrown up plainly by the new reality. The most critical of these is the vast gulf between those who learn in public schools and those who learn in private schools. The second is a conversation about the difference between schooling and learning, which we earlier believed to be the same. And the third is the role of examinations. For the longest time, we pretended that incomplete investments in public education could still somehow produce reasonable outcomes for the masses. We told ourselves that a school without a toilet for girls is still useful in a limited way, a classroom with a leaky ceiling can still be used if one sat in a different corner of it, a school with regularly absent teachers is still doing some good on the days the teacher does come. And so on. The outcomes from such deceit were always in plain sight. Very low graduation rates, certification without meaningful learning even for those who did pass, and large-scale joblessness for the youth. These facts should have moved us to act long ago, but the political system is comfortable with large-scale illiteracy, so things festered. And by equating inputs to outcomes, we kept up a pretense. Covid-19 has nailed all that to the mast. Now, the only inputs that matter are a network connection, a computer in every student’s home, and an instructor familiar with digital facilitation of learning. There is nothing else that matters. Either the schools provide this, or they’re not schools. End of fairy tale. And by and large, public schools aren’t providing this. They simply cannot. There is no way that decades of under-investment in public education can be wished away in a summer of lockdown. The switch to online learning is simply not an option, because that world itself doesn’t exist in public education. All that governments can do now is watch helplessly, and the public can see this. This is despite some slice of luck. Education departments throughout the country should thank their lucky charms that the pandemic appeared on the scene just as the school calendar was winding down. This allowed governments to simply let things slide into the summer holidays. If Covid-19 had debuted in August or January, the swa-ha moment would have been instant. Let’s turn to examinations next. The conventional way of conducting them has been ruled out by Covid-19, and the digital alternative is not an option for more than half the students. The only option left seems to be to delay exams first, and when even that proves insufficient, to cancel them altogether. But if exams can be cancelled, one might ask whether we ever needed them in the first place. Our education system never focused on learning as an opportunity to be given to all children, and instead relied on exclusion through examinations to mask its limited offering to only a few. Instead of asking how all young people can be educated for 16-20 years, we set up various exams along the way, and told ourselves that those who didn’t pass don’t have merit. It’s utterly unfair. Merit is often nothing more than the accumulation of past opportunities in families. Excluding the poor through the logic of merit ignores the history that has made them poor. Instead, anyone who wants to learn should be able to, and we should figure out how to make that happen. Governments love exams — they are the lever and trap that keep us from questioning the system’s poor quality. You can’t get to high school or college without clearing exams, and you can’t get jobs without going to college. Sarkar has set this up in a way that the threat of losing out has become the reason we have lost out so much! Fortunately, employers already know this is a charade, and are increasingly rejecting it. Most employers would rather hire someone whose work they are familiar with than someone whose marks sheet they’ve briefly seen and have no confidence in. And an escape route from this can be built, through apprenticeships. By creating the learn-on-the-job environment, we can improve the learning in schools and colleges, too. More on that later. Between the twin scams of poor public education on the input side and certification without learning on the output side, more and more people are asking, “is schooling the only way to learn?” Covid-19 has forced us to confront this, but there is always the risk that once the pandemic passes, we’ll go back to ignoring it. Remember, the State has a vested interest in the status quo, and the market isn’t a full solution for all children. Society will have to tackle this question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-schooling-the-only-way-to-learn-a-covid-teaching-moment-854566.html
27-06-2020||Opinion||Life lessons from a crow||I expected to talk to myself a lot during lockdown. Instead, I’ve been talking to a crow — one of those ubiquitous Indian house crows that are revered and feared in equal measure. Our tentative friendship developed surprisingly quickly but came with hurdles that, on my part, threatened to derail it. A decomposed dead rat deposited outside my kitchen window, hefty demands for food, and soggy scraps soaking in the water bowl initially dissolved a great deal of goodwill, until I realised I was focusing on the wrong things. The crow was just being a crow. Although I found its behaviour disagreeable, it didn’t know it was doing anything unpleasant. Plus, quirky crow behaviour is what had, at first, attracted me to these creatures. Early morning, a few years ago, I watched a crow leap up and playfully nip the tail of a black kite that was peacefully sitting and observing its surroundings. The daring move shocked me. What attitude! The kite chose not to be bothered by the crow though, dismissing its irritation with a cursory glance. Such uninhibited interaction between the two birds demonstrated the importance of having fun, yet remaining undisturbed by life’s annoyances. It also revealed that there’s more to crows than the bad rap they get for their domineering presence and pesky predatory traits. I instantly became a fan. As I gazed out of my kitchen window during the lone days of lockdown, a crow caught my attention. The crow spent most of its time perched, with its partner, atop the neighbouring apartment building. Its continued company was my steady connection with the outside world, so I began talking to it and leaving leftovers in a dish. This crow didn’t just fly in, snatch the food, and fly out like other crows. Oddly, it stuck around. “The crow is looking like Einstein,” my husband remarked one day, as it stood there with the feathers on its head puffed out. Einstein, the crow, seemed to possess a similar combination of intuition and intelligence as the professor. It wasn’t long before it perched itself on the steel clothesline outside my kitchen window multiple times a day. No doubt getting an easy meal was the goal. However, the crow allowed me to hang out with it and have inane one-sided conversations, while it cocked its head and listened intently. That is, as long as its desire for egg was eventually met. Ignoring it resulted in incessant, disgruntled squawking. Sometimes, the crow’s appetite appeared to be insatiable. It overloaded its beak and then disappeared around the corner of the building, only to return moments later for more. Curious, I watched it hide its haul behind the air conditioner pipes. Yes, even the crow wisely stored provisions during the pandemic. I began to offer the crow small, bite-sized pieces of food from my hand. Soon, it grew comfortable enough to hop along the clothesline and gently devour the food off my fingers. The crow’s affection doesn’t extend to my husband though. It always keeps an eye out for him and usually flees when he approaches, perhaps sensing that he isn’t keen to befriend it either. Does the crow’s presence have a message for me? Mythology links crows to the afterlife and the spirits of ancestors, and a single crow is often said to indicate death or loss. However, as I gaze closely into the crow’s penetrative eyes, I don’t feel that the bird is a bad omen, and I don’t notice its lack of grace and purity. Instead, I connect with a captivating being that is willing to trust and take risks, is bold and persistent, and isn’t afraid to ask for what it wants. And, I’m glad I looked deeper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/life-lessons-from-a-crow-854568.html
27-06-2020||Opinion||Whose vision – Huxley, Orwell or someone else?||In Brave New World and Brave New World Revisited, author Aldous Huxley posits a world in which people do not think, read books or participate in legitimate protests since they are too busy being entertained. A people for whom history has no relevance and a people who are too passive, narcissistic and egotistical to notice that they are being controlled through pleasure. In sharp contrast, George Orwell (Animal Farm, 1984) envisions a world in which people are always afraid and who possess no individuality, rebellion is a capital offence, books are banned, truth stays hidden, thinking is considered a crime, and all history is curated. Today’s society seems to be a curious mixture of the two worlds, I think. A mixture that has been made even more plausible by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. People have responded to the lockdown by watching movies and TV shows endlessly, if only to avoid being bored! In case you missed it, India is now the battleground for streaming TV shows and films in a variety of regional languages to an estimated 850 million smartphones. Netflix, Disney, Apple TV+, Amazon Prime and home-grown Zee 5 are in competition to grab a significant chunk of the streaming services market, predicted to reach $5 billion in revenues, by 2023. In a race to the bottom, some of these companies have cut subscription prices by as much as 50% for a limited contractual period to gain viewership. This is quite reminiscent of how Amazon and Walmart have operated across the globe to stifle competition. It is only a matter of time before the IT behemoths start focusing on regional news media and electronic billboards. As Marshall McLuhan succinctly put it, “The medium is the message.” Entertainment and information — two powerful vehicles to capture the hearts and minds of any society, no matter how diverse or how entrenched. And manipulate it, just like Pavlov’s dog. In the 1950s, it was common practice for US movie theatres to resort to subliminal messaging (later banned) whereby movie-goers would involuntarily rush out to buy popcorn and Coca Cola during intermission. In her seminal work, The Age of Surveillance Capitalism, author and Harvard professor Shoshana Zuboff writes that surveillance capitalism has hijacked digital technology by unilaterally claiming private human experience as free raw material for translation into proprietary behavioural data which, in turn, can be used to drive production and sales. The most predictive data is obtained by monitoring our online and off-line behaviour and shaping our behaviour towards the most profitable outcomes. As one data scientist explained to her: “We can engineer the context around a particular behaviour and force change that way…We are learning how to write the music, and then we let the music make them dance.” In other words, predictions become guarantees, and many companies are willing to lay bets on our future behaviour. As Zuboff trenchantly observes: “Once we searched Google. Now, Google searches us.” As do Amazon and Facebook. Facebook proudly boasts of being able to generate eight million predictions per second based on analysing trillions of data points. The phrase ‘Big Data Analytics’ as practised by companies such as Microsoft and IBM has now given way to ‘Predictive Analytics’ which can result in the denial of insurance coverage owing to pre-existing health conditions, denial of home and car loans, skewing democratic election results based on previous voting records, etc., and the policing of thought (‘pre-emptive policing’ is already happening in select localities). Religion has often been described as the opiate of the masses — masses controlled by a select set of leaders in the guise of popes, priests, rabbis and mullahs. In today’s world, the smartphone has become the new opiate. You know who the leaders are.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/whose-vision-huxley-orwell-or-someone-else-854570.html
27-06-2020||Opinion||What Indira Gandhi broke remains broken||This week marks 45 years since the Indira Gandhi government imposed the 18-month-long Emergency in India and is as good a time as any to recall her infamous battles with the judiciary over the appointment of judges. Conventional histories will pinpoint to April 24, 1973 as the day it all began — when three senior judges of the Supreme Court were superseded by the government to appoint its chosen judge, Justice AN Ray, as the Chief Justice of India. However, tensions began much earlier. American scholar George H Gadbois, based on his interviews with every single living judge (and the families of the deceased ones), concludes that disagreement over who gets to have the final say in the appointment of judges goes back to 1971, during the term of CJI Hidayatullah. The source of this disagreement has some basis in the text of the Constitution. Article 123 says that the President of India shall appoint judges of the Supreme Court after “consultation” with the CJI. However, Article 74 also states that the President is supposed to carry out her functions on the “aid and advise” of the Council of Ministers. This raises the obvious question — in appointing judges, if the CJI says one thing and the Council of Ministers says another, whom should the President listen to? This was one of those issues that was discussed fairly threadbare in the Constituent Assembly and I’ll point to my colleague Arghya Sengupta’s two books on the matter for a deeper study. Suffice it to say though that BR Ambedkar, in the debate over the appointment provisions, was not in favour of giving the CJI a ‘veto’ over matters of judicial appointment. This seems to suggest that in the event of a conflict between the judiciary and government over appointments, the government will have final say. That, however, has to be balanced with Ambedkar’s statements in the CA emphasizing the need and importance of an independent judiciary. The potential conflict between the judiciary and the executive did not take place during the premiership of Jawaharlal Nehru or Lal Bahadur Shastri, who were content to let the CJI have the final say in appointments. Not that they did not have disagreements with judges — the Constitution itself was amended to address some problematic judgements — but at no point did they seek to replace judges not in consonance with the government. That changed during Indira Gandhi’s second term, with the idea of a “committed judiciary” (i.e. committed to the government’s ideology) taking hold. Tussles over judicial appointments would continue for the next few decades, beyond Indira’s tenure, until the Supreme Court in 1993 pulled a metaphorical rabbit out of the hat by holding that the President was bound to appoint judges only on the advice of the Chief Justice of India but that such advice had to be given by the CJI in consultation with three fellow senior judges or “the collegium”. The collegium was expanded to five judges in 1999 and has continued as such, except for the time Parliament tried to introduce the National Judicial Appointments Commission to do the collegium’s job — only to have it quashed as being against the basic structure of the Constitution. The present system of appointments – in which judges effectively appoint other judges — has no basis in our Constitution’s text or was the intention of the CA. Rather, it is defended on the basis that it is closer to Ambedkar’s intent in ensuring an independent judiciary, and therefore acceptable. No one can dispute that the collegium system of appointments has its problems — even the Supreme Court has acknowledged it. It has not ensured independence (as recent interference by the Union government shows) or ensured quick filling of vacancies (as the gaps in High Courts show). It stands accused of being opaque and subjective, and rife with favouritism and nepotism. The collegium system feels like the worst of all worlds on this front. Can we fix this by going back to the original intent and text of the Constitution on judicial appointments? Probably not. We can no more undo the history of judiciary-executive conflict than we can turn crisp dosas back into batter. The only path forward is to move ahead, learning from the tortured history of conflict over judicial appointments, and come up with a better system. Something like the system and process followed in the UK might get us closer to the ideal. Until then, the issue of judicial appointments serves to remind us of what Ambedkar said in his closing speech to the Constituent Assembly: “...however good a Constitution may be, it is sure to turn out bad because those who are called to work it happen to be a bad lot. However bad a Constitution may be, it may turn out to be good if those who are called to work it happen to be a good lot.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-indira-gandhi-broke-remains-broken-854571.html
27-06-2020||Opinion||Going all moony over a solar eclipse||Surya Grahana, the Solar Eclipse, is a useful thing. For one, the time that the Sun, Moon and the Earth get aligned in the sky is a good time to check if your own family is aligned — to your beliefs and worldview. What you do (or not do) on the day of an eclipse can be a barometer of “What type of Indian are you?” My own home was a good testing ground. We are no Suryavanshis, just three generations under one roof of a Bengaluru flat – the Mother, we the MiddleAger couple, and our son, the Millennial. The evening before the eclipse last Sunday, mother came from her mother’s place with the darbe (a kind of grass also called Darbha, scientific name Desmotachya bipinnata). These straws, I knew from habit and three dozen eclipses, were to be dropped during the eclipse duration into foods that usually ferment. There are those who keep the darbe in places that challenge the very disinfectant power the grass is believed to have against harmful rays; like on top of the fridge – as if a kind of wholesale insurance cover for all food that is inside, that may date back to even a few days. So far, so fine, but Ma pronounced a set of other instructions: Breakfast the next morning was to be light and had to be consumed en masse before 8.30 am so that the food is digested well before the eclipse start time; each of us had to have our bath close to 2 pm after the official declaration that it’s all over; and only then the cooking would start for the Sunday lunch. As kids growing up in a South Indian family in a little town in Uttar Pradesh, I did not recall any such ‘Eclipse Manual’ in place in our home. My same mother, younger and married to a roaming husband whose government job took us across North India, had been clueless about any must-do lists on Moon-eats-Sun days or Earth-blocks-Moon nights. We girls, along with our father, therefore spent such celestial days in ignorant bliss. In any case, father was no good as a knower of rules; it was only during his LTC-granted annual holidays to Chennai and Bengaluru that Appa, a jollygood omelette-relisher from a pure-veg family, would get reminded of his roots and rituals, all of which were forgotten once we were back in the Hindi heartland. But the 2020 Surya Grahana was way more codified. If you didn’t know the code via Whatsapp University and felt an absolute Eclipsidiot – like that other new term Covidiot – you just had to turn on the TV. Astrologers, not scientists or solar eclipse experts, had taken the throne in each of the Kannada channels that I scanned, over the dos and absolute don’ts, the stars that you were born under that were in danger now, saved only if you gave away a cow in charity. On Instagram, actor Danish Sait of the lockdown laughriots, asked if eclipse “pe miniRoza rakhi?” On a friends’ group, a debate raged on how eclipse restrictions are all superstitions. Then someone shared a video clip of a new-age guru saying how there was “phenomenal death of microorganisms that occurred in oceans, in our bodies and fasting makes scientific sense”. The trashers rubbished it, the believers didn’t care, the young set who wanted to believe but were scared of being ‘uncool’ seemed happy with the validation. Elsewhere on social media, a friend’s husband went live declaring that he was having Pandi curry (pork delicacy) exactly at the same forbidden hour. I read how Prof MN Vahia at the Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai, said that though we call it a Solar Eclipse, the sun is completely unaware of its occurrence. The sun is too big to be bothered about where the moon’s shadow falls. But when I went to a friend’s house that evening, the Sun was still the centre of our talk. She said Grahana rites are all bunkum but her son, newly-married and now in New York, had called a couple of days before to ask her, “Amma, what is the name of that grass grandma would put to purify the food during eclipse? I am checking if we can buy that online.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/going-all-moony-over-a-solar-eclipse-854573.html
27-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Encounters of a large kind||Motorists in Munnar generally agree that nothing is scarier than running into a belligerent wild elephant on a deserted road at night – a recurring nightmare that has spawned countless hair-raising tales, some as tall as the pachyderms themselves! Some inexperienced drivers are petrified into inaction. They stay put and risk being booted out of the way unceremoniously – with all the attendant consequences. Most, however, reverse hastily to a safe distance, meekly acknowledging the jumbo’s ‘right of passage’. This, too, is fraught with risk. One panicky driver reversed frantically, keeping an anxious eye alternately on the advancing elephant and the road behind, fervently praying that he didn’t end up in an unseen ditch. However, that’s precisely what happened – and saved him in the bargain. In the desperation of the moment, his car slid into a ravine well out of the jumbo’s reach, and he escaped unscathed with only minor abrasions. Another weary driver who parked his truck on a roadside one night to catch forty winks, woke up suddenly to find a tusker mopping the condensation off his windscreen with its trunk – perhaps to get a better view of the cabin’s occupant!     Terrified, he cowered under the dashboard until the jumbo went away. Some elephants obstinately refuse to budge, holding up traffic for hours on arterial roads. I once witnessed such a hold-up near Munnar with a traffic build-up on both sides of the stubborn jumbo. After about an hour it condescendingly moved to a side to allow vehicles to pass but – unnerved by its truly menacing tusks – none dared to. When it did finally lumber away after about two hours, motorists found that it had been gorging on bananas kept for sale in a wayside stall! Two major irritants for wild elephants are firecrackers and dogs often used to drive them away from local vegetable gardens. The canines, in particular, anger the jumbos by repeatedly snapping at them, and so they turn their ire on the first human unfortunate enough to cross their path.  A small bonfire is an effective deterrent to keep away elephants or any wild animal for that matter. Once while camping overnight with friends outside Munnar, we found a few wild elephants in the vicinity. Unperturbed, our elderly tribal guide promptly lit a fire around which we hit the sack. The jumbos never bothered us that night – though the guides sonorous snoring did!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/encounters-of-a-large-kind-854246.html
27-06-2020||Second Edit||Plug gaps in food systems||A very large number, if not most, of the people who will lose their food security, will be in India because the country accounts for much of the population in the worst-affected parts of the world. The FAO has seen deteriorating employment conditions, the distress of famers and farmworkers, and disruption of transport systems, markets, industry and supply chains as some reasons for the collapse of subsistence support for the most affected people.  All these have affected the poorest sections of people, including migrant workers and many others, badly. Schemes have been announced to help them to cope with the situation, like free supply of food grains, work under MNREGA and other programmes, and schemes like ‘one nation, one card’. It is anybody’s guess how effective they are and how well they are implemented. The ‘one nation, one card’ scheme,  for example, is good but large numbers of families and individuals do not have ration cards at all in most states.  The FAO has suggested that cash-based assistance and distribution of life and livelihood-saving food will be needed, along with measures to maintain liquidity and financial inclusion in rural areas. It also wants food production, distribution and marketing to be declared essential services. There are other suggestions too which can be adapted suitably to the conditions prevailing in individual countries. All disasters hit the poorest people worst and so their requirements need to be given special attention to. When governments are busy fighting a disaster, the condition of the poor is usually forgotten. That leads to a bigger humanitarian disaster later. The report has pointed out that the pandemic has revealed the gaps that have existed in food systems for years, and they need to be plugged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/plug-gaps-in-food-systems-854242.html
27-06-2020||South||One killed in ammonia gas leak at SPY Agros in Andhra Pradesh||One person was killed and three severely injured in an ammonia leak at SPY Agros, a private industry, near Nandyal in Andhra Pradesh. The deceased was a 50-year-old man. The condition of three other affected workers is stable. Kurnool district collector Veerapandian said the leak has been controlled and there was no danger outside the premises of the company. The situation was brought under control with fire engines and revenue, police, health officials were working together, the official said. SP Fakeerappa Kaginelli was also present at the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-killed-in-ammonia-gas-leak-at-spy-agros-in-andhra-pradesh-854335.html
27-06-2020||South||Elderly woman succumbs to Covid-19 in Pondy, toll at 10||An 82-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 at a government hospital here while 87 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 619. Director of Health and Family Welfare services S Mohan Kumar told reporters on Saturday that the woman from neighbouring Muthialpet was admitted to the state-run Indira Gandhi government general hospital on June 16 and tested positive for the pandemic although she had comorbidities. The woman died on Friday, taking the total fatalities to 10. He said 87 fresh cases, highest for a single day so far, were reported during the last 24 hours "jolting the health authorities." Mohan Kumar said the new cases were identified at the end of testing of samples of 517 patients. The total Covid-19 cases rose to 619 after two patients were shifted to Tamil Nadu from the government medical college hospital here. While 72 of the fresh cases were admitted to the government-run medical college hospital, the remaining 15 were admitted to the Government hospital in Karaikal.  The total active cases stood at 388, the official said. Mahe and Yanam regions, enclaves of Puducherry in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh respectively continued to have one patient each. He said 221 patients were treated and discharged from hospitals so far. The Director appealed to the people to adhere to the norms of lockdown and ensure that they wore masks while stepping out for very inevitable and necessary purposes, washed hands and adopted the social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elderly-woman-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-pondy-toll-at-10-854362.html
27-06-2020||South||Centre cancels Tamil Nadu’s Rs 2,000 crore Bharat Net tenders||In a major embarrassment to the Tamil Nadu government, the Centre has cancelled four tenders worth Rs 2,000 crore issued by it for laying Optic Fibre Cables (OFC) to provide broadband connectivity to 12,524 villages, following allegations that “massive changes” were incorporated in the bidding documents to favour “specific companies.” The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in an order dated June 26, 2020, held that the bidding conditions are “restrictive and discriminatory” in nature. It also asked the Tamil Nadu government to scrap the tenders and re-invite the bids with “non-restrictive qualification” criteria. The order came three days after the DPIIT held a hearing via video conferencing on June 23 based on a complaint filed by anti-corruption NGO, Arappor Iyakkam, and two firms who alleged that massive changes were incorporated in the tender documents in April this year even as the state was fighting the Covid-19 battle to “favour specific companies.” ‘Cancel tender and reissue them’ The tenders, which were originally floated in December 2019, have been at the centre of a controversy since the beginning as two IAS officers – the then Information Technology secretary Dr Santhosh Babu and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu FibreNet Corporation Limited (TANFINET) M S Shanmugam, were shunted out after they refused to “give into pressure” to effect changes in the bidding documents. In its complaint, Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam alleged that new IT Secretary Hans Raj Verma IAS and TANFINET MD D Ravichandran made massive changes on April 15, 2020 by increasing turnover and experience of the company and changing router configuration to suit “specific companies.” “…it has been considered that the bidding conditions incorporated by TANFINET in the bidding documents are restrictive and discriminatory in nature. As such, TANFINET should scrap the tender and re-invite bids with non-restrictive qualification criteria,” Rajesh Gupta, Director, DPIIT, said in the order. The order is an embarrassment to the state government which had rejected charges of irregularities in the tender process. IT Minister R B Udhayakumar had justified the changes in the tender documents, while dismissing charges of corruption. ‘Big Corruption averted’ The hearing on June 23 was attended by Joint Secretary of the Department of Telecommunications, IT Secretary of Tamil Nadu, and MD of TANFINET. Venkatesan said the Tamil Nadu government officials who were present at the hearing were not able to justify the “arbitrary changes” made to the tender documents that could have benefitted a few companies. “A big corruption has been averted in Tamil Nadu through the order by the DPIIT. Through the order which has cancelled the tenders and have directed their reissuance, Arappor Iyakkam’s contentions of irregularities and illegalities in the tenders floated by the government have been proved. It is a big victory for us. These tenders, if not cancelled, would have resulted in a massive corruption,” he told DH. Since the tenders have been cancelled now, Venkatesan said, the Tamil Nadu government should act against the two IAS officials who effected changes in the tender documents and removal of the IT Minister from the Cabinet. Arappor Iyakkam filed four complaints on the “massive changes” made to four BharatNet tenders to favour specific companies for all four packages. The tenders were issued in four packages – Package A with a value of Rs 350 crores, packages B and C– with a value of Rs 550 crores each, and package D worth Rs 500 crore. Based on one of the complaints, the DPIIT had stayed the tender opening and finalization pending disposal of the grievance. The NGO has been contending that the tender conditions that were changed in April were in complete violation of the guidelines of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) as well as DPIIT’s 2017 Make in India order. The NGO alleged that that the changes include increasing the turnover of the company participating in the bidding process and its experience, introduction of proof of concept to bring subjectivity and discretion in tender and changing router conditions to suit “certain specific companies.” How the controversy came to the fore? The DMK also lapped up the allegations levelled by Arappor Iyakkam and also moved the Madras High Court seeking a probe into the issue. DMK’s Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi sought registration of FIR on his complaint against Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and the Minister. The Tamil Nadu government and the Centre entered into an MoU on December 26, 2017 for implementation of BharatNet-II in Tamil Nadu, which envisages connecting 12,524 villages in the state with a bandwidth of 1 Gbps which can be scaled up as required. Based on the MoU, the Tamil Nadu government launched Tamil Nadu FibreNet Corporation Limited, a special purpose vehicle (SPV) on 08.06.2018, which floated the tenders. The controversy over the project began after Dr Santhosh Babu sought voluntary retirement for his service in January this year. His move raised questions whether he is under pressure over the BharatNet project. However, the IAS officer withdrew his request and was shunted out of the department. Soon, the MD of TANFINET was also transferred. Political parties welcome move and demand answers As the order was made available in the public domain, Opposition Leader M K Stalin sought a detailed response from Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on the tender process. “The Minister lied to the people that there were no irregularities. What is the action that will be taken against him? Will he resign or will he be dismissed from his post? What action will be taken against the officials?” Stalin asked in a statement. AMMK chief T T V Dhinakaran also welcomed the Centre’s decision. “This is just the beginning. The irregularities in tenders awarded to the relatives of (the chief minister) in every department will come out one by one,” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-cancels-tamil-nadu-s-rs-2000-crore-bharat-net-tenders-854393.html
27-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 796 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally crosses 12,000 mark||Andhra Pradesh reported 796 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, a record single day spike, taking the overall tally in the state to 12,285. Also, 11 patients succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 157 so far, according to the latest bulletin. Anantapuramu district recorded 161 cases in a day, pushing it to the second spot in the state with a total of 1,320 behind Kurnool (1,684). Krishna and Kurnool districts registered four fresh coronavirus deaths each while West Godavari, East Godavari and Vizianagaram accounted for one each. It was the first Covid-19 death in Vizianagaram district to date. In the last 24 hours, 263 patients were discharged from hospitals upon recovery, sending the state's aggregate to 5,480. AP now has 6,648 active Covid-19 cases, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-796-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-crosses-12000-mark-854413.html
27-06-2020||South||Puducherry CM's V Narayanasamy office to shut as staff tests Covid-19 positive||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said here on Saturday his office would be closed for the next two days as one of his staff members tested positive for COVID-19. The affected person was admitted to the government hospital on Friday. The Chief Minister told newsmen through a video that the person was among the 87 people who were identified as COVID- 19 positives at the end of testing of samples during the last 24 hours. Narayanasamy said his office was sprayed with disinfectant to prevent the possible spread of the pandemic. He appealed to the people not to visit the Assembly, which houses his office, in view of a staff member being a COVID-19 patient. The total number of people hit by the virus in the union territory so far is 619 with the fatalities remaining at 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cms-v-narayanasamy-office-to-shut-as-staff-tests-covid-19-positive-854417.html
27-06-2020||South||Ivory possession case: Kerala govt requests court to stop actor Mohanlal's prosecution||The Kerala government has filed an application in a local court with a prayer to withdraw the ivory possession case against actor Mohanlal as it was satisfied that the continuance of the prosecution is a "futile exercise and total wastage of the precious time" of Court. The case dated back to December 2011 when a team of forest officials had seized two pairs of elephant tusks from Mohanlal's residence here following an income tax raid. It was alleged that the actor did not have a certificate of possession as mandated under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. In the application for withdrawal of prosecution filed before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court III at Perumbavoor, the Assistant Public Prosecutor said the original source of the tusks could be traced either to a period before coming into force of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 or to an ownership certificate. "Hence the original source of the tusks is from the genuine person. In such matters especially taking into consideration of the various provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 the element of public interest is comparatively less," the application said. The government said it was "satisfied that the continuance of the prosecution of this case is a futile exercise and total wastage of the precious time of this Hon'ble court." "Therefore this prosecution needs to be stopped immediately for the interest of justice," it said. It further submitted that the larger and broader ends of public interest and justice warranted an early withdrawal from prosecution in this case with sanction from the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ivory-possession-case-kerala-govt-requests-court-to-stop-actor-mohanlals-prosecution-854454.html
27-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu conducts over 10.42 lakh Covid-19 tests, chasing virus cases: Health Secretary||Over 10.42 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Tamil Nadu and the focus was to cover the population street-wise for early detection and treatment, Health secretary, J Radhakrishnan said here on Saturday. The basic idea of detecting the symptomatic cases through fever camps is to ensure a healthy population by early detection and treatment for Covid-19, he said. "So, when people step out of their houses after the lockdown is relaxed, they do not emerge as carriers of the virus," Radhakrishnan told reporters after reviewing a fever camp at Tondiarpet. He said Tamil Nadu has tested over 10.42 lakh samples for Covid-19, after the capacity was ramped up in the State. Of these tests, 70 per cent of them were done in government facilities, he said. With aggressive testing continuing to be the focus, 33,675 samples were tested on Friday alone and in total, 10,42,649 specimens have been examined. Tamil Nadu has 89 testing centres, 47 in government and 42 in private facilities. "On an average 9,000 to 10,000 tests are being carried out in Chennai per day and 32,500 tests per day in the State from 13,500 in the past. Tests are carried out by personally visiting each household in the districts," he said. "We are literally chasing the Coronavirus, to reduce the instances of positive cases and Covid-19 related deaths, as well," Radhakrishnan said. About 9,509 streets out of 39,539 streets in Chennai have been screened and massive efforts are on to complete the exercise in the remaining streets. "It is not acceptable to compare Chennai with Mumbai. There are slums in 1979 places in Chennai and nil cases have been reported in those areas due to effective screening. A heartening fact is all the people there are wearing masks," the official said, indicating that effective screening and awareness about the virus has helped prevent the spread of Coronavirus. The government had finalised 11 different treatment protocols and ensured these were in place throughout Tamil Nadu, to reduce the instances of positive cases and COVID-19 related deaths. The protocol also includes Siddha treatment, especially providing Kabasura kudineer and homeopathy treatment along with allopathic medicines. Multivitamin and Zinc tablets are also being given to the residents, to enhance their immunity, as a preventive measure, he said. This combination has helped bring down the cases in worst-hit areas like Kannagi Nagar and Thideer Nagar, he said. He appealed to the people to shed their fears over contracting coronavirus and added that prevention was an ideal proposition. "People should shed their fears on the virus. Contracting coronavirus doesn't mean death. Wearing a mask is the only way to prevent the spread of the virus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-conducts-over-1042-lakh-covid-19-tests-chasing-virus-cases-health-secretary-854460.html
27-06-2020||South||Key accused in actress Shamna Kasim blackmailing case held||A native of Palakkad in Kerala, who was suspected to be the key accused in the case pertaining to blackmailing actress Shamna Kasim in Kochi, was held by the police. The accused, identified as Sherief, was suspected to be the kingpin of the racket. Other members of the gang were already held. Apart from blackmailing Shamna Kasim, the gang was also accused of abduction and blackmailing of eight young models after taking them to a hotel. While the police were probing whether the accused had any nexus with the film industry, one of the models alleged that she was facing pressure to withdraw the complaint. Some of the complainants also alleged sexual abuse. The gang tried to blackmail Shamna Kasim after approaching her with a marriage proposal using the picture of TikTok fame hailing from Kasargod. Those who posed as bridegroom's father and relatives were earlier held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/key-accused-in-actress-shamna-kasim-blackmailing-case-held-854469.html
27-06-2020||South||Telangana blames private labs for massive surge in Covid-19 cases||The Telangana government is holding the private labs responsible for the unnerving addition of Covid-19 positive cases in the state from the last few days. Out of the 75,308 total tests done in the state till Friday, positive cases are 12349 with a whopping 16.4 percent positivity rate. The national positivity rate is just over six percent.   The latest figures for a single day are even more worrying. According to the Covid-19 bulletin for Friday, 4374 tests were conducted, and 985 samples have tested positive, which means a positivity rate of 22.5 percent. The daily positivity rate at the national level nowadays is around eight percent.    Both the test numbers and positive cases are the record single-day high, until now in Telangana. Positive cases are being reported in alarming numbers from the middle of June, when the Telangana government has started augmenting the Covid-19 testing numbers, roping in the private laboratories. The Telangana media bulletins were infamous hitherto for concealing testing figures and Covid-19 situation statistical data as provided by other states. However, on Friday, the director, public health, issued a five-page bulletin, most of it pinning the cases surge on the private labs. Disparities in actual tests done and records uploaded into ICMR and state portals, pool testing anomalies, contamination of samples, lack of safety measures, untrained staff are among the reasons shown for the positivity rate becoming very high. According to Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, many discrepancies were reported in the data uploaded by private labs on Wednesday 24. June, following which four teams consisting of senior microbiologists and health department officials inspected all the 16 private laboratories conducting Covid-18 tests in Telangana. Their reports were examined by an expert committee of microbiology professors and director, medical education. The committee suspects pooled testing in some labs, where all cases are reported as positive when one is, without conducting individual tests thus cataloging some negative cases also as positive. It also suspects the possibility of sample contamination leading to a high positivity rate.  “Another major concern as seen from data entry into ICMR and state Portals is the disparity in numbers uploaded by all the labs. At one of the labs in a major hospital, the actual number of tests conducted were 3,940 but they uploaded only 1,568 tests and showed 475 as positive. In view of such discrepancies, the positivity rate became very high which would be actually less if figures of all tests done are uploaded,” the public health director asserts. While stating that the committee recommends stringent action against some of the labs for violating the norms and guidelines, Dr Rao says that the committee would “conduct further inspections to study the problem in detail.” Lack of safety measures, staff not wearing PPEs, unavailability of safety cabinets, poor hygienic conditions, untrained staff conducting the RT-PCR tests and not adhering to quality control and test validation in some of the labs, were other findings of the inspection reports. Telangana officials have earlier argued that rampant testing, as carried out in neighboring Andhra Pradesh too, was unnecessary since the virus spread was controlled with the state's effective lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-blames-private-labs-for-massive-surge-in-covid-19-cases-854475.html
27-06-2020||South||Telangana witnesses 204 child marriages during coronavirus lockdown||As many as 204 child marriages have taken place in Telangana during the past three months, according to the Telangana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TSCPCR). All the district Collectors and Magistrates in the state have been asked to issue instructions to the officials concerned to take immediate action and steps to sensitise the people to the Prevention of Child Marriages Act, 2006, a press release from the TSCPR said on Saturday. During the COVID-19 pandemic, it was reported to the Commission by Childline that from March 24 to May 31, a total of 204 child marriages have been solemnised, the release said. The Commission takes it on a serious note because child marriages have serious implications on the lives of the girl children, it said. The commission further said it is everybody's due responsibility to protect the girl children from early marriages, otherwise, it would affect them in every walk of their life, especially health and education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-witnesses-204-child-marriages-during-coronavirus-lockdown-854477.html
27-06-2020||South||Hope justice is served: Family of father-son duo 'killed' in custody||The family of the father-son duo, who was killed allegedly in police custody in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district, on Saturday pinned hopes on the judiciary to ensure justice for their loved ones, who were taken by police following an argument and returned only as lifeless bodies. Vinoth, the son-in-law of P Jeyaraj who along with his son Emmanuel Bennix were killed due to torture that included severe beating in police custody, said his mother-in-law and a few other relatives would record their statements before the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate, who has been directed by the Madras High Court to inquire into the incident. DMK, the principal Opposition party, continued to keep up the political pressure by announcing on Saturday that it would move the courts seeking a CBI inquiry into the incident if the state government does not institute a proper inquiry and fails to take necessary action. The death of the father and son, within hours of each other, triggered a major row in Tamil Nadu with politicians, cricketers, actors, music directors, activists and the common people asking the state government to act against the policemen, who inflicted “unimaginable violence” on the two.   Pinning hopes on judiciary Jeyaraj had three daughters and a son, Bennix. While his daughters were married, the family was looking for a bride to get Bennix married, but his life was cut short abruptly. “We hope justice will be served to us. Our hope is pinned on the judiciary as the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has taken a special interest in the case. Our only hope is judiciary now as the state government has not even filed a case against the policemen who are responsible for the death of my father-in-law and brother-in-law,” Vinoth told DH. Vinoth and his wife, the youngest of Jeyaraj’s children, rushed to Sathankulam, 630 km from here, after hearing about Bennix’s death on Monday. By the time they reached their native place, Jeyaraj had also died. Vinoth said the family believes that his father-in-law and brother-in-law were “murdered” by the police. “They were taken alive on June 19 and they returned as lifeless bodies after being murdered by the police. Our last hope is the judiciary and we hope the public outrage will also play a major role in rendering justice to the father and son,” he said. Relatives of Jeyaraj and Bennix have also alleged that the duo were soaked in blood when they were transferred from the police station to be produced before the magistrate. Inquest proceedings The Madurai Bench had on Friday issued a slew of direction to the judicial magistrate regarding the inquest into the custodial death. A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi asked the JM to visit the house of the victims to record their submissions and the police station where the duo were allegedly tortured before being taken to a sub-jail. The bench had also asked the JM to shift his base to Sathankulam from Kovilpatti for a few days to avoid traveling 100-km distance one-way. Besides the police, the Sathankulam Judicial Magistrate B Saravanan has also come under criticism for believing the police version and not considering the injuries suffered by the father-son duo. Justice D Hariparanthaman, a former judge of the Madras High Court, said though the police has to be blamed, every other person involved has contributed to it. “Police is responsible, but the judicial magistrate, the doctors and others have also contributed. The High Court judgment has covered all the points pertaining to the case in its order on Friday,” he told DH. How it all started? It all started on June 19 when Jeyaraj entered into an argument with police over keeping his shop open beyond 9 pm. He was taken into custody and Bennix arrived at the police station to meet his father who, according to Vinoth, was assaulted by the police in his presence. “When Bennix questioned the police action, he was also arrested. We believe they were beaten the whole night with sticks and whatever came the policemen’ way as the duo were bleeding when they were taken out of the police station. Without questioning, the magistrate also remanded them,” a relative of the father-son duo said. While Stalin said the DMK will continue its fight to get justice for Jeyaraj and Bennix, his half-sister and Thoothukudi Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi sought to know why the Government was silent on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hope-justice-is-served-family-of-father-son-duo-killed-in-custody-854478.html
27-06-2020||South||Kerala government lifts lockdown on Sundays; 195 more COVID cases||Even as Covid-19 cases in Kerala have been escalating with 195 more cases on Saturday, the state government decided to lift the total lockdown on Sundays in the state. While the lockdown norms were relaxed in May, the state government had decided to impose total lockdown on Sundays, with relaxations for essential services. However, now the government has decided to lift the lockdown on Sundays also. Meanwhile, the night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am will continue on all days including Sundays. Of the 195 cases reported on Saturday, 118 were persons from abroad and 62 from other states. A comparatively higher number of 15 fresh cases due to local infection were also reported on Saturday. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged people to strictly follow social distancing norms to break the chain. He also suggested that each individual may maintain a logbook of the places they visit daily so that it would be easy for contact tracing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-lifts-lockdown-on-sundays-195-more-covid-cases-854481.html
27-06-2020||South||IAS officer in Andhra Pradesh CM's office tests positive for Covid-19||An IAS officer in the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister's Office tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Though "asymptomatic", the bureaucrat tested positive for the virus,sources said. It was one of the secretaries in the chief minister's office who tested positive for Covid-19,they said. The regular meeting of bureaucrats in the CMO did not take place as one Secretary contracted the virus and the Principal Secretary was away, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ias-officer-in-andhra-pradesh-cms-office-tests-positive-for-covid-19-854484.html
27-06-2020||South||Covid-19 cases in Chennai cross 50,000; Tamil Nadu death toll hits 1,000||The number of Covid-19 cases in this metropolis zoomed past the 50,000-mark on Saturday, which also saw Tamil Nadu recording its biggest single-day spike in persons testing positive for coronavirus and those losing their lives after battling the virus. As many as 3,713 individuals, including 89 who returned from abroad and other states, tested positive on Saturday alone, pushing the state’s tally to 78,335, including 44,094 discharges and 1,025 deaths – 68 of which were recorded by the government in the last 24 hours. The active cases stood at 33,213.   Of the 3,713 patients, as many as 1,939 belonged to Chennai, which so far accounts for 776 deaths. The city’s individual tally is 51,699 that includes 31,045 discharges. Tamil Nadu also tested 34,805 samples on Saturday, taking its total count to 10,77,454. The state has been reporting record numbers almost every day and the increasing mortality rate is a cause of concern, experts say while warning people not to ignore symptoms as they point to statistics which say a sizeable number of people have died within hours of hospitalization. Of the 89 “imported” cases, eight of them came from abroad, and the remaining from other states in the country. Karnataka tops the list with 40 people who returned from the neighboring state to Tamil Nadu testing positive for Coronavirus on Saturday alone. Not just Chennai and its three neighboring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, and Kanchipuram, but districts in northern Tamil Nadu like Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet, and Villupuram also reported a massive increase in their tally. Madurai was emerging as the newest hotspot of the state after Chennai with 218 persons testing positive on Saturday, pushing the tally to 1,703. As the state continued to report an exponential increase in Covid-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu government said it has received the first consignment of “life-saving” drugs like Tocilizumab, Remdesivir, and Enoxaparin to treat patients. Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said these expensive drugs will be sent to districts as well for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Saturday also saw the journalist fraternity in Tamil Nadu recording the first death due to Coronavirus with the death of a 41-year-old video journalist working with a Tamil news channel. Vel Murugan, who was tested positive for Coronavirus, breathed his last in the wee hours of Saturday. His colleagues said the video journalist was quite active on the field during Covid-19 lockdown till he was infected with the virus. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Opposition Leader M K Stalin, and other political leaders condoled his death. Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 5 lakh for Vel Murugan’s family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-in-chennai-cross-50000-tamil-nadu-death-toll-hits-1000-854493.html
27-06-2020||South||Kerala reports 195 fresh COVID-19 cases, overall tally crosses 4,000 mark||In the highest single day spike of COVID-19 cases so far, Kerala reported 195 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of infections in the state to 4,071. The state has been reporting over 100 cases each day for the past nine days. Over 1.67 lakh people are under observation. While Malappuram reported the highest number of cases at 47, Palakkad witnessed 25 new infections, Thrissur recorded 22 and Kottayam (15),Health Minister K K Shailaja said in a press release here. The number of cases in other districts was - Ernakulam (14), Alappuzha (13), Kollam (12), Kannur, Kasaragod (11 each), Kozhikode (8), Pathnamthitta (6), Wayanad (5), Thiruvananthapuram (4), Idukki (2). Twenty-two people have so far succumbed to the virus. Of the positive cases, 118 people had come from abroad, including 62 from Kuwait, 26 from the UAE and eight from Saudi Arabia, and 62 from other states-- Tamil Nadu (19), Delhi (13) and Maharashtra (11) among others. Fifteen people, including 10 from Malappuram, were infected through contact. So far 2,108 have recovered from the infection, including 102 who were discharged today. Those presently under treatment are 1,939. About 1,67,978 people are presently under observationof whom 1,65,515 are in home/institutional quarantine and 2,463 in hospitals. With a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, the government has ramped up testing of samples. In the last 24 hours, 6,166 samples have been sent for testing. So far, over 1.15 lakh samples have been sent for testing and results of 4032 samples are awaited, the release said. Besides, as part of Sentinel surveillance, of the 44, 129 samples collected from health and migrant workers and people with high social contact, 42,411 are negative. Palakkad reported the highest number of positive cases with 260, followed by Malappuram (218), Kollam (180), Ernakulam (167), Pathanamthitta (166), Alappuzha (161) and Kannur (152). Meanwhile, state government has decided to suspend the lockdown restrictions on Sundays until further orders, as per an order issued by Chief Secretary, Dr Vishwas Mehta. The night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am will continue on all days, including Sundays, the order stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-195-fresh-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-crosses-4000-mark-854497.html
27-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 3,713 new Covid-19 cases, 68 deaths||Tamil Nadu continued to witness a surge in coronavirus cases with the state on Saturday reporting the highest single-day spike of 3,713 cases and 68 fatalities, pushing the infection count to 78,335 and death toll to 1,025. For the third straight day, the state reported over 3,500 cases. With the fresh addition, the number of coronavirus cases reached a whopping 10,867 mark and 114 deaths in three days. The number of recoveries was at 2,737 today, totalling to 44,094 people getting discharged from health care institutions after recovery, a state health department bulletin said. With the government laying emphasis on ramping up testing of samples, the number tested on Saturday was at 34,805, taking the count to 10,77,454 so far. Active cases in the state stood at 33,213, the bulletin said. According to the bulletin, out of the 68 people succumbing to the virus, 45 people died in government-run institutions while 23 in private hospitals. Eight of the deceased were patients without any comorbidities, it said, adding a 29-year-old woman from Madurai was among the victims who died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. A 41-year-old cameraman of a television news channel was among those dead. Chief Minister K Palaniswami, while condoling his death, announced a solatium of Rs 5 lakh to the bereaved family. Chennai continued to take the top spot in number of positive cases among districts with 1,939 people adding to its tally of 51,699 till date. Besides, Chennai, Chengalpet (248), Thiruvallur (146), Kancheepuram (98), Vellore (118), Madurai (217) also saw the number of COVID-19 positive cases surging significantly. Following the surge in coronavirus cases, the government had announced an intense lockdown since June 19 in Chennai, Madurai, parts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur districts till June 30 without relaxations that were available previously. Meanwhile, Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the government has conducted over 10.42 lakh tests and was 'chasing' virus cases. The focus was to cover the population streetwise for early detection and treatment, he said, adding the basic idea of detecting the symptomatic cases was through fever camps to ensure a healthy population by early detection and treatment for COVID-19. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash said till date, 8,426 fever camps have been held from May 8 in the city in which 5,48,989 people participated. As many as 20,443 people had flu-like symptoms and 16,845 swab samples were taken and those who tested positive were sent for treatment and such camps continued to be held successfully, he said. A report from Erode said the department of information and public relations office and the District rural development agency were quarantined on Saturday after a security guard, who tested positive for COVID-19, visited the offices recently. A Coimbatore report said the Tirupur North Police Station was closed today after the wife of a sub-inspector tested positive. The woman, also a sub-inspector attached to Chennai, had come to the district on June 24. The police station was closed on Saturday after she tested positive while her husband's sample returned 'negative'. The residential quarters where the couple stayed was also closed while civic agency officials sprayed disinfectants as a preventive measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-3713-new-covid-19-cases-68-deaths-854535.html
27-06-2020||South||Personalities take to social media, demand justice for death of father-son duo in Tamil Nadu||Voices demanding justice for the deaths of father-son duo following alleged police torture, grew louder and several prominent personalities took to the social media lending support to the family of P Jayaraj and his son J Fennix of Sathankulam, a town in Tamil Nadu's southern district of Tuticorin. The hashtags #JusticeForJayarajAndBennix and #JusticeForJayarajAndFenix have been trending on all social media platforms for the last couple of days. "Enough is enough! We cannot wait for justice to be delivered at leisure. Such brutality will not be tolerated. the court must take a very stern action to punish the guilty cops. Let this be the last incident of inhumanity TN witnesses. Fight for justice #JusticeforJayarajAndFenix," actress Khushbu Sundar tweeted on Saturday. Film-maker Karthik Subburaj tweeted, "What happened in Sathankulam is horrible ! Insult to Humanism.. The accused officials needs to be Punished and Justice has to be given to those poor souls Some humans are more dangerous than viruses. #JusticeforJayarajAndFenix." Taking to Instagram, actress Samantha Akkineni shared the images of Jayaraj and Bennicks, and wrote, "Police brutality needs to stop..this is inhumane and will only result in more loss of faith in the system that is meant to protect (sic)." Actress Kajal Aggarwal shared a video recorded by singer-host Suchithra and demanded justice for their family. She wrote, "I couldn't even listen to this whole video. Grotesque and gruesome. The cops involved need a harsher punishment than just a transfer (sic)." Actress Malavika Mohanan, tweeted, "Horrified and numb to hear what has happened with Jayaraj and Fenix in Thoothukudi!!! This sort of brutality by the police is inhuman beyond words!!!" Following the deaths of the father-son duo, the ruling AIADMK and opposition DMK on Friday each announced a solatium of Rs 25 lakh to the family of the two men. In the backdrop of the outrage, DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday said his party would approach the court seeking a probe by the CBI, if the state government failed to conduct a proper investigation into the "custodial death" of Jayaraj and Bennicks of Sathankulam. He demanded the arrest of "those who converted Sathankulam police station as hunting grounds under murder charges." Meanwhile, AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, in a statement, termed the deaths as "unfortunate and saddening."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/personalities-take-to-social-media-demand-justice-for-death-of-father-son-duo-in-tamil-nadu-854556.html
27-06-2020||South||Over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases push number of infections in Telangana past 13,000-mark||Telangana on Saturday reported a single-day high of 1,087vfresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally of infections in the state to 13,436. Six deaths were reported today, taking the toll to 243, according to a state government bulletin. Out of the 1,087 fresh cases, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for 888 followed by Ranga Reddy district (74) and Medchal (37), the bulletin said. A total of 4,928people were discharged after treatment and 8,265patients were undergoing treatment while the number of cumulative tests stood at79,231. As per the expert committee report on private labs, it was observed that certain labs are not following the standard operating procedures (SOPs), the bulletin said. There have been discrepancies in data pertaining to the number of tests conducted, positives reported and portal updation, it said.  The quality of testing has also been compromised and few labs are reporting close to 70 per cent positivity rate which clearly denotes huge errors in the testing methodology, it said. The expert committee has examined and scrutinised all parameters in the labs concerned in a very elaborate and robust manner. The authorities of such labs have been directed to rectify all gaps within a period of 48 hours failing which their operations shall be suspended, it said. Earlier, an inspection of Covid-19 testing by private labs had shown several shortcomings on the part of the labs. Health Minister E Rajender said notices were issued to such private labs. The Minister further said the recruitment process required for in-patients (Covid-19 patients) services has been completed at the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) at Gachibowli here and doctors and staff would join duty from June 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-1000-fresh-covid-19-cases-push-number-of-infections-in-telangana-past-13000-mark-854559.html
27-06-2020||State||Consider holding online classes for a few hours: HC to Karnataka govt||The Karnataka High Court on Friday asked the state government to consider allowing online classes till class 5 for a few hours every day. The bench said since the state government is waiting for the report from an expert committee on the matter, it would be better to have online classes for a limited amount of time. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy heard a batch of petitions filed by parents and educational institutions challenging the ban on online classes for children from KG to class 5. The bench said the state government has to come out with an interim solution for online classes till a decision is taken based on the report submitted by the committee on technology-enabled education. “Prima facie, we are of the view that the state government could not have prevented online classes by passing a blanket order,” the bench noted.  The bench observed that the state government constituted an expert committee only after it banned online classes. The hearing was adjourned to June 29 after the state sought time. The counsels for the petitioners contended that online classes are allowed in all other states. The ban on online classes has affected millions of children in the state, the petitioners claimed. One of the counsel said schools invested money after the state government initially allowed online classes. The decision to ban online classes was an overnight decision, the counsel stated. The petitioners contended the ban was arbitrary and that the decision was taken without consulting all stakeholders. The state government held that the restriction on online classes for children till class 5 was taken based on a report submitted by NIMHANS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/consider-holding-online-classes-for-a-few-hours-hc-to-karnataka-govt-854238.html
27-06-2020||State||Climate change: Karnataka sees decades of scanty rain||Karnataka, which is one of India’s most arid states, has seen a reduction in rainfall in large parts of the state under both monsoon seasons because of climate change, according to a study that analysed the rainfall pattern from 1960 to 2017. The reduction is more significant in July — a crucial month of the southwest monsoon season, when sowing is taken up on a large scale in the state. The study titled ‘Climate Change Scenario in Karnataka’ submitted to the government by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre (KSNDMC) also shows that the probability of drought has increased in many parts of the state over the last four decades. “The quantum, intensity, and distribution of rainfall have varied across the regions in the state from P1 (1960-1990) to P2 periods (1991-2017),” the report said, noting that districts such as Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Kalaburagi and Yadgir recorded a reduction in the amount of rainfall, whereas Shivamogga and Hassan saw a slight increase. According to ‘Rainfall Atlas of Karnataka’, which plotted various parameters of rainfall variation across 176 taluks between 1960-2017, 83 taluks —  prominently in coastal and Malnad districts — saw a reduction in rainfall. There was a “significant reduction” in 16 taluks, almost all of which were in the coastal or Malnad region. Fifty-two taluks — a majority in South Interior Karnataka — witnessed an increasing trend. Similar trends of reduction in rainfall were observed when the whole southwest and northeast monsoon seasons were assessed. “Reduction is prominent in regions which generally receive very good rainfall, whereas the marginal increase is in dry regions,” GS Srinivas Reddy, Director, KSNDMC, who is among the authors of the parametric assessment, told DH. “The high spatial and temporal variability of rainfall distribution has been the cause of recurring and widespread drought in Karnataka.... The recurrence of droughts and floods because of changing rainfall patterns caused by climate change will be detrimental to the surface and groundwater recharge and also pose a great challenge to water security,” the report said. The study also noted that the annual variability of rainfall has increased in both North and South Interior Karnataka, increasing the frequency of droughts. The duration of dry spells — the interval between rainfall during monsoon seasons — has also spiked, it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/climate-change-karnataka-sees-decades-of-scanty-rain-854240.html
27-06-2020||State||Covid-19: Hired taxis, Maxicab owers yet to be paid in Mangaluru||This is at a time when 25% of the vehicles hired are still awaiting payments for 2019 MP elections, Dakshina Kannada Taxi Men’s and Maxicab Association president Dinesh Kumpala said. “The service of 150 vehicles had been utilised by police and health departments. The owners have to pay drivers of the vehicles. Sometimes, the vehicles are needed round the clock and we had deployed two to three drivers on a shift basis,” he added. Despite submitting memorandums seeking the release of pending payments, no action had been initiated so far. The Election Commission had fixed Rs 3,450 for maxi cabs and Rs 2,350 for taxis per day for election duty. We hope that the same amount would be paid for vehicles utilised during the Covid-19 crisis,” he said. At present, 30 vehicles are used by rural police stations, including Vittal, Puttur, Subrahmanya, among others in the district. He charged that Rs 5,000 compensation, announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, as part of the relief package for people in different sectors including taxi drivers, had not reached them. According to transport officials, the package applies to auto and taxi drivers but not those driving maxi cabs. The maxi cab drivers should also be included in the compensation package, Kumpala urged. All the drivers with LMV badge should receive compensation,” the association members said. The rise in fuel prices has also affected taxis and maxi cabs. “The government should control the rise in the price of fuel. Despite RBI guidelines, taxi and maxi cab owners continue to receive calls from banks on paying loan installments. The government should waive off interest on loans borrowed by owners of taxis and maxi cabs. Without tourism, marriages and other programmes, maxi cabs and taxi owners are struggling to make ends meet. So the government should exempt taxi and maxi cab owners from paying taxes and insurance for next six months,” Kumpala demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-hired-taxis-maxicab-owers-yet-to-be-paid-in-mangaluru-854356.html
27-06-2020||State||Ambuteertha to be developed on the lines of Talakaveri: K S Eshwarappa||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa said Ambuteertha, source of river Sharavathy, in Thirthahalli taluk, would be developed on the lines of Talakaveri in Kodagu district.  Speaking to media persons on Saturday, he said Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has already held meeting with the officials concerned in Bengaluru on developing Ambuteertha in Thirthahalli taluk. The government has approved development works. Panchayat Raj Department, Sahyadri Heritage Authority, Upper Tunga Irrigation department and Muzrai department will work together towards implementing development projects. He said under the first phase, sacred tank (pushkarani) will be constructed in Ambuteertha at a cost of Rs 10 to 15 crore, revetment wall would be constructed around the tank, walking path, revetment wall behind the source of the river Sharavathy, community hall construction and road development between Nonaburu-Ambuteertha-Araga, temple would be reconstructed without damaging original architecture as it is one of the most ancient temples, he explained. He said all development works would be launched on June 28 in Ambuteertha in Thirthalli taluk. Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Pujari, Tourism Minister C T Ravi and others would be present. MLA Araga Jnanenra will preside over the event. On measures taken in the district to contain Covid-19, he said district administration has taken all measures to contain Covid-19. He also asked people to follow guidelines of the government such as wearing mask, maintaining social distancing in public places and thus, join hands with the district administration to control spread of Covid-19. Mayor Suvarna Shankar, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive  Officer M L Vyshali were present in press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ambuteertha-to-be-developed-on-the-lines-of-talakaveri-k-s-eshwarappa-854406.html
27-06-2020||State||99-year-old woman becomes oldest in Karnataka to beat Covid-19||Offering a ray of hope to all those battling the deadly coronavirus, a woman here has successfully recovered from the disease at the ripe old age of 99, leaving the medical fraternity and her family elated. Marceline Saldanha had contracted the pathogen after coming in contact with her grandson and was hospitalised on her 99th birthday on June 18. The woman was taken to the Government Victoria Hospital along with her 70-year-old son Vincent, daughter-in-law Rita and grandson Vijay. Nine days later, the nonagenarian walked out of the hospital with her grandson on Friday after her results came out negative, becoming the oldest in the state to beat the disease. "While we three developed symptoms like cold, cough and fever, my mother remained asymptomatic," Vincent, the woman's son, told PTI.  The family members are still wondering how they got infected by the virus as all except the woman's grandson, were confined to their Kumaraswamy layout residence most of the time. Her 29-year-old grandson was the only one who ventured out to purchase groceries. Initially, the family approached a private hospital nearby for treatment, but they refused to accept Covid-19 patients. Left with no option, the family got admitted to the Victoria hospital. "We had reservations about the Victoria hospital, but it turned out be a good one. We did not spend a penny since the day we were admitted and my mother and son fully recovered," the woman's son said. According to Dr Asima Banu, nodal officer of the Trauma Care Centre at the Victoria hospital, the woman was reluctant to get treatment at the hospital. "With moral support from doctors and nurses at the Trauma Care Centre, she recovered very fast. She is always positive in life," the doctor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/99-year-old-woman-becomes-oldest-in-karnataka-to-beat-covid-19-854408.html
27-06-2020||State||Reverse migration of labourers, setback for construction industry||With thousands of migrant labourers returning to their native villages, the construction industry and the real estate sector in Mysuru district is staring at labour shortage. This would delay the completion of projects under progress by around three months, according to builders. With the fear of Covid mounting, around 3,000 migrant workers from Mysuru district, a majority of them from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other places returned to their respective native villages. The government making arrangements to send back the labourers, who wanted to leave, has landed the construction industry in trouble. There are thousands of migrant workers in construction industry, including granite works, carpentry and other related jobs. When the fear of the pandemic gripped them, many preferred to leave. Around 3,000 labourers may have left, it is said. Speaking to DH, R Raghunath, vice chairman, Builders Association of India, Mysuru chapter said that the construction industry in Mysuru city and district is facing severe shortage of labourers. “Builders and contractors are facing a major challenge of planning their site work as there is uncertainty around workers’ availability. Many of them may not return soon. This will definitely disturb the delivery schedule and delay construction activity. Covid-19 lockdown and subsequent reverse migration of workers is a double whammy for the economy, which is already under crisis,” he said.  The developers, under Builders Association of India, ensured that migrant workers were provided food kits, shelter and other essentials during lockdown. Despite this, many left without even informing the developers, once they got an opportunity to travel, Raghunath said. We are trying to contact them, asking them to return, explaining that the situation here is better. At present, we are trying to complete urgent works, with the few migrant workers available. However, the impact will be severe, if dearth of labour is prolonged, he explained. Migrant labourers are skilled and hard working. They are ready to work extra hours to complete the project. Though locally available workforce could be trained, it is not enough to complete the projects in Mysuru. Besides, most of them are afraid of working in high-rise structures. Moreover, irregularity in attending to work is the main problem of local workers. We don’t expect any improvement during monsoon season. We are hoping for the situation to improve after Deepavali, opined a contractor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reverse-migration-of-labourers-setback-for-construction-industry-854517.html
27-06-2020||State||Mescom staff electrocuted||A 25-year-old youth serving as Powerman in MESCOM (Mangalore Electric Supply Company Limited) was electrocuted while attending to a problem in the electric pole in Kalleri village near Uppinangady on Saturday. The deceased is identified as Basavaraju, a native of Indi taluk in Vijayapura district. He was serving as Powerman in Kalleru Mescom division for the past four years. Basavaraju was unmarried and had lost his mother to Covid-19 a month ago. Uppinangady police had registered a case and are investigating into it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mescom-staff-electrocuted-854518.html
27-06-2020||State||Cong alleges rise in police atrocity of minority leaders||A delegation of leaders from Kodagu Congress Minority Wing, who alleged that minority leaders and particularly Congress leaders were being targeted by the police in the district, met Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivakumar in Bengaluru recently. On the directions of the KPCC president, the delegation met DGP and submitted a memorandum on the rise in police atrocity in the district.  The delegation, led by District Congress Minority wing president M A Usman, also drew Shivakumar’s attention towards the rise in false cases against Congress leaders in the district. The members said that laws were being misused by the police in the district. The police are puppets in the hands of the BJP leaders. Karnataka Director General of Police after accepting memorandum from the delegation promised to get the report from the police on the allegations. The delegation also met KPCC Minority department president Sayyed Ahmmed on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cong-alleges-rise-in-police-atrocity-of-minority-leaders-854520.html
27-06-2020||State||No plan for Sharavathy underground project: KSE||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said on Saturday that no survey had been conducted for Sharavathy underground pumped storage project and the government would not allow the implementation of such a project.  Speaking to mediapersons here, he made it clear that the government has not granted permission for the project. The reports that experts came by air to inspect the project site and that the survey work is in progress are far from truth. The government would not allow for the execution of the project and he would not support it also, the minister said.  He said environmentalists have urged the government not to implement any new project in Sharavathy valley as it would cause damage to the ecology. “Save Sharavathy Valley campaign has already commenced. People of Sharavathy valley are facing many challenges and many are yet to get compensation for giving away their land and houses for the construction of Linganamakki dam,” he said. Replying to a query on the project aimed at drawing water from River Sharavathy to Bengaluru, he said he is not aware of any such project. But he would not allow for the implementation of such a project. Drawing water from Sharavathy to Bengaluru is not a joke and it is not feasible also, Eshwarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-plan-for-sharavathy-underground-project-kse-854551.html
27-06-2020||State||Karnataka HC orders release of payment to litigants||In view of partial functioning of the district and trial courts, the Karnataka High Court has passed an order containing guidelines regarding the release of payment to litigants. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice S Vishwajit Shetty passed the order detailing the procedure to be followed for releasing payments to the litigants. A large number of litigants, especially the victims in Motor Vehicle Accident Claim cases, claimants under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923 and in Land Acquisition Compensation cases, were not able to receive the money, although the amount was lying deposited in the judicial accounts of Khajane-2. The judicial deposits are maintained in the accounts in Khajane-2. After the implementation of Khajane-2, cheques are not being issued for an amount below Rs 5,000.”Now all payments to the litigants are being made only by way of direct transfer of money to their accounts from Khajane-2 and the earlier practice of issuing account payee cheques has been stopped. During the period of limited functioning of the courts due to pandemic Covid-19, guidelines shall be adopted by all the courts for making payments,’’ the bench stated. As per the guidelines, the litigant who is entitled to receive the amount shall file an application with copies of several documents. Physical presence The physical presence can be ordered only when the court entertains a serious doubt about the genuineness of the documents. The bench has ordered to make payment of maintenance in matrimonial matters by way of RTGS or in any other mode of direct transfer by the person who is liable to pay the maintenance. “Due to pandemic of Covid-19, the litigants are not able to receive the payments for the last three months and therefore, all the Courts shall make an endeavour to dispose of the applications made for payment at the earliest and see that the eligible litigants can get the amounts at the earliest. The Courts cannot restrict the payments per day to a particular number of cases. While we issue these directions, we make it clear that it is the duty of the courts to ensure that the amounts are paid to those who are entitled to it,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-orders-release-of-payment-to-litigants-854564.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to focus on overall development of Bengaluru: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday emphasised on giving a new dimension to the city by strengthening the infrastructure and improving various other sectors including health and housing. He was speaking at the groundbreaking ceremony of the 108-feet-tall bronze statue of Kempe Gowda, the founder of Bengaluru, at the Kempegowda International Airport near here. The statue would be built at a cost of Rs 66 crore in one-and-half years. Yediyurappa said Bengaluru has earned the fame of Garden City and Silicon Valley of India. Noting that the state capital was one of the fastest-growing cities in the world and internationally acclaimed hub of information technology and biotechnology, he said, "We need to give a new dimension to this city and strengthen the infrastructure. We have to focus on health, housing, pollution control, traffic management. Our government has taken various measures to develop the city," the chief minister said. On Kempe Gowda, Yediyurappa said though the city did not have a perennial river, he built hundreds of lakes and interconnected them. His water management reflects on his foresightedness, he added. "Kempambudhi, Dharmambudhi, Sampaniram and Halasuru lake are among the major lakes gifted to the people of Bengaluru. He had set up the markets called Chickpet, Akkipet, Balepet, Kumbarpet, are still the major trade hubs," Yediyurappa said. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, deputy chief ministers Govind Karjol, Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, Laxman Savadi and many other ministers were present on the occasion. The event was organised on the 511th birth anniversary of Kempe Gowda. Kempe Gowda was a chieftain of Vijayanagara dynasty who founded Bengaluru around 550 years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-focus-on-overall-development-of-bengaluru-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-854372.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus cases among students in SSLC exam centres trigger panic in Karnataka||Panic gripped lakhs of students appearing for SSLC (10th standard examination) as one of the students in Hassan district tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Besides, confirmation of Covid-19 cases in and around the examination centres in five other places across the state including Bengaluru, also left students anxious about the examination preparation.  A student appearing for the exam on Saturday in one of the centres of Arakalgud taluk in Hassan district tested positive for Covid-19. Shockingly, his report came while he was in the middle of the examination and despite the positive report, the officials allowed the candidate to attend an exam in the same hall where about 20 other kids were also present. The incident has left the 20 other kids and supporting staff at the examination centre under tremendous stress as they were supposed to undergo health check up and self quarantine. Even as the students, parents and teachers at the centre were apprehensive, the education department officials clarified that the centre has been completely 'sanitized and fumigated.'  In another incident reported from Lakshmeshwara in Gadag district, a student who appeared for the exam on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19 and about 19 of his primary and secondary contacts were quarantined by the authorities. In yet another incident, a student from Hassan district was denied a chance to write the exam as the student's grandmother tested positive for Covid-19. However, there was no clarity whether the student appeared for the first subject examination.  Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, as many as 289 students who appeared for the exams at a centre located in Moodalapalya in West Bengaluru were under stress as a Covid-19 positive case was reported from a house which was only 80 feet from the exam centre. This apart, out of the 57 students who were under home quarantine, as many as 25 tested positive for Covid-19 and all of them have been denied a chance to appear for the exam and instead they will be allowed to write exam in July.  However, clarifying all these incidents, Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar told media persons that as many as 97.93 per cent students appeared for the exam. "The overall turnout shows the confidence level among the students and parents on the preparations made by the state government. I appeal to all the parents and general public not to congregate in large numbers near the examination centre and comply with the social distancing rule to help in successful conduct of the examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-cases-among-students-in-sslc-exam-centres-trigger-panic-in-karnataka-854450.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka announces total lockdown every Sunday starting July 5||Hit by a spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka has announced a daily dusk-to-dawn curfew starting June 29 and a total lockdown on all Sundays starting July 5.  The decision was taken at an emergency meeting Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa convened Saturday evening to discuss the Covid-19 situation with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Bengaluru Covid-19 in-charge minister R Ashoka, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar and others.  “Starting July 5, every Sunday will be under a total lockdown in the entire state,” Bommai told DH. “Also, we have decided to impose a curfew starting Monday from 8 pm to 5 am every day. Right now, the curfew timing is 9 pm to 5 am, but it’ll be advanced by an hour to 8 pm.”  Only movement of essential goods and supplies will be allowed on Sundays, the government said.  These curbs will be in place until further orders.  It was also decided to introduce a 5-day work schedule for all government employees. “They will not work on Saturdays and Sundays,” Bommai said. The 5-day work week for all government employees will start from July 10.  According to Bommai, the Sunday lockdown decision came in response to the rising Covid-19 cases and pressure from the media and the Opposition.  The government chose to start the Sunday lockdown from July 5 keeping in mind that the ongoing SSLC Class 10 exams will get over July 4. “We have decided to take tighter measures in Bengaluru and across the state, but we’re waiting for the SSLC exams to get over,” Ashoka said.  Apparently, a Saturday lockdown was also discussed. “Many such options were discussed. But we decided to see how these will work first,” Bommai said.  Under Lockdown 4.0, Karnataka had imposed a total lockdown on Sundays (May 24 and May 31). This was withdrawn under Unlock 1.0 that started June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-announces-total-lockdown-every-sunday-starting-july-5-854487.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: India may overtake America, says Siddaramaiah||India’s Covid-19 situation is so bad that the number of cases might exceed that of the US, Karnataka’s leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said Saturday.  “When it comes to the coronavirus, the country’s situation is bad. Going forward, we might overtake America,” Siddaramaiah said during a meeting of senior Congress leaders to discuss a strategy on attacking the BJP government in the state and centre. “The government isn’t spending even 1% of the GDP to contain the virus.”  The Congress has repeatedly attacked the BS Yediyurappa administration in the state on its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the humanitarian crisis brought about by the lockdown. “Both governments at the state and centre have failed. By not providing sufficient funds to manage the situation, both governments have cheated citizens,” Siddaramaiah said.  Hitting out at the Centre for the country’s economic difficulties, which he said was already bad, Siddaramaiah blamed the government’s “failure” had resulted in a paralysis of the situation.  “The government’s package has not reached farmers and other communities till now. During the lockdown, if people had been given money in their hands, they’d not have faced hardship,” he said.  The Congress has already announced a statewide protest on June 29 against the “anti-citizen” policies of the BJP governments in the state and centre, including the rise in fuel prices. “In the last six years, there’s information that the Centre has collected Rs 18 lakh crore by way of duty hike on petrol and diesel. With global crude oil prices having plummeted, petrol and diesel should have been sold around at Rs 25,” the former chief minister said.  The Congress will also fight the BJP over its decision to amend the APMC law to allow private markets and allowing non-agriculturists to purchase and own farm lands.  “It’s inevitable for us to intensify our fight to make the fat-skinned Centre and state governments feel the heat,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-india-may-overtake-america-says-siddaramaiah-854490.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports single day high of 918 new Covid-19 cases; 596 infections in Bengaluru||Karnataka saw an unprecedented highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases in the state on Saturday. The state saw 918 cases reported, a majority of which were from Bengaluru: a whopping 596. This means the state capital accounted for 65% cases. 11 deaths were reported taking the death toll to 191. Curiously, on a day when the city saw an unprecedented surge is when the state health department withheld all information about the Covid-19 patients. There was no contact history or travel history of the patients in the state bulletin. According to the BBMP bulletin, 57% (82) of the 596 cases were ILI or SARI, 30% (44) were categorised as 'others', 11% (15) were primary and secondary contacts, and 2% (3) had domestic and international travel history.   This accounts for the source of infection in only 144 patients, the rest 452 are unaccounted for. Officials were also unresponsive as soon as the figures were released quarter past 8 pm on Saturday. With no official statement from the Additional Chief Secretary of Health Jawaid Akhtar and Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, on whether this is community transmission and why source of infection details were withheld, experts from the technical advisory committee (TAC) said there is no definition of community transmission set by the government yet.  Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, member of TAC, said, "There is no set definition of community transmission set by the state or central government. The number of cases should be higher than a cut-off-number per million set by the government. If there is absolutely no trace of contact with a patient in the past or travel history, at what point do you call it community transmission, this is not clear." "Neighbouring twin states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have reported 1,500 cases in a single day. So we are not there yet. Covid Care Centres were supposed to be ready by Saturday but the surge happened much before that," he added. "Out of 596 patients, 400 patients in Bengaluru have been shifted to Covid Care Centres (CCCs), which is Haj Bhavan and Ravishankar Ashram as of now, Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs), the rest 196 will be shifted to either of the three type of facilities by 6 am," said BBMP Special Commissioner, Health, D Randeep. "50 tempo travellers have been added to the existing fleet of 60 ambulances. While those with co-morbidities, senior citizens and pregnant women will be given priority to be shifted through ambulances, asymptomatic will be shifted in tempo travellers. The contact history and travel history has to be revealed by the state," Randeep said. Out of 1,913 active cases in Bengaluru, 1,535 are in hospitals and Covid Care Centres. 378 patients are yet to be accounted for.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-single-day-high-of-918-new-covid-19-cases-596-infections-in-bengaluru-854526.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Private hospitals can now tie up with hotels for Covid-19 care||The private hospitals can now run the Covid-19 care centres in association with select hotels. While the hospitals will provide medical care, the hotels will provide accommodation to the asymptomatic Covid-19 patients at a cost to be worked out by both in consultation with the government. The private care centres are planned for Covid-19 patients, with mild or no symptoms, wishing to access private healthcare in luxury. The participating hospital will be tied up with a budget, three-star, or five-star hotels for accommodation of the patients. A team consisting of a representative of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), the hotel manager and a government staff member will oversee the arrangement and ensure that there is minimal contact between the patient and the hotel staff. A medical unit and ambulance will also be on standby in case of emergencies. Severe cases of Covid-19 requiring more intensive care will be admitted to designated Covid-19 hospitals and health centres.   Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, held a meeting with the stakeholders including the representatives of South India Hoteliers Association, Karnataka Hoteliers Association, PHANA, Federation of Healthcare Associations - Karnataka, Manipal Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Fortis Hospital. “This public-private partnership model will free up more beds in medical facilities for symptomatic and critically-ill patients, while ensuring that 80% of asymptomatic patients are kept isolated, reducing the risk of transmission to vulnerable populations. The patients at CCCs will be monitored and provided care in a non-medical environment with little stress,” said a statement from the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/private-hospitals-can-now-tie-up-with-hotels-for-covid-19-care-854531.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Special focus on MSMEs in new indl policy: BSY||Karnataka’s new industrial policy will have a special focus on the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector and the government will create an investment-friendly climate for small business, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said. “Karnataka will soon launch its new industrial policy. The policy has special focus on encouraging the MSMEs to become more competitive at the global stage,” the chief minister said here on Saturday. He was speaking after virtual launch of a report titled “Improving Economic Dynamism and Accelerating MSME Growth” by Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME) which works as an industry body for micro, small and medium enterprises.  “My team has been tirelessly working to provide support to MSMEs. We’ve helped industries with their labour requirements, facilitated the movement of goods, ensured adequate safety and fast-tracked government approvals for resuming operations,” Yediyurappa said, addressing Union MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari. Former Bank of Baroda and Microsoft India chairperson Ravi Venkatesan, the founder of GAME, was also present.  Yediyurappa also hailed the proposed amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act. “We’re also working on the policy front to provide a supportive business environment. We’ve recently announced land and labour reforms that will help industry set up faster and operate more efficiently,” he said.  He said that the government was also amending the Industries Facilitation Act to create an MSME-friendly investment climate. With these amendments, industries can start operations without obtaining approvals from various departments.  Karnataka will introduce “self-certification” provisions in the approval process for new investments and the requirements to start a new business in the state would be simplified, Yediyurappa added. The Centre and the state governments have been working to improve the business environment for MSMEs through targeted schemes and policies. “During these unprecedented times, the PM has given the ‘vocal for local’ call. Strengthening the MSME sector is the primary step to achieve this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/special-focus-on-msmes-in-new-indl-policy-bsy-854532.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK demands Covid-19 insurance coverage for journos||At a time when some journalists in the state have tested positive for Covid-19, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S), on Saturday, demanded that the government provide insurance cover for them, besides waiving their treatment costs in private hospitals.  In a tweet, Kumaraswamy said: “It’s just namesake that journalists have been categorised as corona warriors. Working journalists (print and television) have to be brought under Covid insurance. The government should also take immediate measures to provide free treatment in private hospitals for journalists who have tested positive.” While directing private hospitals to reserve 50% beds under government quota for Covid treatment, the government recently fixed the tariff for treatment in private hospitals from anywhere between Rs 5,200 and Rs 25,000, depending on the category of service and severity of the cases. For instance, the rate per day in general ward for patients under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka has been fixed at Rs 5,200, while it’s Rs 10,000 for ICU with ventilator for this category of patients. For others, the general ward tariff is Rs 10,000, while the ICU charges per day will go up to Rs 25,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-demands-covid-19-insurance-coverage-for-journos-854533.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: India may overtake US: Siddaramaiah||India’s Covid-19 situation is so bad that the number of cases might exceed that of the US, Karnataka’s Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said on Saturday.  “When it comes to coronavirus, the country’s situation is bad. Going forward, we might overtake America,” Siddaramaiah said during a meeting of senior Congress leaders to discuss a strategy on attacking the BJP governments in the state and centre. “The government isn’t spending even 1% of the GDP to contain the virus.”  The Congress has repeatedly attacked the B S Yediyurappa administration in the state on its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the humanitarian crisis brought about by the lockdown. “Both governments at the state and centre have failed. By not providing sufficient funds to manage the situation, both governments have cheated citizens,” Siddaramaiah said.  He said the government’s “failure” had resulted in a paralysis. “The government’s package has not reached farmers and other communities till now. During the lockdown, if people had been given money in their hands, they’d not have faced hardship,” he said.  The Congress has already announced a statewide protest on June 29 against the “anti-citizen” policies of the BJP governments in the state and centre, including the rise in fuel prices. “In the last six years, there’s information that the Centre has collected Rs 18 lakh crore by way of duty hike on petrol and diesel. With global crude oil prices having plummeted, petrol and diesel should have been sold around Rs 25,” the former chief minister said.  The Congress will also fight the BJP over its decision to amend the APMC law to allow private markets and allowing non-agriculturists to purchase and own farm lands.  “It’s inevitable for us to intensify our fight to make the thick-skinned centre and state governments feel the heat,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-india-may-overtake-us-siddaramaiah-854539.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kempegowda fete brings Vokkaliga political biggies together||Bengaluru founder Kempegowda’s 511th birth anniversary on Saturday saw Vokkaliga political heavyweights in the state come together, to lay the foundation stone for a 108-feet statue of the erstwhile chieftain near city’s airport.  The initiative led by Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan was lauded by both former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, who participated in the ceremony. The event was also attended by several influential pontiffs including Adichunchanagiri Niramalananda Swami, Chandrashekhara Swami, Shivaratri Desikendra Swami, Siddaganga seer Siddalinga Swami, Nanjavadutha Swami and Madara Chennayya Swami.  Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa hailed the contributions of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda, while at the same time reiterating measures that the government ought to take to improve the city’s infrastructure. “We need to strengthen the city’s infrastructure, focus on health measures and waste management,” the chief minister said. The construction of the statue would be completed within a year, he added. Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol, Laxman Savadi, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, were among others in attendance. The event which was streamed live on social media, also saw some criticism from the public. While some tweeted that the government chose a wrong time for the event, others pointed how several participants were neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distance.  However, Narayan, who is also the chairman of the Kemepegowda Development Authority, stressed that the event was kept simple and low key as it was organised in the midst of the pandemic.”This is momentous. The project will reflect the vision, spirit and ideals of Kempegowda,” he said. A miniature model of the proposed Kempegowda model was also unveiled on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kempegowda-fete-brings-vokkaliga-political-biggies-together-854540.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru to get 10k-bed Covid-19 care facilities||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka Medical Education Minister S Sudhakar on Saturday said arrangements will be made to have 10,000 beds in government and private hospitals by Monday evening and multi-story residential apartment complexes will also be used to treat infected patients. "By Monday evening, we will have definite information about the number of beds available in the government and private hospitals. Efforts are afoot to arrange 10,000 beds to treat coronavirus patients by Monday evening," Sudhakar said in a statement on Saturday after video conferencing with the health department officials. Apart from government and private hospitals, buildings belonging to the Bengaluru Development Authority, housing board, apartments constructed by the private builders, government and private sports facilities, playgrounds, hostels, and major commercial buildings will be utilized to treat coronavirus patients, the minister said. "Since Covid care centres do not require such facilities, the multi-story residential apartment complexes built by BDA and housing department will be utilised.  BDA has around 1700 flats. BDA commissioner Mahadev will inform the exact number of flats available for use on Monday," Sudhakar explained. Based on the facilities available, these will be converted to either COVID care centres or hospitals, Sudhakar said. He underlined that for the past one week about 30 to 35 per cent of the infected cases are showing symptoms. It has been instructed to experts to classify the symptomatic cases as mild, moderate and severe and prepare treatment protocols, he said, adding that private hospitals have been instructed to reserve 50 per cent of the beds for COVID treatment. Discussions will be held with management of private hospitals and they will be provided details of capping of the treatment cost. The possibility of utilising almost entire capacity in private medical colleges is being examined, Sudhakar said. The minister explained that all necessary arrangements in the identified facilities will be made with the help of the private sector. Karnataka State Reserved Police, Home Guards, NCC cadets and para-military forces stationed in city will be utilised for security arrangements, the minister said. Senior officials including Additional Chief Secretary Javed Akhtar, BDA commissioner Dr. M Mahadev and Medical Education Secretary T K Anil Kumar were present during the meeting||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-to-get-10k-bed-covid-19-care-facilities-854542.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC enhances maternity leave||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation has increased the duration of maternity leave for its women employees. Accordingly, women employees can stay off from work for a year, which will be paid as long as they have enough leaves in their accounts. Employees without leave have the option of going on unpaid leave. Till now, KSRTC had a standard leave facility of 90 days prior to childbirth and another 90 days after delivery. The corporation has also relaxed the measures for granting unpaid leave to women employees in the post-delivery period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-enhances-maternity-leave-854547.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Unscientific bridge in Krishna basin may flood villages: Report||Even as thousands of people are struggling to cope with life after last year’s flood disaster, an official report has warned that a new bridge coming up next to the Hippargi barrage will flood nearby villages. A technical study by Sudhir Sajjan, Assistant Engineer at Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited (KBJNL), is expected to help the agency deal with the monsoon. The KBJNL came under pressure last year after thousands of houses were inundated due to floods in the Krishna basin.  “The spillway provided for the Hipparagi barrage is proving to be too inadequate. The proposed bridge is also planned with a very small waterway of 480 metre, just about 130 metre more than the spillway width of the barrage. It is expected to create a backwater effect,” the report warns. The report states that the new bridge will block the vent of the barrage. “The Hipparagi barrage is designed to store 6 tmc. But during the flood, about 40 tmc was impounded, which led to largescale flooding. The bridge will further obstruct the flow of water, which will then flood the downstream areas,” a source in KBJNL said. The problem intensifies during heavy rain when water gets accumulated between two embankments. “The top level of the embankment is 535 metre. The top level of the nappe on the barrage will be about 540 metre. The Hipparagi village will be completely submerged,” the report warns. Last year, Karnataka and Maharashtra governments blamed each other for causing the floods by constructing the barrages and not releasing water in time. The KBJNL report notes that with the new bridge, the backwater level near the Rajapur barrage will reach about 545 metre. “Sangli and Kolhapur cities would be in 5 metre deep water. Therefore, the construction of the proposed bridge is to be stopped immediately and its design is to be reviewed,” it suggests. The Rs 60-crore bridge across Krishna was planned a few hundred metres from the Hipparagi barrage and initial work on the ground had begun recently. “At present, the traffic is plying on the barrage which is not ideal for the safety of the structure. Once the bridge is ready, the traffic will be diverted and the barrage will be declared a prohibited area,” sources in Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited said. Chief Engineer (North) Aravind Kanagil said they have not come across the report. “I cannot comment on the report. However, considering last year’s flood, we have decided to review the design of the bridge by stopping the ongoing work. The plan is to increase the height of the bridge and the number of vents,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unscientific-bridge-in-krishna-basin-may-flood-villages-report-854549.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Central team slams state’s tardy approach to cleaning rivers||Karnataka’s commitment to clean 17 polluted river stretches has come under question with a report submitted to the central monitoring committee stating that the agencies concerned have not been submitting status reports. In its quarterly report, the three-member team of experts from the Centre gave a detailed assessment of the situation after visiting Bengaluru and other towns on river stretches. Seventeen polluted river stretches in the state have been prioritised based on the level of pollution, especially the Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand (BOD). Four rivers, Arkavathi, Tungabhadra, Laksmanteertha and Malaprabha, are under priority level three (BOD 10-20 mg/l), seven rivers are in priority level four BOD 6-10 mg/l) and six classified as priority level five (BOD 3-5 mg/l). The pollution is contributed by domestic and industrial sewage from 43 urban environments that have come up along the river stretches. However, the committee stated that the agencies were not providing the required data. “KSPCB, BWSSB, ULBs or KUWSDB were unable to provide results of combined sampling of operational STPs by operating agencies and KSPCB,” it said. Combined sampling is a method adopted to obtain more reliable results from multiple samples due to variability in analytical and sampling procedures. The lack of such data makes it harder to assess the water quality. A member of the team said the monthly progress data submitted by Karnataka agencies was inadequate. “Karnataka is among the few states that are not submitting proper data since the first meeting held in January, despite strict directions by the NGT and Jal Shakti Ministry,” the member said.  Effluent treatment plans The central team had sought to know the efficiency of common effluent treatment plants (CETP). However, except for the old data, the KIADB was yet to submit details of proposed CETPs along with deadline for theircompletion. The action plans prepared by the state agencies were also inadequate. “The sewage infrastructure has been proposed for the population in 2011,” prompting the central team to seek revision of the action plans. To a question, KSPCB member secretary Srinivasulu stated that the Board has been sending reports regularly to the central committee. “We are following the directions and periodically submitting all the reports,” he said. BWSSB Chief Engineer Gangadhara B C said the agency has taken the matter of sewage treatment plants seriously to check the flow of sewage to Vrishabhavathi Valley. “We have commissioned the 60-mld capacity STP at Kengeri. Rehabilitation of a 180-mld STP and commissioning of a new 150-mld STP have been delayed by a few months due to Covid-19,”he said. He said the BWSSB has taken up 145 works to complete the underground sewage network. “About 60% of the work is completed. We are doing joint survey with KSPCB to put an end to letting of sewage into open drains,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/central-team-slams-state-s-tardy-approach-to-cleaning-rivers-854557.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||3 more Covid-19 deaths in Bidar, toll reaches 19||Bidar reported three more Covid-19 deaths on Saturday as the district’s death toll shot up to 19. The district also saw 13 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 556. A 73-year-old woman from Tripuranta Bankers Colony in Basavakalyan died at a private hospital on June 20. Her throat swab sample returned positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. A 65-year-old man from Hupala in Bhalki taluk was admitted to BRIMS hospital on June 16 after he complained of breathlessness. He tested positive for virus on June 18. He, however, lost his battle against the virus on Friday midnight (June 26). An elderly man from old city in Bidar collapsed while offering namaz and died a while later on June 23. His throat swab sample returned positive for Covid-19.All three were laid to rest as per the guidelines of the Union Ministryof Health. The Covid-19 hotspot Kalaburagi reported two Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. A 72-year-old man (P-9833), with the comorbidities of diabetes mellitus and hypertension, was admitted to the designated Covid hospital (GIMS) on June 23. However, he failed to respond to treatment and died three days later. Another man, aged 50, with no comorbidities, died at GIMS on Friday. The Covid-19 fatalities in another virus-hit Kalyana Karnataka district Ballari has reached double digits with a death of 75-year-old man, a SARI case but asymptomatic when admitted to VIMS Hospital on Friday. He died the same day. Dharwad, Gadag and Bagalkot also recorded one Covid-19 fatality each on Saturday. The day saw 12 Covid-19 deaths in the state with Bengaluru Urban accounting for three of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3-more-covid-19-deaths-in-bidar-toll-reaches-19-854561.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||People not wearing masks to face criminal cases: Bhaskar Rao||City police chief Bhaskar Rao on Saturday passed new orders to check the spread of Covid-19. Everyone should wear a mask covering the mouth and the nose and maintain at least one-meter distance from others. Indoor gatherings should not have more than 20 participants. Violators will be booked under the National Disaster Management Act and IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), according to the order.  The order came into effect from Saturday and will be in force until midnight of July 26. While the government has already issued safety guidelines, the new order was necessitated because people are still prone to the deadly disease, Rao stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/people-not-wearing-masks-to-face-criminal-cases-bhaskar-rao-854572.html
27-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||FIRs against home quarantine violators||A week after their launch, the vigilance squads set up to prevent people from violating home quarantine rules have sent 12 people to institutional quarantine and they have filed 30 FIRs against the offenders. BBMP special commissioner J Manjunath had warned people with a history of interstate travel that they would be put away in institutional quarantine and have FIRs filed against them if they violate the 14-day home quarantine rules. The civic body formed 1,000 teams of civil defence personnel, besides 8,000 booth-level teams and citizen squads to monitor those in home quarantine. The special commissioner also urged more people to register with the monitoring effort and help the government. Of 57,000 people under home quarantine in the BBMP area, the civic body has found 1,100 cases of violation and warned 929 of them. The commissioner urged people coming from other states to cooperate by following the home quarantine instructions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/firs-against-home-quarantine-violators-854574.html
27-06-2020||West||Buildings in Mumbai's slum areas to be sealed as coronavirus cases surge||During a visit to north Mumbai on Friday, the city top cop attributed the spread of coronavirus infection to the high population density here. North Mumbai, which includes Dahisar, Borivali, Malad, Charkop and Kandivali areas, has seen a sharp rise in cases in the last 15 days. Singh took stock of the Covid-19 count and precautionary measures taken by the police and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to contain the viral spread. Several cases have been reported from buildings located in slums and other high-density places, he said, adding that the police were sealing such structures and the results of these measures will be seen in the next few days. The city currently has 750 containment zones, of which 300 are located in north Mumbai alone, Singh said. Apart from this, the police have identified 27 hotspots and a strict lockdown has been enforced in these areas, he said. People should follow social distancing norms to break the chain of the spread and should wear masks, use sanitisers if they step out of their homes for any urgent work, Singh said. According to the BMC's data, Mumbai has so far recorded 72,287 Covid-19 cases, while the toll stood at 4,177.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/buildings-in-mumbais-slum-areas-to-be-sealed-as-coronavirus-cases-surge-854298.html
27-06-2020||West||Single portal for information on govt, private job vacancies in Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||The portal is part of a number of measures announced by the state government on Friday to help the industrialists and common people in the state recover from the situation created by Covid-19. "A portal has been launched to allow notification of job vacancies by the private establishment, government departments, autonomous bodies, educational institutes for the registered job seekers," Sawant told reporters on Friday. It is meant for those who have registered their names with the employment exchange in the state, he said. "The employment exchange has so far recommended the names of qualified job seekers to 19 private companies through the portal," he added. Sawant added that the government will waive the late payment surcharge on electricity bills with the due date is between March 24 and June 30, provided the payment is made by July 15. The chief minister also announced that those who have taken a loan from credit societies have been granted three months moratorium on payment of EMI for the period between April and June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/single-portal-for-information-on-govt-private-job-vacancies-in-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-854323.html
27-06-2020||West||TN CM Palaniswami pegs fiscal deficit at Rs 85,000 cr||Tamil Nadu would face a fiscal deficit of about Rs 85,000 crore in view of revenue losses, Chief Minister K Palaniswami has said. There was no revenue for the government in the past two months, he said adding there have been revenue losses as industries and other businesses did not function. In view of such a scenario and revenue losses of about Rs 13,000 to Rs 14,000 crore a month, "our Finance Secretary has said that there would be a fiscal deficit of approximately Rs 85,000 crore," he told reporters here on Friday. Palaniswami, after chairing official meetings to review anti-Covid-19 measures and other projects said the government would help people to the maximum possible extent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tn-cm-palaniswami-pegs-fiscal-deficit-at-rs-85000-cr-854354.html
27-06-2020||West||Dawoodi Bohras join other volunteers to serve migrants food, water during their arduous journey back home||For almost 13 years, Mumbai has been a second home to 48-year-old Pramod Yadav and his younger brother who came from their native village in Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, to work at construction sites and earn a living in the country's financial capital. “Daily labourers like us are hit the hardest by the outbreak, driving us deeper into hunger and poverty,” shared Pramod in an agonised voice as he waited in the queue for his turn to receive food and facemasks distributed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus. Besides labourers like Pramod, some were young children and women, carrying with them the life they had built for themselves packed into their small bags.“It will take us around three days to reach Gonda and a few more days in a quarantine camp until we finally meet our family,” said Pramod.As the Covid-19 outbreak battered Mumbai and other parts of the country, many vulnerable sections including daily wage-earners and migrants lost their livelihoods, leaving them with no other option but to return to their hometowns. Indian Railways and Maharashtra Government arranged special ‘Shramik Express’ trains which continue to ferry distressed migrants back to their native villages.Hundreds of such special trains were arranged daily from Mumbai and suburban areas, Pune, Nagpur and Nasik. Besides taking these special trains, many helpless migrants also travelled hitching rides on buses, vans, cycles or on foot; often hundreds of miles away braving heat, hunger and the scourge of the virus. In such testing times, Dawoodi Bohra volunteers joined hands with the BMC to make the long journey of migrants a tad less arduous by serving them food, fruits and water at railway and bus stations. This effort to serve migrants was undertaken by the Dawoodi Bohra community’s global philanthropic initiative - Project Rise. While fresh meals were cooked at the community’s Faizul Mawaid al Burhaniyah kitchens in Mumbai and Nagpur, the distribution of food packets at the respective stations was taken up by the community’s volunteer corps, Burhani Guards. “We know the situation is really bad for these workers who are both monetarily and emotionally in a very difficult position. This is the least we can do for them to ensure they have something to eat on their way back home,” said Yusuf Hakimuddin, spokesperson of Project Rise which has been providing food, water and other essentials during the lockdown period in coordination with the BMC and other local authorities. Acknowledging the Bohra community’s kind gesture, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of BMC, in a letter to Shahzada Husain Bhaisaheb Burhanuddin stated, “Your father His Holiness Dr Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin has always guided your members to serve fellow citizens and this charitable service of your community people in the hour of crisis is highly commendable and appreciated.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dawoodi-bohras-join-other-volunteers-to-serve-migrants-food-water-during-their-arduous-journey-back-home-854374.html
27-06-2020||West||Limit height of Ganesh idols to 4 feet, Uddhav Thackeray tells organisers||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged Ganeshustav organisers to limit the height of idols of Lord Ganesha to a maximum of four feet. The tallest of the Ganesh murtis ranges between 18 to 22 feet in Mumbai, where the annual festival draws huge crowd. "Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have to celebrate Ganeshutsav in a simple manner.  Devotion to the Lord Ganesha is more important than height of idols,  so limit the height to a maximum of 4 feet," Thackeray said in a statement on Friday night. He said that physical distancing norms and health protocols have to be followed. "We have to celebrate the festival with discipline and safety," he said,  and crowding has to be avoided at all cost. Exactly two months away,  the 11-day festival commences on August 22 on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on September 1 on Anant Chaturdashi. On Saturday evening, Thackeray held a video-conference with the Ganesh mandals of Mumbai. Couple of months ago,  Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS),  the apex body of Mumbai's mandals have asked to keep the festivities simple. Height of idols is a touchy issue - as several mandals have idols of Lord Ganesha between 18 to 22 feet. Ganesh festival organisers of Mumbai, Pune had held meetings with Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/limit-height-of-ganesh-idols-to-4-feet-uddhav-thackeray-tells-organisers-854375.html
27-06-2020||West||Gujarat: Five former Congress MLAs join BJP||Five former Congress MLAs from Gujarat, out of the total eight who had resigned as legislators in March and June- ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections- joined the BJP on Saturday. Former Congress MLAs Jitu Chaudhary, Pradyumnasinh Jadeja, J V Kakadiya, Akshay Patel and Brijesh Merja joined the BJP in the presence of party's state unit president Jitu Vaghani and other senior leaders. Of these five former MLAs, Patel, Merja and Chaudhary had resigned as legislators earlier this month, soon after the Election Commission announced June 19 as the new date for the Rajya Sabha election in the state. Kakadiya and Jadeja had resigned as MLAs in March. As per the earlier schedule, the Rajya Sabha election in Gujarat was supposed to be held on March 26. However, it was postponed due to the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. Welcoming the five MLAs' decision to join the BJP, Vaghani said that their presence would strengthen the party at the local level. He also expressed confidence that the BJP would win the bye-elections to the constituencies, which have fallen vacant due to their resignations. He said that the MLAs quit the Congress due to internal factionalism and lack of leadership in the opposition party at the state as well as the national level. "Congress MLAs have resigned and joined the BJP in Gujarat not once but several times in the past. If Congress continues to blame the BJP despite this happening repeatedly, then I would ask that party to shut its shop in Gujarat," he said. "Congress lacks leadership and is beset with internal factionalism. The party itself is responsible for the resignations of its MLAs," he said. Three other former MLAs, who had resigned from the Congress in March, are Soma Patel, Pravin Maru, and Mangal Gavit. Vaghani said that these three former MLAs were also welcome to join the BJP. The resignation of the Congress MLAs ahead of last week's Rajya Sabha election for four seats was crucial for the ruling BJP to win three seats, leaving only one seat for the Congress which had fielded two candidates and hoped to win both the seats. Three BJP candidates and a Congress nominee were elected in the election to the Upper House of Parliament from Gujarat. The party, which won 77 seats in the 2017 Assembly elections, has been reduced to 65 seats after 12 MLAs resigned over the years, many of whom joined the ruling BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-five-former-congress-mlas-join-bjp-854387.html
27-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Congress MLA from Nanded tests Covid-19 positive||A Congress MLA from Nanded district of Maharashtra tested coronavirus positive on Saturday morning, a top district official said. He was found infected days after a senior minister from Nanded recovered from the infection. "The legislator is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. He had come in contact with a local corporator, who had tested positive," the official said. The tally of COVID-19 patients in Nanded district has gone up to 248, while the death toll has reached 16, he added. Earlier, three Maharashtra ministers had tested positive for the infection, but were discharged after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-mla-from-nanded-tests-covid-19-positive-854411.html
27-06-2020||West||BJP legislator from Thane district tests positive for Covid-19||A BJP legislator from Thane district of Maharashtra has tested positive for coronavirus infection, a civic health official here said on Saturday. The 40-year-old legislator had tested positive for the disease couple of days ago and is presently undergoing treatment at a hospital in neighbouring Mumbai, the official said. The health department personnel are in the process of tracing the high-risk contacts of the BJP leader and will be quarantining them, he added. Maharashtra has so far recorded 1,52,765 cases of COVID-19 and 7,106 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-legislator-from-thane-district-tests-positive-for-covid-19-854438.html
27-06-2020||West||Person should be mindful of his worth: Ajit Pawar on Gopichand Padalkar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday took a swipe at BJP legislator Gopichand Padalkar over his controversial comment about NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Padalkar, a member of the state Legislative Council, is under fire over his alleged remark that "(Sharad) Pawar was a corona that has infected Maharashtra". "Every person should speak keeping in mind his own worth. People should respect each other. This is our culture. This is what late Yashwantrao Chavan (first chief minister of Maharashtra) taught us and we should adhere to it," Ajit Pawar said here. The senior NCP leader who is a nephew of Sharad Pawar was speaking to reporters after reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the Satara district. "You can check what he (Padalkar) had said about (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi in the past," Ajit Pawar further said, apparently referring to Padalkar's alleged statements when he was not with the BJP. Padalkar had lost his deposit from the Baramati Assembly segment in the election last year, said Pawar, who had defeated him. Pawar also recalled late BJP leader Arun Jaitley's comment that the whole country will be developed if it has 100 towns like Baramati, a bastion of the Pawar family. "He (Jaitley) was seen as second-in-command after Modi. All respect (Sharad) Pawar saheb. Some cheap people think they will become famous by talking against big people," the deputy chief minister said. Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, also informed that he had instructed the authorities to set up a COVID-19 testing laboratory in Satara district hosptial in the next three to four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/person-should-be-mindful-of-his-worth-ajit-pawar-on-gopichand-padalkar-854446.html
27-06-2020||West||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh meets kin of CRPF trooper killed in Jammu and Kashmir||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday paid a condolence visit to the kin of martyred CRPF jawan Sunil Kale. Kale was killed in an encounter in Pulwama in Jammu- Kashmir on June 23 and his final rites were held the next day in his native Pangaon village in Solapur's Barshi tehsil. Deshmukh was accompanied by state health minister Rajesh Tope and Solapur guardian minister Dattatray Bharane, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-meets-kin-of-crpf-trooper-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-854468.html
27-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Amravati's Covid-19 count now 502, death toll reaches 23||The number of COVID-19 cases in Amravati in Maharashtra reached 502 on Saturday as 16 people tested positive for novel coronavirus, while the deaths of two people during the day took the toll so far to 23, an official said. Of the 16 new cases, nine are from the rural areas of the district, four of them from Vichori village in Morshi tehsil, while both deaths are from Sabanpura locality, he added. "There are now 51 cases in the rural areas. Among the 16 new cases are two women, aged 20 and 22, who tested positive during quarantine after returning from Russia," he said. The district's first case was detected on April 4, and then it touched the 100 mark on May 16, 200 and 300 on May 29 and June 11 respectively, 400 on June 19 and the 500 mark on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-amravatis-covid-19-count-now-502-death-toll-reaches-23-854485.html
27-06-2020||West||Maharashtra records highest daily spike with 5,318 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday registered the highest-ever single-day spike of 5,318 new COVID-19 cases, state Health department said. The state's total case count now stands at 1,59,133. With 167 deaths, the fatality count has gone up to 7,273, it said. Of the 167 deaths, 86 people died in the last 48 hours. Saturday's spike in cases has surpassed the record 5,024 detections recorded on Friday. With 4,430 patients being discharged in the day, the number of the recovered cases mounted to 84,245, a Health official said. A total of 8,96,874 people have been tested so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-daily-spike-with-5318-new-covid-19-cases-854500.html
27-06-2020||West||Covid-19: Goa sees highest one-day rise with 89 cases||Goa registered its highest single-day rise in COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 89 people testing positive for novel coronavirus, taking the state's infection count to 1,128, an official said. Fifty people were discharged during the day, leaving the state with 706 active cases, two having succumbed to the infection, he added. "Of the 2,237 samples tested on Saturday, 89 are positive, 1,240 negative and 908 reports are awaited. In random testing carried out in Vasco's Zuarinagar, one of the state's biggest slum pockets, 24 people were detected with the infection," the official added. Mangor Hill in Vasco continues to be the state's biggest COVID-19 case contributor with 267 people detected with the infection so far, while 217 patients have links to the area.  Goa's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 1128, new cases: 89, deaths: 02, discharged: 420, active cases 706, samples tested till date: 61687.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-sees-highest-one-day-rise-with-89-cases-854528.html
27-06-2020||West||Maharashtra cops to get bravery award for Covid-19 combat: Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Bravery awards will be given to policemen working in the frontline of the battle against COVID-19, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Saturday during a visit to Solapur district. He was speaking to reporters after reviewing the law and order situation in the district in view of the Ashadhi Ekadashi celebrations next week. "Police have done a good job working in the frontline. They will be given bravery awards for their work," Deshmukh, who was accompanied by state health minister Rajesh Tope, said. Deshmukh said kin of police personnel dying of COVID- 19 will get Rs 65 lakh assistance and they can stay in the official quarters till the deceased's date of retirement in the normal course. He said there are dedicated COVID hospitals in each district for police personnel.  Meanwhile, Tope said the government will also conduct antigen tests, which give results in an hour, giving priority to frontline COVID-19 workers. The state government has also decided to undertake rapid antibody tests, which will help find out whether a person has contracted COVID-19, he added.  Tope said the district administration has been asked to increase the number of beds in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cops-to-get-bravery-award-for-covid-19-combat-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-854545.html
27-06-2020||West||Covid-19: Amid Saturday's record 89-case jump, Goa sees 3rd death||Goa on Saturday registered its highest number of COVID-19 cases in a single day at 89 and also saw its third death from the infection, an official said. A 76-year-old woman died at the COVID facility in Margao, he added. "She was admitted there from a private facility a week back," he informed. On June 22, an 85-year-old man and a 58-year-old man had died. Saturday's 89-case jump took the state's COVID-19 count to 1,128, though the number of active cases is 705 as 420 have been discharged after recovery and three have lost their lives to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-amid-saturdays-record-89-case-jump-goa-sees-3rd-death-854552.html
27-06-2020||West||Covid-19: Pune records highest one-day spike of 996 cases||Pune district reported the highest single day increase of 996 cases on Saturday, taking its COVID-19 count to 20,023, a health official said. The death toll in the district due to the pandemic reached 693 with 19 persons succumbing to the infection since Friday evening. "Of 996 new cases, 814 were found in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, where the case tally has risen to 15,740," the official said. On the other hand, 486 patients were discharged from the hospitals in the district. With 128 new cases, the tally in Pimpri Chinchwad area now stands at 2,678.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pune-records-highest-one-day-spike-of-996-cases-854558.html
