28-06-2020||Comment||Strengthen primary healthcare||Healthcare facilities that respond effectively to emergencies have a few things in common: trained personnel, connected digital technologies, effective referral and remote support facilities, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in place with smart and real-time analytics, respectful care, and financial prowess. In sum, we can be prepared for any catastrophe if we have strong, connected, efficient, responsive, and equitable public health systems - this has been validated by the Covid-19 pandemic.      Our Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) have been providing basic healthcare around reproductive and child health, infectious diseases, non-communicable diseases, preventive health care outreach, among others. As Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) under the ambit of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, the primary health care delivery system is aimed at achieving holistic health.  It is thus essential that these first points of healthcare delivery are well-staffed, well-equipped, and well-connected so that they reduce the burden on the tertiary health facilities. The PHCs are also essential providers of maternity and childcare services. With the focus on increasing institutional deliveries and preventing maternal and neonatal deaths, the need to strengthen intra and immediate postpartum care is significant. It requires that we empower healthcare providers at the PHC level to manage deliveries on their own. Continuous learning processes must be implemented so that providers can respond to regular cases and some complications with agility and effectiveness. With better case management skills, care providers can be empowered to eliminate the entirely preventable cases of infant and maternal mortality. Of the 27 million women who reach the stage of delivery, over 56,000 mothers die during or within 48 hours of delivery, as do 50% of neonates. While 27% of maternal mortality cases are due to haemorrhage, 11% die due to sepsis and 9% due to obstructed labour. For neonatal mortality, 34% of incidents are due to infection and 19% due to birth asphyxia. Delays in transportation and initiating care further contribute to the quantum of entirely preventable deaths.            Technology can serve as a powerful tool to aid clinically trained healthcare providers even in the remotest of locations.  Digitally tracking cases, building in telemedicine support to address case complication and seamless referrals made with real-time transmission of patient documentation are some examples of how technology can be woven into the care continuum. Digital approaches can also ensure that the basics are in place to successfully conduct operations; deaths often occur due to the lack of basics, like an oxytocin injection to induce labour or control maternal bleeding after childbirth, or an oxygen cylinder to prevent neonatal hypoxia -- a condition in which a neonate is deprived of adequate oxygen supply to meet metabolic demands. Easy to adopt and implement, digitisation across the care continuum can also be scaled with ease across the country. At their heart are two aspects: software and hardware, and the willingness to adopt approaches that yield more positive outcomes. Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh are today benefiting from such an approach. With support and technical assistance from private companies and not-for-profit organisations, some facilities here are piloting the use of simple handheld tablet devices that empower healthcare providers to make faster and better data-based decisions, 24 hours before, and 48 hours after birth.  From admission to discharge, all documentation is digitised and made available to all care providers instantly, giving them more time with patients. Healthcare providers also access government-published learning modules, guidelines and tutorials in engaging multimedia formats, in an interesting gamified format that helps them learn and revise the latest clinical guidelines on basic emergency obstetric and neonatal care. By bringing data-based decision-making to the fore, health centres are empowered to identify and manage high risk-patients with more agility and effectiveness. Till date, over one lakh high-risk cases have been detected, and over 2.2 lakh live birth deliveries have been made successfully using this approach. By empowering nurses to successfully handle high-risk complicated cases without a referral, the strain on the healthcare system has been mitigated. We need such pilots to be taken to scale and to be applied to all aspects of healthcare delivery.               The Covid-19 crisis has highlighted the significance of patient triage in a healthcare facility. Triage helps prioritise patients based on their current medical condition and clinical need at that hour. In facilities where this digital approach has piloted, tablets are placed in triage area and thereafter at important patient checkpoints like pre-labour wards, labour room, pre-natal care wards etc. Patient information Crucial patient information is entered into the application on the patient’s arrival in the facility and is updated with new levels of care.   The application also alerts healthcare providers of high-risk cases thus helping swiftly navigate the patient to either the ward, the labour room or the operation theatre. In a nutshell, this care model has indirectly established the correct processes for patients to get appropriate care without any delay. The Covid-19 pandemic has also highlighted the significance of infection prevention. This should be the cornerstone of our healthcare system. Regular and rigorous training of healthcare workers in standard operating procedures for infection prevention, control and monitoring adherence, ensuring required materials and supplies are made available, are key.  When healthcare workers internalise these standards, the quality of healthcare rises significantly and so does the demand for services. This necessitates the need for sustained capacity-building. For long, many PHCs suffered from low footfall underscoring the need for quality, hygiene and required equipment and supplies. Quality of services cannot be compromised even in the remotest of health centres or for the poorest of citizens. With access to affordable and quality primary healthcare, communities are less likely to travel long distances to tertiary care hospitals, usually based in city centres or in other states, and strain their resources. With access to timely care, they are also more likely to recover quickly. If suitably strengthened, India’s 25,000 PHCs and 5,300 community health centres can be powerful assets of a more resilient healthcare delivery system against any clear and present danger like the Covid-19 and of the unknown tomorrow. (Sridhar is Director-India, MSD (Merck) for Mothers; Bahl, Programme Head, Reliance Foundation, and Dr Budharaju, Public Health Consultant, Tata Trusts)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/strengthen-primary-healthcare-854840.html
28-06-2020||In Perspective||Covid-19: Police must take precautions||With increasing number of policemen testing positive for Covid-19 and many dying due the disease contracted while on duty, a serious situation is emerging across the country. Police are becoming unavailable for duty when their presence is needed most. As a profession, like the medical fraternity, police cannot avoid public contact. Whether it is arresting a suspect or a criminal or whether enforcing ‘shutdowns’ or even simple traffic management, physical contact with members of the public is inevitable. The very nature of their work makes police, like doctors, more vulnerable to the scary disease. In the first phase of the Covid fighting, when the infection had not reached alarming proportions, the threat of getting infected was minimal for the police.  With lockdowns in place throughout the country, the spread of infection was slow and very few policemen contracted the disease. With liquor shops being shut, lockdowns resulted in fewer crimes. Most cities in India reported a 60-90% drop in crimes as compared to 2019. A curfew like situation ensured minimal public order problems and traffic management. But the lifting of the lockdown changed all that. The number of crimes, like the number of Covid positive cases, slowly started shooting up. When this happened, police had to not only concentrate on their primary job of prevention and detection of crime but also help the civic administration in containing the spread of the virus. Prevention and detection of crimes involve securing suspects and criminals. This results in physical contact. The Criminal Procedure Code mandates that arrest is made only by touching a person and declaring that he/she is under arrest. And this is risky. Since it is impossible to arrest habitual criminals without using physical force, policemen become vulnerable to the virus. Recently, an arrested criminal in Bengaluru, who tested Covid positive, escaped from his hospital bed. While chasing and re-arresting him, over a dozen cops came into his contact and are now forced into quarantine. Such incidents have made policemen across the country hesitant to go to the field and arrest suspects and criminals. The death of an Assistant Police Sub Inspector and two constables in Karnataka who contracted the disease in the course of their duty have dented the morale of the brave warriors. A Covid-positive head constable dying of suicide while on his way to the hospital is a case in point. Police leadership now faces two distinct problems. How to manage the increasing duties with lesser number of personnel available to them and how to motivate the available persons to work without fear is their dilemma. Giving facemasks, face shields and sanitisers, allowing weekly offs, asking more than 50-year olds to stay at home are some of the measures being taken. To minimise contact at the police stations, some officers have asked their subordinates to meet public in a separate place where physical distancing and other precautions can be ensured. The police chief of Tamil Nadu has ordered separate ‘detention chambers’ where arrested criminals can be lodged. Some police chiefs have also planned to give PPE kits to the policemen. Despite all these measures, fear lurks in the minds of almost every policeman. Even after taking all such precautions, a large chunk of police force would still contract the disease and would either be quarantined or put in hospital wards. This in effect would mean a lesser number of policemen available for duties. 5 lakh jobs vacant As on date, there are about five lakh police jobs vacant in India. To add to this, if many policemen get immobilised by the virus, a serious manpower situation will unfold. Crimes are bound to increase due to large scale unemployment. While offences against property will surely rise, bodily offences will also go up. Discontentment would result in problems related to public order and all these would demand increased police presence. With their strength reduced due to the virus, police will be hard pressed to meet the growing demands. This would mean certain police functions getting lesser attention. Prevention and detection of property offences would most likely take a hit.  Undetected cases would go up. It therefore becomes incumbent on the citizens to become ‘atma-nirbhar’ and ensure that crimes, especially property offences, are prevented. They can help police by taking suitable precautionary measures. They could deploy private security agencies to guard their properties, invest on CCTV cameras and other security gadgets at homes and offices, keep their valuables in bank lockers, organise beats and patrols in their localities through Neighbourhood Watch schemes etc.   They must become more aware of lurking cyber-criminals who have already raised their heads now and take preventive measures. Apart from taking precautions against contracting Covid, the citizens should avoid becoming victims of crime. With the numbers of policemen available for duty getting reduced due to the virus, this becomes inevitable. (The writer retired as Director General of Police in Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-police-must-take-precautions-854839.html
28-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Bengaluru-Belagavi superfast train to run daily||The railways has replaced the triweekly special train between Bengaluru and Belagavi with a daily superfast express. Accordingly, KSR Bengaluru – Belagavi Daily Superfast Express Special (06549) will depart KSR Bengaluru at 9 pm and arrive in Belagavi at 7:25 am on the next day. In return direction, the train (06550) will depart from Belagavi at 9 pm and arrive at KSR Bengaluru at 7.25 am on the next day, the SWR said in a release. “Suresh Angadi, Minister of State of Railways insisted to run a special overnight train between KSR Bengaluru and Belagavi as the overnight train which was running between KSR Bengaluru and Belagavi before the lockdown was very popular and convenient to public. Accordingly, this train is being run with effect from Friday from Bengaluru and Saturday from Belagavi,” the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-bengaluru-belagavi-superfast-train-to-run-daily-854627.html
28-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Revathi from Karnataka’ is not IAS topper; recurring misinformation viral again||It was shared by several users in 2017. BJP MP Sonal Mansingh had tweeted the image on July 7, 2017.   Alt News contacted Avanigadda police station and was redirected to SI Revathi who informed that she is not an IAS officer. Her full name is Mathi Venkata Revathi (28) and she hails from Modumudi village. She is currently posted at Disha police station in Rajahmundry City, East Godavari district. The sub-inspector also shared her recent photograph with Alt News.  A false claim that Revathi from Karnataka placed third in UPSC examination is, therefore, circulating since 2017. The truth of the matter is that she was selected as a sub-inspector in AP police examination in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revathi-from-karnataka-is-not-ias-topper-recurring-misinformation-viral-again-854638.html
28-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two test Covid-19 positive in Karnataka's Udupi, booked for hiding travel history||The Padubidri police have booked cases against two who were Covid-19 positive for not revealing their primary contacts and hiding the travel history. P-10186 and P-10187 from Hejamadi in Padubidri were siblings and tested positive for Covid-19 recently. After shifting them to the hospital for treatment, when the officials were collecting information on their primary contacts and travel history, the patients furnished false information. When the officials were collecting information from various sources, they realised that the duo had travelled to Bantwal, Kasargod, Ullal and other places in Dakshina Kannada, said DHO Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda. Hence the district administration decided to file cases against them. It was learnt that the family members and primary contacts of the infected have also been suffering from Covid-19 symptoms, which is yet to be confirmed officially. Officials said that the throat swab samples of the infected and primary contacts have been collected and sent to the laboratory for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnatakas-udupi-booked-for-hiding-travel-history-854645.html
28-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records three Covid-19 deaths on Sunday||Dakshina Kannada district recorded three fatalities for Covid-19 on Sunday. A 51-year-old woman from Idya in Surathkal was suffering from TB and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mangaluru. She was tested positive for Covid-19 on June 26 and died on Sunday. Another 58-year-old woman from Lorettopadavu in Bantwal was ailing for the last one year and was admitted to a hospital a few days ago after her condition deteriorated . She failed to respond to the treatment and died. Her throat swab sample has been tested positive for Covid-19. The 31-year-old man from Idya in Surathkal too succumbed to Covid-19. With this, total Covid-19 deaths in the district have risen to 13. Protest over burial Meanwhile, a few residents of Bolar opposed the burial of the Covid-19 victim from Idya, at the graveyard in Bolar. The graveyard in Idya mosque jurisdiction was waterlogged. Hence, the management of the Idya Masjid had sought permission from Bolar mosque to bury the mortal remains of the Covid-19 victim in Bolar. When all the necessary arrangements were made for the burial, a few residents staged a protest against the burial in Bolar. When the aggrieved family members saw the opposition from a section of the society, they cancelled the plan to bury the body in Bolar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-three-covid-19-deaths-on-sunday-854796.html
28-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fearing infection, residents desert their area in Koppal||Fear of contracting Covid-19 has forced many residents of Medar Oni in the town, a containment zone, to lock their homes and shift to safer areas. Panic gripped the area (ward no 16) when a resident, aged 67, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. The residents packed whatever they could lay their hands on and left their homes overnight. By Sunday morning, the area wore a deserted look. Asha workers, who have been deployed to conduct door-to-door surveillance in the area, are being greeted with locked houses. "We have been roaming around since morning to gather information of the residents. Fearing infection, many residents have left the place. We are not getting a clear picture. We have no idea on their whereabouts," a health worker poured her woes to DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fearing-infection-residents-desert-their-area-in-koppal-854863.html
28-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Irregularities to the Rs 3,300 cr in procurement of Covid-19 supplies alleges former Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah has asked the government to delineate the details of expenses incurred by the state in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic on Sunday. He also alleged irregularities to the tune of Rs 3,300 cr in the procurement of equipment to contain the pandemic. "Since the government has not acted in a transparent manner in containing the pandemic, there is a lot of doubt, uncertainty and insecurity among people. To reaffirm the faith of the people in the government, I urge chief minister BS Yediyurappa to release a white paper with complete details of the expenditure for Covid-19," Siddaramaiah said in a statement. He posed a series of questions to the government regarding the procurement of PPE kits, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, masks and other expenses regarding treatment and quarantine of patients. "What is the amount released by the centre and what equipments has the state government provided? How many beds are reserved in private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment? What were the parameters for fixing prices for treatment at private hospitals?" the former CM demanded. There are allegations that the government procured medical equipment at twice the market price, resulting in irregularities to the tune of Rs 3,300 cr. "Finance Department has objected to the same. The chief minister should clarify the issue," Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/irregularities-to-the-rs-3300-cr-in-procurement-of-covid-19-supplies-alleges-former-karnataka-cm-siddaramaiah-854715.html
28-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Former CM Siddaramaiah demands white paper from Karnataka govt on Covid-19 management||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday urged the Karnataka government to bring out a "white paper" regarding its Covid-19 management. Alleging lack of transparency on part of the government in controlling the spread of virus, the former Chief Minister said, this has led to 'mistrust' among the people about the administration. Citing allegations of irregularity in the purchase of medical equipment by paying twice the market rate, he threatened the government of agitation, if it continues to remain indifferent to the demand for white paper and transparency. "As the Karnataka government has not maintained transparency in its measures to control the spread of coronavirus, it has given rise to suspicion, insecurity among people," Siddaramaiah said. In a statement released by his office, he urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to bring out a white paper regarding measures taken and money spent so far, to place the truth before the people and instill trust in them. With the spike in the number of infections in the state, Opposition Congress has accused the government of 'failing' to manage the Covid-19 situation. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state which stood at 3,408 as of June 1, reported 11,923 on Saturday with the capital city topping the districts in the infection count. Siddaramaiah in his statement has demanded an account on the money spent by the government for Covid-19 treatment and related activities. "How much money has been spent from the state's treasury to control coronavirus? it has been spent on what purpose? How much has been spent so far on quarantine, treatment, PPE kits, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitisers and other medical equipment?" he asked.  Questioning as to how much money and equipment have come from the Centre, he wanted to know about the number of beds reserved at private hospitals for corona treatment, the basis on which rates have been fixed for private hospitals. "All this information has to be placed before the people." Claiming that despite several letters by him seeking details, the departments were not sharing the information properly. The Congress legislature party leader alleged that such denial of information amounts to breach of his privilege. "It also gives rise to suspicion regarding the functioning of the government. So complete details have to be made known to the people through the white paper," he added. The government has not made any preparations to control Covid-19 in the last three months, other than wasting its time in imposing and withdrawing lockdown measures, Siddaramaiah said, the people of the state will have to face the sufferings because of this "inactiveness". "With the infection spreading, people are losing trust in the government", he said adding that as the government hospitals are filled, the administration has to convince the private hospitals regarding the rates and ask them to provide treatment or else should take strict action against them. Noting that there were allegations of irregularity in the purchase of medical equipment and that they have been brought by paying the price double than the market rate, Siddaramaiah said, "it is alleged that- the amount is said to be about Rs 3300 crore. So the government should immediately come out with a white paper, provide facts and take the public into confidence." It will be inevitable to protest on the streets if the government continues to remain indifferent to our demand, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/former-cm-siddaramaiah-demands-white-paper-from-karnataka-govt-on-covid-19-management-854729.html
28-06-2020||National||Cases surge by 20,137; Govt okays steroid for severely ill patients||India on Saturday approved the use of widely available drug dexamethasone to treat Covid-19 patients with moderate and severe symptoms after clinical trials proved its efficacy to reduce mortality. The Health Ministry revised its ‘Clinical Management Protocol: Covid-19’ to include steroid drug dexamethasone as an alternative to methylprednisolone to treat Covid-19 patients. According to the Health Ministry, India had 5,08,953 Covid-19 patients on Saturday morning after the highest single-day spike of 18,552 new infections on Friday. The death toll too shot up by 384 taking the total fatalities to 15,685. According to the DH Covid Tracker, India recorded 20,137 news cases on Saturday, taking the total to 5,29,221, with 409 deaths.      The revised clinical management protocol said that dexamethasone, which is used to reduce inflammation in other diseases such as arthritis, has been cleared for patients in need of oxygen support and those who have an excessive inflammatory response.  “The drug has been tested in hospitalised patients with Covid-19 in the recovery clinical trial and was found to have benefits for critically ill patients and has been shown to reduce mortality by about one third for patients on ventilators, and by about one fifth for patients being maintained on oxygen therapy,” an official statement said. In India, dexamethasone is part of the National List of Essential Medicines and is widely available, the health ministry said. Dexamethasone, a low-dose steroid, has been on the market for over 60 years and usually serves to reduce inflammation. Clinical trials by a team of researchers from the University of Oxford administered dexamethasone to more than 2,000 severely ill patients hospitalised with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cases-surge-by-20137-govt-okays-steroid-for-severely-ill-patients-854589.html
28-06-2020||National||Bihar records 300 new Covid-19 cases, two more deaths||Bihar witnessed a huge hike in Covid-19 infections on Saturday, with 301 people testing positive for the virus, while two more fatalities pushed the death toll to 58, officials said. With the fresh cases, the state's coronavirus tally has reached 8,979. According to Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, a 60-year-old man from Rohtas district died on Friday. He was also suffering from other ailments. The other fatality was reported from Begusarai, though details like the time of death, age and medical history of the deceased were not known. Begusarai now accounts for four fatalities. Only Darbhanga, Patna and Saran -- with five deaths each -- have reported a higher number of casualties. Coronavirus cases have been reported in all 38 districts of the state and those with the highest numbers are Patna (557), Bhagalpur (430), Madhubani (424), Siwan (401), Begusarai (384) and Rohtas (323).  Only Sheohar, Arwal and Jamui have reported less than 100 cases till date. The health secretary, however, asserted that things were "improving" in Bihar as now only 4.4 per cent of people among those tested on a given day were found positive, down from five per cent in the recent past. He also pointed out that the state's recovery rate at 78 per cent was significantly higher than the national average of 58.14 per cent. The number of patients recovered from the disease is 6,930. A total of 1.98 lakh samples have been tested so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-records-300-new-covid-19-cases-two-more-deaths-854590.html
28-06-2020||National||Might be deluge of disputes in courts in coming months, online resolution solution: NITI Aayog CEO||There might be a deluge of disputes in courts, most notably regarding lending, credit, properties, commerce, and retail, in the coming months that will require expedient resolution, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Saturday. Delivering the keynote address during a webinar on "Online Dispute Resolution - Opportunities and Challenges", organised by the Indian Dispute Resolution Centre, Kant said the Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) system provided an accessible, affordable and expedient solution to the problem that might arise. "Online dispute resolution can be used as a mechanism to solve disputes outside the formal court system in an extremely affordable and quick manner. The Covid-19 pandemic has completely altered how we function and why. It is a great challenge that all of us must combat together. It is equally important that we use any opportunity available to help alleviate the challenges faced by those most vulnerable," he said. At the webinar moderated by advocate Divyansh Hanu Rathi, managing partner, Lexidem and Rathi, Kant noted that in this age of data-driven solutions and machine learning, ODR is much more than just replicating the existing processes of ADR online, because technology can aid resolution of disputes by providing analytic insights into the benefits of dispute resolution. "Through a combination of several factors, we are at the cusp of transformative change and technology will play a key role in widening equity and affordability. The pandemic has forced a shift towards solutions that minimise contact and can be activated through technology, including for resolution of disputes. The unfortunate circumstances have cruciated the role of technology in allowing remote, contactless support to daily work roles," he said. Kant added that most small and medium disputes can potentially be resolved without approaching courts, thus allowing the courts to focus on the more complex cases or cases of high public interest. "A collaborative mechanism of ODR provides this potential to resolve a substantial percentage of disputes at the site of their occurrence, without burdening the court system.... It is highly likely that there will be a deluge of disputes in courts, most notably in lending, credit, properties, commerce and retail, in the coming months that will require expedient resolution. "Explicit support now would encourage businesses to build mechanisms in their customer relationships. Banks, NBFCs and mutual funds could then prioritise ODR, before they approach debt-recovery tribunals. Hence, ODR provides an accessible, affordable and easily available mechanism," he said. Kant added that a robust ODR ecosystem in India will have the potential to reduce the load of the courts by resolving a high volume of disputes outside the courts and facilitate access to justice and ease of doing business by making dispute resolution cheaper, quicker and equally credible. "Allocation of resources is the least of the problems. There is a lot of allocation of resources which is going unutilised. Every year the amount of money allocated to e-courts, a lot of it lapses at the end of the year because the judicial system has not been able to utilise it. So we need to have a better absorption ability in the judicial system. That is critical. "I am quite sure that as far as the technology resources of the courts are concerned, there is no constraint. The government will put every possible resource for bringing technology to courts," the Niti Aayog CEO said. Speaking at the event, Richard Wilmot-Smith QC, Barrister-Arbitrator, Essex Chambers, London, said in the present pandemic situation, either the courts have to shut down everything or adapt to technology. "Initially, people had hesitations and some kind of fear regarding virtual court hearings but now all that is fading away. ODR has made it possible that an arbitrator is in one country, an expert witness and a lawyer are in another and they carry on with the proceedings in an 'electronic room'. This is also reducing the travel-0related carbon footprints," he said. Shobana Iyer, Barrister-Arbitrator, Swan Chambers, London, said one of the major concerns regarding ODR is recording witness evidence remotely. She said some of the main problems are assessing the credibility and demeanour of witnesses, risks of witnesses being coached or unduly influenced, lack of gravitas and physical evidence. "These can be solved by finding out about your witness, appropriate technology availability, quality of transmission (broadband connectivity), having evidence given from legal representatives or agents' offices," Iyer added. Advocate Tanmaya Mehta said though ODR kept the wheels of justice moving during the pandemic, it can only be seen as a temporary measure. "Due to ODR, we are safely sitting at the comfort of our homes and arguing matters and do not have to go to the crowded courts. In the legal profession, it gives some semblance of financial earning to the lawyers too. It saves time too as on a normal day, lawyers have to juggle between several courts for hearing in their matters. Now they just have to switch screens. "But normally, the Supreme Court hears an average of 700 cases on Mondays and Fridays and the Delhi High Court hears 700-1,000 cases. It is impossible to hear that many cases through ODR. Also, in India, there are technical impediments like bandwidth problems, which waste time. It can at best be a stop-gap measure," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/might-be-deluge-of-disputes-in-courts-in-coming-months-online-resolution-solution-niti-aayog-ceo-854601.html
28-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 28||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 5.2 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 5,49,548 as of June 28 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 16,323   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,08,951  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-28-854607.html
28-06-2020||National||DH Toon: No enemy movement, all's well, says PM over India-China border tensions||Although Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas,” tensions continue to rise along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Satellite images reveal that China is yet to dismantle its tents and other prefabricated and other semi-permanent structures that it has been erecting at the Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso. According to some reports, China has, in fact, expanded some of its structures, including a monitoring post in the Galwan Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-no-enemy-movement-alls-well-says-pm-over-india-china-border-tensions-854608.html
28-06-2020||National||India's Covid-19 fight people-driven: PM Narendra Modi||India's fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic is people-driven, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, attributing the success against the contagion to the nationwide lockdown implemented in the initial phase. In his virtual address to the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) on Saturday, Modi said the COVID-19 outbreak had been used as an opportunity to work towards making India self-reliant. This is for the first time that an Indian prime minister addressed the annual meeting of the AAPI, a representative body of more than 80,000 Indian-American doctors in the US. Sharing the statistics of various countries, Modi said India has performed much better in the fight against the coronavirus. "As against the death rate of 350 individuals per million in the US and over 600 per million in European nations like the UK, Italy and Spain, the rate of fatalities in India is less than 12. "Uttar Pradesh has been remarkably successful in fighting against the coronavirus. And same is the case with several other states as well,” Modi said. The prime minister attributed this to the support from the people of the country. "Rural parts of the country have largely remained untouched from this pandemic," he said. Without people's cooperation, Modi said, the success would not have been possible in the world's second-most populated country -- with high density, where social gathering is a norm of life, large religious and political gatherings and large-scale interstate migration are regular. India defied the fears of the world's topmost experts on the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Modi. India has been able to save the lives of thousands and lakhs of its citizens because of the timely lockdown, he told the Indian-American physicians. Prime Minister Modi announced a complete lockdown across the country for 21 days from March 24 midnight. The lockdown has been extended since then with the government allowing some sectors to reopen in a phased manner based on the threat-level of each area. Modi said the COVID-19 pandemic has been used as an opportunity to improve the healthcare facilities. For instance, at the start of the coronavirus, there was only one COVID-19 testing laboratory. Now there are 1,000 laboratories. He underlined that India, which imported most of its Personnel Protection Equipment (PPE) kits at the start of the pandemic, is now almost self-reliant and in a position to export them. The country is making more than 30 lakh N95 masks per week. More than 50,000 new ventilators are being made available to the healthcare sector, all made inside the country, he added. Modi said he was proud of the achievements and contribution of the Indian-origin physicians across the world in the battle against the COVID-19. India’s ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu echoed Modi and said that the early lockdown has helped delay the spread of the deadly virus and save lives. Appreciating the role of the Indian-American doctors during the COVID-19, Sandhu said: "You are the real heroes who have risked your lives and have been out to assist others." There is a widespread recognition of their contributions in the US, he added. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 9.9 million people and killed more than 498,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 2.5 million cases and more than 1,25,000 deaths, while India has registered over 5 lakh cases with more than 16,000 fatalities. The COVID-19, which originated in China's Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy is bound to suffer a "severe recession".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-fight-people-driven-pm-narendra-modi-854623.html
28-06-2020||National||China sent martial artists to India border before deadly clash: Report||China reinforced its troops near the Indian border with mountain climbers and martial arts fighters shortly before a deadly clash this month, state media reported. Tensions are common between the two nuclear-armed neighbours in the mountainous border terrain, but this month's fighting was their deadliest encounter in over 50 years. Five new militia divisions including former members of a Mount Everest Olympic torch relay team and fighters from a mixed martial arts club presented themselves for inspection at Lhasa on June 15, official military newspaper China National Defense News reported. State broadcaster CCTV showed footage of hundreds of new troops lining up in the Tibetan capital. Tibet commander Wang Haijiang said the Enbo Fight Club recruits would "greatly raise the organization and mobilization strength" of troops and their "rapid response and support ability," China National Defense News reported, although he did not explicitly confirm their deployment was linked to ongoing border tensions. Chinese and Indian troops clashed later that day in the most violent confrontation between the two powers in decades, in the Ladakh region 1,300 kilometres away. India says 20 of its own soldiers were killed in brutal hand-to-hand combat that day, while China suffered an unknown number of casualties. Both sides have blamed each other for the battle, which was fought with rocks and batons without any shots fired. India said Thursday that it had reinforced troops in the contested Himalayan border region, saying it was matching a similar buildup by China. Chinese state media have in recent weeks highlighted military activity including high-altitude anti-aircraft drills in the Tibet region bordering India. The new troops were recruited with the aim of "strengthening the border and stabilizing Tibet," China National Defense News said. India claims Chinese troops ambushed Indian soldiers and forced them down a ridge where they had gone to remove a Chinese "encroachment". A bilateral accord prevents the use of guns, but the fighting was still fierce, with rudimentary weapons. China has in turn accused Indian soldiers of twice crossing the Line of Actual Control, the unofficial boundary, provoking its troops. The two countries fought a war over the border in 1962. There is an understanding between the nuclear-armed neighbours that their troops in the disputed and inhospitable region will not use firearms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-sent-martial-artists-to-india-border-before-deadly-clash-report-854625.html
28-06-2020||National||Highlights: Befitting reply given to those eyeing India's territory, says PM Modi in 66th Mann Ki Baat address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 66th edition of his monthly radio talk 'Mann Ki Baat' on June 28 at 11 am. In his address, he touched upon a whole host of issues ranging from coronavirus and the lockdown, the India-China border and India's defence, among other things. PM Modi also paid homage to former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao in the commencement of his birth centenary year.  Here are some of the things that he mentioned:  ** The world has seen India's strength and commitment to protecting its sovereignty and borders; in Ladakh, a befitting reply has been given to those eyeing our territories. While the corona crisis still looms large, the country is faced with further challenges - cyclone Amphan, cyclone Nisarg, locust attack, minor quakes; amid all this, the country is combating with what is being perpetrated by our neighbours.  ** India knows how to maintain friendship, but it can look someone in the eye and retaliate; our bravehearts have shown that they won't let any harm be done to Mother India. Our effort should be towards making the country stronger and self-reliant - this will be the real tribute to our martyrs. If you buy local, be 'Vocal For Local', then you are doing your role to make the country strong - this is also a type of service to the nation. ** India's resolve is to protect its self-respect and sovereignty India's goal is Atma Nirbhar Bharat India's tradition is trust and friendship India's spirit is fraternity. ** Half the year is over. These days, people are commonly talking about one thing - when will 2020 end. They feel it has been a year of many challenges. 2020 shouldn't be blamed for the hurdles, we need to keep moving forward. We shall all move forward together, and the days to come will be even more positive, we will not only do better in this year i.e. 2020, but we will move forward and the country will touch new heights.  ** Now the country is in 'unlock' phase; two things are most important during this time - defeating corona and giving strength to economic activity.  ** During the unlock period, we have to stay more vigilant compared to the lockdown period. Only your alertness can save you from corona. Hence, I urge all countrymen…and I repeatedly do so…do not be negligent…take care of yourself and others. ** Many things that were kept 'locked' for decades are being 'unlocked'; allowing commercial mining will change the situation. If you glance at our agricultural sector, you will notice that many aspects of this sector too were in a state of lockdown for decades. This sector too has now been unlocked. Just a few days ago, historic reforms in the space sector were brought in. Through these reforms, the sector which was in a state of lockdown for years was set free. ** Coronavirus has definitely changed the way we live. The entire world is focused on increasing their immunity at this time, and these immunity-enhancing ingredients are linked with our country. ** If there would not have been a crisis like coronavirus, we might have not pondered questions like 'what is life?' 'why is there life?' 'How is our life?' ** Before independence, in the realm of the defence sector, our country was ahead of many countries in the world. There used to be a multitude of ordnance factories. Many countries that lagged behind us then, are ahead of us now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highlights-befitting-reply-given-to-those-eyeing-indias-territory-says-pm-modi-in-66th-mann-ki-baat-address-854634.html
28-06-2020||National||Rise in coronavirus cases not a concern, focus remains on timely treatment: Centre||The increase in the number of coronavirus cases is not a cause for concern as the timely treatment of patients would save lives and reduce the overall mortality rate,  according to a visiting Central team. This was the advice given by the Central team led by Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, during their visit to Thane district neighbouring Mumbai on Saturday. Although the number of coronavirus cases is rising at present, the Joint Secretary suggested that the emphasis should be on reducing the mortality rate and managing the situation without getting alarmed.  The capacity of Covid-19 tests should also be increased so that affected people can be treated in time. Agarwal also said that state officials should coordinate with the testing laboratories and help them. The team has directed all municipal commissioners to increase the number of tests so that patients can be identified and treated well in time. The team also suggested strict enforcement of restricted areas, daily review of patients admitted to the hospital and those in critical condition and getting guidance from expert doctors while treating them. The principal secretary of the State Health Department, Dr. Pradip Vyas spoke on the need to increase the number of quarantine facilities, conduct large-scale contact tracing, maintain cleanliness of public toilets and increase the number of tests. Earlier in the day, the team, along with Principal Secretary, inspected the containment zones in Thane Municipal Corporation area, interacted with residents and gathered feedback on the implementation of containment measures. Kunal Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Civil Affairs & Director, Smart City Mission and Dr. Vipin Sharma, Municipal Commissioner; E.Ravindran, Central Director (Health) were also present. Initially, the Central team visited the people in containment zones at Amritnagar, Inshangar in Mumbra and interacted with the citizens there. After that, they visited the hospital set up at Dr. Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Stadium and interacted with doctors.   The team then inspected the 1,000-bed Thane Covid Hospital at Balkum Saket. The Joint Secretary expressed his satisfaction with the arrangements made.After the inspection tour, the central team had a meeting with officials from all divisions in Thane, at the Thane Municipal Corporation office. Thane Police Commissioner Dr.  Mekhla; Navi Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Annasaheb Misal; Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi; Mira Bhayander Municipal Commissioner Dr. Rathod, Ulhasnagar Municipal Commissioner   Dayanidhi Adi were present at the review meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-in-coronavirus-cases-not-a-concern-focus-remains-on-timely-treatment-centre-854640.html
28-06-2020||National||India adds 19,906 Covid-19 cases in a day, tally rises to 5,28,859: Report||India recorded close to 20,000 COVID-19 cases in a single day for the first time on Sunday, taking the tally to 5,28,859, while the death toll rose to 16,095, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The data updated at 8 am showed 19,906 new cases, while 410 persons succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours. This is the fifth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000. The country saw a surge of 3,38,324 infections from June 1 till date.     The number of active cases stands at 2,03,051, while 3,09,712 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data. "Thus, around 58.56 per cent patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 82,27,802 samples have been tested up to June 27 and 2,31,095 samples have been tested on Saturday. Of the 410 new deaths reported till Sunday morning, 167 were in Maharashtra, 68 in Tamil Nadu, 66 in Delhi, 19 in Uttar Pradesh, 18 in Gujarat, 13 in West Bengal, 11 each in Rajasthan and Karnataka, nine in Andhra Pradesh, seven in Haryana, six each in Punjab and Telangana, four in Madhya Pradesh,  two in Jammu and Kashmir and one each in  Bihar, Odisha and Puducherry.  Of the total 16,095 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 7,273 deaths, followed by Delhi with 2,558 deaths, Gujarat with 1,789, Tamil Nadu with 1,025, Uttar Pradesh with 649, West Bengal with 629, Madhya Pradesh with 550, Rajasthan with 391 and Telangana with 243 deaths. The COVID-19 death toll reached 218 in Haryana, 191 in Karnataka, 157 in Andhra Pradesh, 128 in Punjab, 93 in Jammu and Kashmir, 59 in Bihar, 37 in Uttarakhand, 22 in Kerala and 18 in Odisha. Chhattisgarh has registered 13 deaths, Jharkhand 12, Puducherry 10, Assam and Himachal Pradesh nine each, Chandigarh six, Goa two and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,59,133 followed by Delhi at 80,188, Tamil Nadu at 78,335, Gujarat at 30,709, Uttar Pradesh at 21,549, Rajasthan at 16,944 and West Bengal at 16,711, according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 13,436 in Telangana, 13,427 in Haryana, 12,965 in Madhya Pradesh, 12,285 in Andhra Pradesh and 11,923 in Karnataka. It has risen to 8,931 in Bihar, 6,966 in Jammu and Kashmir, 6,816 in Assam and 6,350 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 5,056 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 4,071 cases. A total of 2,791 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 2,545 in Chhattisgarh, 2,339 in Jharkhand, 1,334 in Tripura, 1,128 in Goa ,1,092 in Manipur, 960 in Ladakh and 894 in Himachal Pradesh.  Puducherry has recorded 619 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh has 428, Nagaland has 387 and Arunachal Pradesh 177 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have also reported 177 Covid-19 cases. Mizoram has 148 cases, Sikkim has 87, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 72 infections so far while Meghalaya has recorded 47 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research)," the ministry said, adding that 7,839 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-19906-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-tally-rises-to-528859-report-854641.html
28-06-2020||National||India to check power equipment from China for malware, Trojan horses for potential grid failures: Union Minister R K Singh||Tightening import norms, India will check all power equipment bought from China for malware and Trojan horses that can be potentially used to trigger electricity grid failures to cripple economic activity in the country, Union Power Minister R K Singh said. India has in the recent days taken steps to impose stringent quality control measures and higher tariffs on goods from China as it looks to boost domestic manufacturing to cut reliance on imports. In an interview to PTI, Singh said his renewable energy ministry has proposed imposing customs duties on some solar power equipment starting August 1 as part of the country's goal of becoming self-sufficient. "Power is a very sensitive and strategic sector for any country. Electricity runs all industries, communication systems and all databases including strategic ones and so we have to guard it against any sabotage by countries which are adversaries or possible adversaries," he said. "We want to build a firewall." More tariff barriers, rigorous testing of foreign equipment and prior permission requirements for imports from adversary countries are some of the focus areas of India's proposed power sector overhaul, he said. The move comes in the backdrop of India contemplating an economic response against China since the June 15 border clashes. Singh said some countries who are adversaries or potential adversaries will be identified as "prior reference countries", and prior government permission will be required before importing any equipment from there. These countries are mostly the ones which share borders with India, including China and Pakistan. "We have reports that malware and Trojan horse can be installed which can be activated remotely to bring down the power sector and the economy," he said. "So we have decided, because it is a sensitive sector, whatever equipment is made in India, we will purchase them. And those that are not made in India, we will import but check thoroughly to rule out the presence of any malware or Trojan horse." India's power sector has faced cyberattacks, a majority of which reportedly originated from China, Singapore, Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries. Singh said a committee was set up under the Central Electricity Authority to examine the cyber threat and the panel has said "it is a real live threat." "It is very serious," he said. "It is sensitive because any adversary can bring our entire country to a halt. It is a very sensitive and strategic sector because the defence industry and all other industries run on power. If power goes out, then you have storage of about 12 to 24 hours only." "The threat is very serious," Singh added.  He said his ministry has proposed imposing 25 per cent customs duty on solar modules from August, which can be raised to 40 per cent from April 2022. On solar cells, it has proposed 15 per cent duty, rising to 25 per cent in 2022. On solar inverters, an import duty of 20 per cent is proposed. China accounts for nearly 80 per cent of module supplies in India. India currently levies a 15 per cent safeguard duty on imports of solar cells and modules from China and Malaysia. That tax expires at the end of July. Singh further said the power industry should stop imports of products whose domestic supplies are adequate, and developers using domestic equipment will get cheaper financing from lenders Power Finance Corp and REC Ltd. As part of quality control measures, the Bureau of Indian Standards is finalising tougher norms for at least 370 products, including chemicals, steel, electronics, heavy machinery, furniture, paper, industrial machinery, rubber articles, glass, metal articles, pharma, fertilisers and plastic toys, to ensure items that can be locally produced are not imported. Also, discussions are on to raise import duty on products including furniture, compressors for air conditioners and auto components. The commerce ministry is separately evaluating non-tariff measures such as more inspections, product testing and enhanced quality certification requirements to check Chinese imports in a manner that conforms to the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules.  The government has also made it mandatory for suppliers to mention the country of origin in a move to push for local products and keep out Chinese manufacturers. China is India's biggest source of imports. Chinese imports such as electronic goods, industrial machinery and organic chemicals totalled almost USD 70 billion last year. China has a trade surplus of about USD 50 billion with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-check-power-equipment-from-china-for-malware-trojan-horses-for-potential-grid-failures-union-minister-r-k-singh-854643.html
28-06-2020||National||Probe against hospital's chief matron over assistant's death||The Maharashtra government has suspended the chief matron of Pune's Sassoon General Hospital and launched an inquiry against her in connection with the death of an assistant matron there, a senior health official said. Anita Rathod, the assistant matron, died in April this year following which the Maharashtra Government Nurses Federation alleged that the state-run hospital's chief matron Rajashri Korke caused mental, physical, financial and social harassment to the federation's members. They also alleged that Korke was responsible for the death of Rathod. A senior health official on Saturday said Rathod also had some underlying health condition. However, following a complaint by the nurses federation, the state government suspended Korke on Friday and launched a departmental inquiry against her in connection with Rathod's death, the official said. The Maharashtra Government Nurses Federation in a statement welcomed the decision of the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation to launch an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-against-hospitals-chief-matron-over-assistants-death-854647.html
28-06-2020||National||Yoga today an integral part of global lifestyle: Modi||Observing that India has always contributed to global health and wellness, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that yoga has become an integral part of the lifestyle globally and the world was also increasingly adopting Ayurveda. Modi made the comments while addressing a virtual meeting of the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) on Saturday. “India has always contributed to global health and wellness. It continues to do so. Yoga today globally has become an integral part of one's lifestyle. Similarly, the world is fast adopting Ayurveda,” Modi said. According to a number of modern scientific researches, Ayurveda and other alternative systems of treatment from India are “immunity boosters and natural healers,” he said. Referring to a recent report, the prime minister said that there has been a sudden increase in the import of turmeric in the US and Europe. Health, by most countries in the world, is seen as “freedom from illness,” he said. But India believes in the concept of wellness. Nearly 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres are under construction in villages across the country. In addition to spreading yoga, Ayurveda and wellness, “Fit India” has become a mass movement in the country, he said. There has been substantial decline in some of the major diseases due to the Clean India mission and construction of toilets under this. Free gas connection to more than eight crore poor women have helped in addressing the issue of respiratory diseases among them. Modi also urged the Indian-origin doctors to participate in India's growth story. India today is working on mission mode towards manufacturing of medicines and medical equipment, he said and invited them to join this effort. The government, he said, is working to take telemedicine to every village of the country. The Indian-origin doctors can play an important role in this, Modi said. In his recent address during the International Yoga Day celebrations on June 21, India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu said that yoga is a unifying force, true to its literal meaning. “People all around the world, transcending nationalities and cultures, have recognised the immense benefits of Yoga. They have made it a part of their everyday lives,” Sandhu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-today-an-integral-part-of-global-lifestyle-modi-854654.html
28-06-2020||National||Befitting reply given to those eyeing India's territory: PM Modi||Indian soldiers have given a befitting response to those who cast an evil eye on Indian soil in Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said asserting that the world has noticed India’s commitment and might when it comes to safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Addressing his monthly radio talk Mann Ki Baat, Modi said that while India honours the spirit of friendship, the nation is also capable of giving an “appropriate response” to any adversary, without shying away. “Our brave soldiers have proven that they will not let anyone cast an evil eye on the glory and honour of Mother India,” Modi said. Before Modi’s address, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had tweeted “When will there be talk of the nation's defence and security?” Modi, in his speech, said that in the realm of defence, before independence, the nation was ahead of many countries in the world and there used to be a multitude of ordnance factories. Flagging that many countries that lagged behind India then, are ahead of it now, Modi said, “after independence, we should have made efforts in the defence sector, taking advantage of our prior experience…. we did not. But today, in the fields of defence and technology, India is relentlessly endeavouring to advance on those fronts…. India is taking strides towards self-reliance.” Noting that 2020 has been a year of challenges, Modi alluded to the challenge from China saying “amidst all these, the country has had to deal with the “designs of some of our neighbours”. Quoting a shloka, he said, a person who is “wicked” by nature, uses education to foster conflict, wealth for conceit and strength to trouble others, whereas, a gentleman uses education for knowledge, wealth for helping and strength for protecting. “India has always used her might, echoing the same sentiment. India’s solemn resolve is to safeguard her honour and sovereignty. India’s aim is – a self-reliant India. India’s tradition is -trust and friendship. India’s spirit is brotherhood. We shall keep moving ahead abiding by these principles,” he said. Modi further said, “the way India extended a helping hand to the world during difficult times, it has reinforced India’s role in ushering in peace and development. This period also saw the world realising India’s spirit of universal brotherhood…at the same time it also noticed India’s commitment and might when it comes to safeguarding her sovereignty and territorial integrity.” Paying rich tributes to resolve with which the soldiers made the supreme sacrifice, Modi said “our pursuits and endeavours should be in the same direction…we should strive towards enhancing the country’s capabilities and capacities in safeguarding our borders. A self-reliant India would be a tribute to our martyrs in the truest, deepest sense.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/befitting-reply-given-to-those-eyeing-indias-territory-pm-modi-854659.html
28-06-2020||National||Lockdown loans to survive could push street children into bonded labour, fear NGOs||He ran away from his home in Bihar, lived on Delhi’s streets, sold scraps for a living and then, just as life was settling into an uneasy groove, came the lockdown pushing the 15-year-old into an endless cycle of debt. The young teen, whose earnings have come down from Rs 200 to just about Rs 15-20 a day since the lockdown in March, was compelled to take loans and has no resources to pay his borrowers back, raising fears that he might be forced into bonded labour. He is not alone. According to an estimate by the NGO Save the Children, about two million children live on the streets across the country. Scrambling to survive on the margins of society, they are shunned, barely make do and may now be exploited because they are not in a position to pay back their borrowers. The 15-year-old, whose name is being withheld to protect his privacy, is unaware of what could lie ahead but spells out his many problems. "The lockdown was very difficult but at least some people were feeding us. Now that has stopped. I live near the New Delhi Railway Station. Trains are not running regularly so my earnings from scrap have dipped from about Rs 200 to just Rs 15-20 per day. I had no option but to borrow money," he told PTI. The danger of children like him becoming bonded labourers is very real, said activists and others working with children across the country. Children take credit locally and have no means to returning it except for working for free, explained Anindit Roy Choudhary, director of programmes and policy impact, Save the Children (India). “The amount can vary between Rs 5,000-Rs 10,000. Most of them do not have a cushion to be able to repay so a common practice is to work the loan out. It is always problematic because the person who has given the loan takes an interest on the amount so there is no estimation… that is where bonded labour starts," he said. "This will also become a common practice because children just don't have anything to eat and no money in their hands. So the possibility of them wanting to have cash is high," he added.  This is true even of those who live with their families. The last few months have been hell, said another street child who lives with his family under a flyover in Sarai Kale Khan. During the period, his father fell sick and was nearly thrown out of the area because people suspected he was infected with the coronavirus. "There were times in the last two months when my father turned very critical with severe breathing difficulties. I had to take a Rs 3,000 loan to get injections for his treatment which I will need to repay soon," the 17-year-old told PTI. Sanjay Gupta, founder of CHETNA (Childhood Enhancement through Training and Action), an NGO working for street children, expressed concern over the deteriorating condition of street children. "There can be risk of bonded labour among these street children," Gupta said, adding that some children had taken loans and are not sure how to repay them. There were many other issues as well. "We lost contact with a number of children during the lockdown. When we got back in touch with them recently, we found they were in a worse condition. They had not taken a bath because of lack of movement during the period. Some had wounds which had gotten worse because they could not get treated," Gupta said. And all the children said they have eaten half of what they would have during this period. "If they stood in lines where food was being distributed, they were shooed away.. They were referred as corona because of their unkempt appearance," Gupta said. Niharika Chopra, director of policy at the Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation said the lockdown has exacerbated the already widely prevalent problem of child bonded labour. During the lockdown, Bachpan Bachao Andolan rescued over 328 children across the country. "We also  anticipate that cases of child bonded labour are likely to increase both in urban areas and  villages. The children of families who have lost their means of livelihood and are facing hunger and starvation are extremely susceptible to all forms of exploitation, including trafficking, forced and bonded labour," she said. According to Save the Children’s Choudhary, the lockdown and the pandemic has pushed the clock back. “Any kind of exploitation triggered by poverty, whether it is bonded labour or child trafficking for labour or commercial sexual exploitation… all of these are certainly going to increase because of COVID because children and families are going into ultra poverty," he said. "There is a possibility in increment in bonded labour numbers. We did very well in terms of child labour, and in bonded labour we improved substantially… but I do think we are going to go back in  the current context," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-loans-to-survive-could-push-street-children-into-bonded-labour-fear-ngos-854665.html
28-06-2020||National||PM Modi hails former PM P V Narasimha Rao's humble background, commitment to Vande Mataram||After days of BJP campaign highlighting the dominance of “one dynasty” in Congress, Prime  Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed former PM P V Narasimha Rao from Congress on his birth anniversary recalling his “humble background” and as a leader “connected with India’s ethos”.   Today, we remember a great son of India, our former PM Shri Narasimha Rao Ji. He led India at a very crucial time in our history. In a separate Facebook post, Vice President M Venakiah Naidu referred to the measures initiated by Rao to liberalize the economy. “He sought to dismantle the restrictions imposed under the license raj, reduce red tapism and make Indian industries more competitive”, he recalled paying glowing tributes to the former Prime Minister on the occasion of the commencement of his birth centenary celebrations. The year-long centenary celebrations begin on Sunday in Hyderabad and will continue till June 28 next year. Rao, who served as Prime Minister between 1991-1996 had a sour relationship with the Nehru-Gandhi family during and after his term causing the latter to face heavy criticism for having ignored the legacy of Rao. Rao was the third non-Nehru-Gandhi-family Prime Minister after Gulzari Lal Nanda, who was the acting Prime Minister twice for 13 days each and Lal Bahadur Shastri, who remained the PM for one year and 216 days till he breathed his last. Rao completed five years of term. After him, Manmohan Singh from outside the family completed two terms of being PM for five years each. On Sunday, Congress tweeted “We honour P. V. Narsimha Rao, a visionary leader who oversaw major economic transformations of the Indian economy. His contributions to the nation shall never be forgotten,” a remark which faced scorn on social media. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, tweeted “PV Narasimha Rao was probably one of the first from within to realise the “Dangers” this country had from the “Royal Dynasts” called Gandhis & tried to sideline them from the seat of power. Result: Sonia did not even allow his body to enter Cong headquarters. Then She brought in MMS (Manmohan Singh). Observing that Rao had laid the foundation for trade liberalization and the re-integration of the Indian economy with the global economy, especially East Asian economies, Vice President Naidu, meanwhile said, “This was a major shift from the inward orientation of the previous regimes to a new trajectory of globally integrated development”. The Prime Minister recalled Rao as one who led the country through a critical phase. “This day marks the commencement of the birth centenary year of our former Prime Minister Shri PV Narasimha Rao ji. When we talk about Shri PV Narasimha Rao ji, naturally, his image that emerges before us is that of a political leader, but it is also true that he was a polyglot! He used to speak many Indian and foreign languages. He was rooted in Indian values and had knowledge of western literature and science as well,” Modi said. While hailing Rao as “one of the most experienced leaders of India”, Modi also highlighted another aspect of his life related to his participation in the freedom movement in his teens. “And when the Nizam of Hyderabad refused permission to sing Vande Mataram, he took an active part in the movement against the Nizam and at that time, he was only 17 years old,” the Prime Minister said. “From a young age, Shriman Narasimha Rao was ever onward in raising his voice against injustice. He left no stone unturned to raise his voice. Narasimha Rao ji also understood history very well,” the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister also recorded Rao’s “rise from a very simple background”, his emphasis on education, his eagerness to learn, and, along with all these qualities, his leadership ability as  all memorable. “I urge you - in the birth centenary year of Narasimha Rao ji, let all of us, try to know as much as possible about his life and thoughts. I once again pay my tributes to him,” he said. Paying his glowing tributes to Rao, Naidu also recalled the pioneering role played by Rao in initiating economic reforms at a critical juncture when the Indian economy was on the brink of a collapse. The Vice President said that a huge credit should go to Shri Rao for the growth of India’s GDP in the subsequent years and the emergence of the country as the fastest growing economy in the recent past. Pointing out that gradually a broad consensus emerged in the country on the need to continue with the reforms, he said the former Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee accelerated the reforms, while the present Prime Minister, Narendra Modi is implementing the reforms with greater vigour. Observing that Rao laid a strong foundation for national nuclear security as well, the Vice President said: “among his bold moves in foreign policy were establishing diplomatic relations with Israel and reversing decades of frosty relations between India and the United States by bringing them together”. The former Prime Minister was also fairly successful in controlling the separatist movements in Punjab and Kashmir, he added. The Vice President said the launch of the Look East policy and the path-breaking 73rd and 74th Constitutional amendments empowering local bodies during Rao’s tenure as the Prime Minister are worthy of mentioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-former-pm-p-v-narasimha-raos-humble-background-commitment-to-vande-mataram-854667.html
28-06-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission phase 4: AI to operate 170 flights to and from 17 countries between July 3-15||Air India will be conducting 170 flights to and from 17 countries between July 3 and 15 under the fourth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, according to an official document. The government started the mission on May 6 to help stranded people reach their destinations using special repatriation flights. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Under the fourth phase of the mission, Air India will be conducting 170 flights connecting India with Canada, the US, the UK, Kenya, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Kyrgyzstan, Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Thailand, South Africa, Russia, Australia, Myanmar, Japan, Ukraine and Vietnam, as per the airline's document accessed by the PTI. These 170 chartered flights under the fourth phase are scheduled to be operated between July 3 and 15, it stated. A total of 38 flights and 32 flights will be operated on Indo-UK and Indo-US routes, respectively, as per the document. The national carrier will operate 26 flights between India and Saudi Arabia, it added. Air India is scheduled to operate 495 chartered flights to and from various countries in the third phase, which began on June 10 and it will end on July 4. The first phase was from May 7 to 16, following which the second phase began. The US Department of Transportation announced on June 22 that it has barred Air India from operating chartered flights between India and the United States from July 22 without its prior approval, in an apparent retaliation for the Indian government not allowing American carriers to operate between the two countries.  Therefore, on June 23, the Aviation Ministry had said that it was considering establishing "individual bilateral bubbles" with the US, the UK, Germany and France allowing airlines of each country in the pact to operate international passenger flights. After nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the government resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25 but in a curtailed manner and by placing lower and upper limits on airfares depending upon the flight duration. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on June 20 said that the government will start thinking on resuming scheduled international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55 per cent of the levels before coronavirus.  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said last Friday it is extending the suspension of scheduled international passenger flights in the country till July 15 but added that some international scheduled services on selected routes may be permitted on a case-to-case basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-phase-4-ai-to-operate-170-flights-to-and-from-17-countries-between-july-3-15-854676.html
28-06-2020||National||Recovered Covid-19 patients exceed active cases by over 1 lakh: Health Ministry||The gap between recoveries and active cases of Covid-19 has crossed 1,00,000, the Union health ministry said on Sunday as coronavirus cases in India mounted to 5,28,859 and the death toll rose to 16,095. The recovered cases have exceeded the active cases by 1,06,661 as on Saturday, the ministry said. A total of 3,09,712 patients have been cured of Covid-19 so far with 13,832 patients having recovered in the last 24 hours, it said. "The recovery rate is 58.56 per cent amongst Covid-19 patients," the ministry said.  "The graded, pre-emptive and pro-active steps taken by the Government of India along with the states and UTs for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 are showing encouraging results," it said in a statement. Presently, there are 2,03,051 active cases and all are under active medical supervision, it said. India now has 1,036 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19. This includes 749 in the government sector and 287 private labs.  "Daily more than 2,00,000 samples are being tested. The samples tested in the last 24 hours have further increased to 2,31,095. The total number of samples tested, as on date, is 82,27,802," the statement stated. As on June 28, the COVID related health infrastructure has been strengthened with the availability of 1,055 dedicated COVID Hospitals with 1,77,529 isolation beds, 23,168 ICU beds and 78,060 oxygen supported beds, it said. Also, 2,400 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,40,099 isolation beds, 11,508 ICU beds and 51,371 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised. Besides, 9,519 COVID Care Centres with 8,34,128 beds are now available to combat Covid-19 in the country, the ministry said. The Centre has also provided 187.43 lakh N95 masks and 116.99 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the states, UTs and central institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recovered-covid-19-patients-exceed-active-cases-by-over-1-lakh-health-ministry-854677.html
28-06-2020||National||Palghar: NSS, NCC members to be roped in for Covid-19 outbreak combat||The Palghar administration has decided to rope in teachers, National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme members to help in efforts to contain the coronavirus outbreak. As on Saturday night, the district had 3,930 Covid-19 cases, of which over 3,000 were in Vasai-Virar and some 900 in rural areas, and 117 deaths. After a meeting chaired by Collector Kailas Shinde on Saturday, it was also decided to strictly enforce restrictions in place to combat the outbreak, officials said. Students of NCC, NSS will cooperate with police to control movement in restricted areas, a statement from the district administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/palghar-nss-ncc-members-to-be-roped-in-for-covid-19-outbreak-combat-854683.html
28-06-2020||National||PM Modi makes unlocking move clear||Three days before Unlock 1.0 is supposed to end, amid some states having enforced different formats of lockdown of their own, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made it clear that the country has “moved out of the lockdown phase to the unlock phase” and called for more personal vigilance against the pandemic. “During this unlock period, one will have to focus deeply on two points- defeating coronavirus and strengthening the economy and bolstering it. During the unlock period, we have to stay more vigilant compared to the lockdown period. Only your alertness can save you from the virus. Always, remember, if you do not wear a mask, do not observe the two-yard social distancing norms or do not take other precautions, you are putting others at risk besides yourselves, especially the elderly and children at home,” Modi said. “I urge all countrymen…and I repeatedly do so…do not be negligent…take care of yourselves and others too,” he said. The Prime Minister’s categorical remarks about the country having entered an Unlock phase comes amid a huge spike in cases after the end of Lockdown 5.0 on May 30. On June 17, Modi had during an interaction with Chief Ministers of states with high load of Covid-19 cases. He told them to brace for Unlock 2.0 from July 1. However, wary of a rise in cases, many states have come out with their own format of lockdown from one day, one week to one month, restricted to either some market, place, districts or the entire state. Modi said that just six-seven months ago, little did we know about the catastrophe that coronavirus is, nor had one expected the fight to go on this long and sought to send out a message of hope. Linking the Unlock with the government’s economic revival measures, Modi said during this unlock phase, many other things are getting unlocked, which had hitherto, shackled the country for decades. “For years our mining sector was in a state of lockdown. The decision to allow commercial auction has altered the scenario completely.  Just a few days ago, historic reforms in the space sector were brought in. Through these reforms, the sector which was in a state of lockdown for years was set free. This will not only pace up the movement towards self-reliant India, it will also boost up the advancement of technology in India,” he said. He said many aspects of the agriculture sector too were in a state of lockdown for decades and the sector has now been unlocked. “This, on the one hand, grants freedom to farmers to sell their produce to anyone they wish to, anywhere; on the other hand, this has paved the way for enhanced loans. There are many such sectors in which, amidst, all crises, our country is opening up new avenues of development through historic decisions,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-makes-unlocking-move-clear-854698.html
28-06-2020||National||Press prevention and protection button, not panic one: Venkaiah Naidu||Amid a number of states pressing for stricter lockdown measures in wake of the rising cases of Covid-19, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu advised people “not to press the panic button” but reach out for the “prevention and protection” buttons. He also said that there could not be an easy or definitive answer to the questions such as how long will this restricted and constricted lifestyle last and when will we return to our normal lifestyle?’ “We have to probably live with both the uncertainty of the duration of the pandemic and the stress it has induced,” Naidu said. Noting the increasing number of coronavirus cases in big cities, the Vice President expressed optimism over the fact that many of those affected are overcoming from the virus and only a small percentage of the affected population needs hospitalisation. Cautioning the citizens not to get carried away by sensational news or the panic-inducing social media posts, the Vice President in a Facebook post, asked them to develop an attitude of accepting the reality and working hard to protect themselves and their families. He also asked them to refrain from forwarding unfounded, unverified and panic causing messages. Naidu gave a call for protecting the lives and livelihoods together in the fight against the pandemic and advised people to not get anxious and practice Yoga and adopt traditional remedies to boost immunity. Naidu flagged that most of the countries have ended the lockdowns and have started focusing on the economy. Highlighting that the government is taking continuous measures to give a boost to the economy, the Vice President asked everyone to support the government by taking necessary precautions and following the guidelines. Talking about the uncertainty and anxiety created by the pandemic for many, the Vice President advised the people not to get anxious and advised people to stay connected with family and friends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/press-prevention-and-protection-button-not-panic-one-venkaiah-naidu-854699.html
28-06-2020||National||Universities should not conduct exams amid coronavirus pandemic, online tests 'discriminatory': Kapil Sibal||Universities should not conduct examinations in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and even holding online tests is not right as it is "discriminatory" towards poor students, former human resource development minister Kapil Sibal said on Sunday. The senior Congress leader also said that with almost half the 2020-21 academic year of schools over without proper classes due to the COVID-19 spread, board examinations for Class 10 should not be held next year as it would burden the students unnecessarily. "What has happened is that half the year has been lost and we don't know how long this pandemic will continue. There is no need for Class 10 board exams for a while for these two years -- this year and next year -- and then they could relook at this policy," Sibal told PTI in an interview. Sibal, who as the HRD minister had spearheaded a reforms process in the education sector under which it was decided to abolish compulsory CBSE Board exams for Class 10, said it was a sensible policy to have been followed but when the NDA came to power they reversed that. "Thank god they have listened to some sane advice and they have cancelled the board exams. Consider the impact it would have had, especially on the poor students who don't have access to any online facilities," said Sibal, who was the HRD Minister from May 2009-October 2012 in the UPA-II government. His remarks come days after the remaining CBSE and ICSE board examinations for classes 10 and 12, scheduled to be held in July, were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "Quite frankly even university exams should be postponed," Sibal said. Till such time there is a pandemic, there should be no exams and holding online examinations will be "extremely discriminatory" because in a lot of places in India, in remote areas, there is no facility for online examinations and the poor will be discriminated against, he said. "See you are creating an elitist culture where the advantage goes to the rich which have access to online facilities and to those institutions which are privileged to provide online facilities and online teaching," Sibal said. "Why should you hold these exams in the midst of a pandemic. Many of them (students) have not got teaching materials even the specially-abled persons have not been fully provided teaching materials," he said. Delhi University on Saturday postponed the online open book exams for final-year students, which were scheduled to begin from July 1, by 10 days "in view of the prevailing situation of COVID-19 pandemic". Several other educational institutions, including Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), have decided to conduct online open book exams. Asked if examinations are not held how university students will be promoted, Sibal said there were two issues -- those who are to be promoted from the first year to the second year as well as from second year to third year, and those in the third and final year. Those going from first year to second year and those from second to third year must have appeared for semester exams during the period, so assessments can be made based on those results for them to be promoted to the next year and that should be provisional so that when full classes are held examinations can be conducted, Sibal said. "But in the meantime, their promotional prospects should not be jeopardised. That takes care of 1st year to second year and second year to 3rd year," he said. "Now you come to the university exams. Many students who come from far off places must have gone away from the hostels, how will they take part in online exams from those places. Many of those students are from neighbouring countries, how will they sit for these exams," Sibal asked. Noting that in some states, the universities have said they will not hold exams, he suggested that what can be done is that final-year students could be given a provisional degree based on their past performance and they can sit for exams as and when they have the materials and the tenure of the teaching class has been completed as would have happened in a regular year. "Some universities are doing that. I don't know why that is not being done in Delhi," he said. Asked if the Centre should introduce a uniform policy for examinations in universities, Sibal said the problem is that universities are independent institutions and the government can't decide what they should do or not. The universities have a level of autonomy, but they themselves should find innovative ways to deal with a situation rather than have an "elitist approach and say we have decided, this is what is going to happen and we are not going to see the situation on the ground". Thrusting these decisions on poor students is very poor management of education, he said. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/universities-should-not-conduct-exams-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-online-tests-discriminatory-kapil-sibal-854704.html
28-06-2020||National||New normal in AC trains, breathe in operation theatre-like fresh air||The Railways' air conditioned trains will now have operation theatre-like fresh air pumped into its coaches, replacing the circulated air which raises the chances of spread of infections, officials have said. The experiment, started with 15 pairs of air conditioned trains being run by the Railways on the Rajdhani routes since May 12, will be replicated in all AC trains as part of the national transporter's preparations for post-COVID operations. "The Roof Mounted AC Package Unit (RMPU) system of Indian Railways AC coaches replaces air more than 16-18 times per hour just like in OTs," officials said. Previously, these AC trains had air change six to eight times per hour and 80 per cent of the air that was pushed into coaches was recirculated air, while 20 per cent was fresh air. However, with the increase in the number of air changes, there has been a 10 to 15 per cent increase in energy consumption. "This is the price one has to pay for the safety of passengers. This is the new normal. The way an AC works is that it uses recirculated air so that it gets cooler faster. When we use fresh air it takes more time to cool, so there's additional energy consumption," an officer said. The Railways has also increased the centralised AC's temperature from the usual 23 degrees to 25 degrees as passengers are no longer being provided linen. Officials said that on the advise of the health experts, the Railways' has modified its non-AC coaches as isolation coaches for treating mild coronavirus cases and said that they have also applied health ministry guidelines to modify the ac units on board the special Rajdhani trains to ensure that the disease does not spread. As per the Ministry of Health guidelines, centralised AC is acceptable provided complete air change inside an AC coach takes place at least 12 times per hour, officials said. So far, only a study by Chinese researchers has concluded that droplet transmission was prompted by air-conditioned ventilation. Not many other studies, however, have associated AC use with coronavirus spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-normal-in-ac-trains-breathe-in-operation-theatre-like-fresh-air-854713.html
28-06-2020||National||IWPC, Press Association come in support of PTI||The Indian Women's Press Corps (IWPC) and the Press Association on Sunday expressed "deep concern" over the threat by state broadcaster Prasar Bharati to unsubscribe the news feed of Press Trust of India (PTI), accusing it of "anti-national" reportage. In a joint statement, the IWPC and Press Association said, "it is ironic that the government has chosen to crack down on a venerable institution like the PTI, hours after marking the 45th anniversary of the Emergency when the press was heavily censored." The move came soon after PTI published an interview with Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong on Thursday, followed by another interview of Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri on Friday, indicating that the broadcaster is unhappy with the coverage. In the statement, the IWPC and Press Association said that "the fact is PTI was only doing" its professional duty. "At a time when the Chinese have intruded into Indian territory, it is the job of the journalist to ask the 'other side', in this case a representative of the Chinese government, why this is happening. The interview made all the news – in fact, the Chinese ambassador even conceded, for the first time, that there had been some casualties on the LAC," it said. "By describing PTI's 'recent news coverage' as being detrimental to "national interest and undermining India's territorial integrity”, it seems the authorities have failed to appreciate the meaning of a free, objective and unbiased media which is the touchstone of a democracy," the statement said. It said both the organisations stand with PTI and with all those who believe that a free press is an integral part, both of the Constitution as well as the idea of India||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iwpc-press-association-come-in-support-of-pti-854718.html
28-06-2020||National||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, PM Narendra Modi pay tributes to Narasimha Rao||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to the late P V Narasimha Rao on his birth anniversary, saying he led the country through a critical phase. In his monthly "Mann ki Baat" radio address, the prime minister said June 28 marks the commencement of the birth centenary of Rao. He said the former prime minister led the country through a "critical phase". Rao was the prime minister between June 21, 1991 and May 16, 1996. "He was rooted in Indian values; and had knowledge of western literature and science as well," Modi said, adding that Rao was one of the most experienced leaders of India. The prime minister recalled that Rao had joined the freedom movement in his teens. When the Nizam of Hyderabad refused permission to sing "Vande Mataram",  he took an active part in the movement against the Nizam. From a young age, Rao raised his voice against injustice, Modi said. "His rise from a very simple background, his emphasis on education, his eagerness to learn, and, along with all these qualities, his leadership ability are all memorable," Modi noted. He also urged people to know more about Rao in his centenary year. Vice President Naidu described Rao as a pioneer of economic reforms "which set India firmly on the path of economic recovery." He said "PV" was an astute administrator and a multi-faceted personality -- a scholar, writer and polyglot. "He promoted mother tongue as a medium of instruction up to college level. He will always be remembered for his invaluable contribution to the country's growth and development," Naidu said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-pm-narendra-modi-pay-tributes-to-narasimha-rao-854719.html
28-06-2020||National||Respite for commuters, as fuel price hike on pause after 21-day rally||After a whopping 21 days of continuous hikes in fuel prices, after a 82-day hiatus period, oil companies decided to give the petrol, diesel price rally a rest on Sunday. In the last raise in fuel prices, on June 27, petrol price was increased by Rs 0.25 per litre while diesel became costlier by Rs 0.21 per litre putting the cumulative hike, starting from June 7 at Rs 9.12 for petrol and Rs 11.01 for diesel. While the price for diesel was hiked for the 21st time on Saturday, petrol prices were raised on 20 occasions in less than three weeks. It was on June 7 that oil marketing companies restarted the revising prices in line with costs every day, following an 82-day hiatus amidst the ongoing coronavirus pandemic during which they adjusted steep excise duty hikes by the government against the fall in benchmark international oil rates. In Delhi, diesel is now costlier than petrol and both fuels crossed the Rs 80-mark in the national capital. Prior to the current rally, the peak diesel rates had touched was on October 16, 2018 when prices had climbed to Rs 75.69 per litre in Delhi. The highest ever petrol price was on October 4, 2018 when rates soared to Rs 84 a litre in Delhi. The government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each and then again on May 5 by a record Rs 10 per litre in case of petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. The two hikes gave the government Rs 2 lakh crore in additional tax revenue. Currently, at the national capital, Delhi, Petrol costs Rs 80.38 a litre and diesel 80.40 per litre. Mumbai’s petrol prices touched Rs 87.14 a litre, while diesel went up to Rs 78.71 a litre. In Kolkata, the prices were at Rs 82.05 and Rs 75.52 a litre, respectively. In Chennai, petrol was at Rs 83.59 while diesel was selling at Rs 77.61. Over 63 per cent of the retail selling price of the fuels is taxes. Rates of petrol, diesel differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of VAT. Retail prices of petrol and diesel in India track global prices of auto fuels, not crude, though they are broadly linked to the latter's price trends. With lockdowns easing globally, oil prices have been up after April’s downward spiral, when low demand summed with supply glut led to a historical fall in the prices of crude oil. Singh said that while IOC held the price increase during the lockdown the states contributed to the price increase. However, with mounting excesses of bills and economic slump due to the coronavirus lockdown, state and union government took several measures, such as imposing liquor fees and VAT,  to shore revenue. Singh said that when the margins were running negative, following the standards was not workable. “That's the reason why a call was taken to hold the prices," he said and added, “Negative margins was something that we had never seen, so we had to hold the prices at certain level," according to the Mint report. Congress MPs, MLAs and leaders will be submitting memorandums to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding a rollback of the hikes. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/respite-for-commuters-as-fuel-price-hike-on-pause-after-21-day-rally-854724.html
28-06-2020||National||PM praises Mandya farmer for building ponds to conserve water||Kamegowda, octogenarian farmer from Malavalli taluk in Mandya district, has earned praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for engaging water conservation works by constructing ponds.  Kamegowda, 83-year-old farmer from Dasanadoddi village, who engaged himself in grazing sheeps and goats, has dug16 ponds single handedly over the years in his farm land and in nearby hill. "Kamegowda ji is an ordinary farmer, albeit possessing an extraordinary personality. He has achieved a personal feat that will leave anyone awestruck! Kamegowda ji, aged 80-85 takes out his animals for grazing but at the same time he has taken it upon himself to build new ponds in his area", the PM said in his Mann Ki Baat, a monthly radio address on Sunday. To overcome problems of water scarcity in the area, Gowda started building small ponds. Thereby, he contributed a lot for water conservation, the PM said. "... An octagenerarian like Kamegowda ji, till now, has dug 16 ponds through his hard work and the sweat of his brow. It is possible that the ponds he has constructed may not be very big but then his efforts are huge. Today, the entire area has got a new lease of life on account of these ponds," the PM said. A little effort by us helps nature and environment quite significantly. Many of our countrymen are putting extraordinary efforts in this endeavour, the PM said.  Kamegowda, used to take his sheep and goats to near by hill for grazing. After finding no water to sheeps, he started digging ponds to address water scarcity. With collection of rain water, these lakes are brimming with water even during peak summer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-praises-mandya-farmer-for-building-ponds-to-conserve-water-854733.html
28-06-2020||National||Opening of first multiplex theatre in Kashmir hits roadblock||The opening of the first multiplex theatre in Kashmir may have hit a roadblock as the owner of the Hospitality company, which is constructing the multiplex theater, has accused authorities of “creating unnecessary hurdles” in execution of the project. Vijay Dhar, a prominent Kashmiri businessman, who is coming up with the first of its kind of entertainment centre in Srinagar, alleged that Badami Bagh Cantonment Board is raising objections when the construction is near completion. “Military Estates Officer, who deals with the defense lands, has not raised any objection, so what are the grounds of objection raised by the Cantonment Board?” he asked. Dhar, who also runs a prominent school in the city, said former J&K Governor Satya Pal Malik had come up with the idea of allowing construction of multiplexes on proprietary land in Kashmir. Vijay is son of late D.P. Dhar, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit politician who was a Minister in the Indira Gandhi government. However, the CEO, Cantonment Board, Upendra Kumar said they had in 2018 approved a “proposal for a hotel on the same land where multiplex is coming up now”. “We have written to Srinagar administration after we received an objection letter about the land ownership. Even the building plan has also been changed by the cinema developers,” Kumar said. When militancy erupted in Kashmir in late 1989, all the cinema halls in the major towns were shut following threats to the owners by militant organisations. Some of the theatres shut on December 31, 1989 in Srinagar included Regal, Palladium, Khayam, Firdous, Shah Cinema, Neelam, Shiraz, Khayam and Broadway. After the closure of movie theatres, the first attempt to open cinema halls was made in 1998, when three theatres - Neelam, Regal and Broadway - opened in Srinagar. However, after militants lobbed a grenade on Regal, which also led to the death of one person, it closed down. Since last week, reports were abuzz in Srinagar that after three decades, people in Kashmir will be able to see Bollywood films on the big screen by March next year. However, the latest controversy may delay the opening of the only multiplex theatre in Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opening-of-first-multiplex-theatre-in-kashmir-hits-roadblock-854735.html
28-06-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi expresses grief, regret over death of father-son duo||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday expressed grief and regret over the death of a father- son duo in Tuticorin, allegedly after being thrashed by the police and demanded justice for the two. He said he could not visit Sathankulam, where the incident happened last week, to personally comfort the family, due to the Covid-19 situation. In an SMS sent to the party's Shakti platform members in Tuticorin district, he said "let us agitate till those responsible for this (deaths) are punished." "I was aggrieved over and regret the police action that was responsible for the death of Jayaraj and Fennix," he said, according to a release issued by the Tamil Nadu Congress unit. He urged the members to light a candle at 7 pm today as a mark of remembrance for the "deceased brothers" and pay tributes to them. "I could not come in person to comfort (the family of the deceased) due to the Covid-19 situation," he added. P Jayaraj and his son Fennix, arrested for 'violating' lockdown norms over business hours of their cell phone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with their relatives alleging they were severely thrashed at the Sathankulam police station by police personnel earlier. The incident has triggered a national furore, leading to the suspension of four policemen, including two Sub-Inspectors. Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Sunday said the government has decided to transfer the probe into the deaths, to the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-expresses-grief-regret-over-death-of-father-son-duo-854736.html
28-06-2020||National||World Bank clears USD 500 mn to improve quality of education in six Indian states||The World Bank on Sunday said its Board of Executive Directors has approved USD 500 million (about Rs 3,700 crore) loan to improve quality and governance of school education in six Indian states. The board approved a loan for Strengthening Teaching-Learning and Results for States Program (STARS) on June 24, 2020, the World Bank said in a statement. "Some 250 million students (between the age of 6 and 17) in 1.5 million schools, and over 10 million teachers will benefit from the program. The STARS program builds on the long partnership between India and the World Bank (since 1994), for strengthening public school education and to support the country's goal of providing Education for All," it said. Prior to STARS, the bank had provided a total assistance of more than USD 3 billion towards this goal. At the national level, through the Samagra Shiksha, and in partnership with the states of Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, and Rajasthan, it said, STARS will also help improve learning assessment systems, strengthen classroom instruction and remediation, facilitate school-to-work transition, and strengthen governance and decentralised management. India recognises the need to significantly improve its learning outcomes to fuel future growth and meet the demands of the labour market, World Bank Country Director in India Junaid Ahmad said.   "STARS will support India’s response to this challenge by strengthening implementation at the local level, investing in teacher capacity and ensuring that no child of any background is left behind from the right to education," he said. Investing more in the early years of education will equip children with the skills required to compete for the jobs of the future, he added. The multilateral funding agency noted that India has, over the years, made significant strides in improving access to education across the country; between 2004-05 and 2018-19, the number of children going to school increased from 219 million to 248 million. However, the learning outcomes of students across all age groups continue to remain below par. The USD 500 million loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), has a final maturity of 14.5 years, including a grace period of five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-bank-clears-usd-500-mn-to-improve-quality-of-education-in-six-indian-states-854738.html
28-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Indian soldiers have given a befitting response, says PM Modi||In today's episode, Prime Minister Narendra Modi says that Indian soldiers have given a befitting response to those who cast an evil eye on Indian soil in Ladakh; Home Minister Amit Shah says Rahul Gandhi is indulging in "shallow-minded" politics; The Indian Women's Press Corps and the Press Association express "deep concern" over the threat by Prasar Bharati to unsubscribe the news feed of Press Trust of India; government allows individuals to claim I-T exemption on conveyance allowance received from employers;  Tamil Nadu auto-rickshaw driver allegedly “beaten up” by policemen during interrogation a month ago, succumbs to his injuries and Karnataka Opposition leader Siddaramaiah alleges irregularities to the tune of Rs 3,300 crore in the procurement of equipment to contain the pandemic.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-indian-soldiers-have-given-a-befitting-response-says-pm-modi-854752.html
28-06-2020||National||UP records 11 more Covid-19 deaths, total cases rise to 22,147||The death toll due to coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh reached 660 with 11 more fatalities, while the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state climbed to 22,147 after 606 fresh infections were reported, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said on Sunday. There are 6,679 active cases in the state and a total of 14,808 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease, Prasad said. "So far, 660 Covid-19 deaths have been reported from the state. The count of fresh cases in UP is 606," he said while briefing reporters. The recovery percentage of the state is 66.86 per cent of the total cases, the additional chief secretary said. Prasad said surveillance has been done in 23,604 areas till now, including 8,942 hotspots. "We are going to take surveillance to a new level. A large-scale campaign will start from Meerut division in July, where house-to-house survey will be undertaken similar to the pulse polio immunisation. It will be carried out in containment and non-containment zones," he said. During the surveillance, cases of severe acute respiratory illness will be identified. "People with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and cancer will be identified. They are prone to infection. We want to do their risk profiling," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-records-11-more-covid-19-deaths-total-cases-rise-to-22147-854753.html
28-06-2020||National||Manish Sisodia’s '5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases in Delhi' remark created fear: Amit Shah||Disagreeing with Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia's assessment, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the remarks created "fear" among people but Delhi will not have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases as the former projected.  Shah also dismissed Delhi government's concerns, saying there is no community transmission in the national capital and it has been vouched by experts including NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul and AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria. "Sisodia's statement created panic. He said there will be no beds left and the situation will be difficult. This created a lot of fear in the minds of people. His figures were based on estimates. I do not want to get into whether the estimate was right or wrong. But a situation of fear arose and some people started mulling leaving the city," he said. On June 9, Sisodia said the capital is expected to have one lakh cases by June-end and 5.5 lakh cases by July 31. However, Shah said with the steps taken, Delhi will not reach this figure. "I can now say with confidence that situation of 5.5 lakh cases will not come by July 31," he said. He said the Centre stepped in after the remarks of Sisodia, though it was the duty of the Delhi government to coordinate and improve the situation.   Asked whether as Home Minister he has to run Delhi, he said that was not the case. "I am not running Delhi. Let us not use such words...There is coordination...Arvind Kejriwal is always kept in the loop. He is also involved in decision making. Some political statements may have been made but no impact on decision making...Sisodia's statement about 5.5 lakh cases had created some panic. That is not going to happen," he said. Shah suggested that he stepped in after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's direction and Delhi government's assessment about surging cases as well as its directions to reserve the hospitals for Delhi residents alone, which was reversed later by the Centre. Asked about his visit to Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital, he said it helped boost morale of healthcare workers and the confidence of citizens. "I met a number of nurses who are working and fighting strong. I came to know of a number of issues," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manish-sisodia-s-55-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-remark-created-fear-amit-shah-854755.html
28-06-2020||National||ICAI tells SC it will hold exams with 'Opt-Out' scheme||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India has told the Supreme Court that it was duty bound to provide opportunity to those who wished to appear for examinations, rescheduled between July 29 and August 16, while giving an option of 'Opt-Out' to those who had some fears and anxiety due to Covid-19 pandemic. Out of 3.46 Iakh candidates, who had applied for appearing in May 2020 cycle of the examinations, only 57,092 candidates have availed the option of Opt-Out, meaning that about 2.89 lakh candidates wanted to appear in the examinations, it pointed out. "The Institute is mindful of the well-being of the students and their good health is of paramount importance to it. Therefore, any candidate, who at any time feels unable to appear for the exam for reasons attributable to Covid-19, may opt out of the examinations and shall be accommodated in the next examination cycle in November, 2020 without any extra fees and any other disadvantage," Rakesh Sehgal, acting secretary said. The response of the ICAI came to a PIL filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava on behalf of Anubha Shrivastava Sahai, who wanted setting up of more exam centres and stay on 'Opt-Out scheme' and taking up of more measures in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The top court is scheduled to take up the matter on Monday. The ICAI maintained that the petitioner's contention that Institute was holding exams only in 30 per cent of the centres was of no relevance, as such number and location are decided by the Examination Committee, keeping in mind the number of candidates. For example, a big city like Delhi or Mumbai or Kolkata is likely to have more examination centres than a smaller city like Bhopal or Mysuru or Shimla. The May 2020 examinations were earlier scheduled to be held from May 2, 2020 in about 500 centres in 207 cities in India and five overseas centres.  Unfortunately, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown throughout the country since March 25, it was postponed to be held between June 19 and July 4, it said. However, due to extension of lockdown and safety and well-being of the candidates, the examinations have now been rescheduled between July 29 and August 16. After almost 80 per cent candidates expressed the desire to appear in the examination in their representations and thousands of those who were undergoing articled clerkship wished to join the profession, the Institute decided in larger interest to go ahead with the examinations, albeit, with all possible safety precautions as per government guidelines. "The Institute does not want to be a hurdle between an aspirant and her or his dreams," it said. However, as some expressed reservations due to the prevailing Covid-I9 situation, and in order to mitigate their anxiety and apprehensions, an 'Opt-Out' option was made available to chose till June 30 as the limited window to enable it to hold the examinations in safe and seamless way, it pointed out. The Institute also maintainted that it was not attempting to discriminate amongst students. It further pointed out recently on June 17, the Supreme Court allowed the Karnataka government to go ahead with SSLC examinations as the students who would not be able to take the examination have also been protected by a future opportunity. Even in Uttarakhand, where the cases of Covid-l9 are on a rise, the State Education department safely completed process of conducting of Class 10 and 12 examinations, stopped midway in March due to lockdown, between June 20 and 23, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icai-tells-sc-it-will-hold-exams-with-opt-out-scheme-854764.html
28-06-2020||National||Eight lakh students fail in Hindi in Uttar Pradesh Board exams||A whopping eight lakh students failed in Hindi in the High School and Intermediate examinations conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Board, reflecting pathetic state of affairs of the Hindi language in a state, where it is also the mother tongue. The results of the UP Board examinations were declared on Saturday. According to the Board officials, around 2.70 lakh students of Intermediate failed to secure passing marks in Hindi and hence, could not get through the exams. Similarly around 5.28 lakh students of High School also failed to get passing grade in their Hindi paper. Incidentally, around 2.39 lakh students of High School and Intermediate of the Board had skipped their Hindi papers.  The Board officials said that the number of students failing in Hindi was around ten lakh last year. Overall, 55 lakh students had appeared in the twin examinations of the UP Board this year. The experts blame teachers, students as well as the parents for this situation. They feel that none of them was serious about the Hindi language. ''The parents want their children to be at home in English...Hindi for them is the least preferred language,'' says Dr. R.C.Tripathi, a former faculty in the department of Hindi at Lucknow University. ''The students also think that Hindi being their mother tongue, they will very easily pass the exams and, therefore, there is no need to focus on the language,'' Tripathi told DH on Sunday. He also said that there are not many qualified teachers of the language||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-lakh-students-fail-in-hindi-in-uttar-pradesh-board-exams-854779.html
28-06-2020||National||Can Yashwant Sinha break the Bihar jinx?||Nearly two years after he quit the BJP and took ‘voluntary retirement’ from active politics, former Union Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha is gearing up to take a plunge again into the hurly-burly of Bihar politics at the age of 83. The former BJP leader, who never shared a cordial relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is all set to float a Third Front in Bihar. This front, he says, will be an umbrella comprising of all those forces inimical to the NDA. “Once I saw these 40 lakh migrants returning to Bihar during the lockdown, I decided I should work for a better Bihar. I will ensure the Nitish Kumar regime is uprooted as he has failed to create job opportunities here,” said Yashwant. Incidentally, Yashwant and Nitish were Cabinet colleagues in Atal Bihari Vajpayee Government. While Yashwant presented the Union Budget, Nitish presented the Railway Budget during the earlier avatar of the NDA regime headed by Vajpayee. However, the two Socialists are now at loggerheads. ‘EX-FACTOR’ The ruling JD (U) has termed Yashwant’s proposed front as ‘Ex-factor’ comprising those who are ex-MPs and former ministers. The BJP too has taken a dig at its former leader. “All those who have joined hands with Yashwant are tired and retired. However, in a democracy, everyone has a right to see ‘Mungeri Lal ke haseen sapne’ (a Hindi phrase which means: day-dreaming),” the Bihar BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel told Deccan Herald here on Sunday. Political observers feel that Bihar was always a jinxed State for Yashwant. “Born and brought up here, Yashwant never made Patna his karma-bhoomi. He did contest the 1991 Lok Sabha election from Patna on the ticket of Samajwadi Janata Party (the SJP, headed by former PM Chandrashekhar), but the poll was eventually countermanded. He then contested and won as BJP MLA from Hatia (near Ranchi) and became Leader of the Opposition in the undivided Bihar Assembly in 1995. However, he had to resign in 1996 after his name figured in the Jain-Hawala case. It remains to be seen that the man, who twice won from Hazaribagh (in Jharkhand) Lok Sabha seat, could make a new beginning in Bihar or will come a cropper like many other Third Front experiments,” says political scientist Ajay Kumar. “Only time will tell whether we are the third, or second or the first front,” said Yashwant, not ruling out his own candidature during the ensuing Bihar Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-yashwant-sinha-break-the-bihar-jinx-854783.html
28-06-2020||National||Migrants start returning to cities as economic activities resume||Most of the special trains coming from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal to major cities across the country have started running in full capacity, a sign of revival of economic activities, which was hit due to nationwide lockdown to arrest Covid-19 pandemic. As per data available with the Indian Railways, trains coming from North Indian states to cities including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Mumbai have fully booked for the next 15 days. For instance, Danapur ( Bihar)- Bengaluru train fully booked till July 14 while Nizamuddin- Yeswantpur Samparka Kranti and Howrah-Yeswantpur train 100 % booked till July 10. Avadh Express from Gorakhpur to Bandra, special trains from  Gorakhpur to Ahmedabad, Muzaffarpur to Bandra, Howrah to Secunderabad, and Delhi also fully booked for next 10 days. Since tickets in third AC, sleeper class and second class fully reserved for next 10 to 15 days indicating that migrant workers, who have gone home,  are returning to cities as lockdown eased in many places, said an official in the railways.  The railways also said it would soon decide on running more number of limited time table trains based on future Covid-19 situation.  At present, the railways operating 100 pair fixed timetabled special trains since June 1 and another 15 pair special Rajdhani started on May 12. The railways extended the suspension of regular mail/express and suburban trains services till August 12. The railways also decided to refund tickets for limited time table trains booked up to August 12. However, 115 pairs of special trains would continue to operate, the railways said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrants-start-returning-to-cities-as-economic-activities-resume-854791.html
28-06-2020||National||Manmohan Singh's former media adviser Sanjaya Baru falls victim to cybercrime||Sanjaya Baru, who was former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's media adviser, became the latest victim of cybercrime when suspected cheats lured him to transfer Rs 24,000 for delivery of liquor, police said on Sunday. One of the suspects Akib Javed, a 31-year-old man who works in a taxi company, was arrested by Delhi Police from Rajasthan's Bharatpur on Saturday following investigations. According to the police, Baru had searched online for purchasing liquor and he found an online liquor shop 'La Cave Wines and Spirits' with its contact number. Baru placed an order through telephone and the person on the other side asked him to transfer the money. However, after the money was transfered, the phone number cited online was switched off. After Baru approached police, investigators analysed bank statements, flow of cheated money and call details, which revealed that the mobile numbers and the bank accounts were obtained on the basis of fake KYC details to avoid their detection. Investigators then looked into the flow of money by obtaining the technical evidence of transactions and was also obtained from the bankers. Analysis of mobile numbers used to avail alerts from the bank showed that the cyber criminals belong to Kaman in Bharatpur. "To mislead police investigation, they had taken SIM cards and bank accounts in the crime which were subscribed or registered in different states like Assam, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan. It came to light that the cheated amount has been transferred to one PNB account in the name of Akib Javed," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. According to Thakur, Javed told his interrogators that his associates used SIM cards in fictitious names using fake addresses of different states. Similarly, they used to obtain bank accounts on the basis of fake addresses of other states to drain out the cheated amount. "Within 5-10 minutes, they diverted the cheated amount in 3-4 bank accounts or money wallets and later diverted it to their desired accounts. All these activities were done in a much planned manner so that investigating agencies could not reach them in an easy way. They also tried their best to leave no trace," Thakur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singhs-former-media-adviser-sanjaya-baru-falls-victim-to-cybercrime-854792.html
28-06-2020||National||SC dismisses plea against Rajasthan Board Class X exams on June 29, 30||The Supreme Court on Sunday dismissed a plea against the Rajasthan government's decision to conduct the remaining exams of Class X on June 29, 30. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari, and Sanjiv Khanna assembled on Sunday evening at 6.30 pm to take up the petition filed by Maghi Devi, mother of a student in Bikaner against the High Court's judgment of May 25, that had declined to interfere into the matter. The court said petition has filed at the last moment, and examinations are set to begin on Monday. The state government has taken all necessary precautionary measures and petitioners have not pointed out any major inconvenience.  The bench said they do not wish to intervene in the matter. The court also relied upon the previous decision in the matter related to Karnataka's SSLC examinations where it had observed that the court should make minimum interference into academic matters. More than 11.86 lakh students are now to take up the remaining subjects papers of Maths and Science on June 29 and 30 at about 120 schools. The petitioner sought an order for cancellation of exams, relying upon the Supreme Court's order on CBSE and ICSE exams. Both boards have decided to adopt an assessment scheme instead of conducting examinations. She claimed that 120 schools which have been made the examination centres have earlier been used as quarantine centres for migrant workers. So holding the examinations would be arbitrary and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution and would expose the students to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-against-rajasthan-board-class-x-exams-on-june-29-30-854813.html
28-06-2020||National||India seeks 26/11 attack mastermind's extradition from Pakistan||India is seeking the extradition of a top Pakistan militant who planned the 2008 Mumbai attacks after the United States said last week he was living freely in Pakistan, government officials said on Sunday. India and the United States have indicted Sajid Mir of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba group for the three-day attacks on hotels, a train station and a Jewish centre in which 166 people were killed including six Americans. While Pakistan took action against the Lashkar founder Hafiz Saeed last year, it continued to provide safe harbour to other top militant leaders, the U.S. State Department's 2019 country report on terrorism said. One of them was Sajid, the 'project manager' of the Mumbai attack, believed to remain free in Pakistan, the U.S. report said. An Indian official said the government has repeatedly asked Pakistan to hand over Sajid who directed preparations and reconnaissance and was also named as one of the Pakistan-based controllers during the attacks. "We have asked before, and are demanding again, he needs to be handed over," the official dealing with regional security issues said. Pakistan’s foreign office did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment. Pakistan has repeatedly rejected U.S. allegations that it is a safe haven for militants and said it has prosecuted the leadership of several proscribed groups. Another Indian official said the lack of action against Sajid was in conflict with Pakistan's assurances to international organisations including the Financial Action Task Force, the global watchdog on terrorism financing. Pakistan is trying to get off the FATF grey list of offending nations. The FBI has posted a reward of $5 million for information leading to the capture of Sajid who is also wanted for a 2008/2009 plot against Denmark’s Jyllands-Posten newspaper to avenge its publication of cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad that enraged many Muslims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-26/11-attack-masterminds-extradition-from-pakistan-854814.html
28-06-2020||National||DGCA issues show cause notice to AirAsia India executive after pilot alleges safety violations||The aviation regulator DGCA has issued a show cause notice to a top executive of AirAsia India two weeks after one of its pilots, who runs a popular YouTube channel called Flying Beast, alleged violations of safety norms by the low-cost airline, senior officials said on Sunday. "A show cause notice has been issued to Manish Uppal, Head of Operations, AirAsia India after the pilot's allegations," the DGCA officials said. An AirAsia India spokesperson said, "AirAsia India confirms receipt of the notice and we are assisting the regulator in its fact finding process. We will fully cooperate with the regulator." Captain Gaurav Taneja, a popular Youtuber, tweeted on June 14 that he has been suspended by AirAsia India "for standing up for safe operations of an aircraft and its passengers". On June 15, he posted a detailed video on YouTube titled "Reasons behind suspension from my pilot job". Taneja alleged in the video that the airline has asked its pilots to do 98 per cent of landings in "Flap 3" mode, which allows it to save fuel. He said if a pilot does not do 98 per cent of landings in "Flap 3" mode, the airline considers it a violation of its standard operating procedure (SOP). Flaps are part of wings of an aircraft and they are engaged to create a drag during a landing or a take-off. Taneja gave the example of the Imphal airport, where the plane descends more steeply as compared to other airports when approaching for landing. He said when an aircraft is coming down steeply, it needs to have a drag so that it remains slow, and in these circumstances a pilot has to do a "Flap full" landing. “In order to achieve targets, what would people do? They will do Flap 3 landings without giving consideration whether it is safe or unsafe. This directly impacts the passenger safety," he said in his YouTube video. If something happens during a Flap 3 landing, then the question would be asked to the pilot if he or she cares more about saving fuel or 180 passengers' lives, Taneja said. On June 15, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Twitter that it had taken note of the concerns raised by some stakeholders "against a particular airline and its approach to safety". "DGCA has already started an investigation into the issues flagged and shall take appropriate action based on the outcome of the said investigation," it added. Senior DGCA officials had confirmed on June 15 itself that AirAsia India was under investigation after Taneja's allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-issues-show-cause-notice-to-airasia-india-executive-after-pilot-alleges-safety-violations-854815.html
28-06-2020||National||Covid-19 cases race towards 5.5 lakh-mark, Centre highlights recoveries||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge towards the 5.50 lakh-mark, the government on Sunday highlighted the increasing rate of recovery which has now reached 58.56%. “The gap between recoveries and active cases has crossed 1,00,000,” the health ministry said noting that 3,09,712 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from healthcare facilities. According to the ministry, India’s Covid-19 count increased by 19,906 on Sunday morning taking the total number of cases to 5,28,859 of which 2,03,051 patients were under active medical supervision. The fatalities due to the infectious disease also spiked by 410, taking the death toll to 16,095.  A separate DH Covid-19 Tracker put the total number of confirmed cases at 5,46,744 at 8:30 p.m. on Sunday, marking an intra-day increase of 17,885 new infections. The death toll has also increased by 349 to reach 16,444. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu were experiencing a massive surge in Covid-19 cases with both the states accounting for more than 50% of fresh infections. States such as Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Kerala and Goa reported their highest daily cases prompting some states to resort to some stringent restrictions to arrest the spread of the disease. The government has ramped up testing for Covid-19, particularly in Telangana which was testing just 2,013 samples per million population as against 15,140 samples per million in neighboring Andhra Pradesh. The issue is expected to figure in discussions the central team led by Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in Union Health Ministry is scheduled to have with state government officers on Monday. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has set up 1,036 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19, including 749 state-run facilities and 287 run by the private sector. “Daily more than 2,00,000 samples are being tested. The samples tested in the last 24 hours have further increased to 2,31,095. The total number of samples tested, as on date, is 82,27,802,” an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-india-race-towards-55-lakh-mark-centre-highlights-recoveries-854824.html
28-06-2020||National||India, Japan navy ships send a message to China with drill in Indian Ocean||India and Japan sent a not-so-subtle message to China with the warships of the two nations conducting a drill in the Indian Ocean – amid growing belligerence of the communist country. Two warships of Indian Navy – INS Rana and INS Kulish – conducted an exercise with JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki of the Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force (JMSDF) in the Indian Ocean on Saturday. The drill came amid China’s military assertiveness – not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in South China Sea and East China Sea. The two JMSDF ships, a few days earlier, participated in a drill with the USS Gabrielle Giffords of the United States Navy in South China Sea, raising hackles in Beijing. The JMSDF confirmed on Twitter that its JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki participated in two back-to-back drills with the warships of the US Navy and Indian Navy and “promoted mutual understanding” with the both. India and Japan stepped up maritime security cooperation over the past few years, with bilateral and multilateral exercises with the United States. The three nations joined Australia in November 2017 to re-launch the Quad – a four-nation initiative, primarily intended to build a bulwark against China’s hegemonic aspirations in Indo-Pacific. India and Japan in October 2018 agreed on implementing arrangement for deeper cooperation between the navies of the two nations. They are also likely to sign a military logistics sharing agreement soon. Even as the more-than-seven-week-long stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continued along the disputed India-China boundary in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi is keeping its eyes on Indian Ocean, where the communist country’s navy has been spreading its tentacles over the past few years. The Chinese PLA navy deployed its 35th Task Force in Indian Ocean region in late April – just a few days before its soldiers made the first attempt to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China – in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The PLA Navy also deployed its missile destroyer Taiyan and frigate Jingzhou in Indian Ocean. New Delhi has of late been also worried over reports of China deploying a fleet of underwater drones (Unmanned Underwater Vehicles) in the Indian Ocean. The Indian Navy in September 2019 spotted and chased away China’s research vessel Shiyan 1 in the Exclusive Economic Zone of India near the Andaman and Nicobar islands. The Chinese PLA also deployed submarines in Indian Ocean, including Shang class Type 093 nuclear powered ones. Though Beijing publicly said that the deployment was intended to step up patrolling on the sea lanes to protect vessels from pirates, New Delhi has been suspicious about the PLA Navy’s moves in the Indian Ocean region. The first face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley early last month was resolved, but it was soon followed by stand-offs in multiple locations along the LAC, including on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake. Amid talks between diplomats and senior military officials to resolve the situation, the stand-off reached a flashpoint on June 15, when the Indian and Chinese soldiers had a violent clash in Galwan Valley, resulting in casualties on both sides.   Japan’s Defence Minister Taro Kono on Thursday accused China of trying to change the status quo unilaterally in East and South China Seas as well as along its disputed boundary with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-japan-navy-ships-send-a-message-to-china-with-drill-in-indian-ocean-854848.html
28-06-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission phase 4: IndiGo, AI and GoAir to operate flights between July 3-15||Air India will fly 114 flights while IndiGo and GoAir will operate 457 and 41 flights respectively between July 3 and July 15 under the fourth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission. The government started the mega mission to evacuate stranded Indians from abroad on May 6. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Under the fourth phase of the mission, Air India will operate 114 flights to India from 17 countries, Canada, the US, the UK, Kenya, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Kyrgyzstan, Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Thailand, South Africa, Russia, Australia, Myanmar, Japan, Ukraine and Vietnam, according to the airline's document accessed by PTI. Air India's chartered flights are scheduled to be operated between July 3 and 15, the aforementioned official document stated. It said the airline will fly 31 flights from the US and 19 flights from the UK. Earlier, a previous document of Air India had said that it will operate a total of 170 flights to and from 17 countries. Private airlines like IndiGo and GoAir will also play a major role in the fourth phase of the mission. In a tweet on Sunday evening, the Civil Aviation Ministry said, "Private Airlines will have significant participation in Phase-4 of VBM. Among others, IndiGo will operate 238 flights from Qatar & 219 flights from Kuwait; while GoAir will operate 41 flights from Kuwait. Number of pvt carriers, flights & destinations likely to increase." Air India is scheduled to operate 272 chartered flights to and from various countries in the third phase, which began on June 10 and will end on July 4. The first phase started from May 7 and commenced on May 16. The US Department of Transportation announced on June 22 that it has barred Air India from operating chartered flights between India and the United States from July 22 without its prior approval, in an apparent retaliation to the Indian government for not allowing American carriers to operate between the two countries. On June 23, the Aviation Ministry said that it was considering establishing "individual bilateral bubbles" with the US, the UK, Germany and France, allowing airlines of each country in the pact to operate international passenger flights. After nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the government resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25 but in a curtailed manner and by placing lower and upper limits on airfares depending upon the flight duration. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on June 20 said that the government will start thinking on resuming scheduled international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55 per cent of the levels before coronavirus. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said last Friday that it is extending the suspension of scheduled international passenger flights in the country till July 15, but added that some international scheduled services on selected routes may be permitted on a case-to-case basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-phase-4-indigo-ai-and-goair-to-operate-flights-between-july-3-15-854850.html
28-06-2020||National||World Bank gives $500 million loan to India to improve quality of education in six states||The World Bank on Sunday announced a $500 million loan for India to improve the quality and governance of school education covering 15 lakh schools across six states. The Strengthening Teaching-Learning and Results for States (STARS) programme, to be implemented in Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan, is expected to reach 25 crore students and one crore teachers. “India recognises the need to significantly improve its learning outcomes to fuel future growth and meet the demands of the labor market,” said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director in India. He added that STARS will support India’s response to this challenge by strengthening implementation at the local level, investing in teacher capacity and ensuring that no child of any background is left behind from the right to education. At the national level, through the Samagra Shiksha, and in partnership with the six states, STARS will help improve learning assessment systems, strengthen classroom instruction and remediation, facilitate school-to-work transition, and strengthen governance and decentralised management, the World Bank said in a statement. The STARS programme builds on the long partnership between India and the World Bank (since 1994), for strengthening public school education and to support the country’s goal of providing ‘Education for All’. Prior to STARS, the Bank had provided a total assistance of more than $3 billion towards this goal. The World Bank noted that India has, over the years, made significant strides in improving access to education across the country; between 2004-05 and 2018-19, the number of children going to school increased from 21.9 crore to 24.8 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-bank-gives-500-million-loan-to-india-to-improve-quality-of-education-in-six-states-854851.html
28-06-2020||National||Congress demands that locust attacks be declared 'natural disaster'||The Congress on Sunday demanded that the government should declare locust attacks a natural disaster and farmers be given compensation under the crop insurance scheme. The demand came after swarms of crop-destroying locusts entered Gurgaon in Haryana, border areas of the national capital and over half a dozen districts in Uttar Pradesh, prompting state authorities to sound an alert. The Centre had said it has deputed more teams to assist in control operations. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala claimed that the farmers and the general public are being told to bang 'Taali and Thali (claps and plates)' when there is a locust attack. "Sometimes the useless government prescribes 'taali-thaali' solution for the coronavirus pandemic, while at other times it prescribes it to deal with the locust attacks," Surjewala said in a statement. "Is there no other scientific and rational solution left with the government?" he asked. Locust swarms have attacked crops in Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and western Uttar Pradesh. Now these attacks have reached Delhi, he said. Farmers from more than 84 districts of these states have been badly affected by the attack of locusts from Pakistan, Surjewala said. "Today, more than 10 lakh hectare of farm land has been affected by locust swarms, but no relief has been provided to farmers," he said. Rahul Gandhi had warned the government about the issue, but like on coronavirus, the government did not act, the Congress' chief spokesperson alleged. Insurance companies are refusing to compensate the farmers for the losses suffered by the locusts under the crop insurance scheme because Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not include the locust swarm attack in the definition of "natural disaster", Surjewala said. The Congress demands that compensation to farmers be paid under the crop insurance scheme by including locust attack in the definition of "natural disaster" by the Department of Agriculture and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Surjewala said. A special relief package should be given to all farmers after special 'girdawari' (survey) of the destroyed crops, he said. Surjewala said a scientific and rational solution must be found to the locust attacks happening since more than 75 days on agricultural lands, trees and plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-demands-that-locust-attacks-be-declared-natural-disaster-854869.html
28-06-2020||National Politics||Door-to-door survey under 'Kill Corona' drive from July 1 in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government will launch a 'Kill Corona' campaign from July 1 to control the spread of coronavirus in the state. Under the campaign, a door-to-door survey will be conducted and tests would also be done on citizens for other diseases, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said during a virtual review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday. Chouhan said during the 15-day campaign, 2.5 lakh tests will be carried out and 15,000 to 20,000 samples would be collected daily, according to a press release. He said the testing capacity will be doubled from 4,000 per 10 lakh people to 8,000 per 10 lakh people. Chouhan said the states Covid-19 recovery rate was 76.9 per cent, while the national recovery rate was 58.1 per cent.  The Covid-19 growth rate in the state was 1.44 per, which is less than half of the national average of 3.69 per cent, he said. The virus positivity rate in the state was 3.85 per cent as against the national positivity rate of 6.54 per cent, the chief minister said. Till Saturday, Madhya Pradesh reported 12,965 Covid-19 cases and 550 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/door-to-door-survey-under-kill-corona-drive-from-july-1-in-madhya-pradesh-854662.html
28-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi doing shallow-minded politics, making Pakistan, China happy: Amit Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday targeted former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, saying he was indulging in "shallow-minded" politics and making statements that make Pakistan and China happy when soldiers are fighting a spirited battle. Shah said the government is ready for a discussion in Parliament about the situation from 1962 (when India-China war took place) and it is sad that a former president of a party making statements, which are being celebrated in Pakistan and China. The Home Minister's comments came during an interview with ANI when he was asked about Rahul's "Surrender (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi" remarks while criticising the BJP-led government on India-China border row. Rahul has been consistent in his criticism of the government on the handling of both Covid-19 situation and India-China border row, which escalated into a "violent face-off" earlier this month in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. "Let there be a robust debate in Parliament. Let us have one. Let us discuss from 1962. Nobody is scared of debate. But one should not make a statement that makes Pakistan and China happy when the soldiers are fighting a spirited battle and the government is taking strong steps," he said. Asked whether India can handle the anti-India propaganda unleashed by Rahul's 'Surrender Modi' hashtag, he said the government is capable of handling it but it is a matter of introspection for the former Congress president and his party that their remarks are being used against the country. Modi's remarks at an all-party meeting that no one has intruded into Indian territory triggered a controversy with a section arguing that it went against the previous statement of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Claiming that he could not advise Rahul as it is Congress' job to do so, he said the government has fought Covid-19 well but some people have a twisted way of seeing things. He said India fought well against Covid-19 and the statistics will speak for itself as it is much better compared to the world. Shah said under Modi's leadership, India is going to win both the battles -- Covid-19 and India-China border row. The Home Minister also refused to be drawn into a question on whether Chinese soldiers are holding on to Indian territory on the border at present, saying the government is doing enough to address border row with China. "I don't want to do anything that goes against my primary aim of this interview (to highlight the steps taken to fight Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi) and create headlines that keep citizens further in fear," Shah said. When pointed out that people are also in panic due to the border situation, he said the government has taken steps to address the situation and at an appropriate time he would make comments, if needed. Asked about his tweets on Emergency, which was targeted by Congress asking whether there is democracy in the BJP, he countered it saying that BJP has presidents L K Advani followed by Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Rajnath again, himself and now J P Nadda. "After Indira-ji, was there any Congress President from outside Gandhi family? What democracy do they talk about? I did not do any politics during Covid-19. You look at my tweets of the past 10 years. Every June 25, I give a statement," he said. "Emergency should be remembered by people as it attacked the roots of our democracy. No one should ever forget it. There should be awareness about it. It is not about a party but about the attack on the country's democracy," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-doing-shallow-minded-politics-making-pakistan-china-happy-amit-shah-854710.html
28-06-2020||National Politics||Congress says PM CARES Fund accepted Chinese donations, asks why PM Modi is not calling China aggressor||Hitting back at the BJP for raising the issue of funding to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, the Congress on Sunday alleged that Chinese firms were contributing to PM-CARES Fund and asked why it was accepting such donations at a time when India and China have been engaged in a tense border standoff. There was no immediate response from the government on the allegations. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his "18 meetings" with Chinese President Xi Jinping in last six years and asked why he has not yet called China "an aggressor", hours after Modi in his "Mann ki Baat" radio broadcast asserted that India has given a befitting reply to those who cast an evil eye on its territory in Ladakh. "I implore the prime minister to say that China is an aggressor," Singhvi said. "What is most worrying and alarming for national security is the fact of donations received by Prime Minister Modi from the Chinese companies in his (seemingly personal) PM-CARES Fund," Singhvi said at a virtual press conference. "If the Prime Minister of India will compromise his position by accepting donations of hundreds of crores from Chinese companies in the controversial and opaque fund, how will he defend the country against the Chinese aggression? Prime Minister Modi needs to answer," he said. The PM-CARES Fund was set up in March this year with an objective to deal with any emergency arising due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Since then, some opposition parties have demanded the donations received by the fund be made public. Singhvi alleged that the BJP has maintained ties with the Communist Party of China since 2007 and its presidents, starting with Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari and Amit Shah, have had the maximum number of exchanges with China. "There is no political party in India's history whose presidents have had so much contact with China in the last 13 years," he claimed, adding Singh had interactions with the CPC in January 2007 and October 2008; Gadkari in January 2011 went on a five-day official visit to China; and Shah sent a large delegation of MLAs at a "party school" gathering of CPC in early 2014. Singhvi said for this government it seems national security is not important. "What is important for it is 'I, Me, Myself' and the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation." He also accused the PM of "misleading" the nation and serving the "sinister agenda" of the Chinese by claiming that China never intruded into Indian territory, nor is it in occupation of any territory. Congress leader P Chidambaram too demanded answers from the prime minister and his office on the alleged Chinese donations. "PM-CARES Fund was set up after Chinese intrusions into Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014) and Doklam (2017). Why did the PM accept funds from Chinese-owned funds, one of which has a deep connection with the Chinese Army, the PLA? "In 2005, India-China relations were good and efforts were being made to improve them. If a donation in 2005 was wrong, how much more wrong was accepting donations after 2013-17," he asked. He said Chinese troops began incursions into Ladakh in March-April 2020 and asked, "Does it require great intelligence to discern China's motives." "China lulled India into complacency by Jhoola diplomacy and Chinese money. Was it not an abject failure on the part of the Modi government," he asked. Singhvi demanded that Modi should tell how much has China intruded into Indian territory and how many posts and land it has occupied. "The PM should say we are not going to compromise and we will push China back," he said, adding the whole country will stand behind him if he does so. Paying tributes to the 20 army men killed in the faceoff with Chinese troops on June 15, Modi in his radio broadcast said, "Those who cast an evil eye on Indian soil in Ladakh have got a befitting response. India honours the spirit of friendship. It is also capable of giving an appropriate response to any adversary without shying away." Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in his 33 minutes of 'Mann Ki Baat', the PM did not even name China once. "Why is the PM so scared of China? "Time for Delhi to reset its strategic calculus. Time to shed the fears, be bold and tactical and adopt a strategic response to decisively repulse the Chinese intrusions," he said on Twitter. The Congress has been accusing Modi of "misleading" the country on Chinese incursions and the border stand-off in Ladakh. On the other hand, the BJP has turned the heat on Congress by accusing it of receiving money in Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, of which Sonia Gandhi is the chairperson, from China. Singhvi said reports suggest PM-CARES Fund has received Rs 9,678 crore by May 20. He did not specify any report. He alleged Huawei donated Rs 7 crore, TikTok Rs 30 crore, Paytm Rs 100 crore, Xiomi Rs 15 crore and Oppo Rs 1 crore to the fund. "Does Huawei have a direct connection with People's Liberation Army, China" he asked. Singhvi also alleged that money has been diverted from PM-CARES Fund. "The fund is not even subjected to audit by any public authority including CAG," he said, adding the PMO has gone to the extent of saying this fund is not a public authority. PM-CARES Fund is not even subjected to RTI, he said, alleging the fund "appears to be solely run by the prime minister in an opaque and secret fashion with zero transparency and zero accountability". Singhvi said "a delusional Modi government continues to sidestep" the brazen Chinese transgressions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-says-pm-cares-fund-accepted-chinese-donations-asks-why-pm-modi-is-not-calling-china-aggressor-854744.html
28-06-2020||National Politics||NC, Congress leaders feel threatened due to new domicile rules in Jammu and Kashmir: Union minister Jitendra Singh||The leaders of the National Conference and the Congress feel threatened due to the new domicile rules in Jammu and Kashmir as they had for long thrived on their “captive vote-bank”, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Sunday. He alleged that the people of Jammu and Kashmir suffered because of such politicians who have, over the last several decades, hoodwinked their own people in order to promote their dynastic rule from generation to generation. “Their actual worry is that because the new domicile law offers free voting rights, like in other parts of the country, they will not be able to pass the test of ballot when vote is cast by those sections of people whom they had illegally denied the voting rights for all these years,” said Singh, the Minister of State in the Personnel Ministry. The hands of clock have moved on and never again will Jammu and Kashmir be a fiefdom of a handful few or a few families, an official statement quoted him as saying. Singh said the Congress, the National Conference and some other political parties are rattled by the new domicile law of Jammu and Kashmir. “And when their leaders say that the people of Jammu and Kashmir are threatened by this law, the matter of fact is that they are themselves feeling threatened, because they had all along thrived and held on to power with the support of a captive vote-bank and lacked the democratic courage to face free and open franchise,” he said. People belonging to West Pakistan, Balmikis, women marrying outside communities and non-registered Kashmiri migrants among others are now eligible to get domicile certificates under a new set of rules issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration last month. Singh said those people who describe the new domicile rules as illegal should first explain to the people of Jammu and Kashmir the legality by which they had denied voting rights for 73 years to West Pakistan refugees, Balmikis, Gurkhas and other sections of society settled in the erstwhile state since independence. He asked them to make this an election issue in the forthcoming assembly elections and go to the people saying that if voted to power they will restore Article 370, reverse the new domicile law and once again strip away the West Pakistan refugees, Balmikis and Gurkhas of their voting rights which have now been provided. Singh also challenged these leaders to go to the court and get the parliamentary decision reversed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nc-congress-leaders-feel-threatened-due-to-new-domicile-rules-in-jammu-and-kashmir-union-minister-jitendra-singh-854804.html
28-06-2020||National Politics||Congress didn't criticise China while questioned Modi government on Ladakh standoff: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday lashed out at the Congress, accusing it of "not criticising China" while "posing questions" to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government over the Ladakh standoff between both countries. Addressing a virtual rally organised by the Chandigarh unit of the BJP, the minister also accused Congress president Sonia Gandhi and and former party chief Rahul Gandhi of asking questions, allegedly “designed to lower the morale of the armed forces”. “What has happened to the Congress? They ask questions every day, Rahul Gandhi, Soniaji. No other party is raising any question,” said Prasad referring to the Galwan Valley clash between soldiers of China and India recently. “They never criticise China openly and are asking questions from the government. They are asking questions on soldiers,” he alleged, adding that Rahul Gandhi had "sought a proof of the Balakot airstrike" too. The public had thrashed them in the elections but they failed to learn from their “mistakes”, the Union minister said in an apparent reference to the BJP's victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Responding to Rahul Gandhi's question why soldiers were sent unarmed in Ladakh, Prasad said it was the Congress-led government in 1993 which signed a pact with China for not using firearms on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Referring to the clash in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, Prasad said over 40 Chinese troops were killed, which the Chinese authorities are hiding. Prasad also asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to respond to questions raised by the Congress leaders. “I want to ask a question from Captain Sahib. You have been an Army Captain and you are a patriot. At a time when there is a tension between India and China, Rahul and Soniaji are trying to raise questions,” he said. “Let Capt Amarinder Singh respond as to what his own reaction on the way Rahul Gandhi and Soniaji are daily raising questions, designed to lower the morale of the forces and the country,” said Prasad. Prasad also alleged that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation received donations from the Chinese embassy in 2005-06. “Soniaji is the president of the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation while Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi are its members,” said Prasad. “What was the need for taking money from China? Why did you take money? There is no answer till now,” he said. “When they (Congress) take money from China, then how could they openly criticise it,” he alleged. Further slamming Rahul Gandhi for questioning the lockdown imposed for containing the coronavirus spread, Prasad said if he had a problem with the lockdown, then why he could not convince his own chief ministers (where the Congress is in power). “Chief Minister Amarinder Singh imposed a curfew, not lockdown. Similarly, Rajasthan and Maharashtra imposed lockdowns,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-didnt-criticise-china-while-questioned-modi-government-on-ladakh-standoff-ravi-shankar-prasad-854873.html
28-06-2020||National Politics||Centre should clarify on India-China trade relations: Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel||Amid calls for boycott of Chinese goods in view of the border stand-off with India, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday asked the Centre to clarify its stand on continuation of trade relations with that country. Baghel also questioned alleged receipt of several crores in the PM-Cares Fund from Chinese companies, as being alleged by the Congress, despite the ongoing border face-off with China. He said reports suggest that as on May 20, 2020 Prime Minister Narednra Modi had received Rs 9,678 crore in the PM Cares Fund. "It is shocking that though Chinese forces have transgressed into our territory, the PM received the money in this Fund from Chinese firms. "Why has PM Modi received Chinese money into the Fund, despite the overt Chinese hostilities in the year 2013? Has the PM received Rs 7 crore from the controversial company Huawei? Does Huawei have a direct connection with the People's Liberation Army of China? Has the Chinese company owning TikTok facilitated a donation of Rs 30 crore to the PM CARES Fund?" Baghel questionned during a virtual press conference. Earlier in the day, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi alleged that alleged that Chinese firms were contributing to PM-CARES Fund. "If the Prime Minister of India will compromise his position by accepting donations of hundreds of crores from Chinese companies in the controversial and opaque fund, how will he defend the country against the Chinese aggression? Prime Minister Modi needs to answer," Singhvi said. Responding to a query on calls for boycott of Chinese products, Baghel said, "The Centre should clarify its stand on this issue (trade relations). If The Centre bans import of Chinese products, people will automatically stop using them. The matter should not be politicised". The Congress leader has accused the BJP of diverting the attention of people by raking up the issue of donations received by the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) way back in 2005-06. "Those who are in power are levelling allegations against the RGF because they do not have answers to the Opposition's questions. The funds received by the RGF were used for differently-able people and studies on Indo-China relationship. It was audited and the Home Ministry was intimated," he said. Why are they (BJP) raising this issue now after 15 years? They should instead inform whether China has intruded into our territory or built any structures along the LAC (Line of Actual Control), he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-should-clarify-on-india-china-trade-relations-chhattisgarh-chief-minister-bhupesh-baghel-854875.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Ladakh stand-off: Zomato employees burn company T-shirts in protest||A group of Zomato food delivery platform employees in Kolkata tore and burnt their official T-shirts on Saturday in protest against the killing of 20 Indian soldiers by the Chinese Army in Ladakh last week. During the protest at Behala, some of them claimed that they had quit their job as Zomato has a sizeable Chinese investment and urged people to stop ordering food via the company. In 2018, Ant Financial, part of Chinese major Alibaba, had invested USD 210 million in Zomato for a 14.7-per-cent stake. The food delivery major recently raised an additional USD 150 million from Ant Financial. "Chinese companies are making a profit from here and attacking the Army of our country. They are trying to grab our land. This cannot be allowed," one of the protesters said. Another protester said they were ready to starve but would not work in companies having investment from China. In May, Zomato laid off 520 employees or 13 per cent of its workforce in a huge retrenchment exercise due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. There was no immediate reaction from Zomato and whether the protesters were among those who were retrenched was not known. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a fierce clash with the Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-stand-off-zomato-employees-burn-company-t-shirts-in-protest-854602.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||88% excess rainfall in Madhya Pradesh in June: IMD||Madhya Pradesh has received 88 per cent excess rainfall in June so far as compared to the normal average due to the early onset of monsoon and conducive atmospheric systems, an IMD official said on Sunday. The monsoon arrived in Madhya Pradesh on June 14 and became active in the entire state in next 10 days, G D Mishra, senior meteorologist of India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bhopal office said. Earlier, the monsoon used to reach Madhya Pradesh in the second half of June and would take time to expand its footprint in the while state, he said. This time, barring Gwalior and Jabalpur districts, the state has received 88 per cent excess rainfall between June 1 and June 27, Mishra said. Against the normal rainfall of 99.1 mm, the state has received 186.4 mm rain, which means 88 per cent excess, the official said. Besides the early onset of monsoon, the atmospheric systems also caused rain, he said. The state capital Bhopal received 407.1 mm rainfall in the last 27 days against its average normal rainfall of 98.5 mm (313 per cent excess), he said. However, Gwalior received 34.3 mm downpour (37 per cent less) against the average normal rainfall of 54.5 mm rainfall between June 1 and June 27 . Likewise, Jabalpur received 90.5 mm rainfall (25 per cent less) against its average normal rainfall of 120.7 mm during the period , he said. According to the IMD, heavy rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely at isolated places in the state in the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/88-excess-rainfall-in-madhya-pradesh-in-june-imd-854646.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||UP CM Adityanath to visit Ayodhya, inspect Ram temple construction work||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will visit the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya on Sunday afternoon and inspect the ongoing temple construction work, officials said here. The chief minister will also inspect the progress of development works underway in various parts of Ayodhya, they said. "The CM will be visiting Ayodhya on Sunday afternoon. He will inspect non-COVID hospitals, along with construction works on development schemes at various places of Ayodhya," District Magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha told PTI. "He will also visit the Ram Janmabhoomi site and some other temples during his visit," he added. This will be Adityanath's second visit to the Ram Janmabhoomi site since the COVID-triggered lockdown was implemented. The chief minister will also visit the Hanuman Garhi temple, the officials said. He had last visited the site on March 25 when the Ram Lalla idol was shifted to new temporary structure. The CM also donated Rs 11 lakh in his personal capacity for the construction of the Ram temple. Adityanath will reach Ayodhya by air around 11:45 am and will leave for Lucknow after the visit. He is also likely to meet BJP leaders here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-adityanath-to-visit-ayodhya-inspect-ram-temple-construction-work-854650.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi rises to 417 from 280 after re-mapping: Officials||The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi has risen to 417 after re-mapping of such areas, while around 2.45 lakh people have been screened in a mammoth exercise to check the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital, officials said on Sunday. They said the count of containment zones is expected to jump further as the authorities in some districts were yet to complete the task of redrawing such areas following the Centre's directions. Before the re-mapping exercise, the number of containment zones was 280 in the city, an official said. "We have screened around two lakh people for Covid-19 in house-to-house survey being conducted across the city. Also, 45,000 people have been screened in COVID-19 containment zones," the official told PTI. The process of screening every household has to be completed by July 6. According to the 2011 Census, there were over 34.35 lakh households in the national capital, including 33.56 lakh in urban areas and 79,574 in rural areas. According to Covid-19 response plan issued by the Delhi government, the re-mapping of the containment zones should be completed by June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-covid-19-containment-zones-in-delhi-rises-to-417-from-280-after-re-mapping-officials-854655.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Farmer dies by suicide in Uttar Pradesh's Fatehpur||A 47-year-old farmer allegedly died by suicide in a village here, police said on Sunday. Kailash Joshi, resident of Satopeet village, allegedly hanged himself at his home, Asothar police station SHO Ashish Singh said. "The farmer used to cultivate his land, and also work on lands of other people. He had taken loans from some people in the village. Possibly, he committed suicide because of these reasons," the SHO said, quoting the son of the deceased. Joshi had a family of nine and merely half a bigha of land, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-dies-by-suicide-in-uttar-pradeshs-fatehpur-854674.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Activists, parents' group leaders stopped from submitting memo to UP CM Yogi Adityanath in Ayodhya over school fees||Activists and leaders of parents' groups were stopped from submitting a memorandum to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath here against payment of school fees for the lockdown period, ahead of his planned visit to Ayodhya on Sunday. Manish Pandey, Hindu Mahasabha district president, Nawab Singh, president of the district parents' committee, Dharam Sena president Santosh Dubey and local Congress leader Sharad Shukla were among those detained at their homes, police said. Ayodhya Deputy Superintendent of Police Arvind Chaurasia told PTI that these people were confined to their houses. The activists had planned to submit a memorandum to the chief minister, demanding that school fees for the lockdown period be waived. "We wanted to submit a memorandum to the chief minister to request him to appeal to the private school owners to waive fees for the lockdown period as the economic conditions of all parents has worsened," Pandey said. "In Ayodhya, most of the parents of students in private schools belong to the to business community involved in small trades, and the lockdown has dealt them a heavy blow," he added. Adityanath's visit to the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya was expected in the afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/activists-parents-group-leaders-stopped-from-submitting-memo-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-in-ayodhya-over-school-fees-854678.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||LNJP doctor dies of Covid-19 in pvt hospital||A doctor of the city government-run LNJP Hospital died of Covid-19 in the ICU of a private dedicated coronavirus facility here on Sunday, sources said. The doctor, a consultant anaesthesiologist, died in the morning, they added. LNJP Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the Delhi government. "He lost the battle today after a valiant fight," a hospital source said. Sources said the doctor died in the ICU of Max Smart, a dedicated Covid-19 facility in Saket. Several hundreds of healthcare workers have been infected with Covid-19 till date in Delhi. A doctor from Fortis Escorts Heart Institute in Okhla in south Delhi recently died of the novel coronavirus infection. A 39-year-old doctor from Odisha had died of Covid-19 in the ICU of the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on June 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lnjp-doctor-dies-of-covid-19-in-pvt-hospital-854691.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||India's first lichen garden comes up in Uttarakhand's Munsiyari||The country's first lichen garden has been developed in Munsiyari, a picturesque hill station in Uttarakhand's Kumaun region, by the research wing of the state's forest department. Surrounded by snowcapped peaks, Munsyari was chosen as the site for developing the garden as it is considered a hotspot for lichens also known locally as 'Jhula' or 'Patthar ke Phool', Chief Conservator of Forest (research wing) Sanjiv Chaturvedi under whose guidance the garden was developed told PTI on Sunday.  Spread over nearly two acres, the garden boasts of more than 80 species of lichen, used as a key ingredient in the famous Hyderabadi biryani to create its distinctive flavour and in indigenous perfumes for its aromatic properties, he said. The garden was inaugurated and thrown open to the public on Saturday.  In view of the coronavirus pandemic the garden has been opened in a limited way for the public to avoid crowding but once the virus' upward surge stops, the facility will be opened in a full-fledged manner for people, Chaturvedi said.    "Lichen is a key spice in Hyderabadi biryani without which the flavour is incomplete. It is also used in the preparation of an indigenous perfume in Kannauj. Apart from being used as an essential component in different non-vegetarian dishes especially biryani, it is also used in sunscreen creams, dyes and medicines," the official said.  As lichen needs absolutely clean air to grow, it also serves as a significant bio indicator to determine the level of air pollution of a specific area. Lichen also has the ability to separate the minerals by eroding rocks, he said, adding that when lichens die and dissolve into the earth, they leave a mix of mineral and organic matter in the soil which help the growth of other plants. The garden was to be developed in five years but due to the dedication of my team it was completed in just a year, the CCF said.         Lichens are a symbiotic organism, usually composed of a fungal partner (mycobiont) and one or more photosynthetic partner (photobiont) which is most often either a green algae or cyanobacterium, Chgaturvedi explained. They mainly grow on the barks of trees, walls, rocks, gravestones roofs and soil.        More than 20,000 species of lichens are found around the world. India has around 2,714 species out of which Uttarakhand has 600 species found mainly in Munsiyari, Ashkot, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh, Ramnagar and Nainital, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-first-lichen-garden-comes-up-in-uttarakhands-munsiyari-854706.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Slain militant’s mother booked under UAPA in Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir police have booked the mother of a slain militant under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for allegedly motivating youth in southern Kulgam to join militant ranks. Reports said Naseema Bano, mother of Tawseef Sheikh, a Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander who was slain in a gunfight with security forces in May 2018, was arrested on June 19 from her home in Rampora village of Qaimoh in Kulgam, and booked under UAPA the next day (under FIR number 30 of 2020). She is presently lodged in a women’s police station in neighbouring Anantnag district while her other son, Farooq Sheikh, is also serving detention for about a year. A local English daily quoting a family source said that security forces raided Sheikh's house a week ago and took away Bano. “They (forces) had apparently come looking for Bano’s daughter, who was not home and took the mother instead of the daughter,” it reported. Superintendent of Police Kulgam, Gurinder Pal said that Bano had been booked for, “active involvement in activating the youth of the area into militant ranks.” “In 2018, a picture of her posing with an illegal weapon had gone viral. That was a crime in itself and a case had been lodged in the matter. During the investigation, her links with activating more youth into militant ranks, arranging weapons and logistics for Hizbul militants were established,” he said. The SP claimed that Bano was directly involved in the case of three local boys joining militancy recently in the area. “Not only Bano but her daughter as well has been found to be involved in such activities. In the interest of the community, she has been booked,” he added. The extended Sheikh family of Rampur has lost 15 members since militancy erupted in the Valley in the 90s. Mohammad Ibrahim Sheikh was the first militant from the family who was killed in a gunfight with the security forces in 1997. Just a few months later, Shabir Sheikh, Ibrahim’s cousin, inspired by him, picked up arms. His stint as a militant was short-lived as he was killed months later, the same year. Ibrahim’s brother Ashraf, who was earlier jailed for militant links and had married his brother’s widow, and followed in the footsteps of his brother in 2009. However, he was also killed in a gunfight just a kilometer away from his home, 40 days later. The list of killed militants in the clan is long. In 2014, Ibrahim’s other brother Abbas also joined the militancy. Abbas, a tailor by profession, was earlier too associated with militancy and had been jailed several times. He is among the most-wanted militants who are on top of the army's target list. Today, 45-year old Abbas who has four children is the only surviving militant from the Sheikh family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/slain-militant-s-mother-booked-under-uapa-in-kashmir-854707.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Indore: Government offices now allowed to operate with full strength||The Indore district administration has allowed the government offices to function with 100 per cent employee strength from Monday, as part of further easing of the coronavirus-induced restrictions. The functioning of the government offices in the district had been badly in the last three months due to the pandemic. An administration official on Sunday said that all the central, state government, semi-government offices located in the district were asked to shut in the last week of March due to the COVID-19 outbreak. A month back, instructions had been given to reopen these offices with 50 percent employee strength only. "Now, as the COVID-19 situation has come under control in the district, the administration issued fresh orders so that these offices can now operate with 100 per cent staff strength," the official said. The district administration has also instructed the government employees to adhere to all the guidelines issued for protection from COVID-19 in the offices. Meanwhile, Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said that 40 new COVID-19 cases were detected in the district in the last 24 hours, which increased its count to 4,615. Four more coronavirus positive patients, including a 75-year-old woman, died during treatment at different hospitals during the period, due to which the district's death toll rose to 222. He said that 3,415 people in the district have recovered from the infection so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-government-offices-now-allowed-to-operate-with-full-strength-854740.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||J&K govt orders to stock LPG, vacate schools spark panic in Kashmir||The government order to stock LPG cylinders and vacate school buildings for security forces in central Ganderbal district- that connects Ladakh with Kashmir - has once again created panic among people in the Valley. Prior to the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, the government had issued similar orders creating speculations and panic buying among the residents. The fresh orders have come at a time when Indian and Chinese troops are locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation in several areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Depsang. And besides Kashmir is witnessing issuance of thousands of domicile certificates to non-locals due to which anger is brewing among the locals. One of the orders to stock LPG in Kashmir has been called a “most urgent matter” and “closure of the National Highway on account of landslides” has been given as a reason. The order issued by the director of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs (FCS&CA) Kashmir, states that an adviser to Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu passed these directions in a meeting on June 23. In another order, the Superintendent of Police, Ganderbal, has requested 16 educational institutes in the district, including ITI buildings, middle and higher secondary schools be vacated. “In view of the Shri Amarnath Ji Yatra-2020, these educational centres will be made available for the accommodation of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) companies,” it reads. However, Director FCS&CA, Bashir Ahmad Khan, whose office sent the letter termed it a “routine matter”. “We keep on writing to the Indian Oil Corporation routinely. For example, right now we have a 25-day stock, so we remind them often to ensure sufficient stocks,” he said. Asked why such communiqué was sent during summer when the highway is usually through, Khan said, “The highway closes even if it rains a bit, or if there are landslides.” Questioning the timing of such orders, former Chief Minister of J&K Omar Abdullah said it creates panic in Kashmir. “Government orders are creating panic in Kashmir & unfortunately after all the lies & false assurances last year even if/when the government explains these orders hardly any of us will take the assurances at face value. That said they still need to explain these orders (sic),” he tweeted. A social media user commenting on the fresh communique wrote: “Three divisions of army deployed in Ladakh instead of one speaks everything. Any war needs atleast six months’ time for preparedness to defend if not to win. India can’t take chances (sic).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-orders-to-stock-lpg-vacate-schools-spark-panic-in-kashmir-854746.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Fully prepared to deal with any locust attack: Haryana government||The Haryana government is fully prepared to deal with any locust attack, state Agriculture Minister J P Dalal said on Sunday, as he credited officials for a timely response to tackle an infestation of the short-horned grasshoppers in Rewari district. He also said the Rewari district administration will conduct a survey to assess the damage caused to crops by locusts. The locust swarms have been coming in waves into Rajasthan from Pakistan over the last one and a half months and devouring crops along their path as they cross from one state to another. "We have sufficient stocks of insecticides, pesticides, machinery to deal with locust attacks. Our officials swing into action as soon as these insects settle down on vegetation, trees, soil, etc," Dalal said. He said the administration managed to eliminate 35 per cent of a swarm of locusts which had entered Rewari around 5 pm on Friday and settled in the villages around Jatusana at night. "We were apprehending that they will move towards Rohtak and Sonipat, but due to a change in the wind direction they moved towards Gurgaon, Delhi and then towards Uttar Pradesh," he said. Dalal, who visited fields in Bohatwas Bhondu and Parkhotampur villages in Rewari's Jatusana on Saturday, said the farmers have been assured that the administration is assessing the damage caused to their crops due to the locust attack. The district administration has been directed to send to the chief minister a report with a preliminary estimate of the damage. A special 'girdwari' (revenue survey) will be ordered and the affected farmers will be suitably compensated by the government, Dalal said. The minister refuted Congress' allegation that the state government had completely failed to prevent a locust attack despite being aware of the possibility for a long time. It was because of the preparations made by the government much in advance that 35 per cent of the locust swarm was eliminated during a night-long operation carried out by the Rewari district administration, Dalal said. He added that even experts from the central government who visited Rewari to take stock of the situation had appreciated the timely measures taken by the district administration. A huge swarm of locusts reached Rewari on Friday with parts of it settling in various villages of Jatusana and Khol blocks of the district overnight. From Rewari, the locusts entered Gurgaon, neighbouring Delhi, on Saturday. In many villages where locusts were spotted, the farmers beat 'thalis' (plates) and other utensils, while some burst firecrackers to drive away the insects. The local administration deployed tractor-mounted spray facilities for the purpose. A month ago, too, Haryana had issued a high alert after locust swarms attacked crops in neighbouring Rajasthan and a few other states. However, luckily, the insects had moved away from the state. Popularly known as "tiddi dal", locusts have highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour. They keep flying during day time and settle down only after dark in the evening. This insect can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometer of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people. In May, India battled a devastating desert locust outbreak. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and then spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. According to an advisory issued by the Centre, there can be more locust attacks in the near future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fully-prepared-to-deal-with-any-locust-attack-haryana-government-854747.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Shopping malls in Gurgaon to reopen from July 1, Faridabad to decide on Monday||The Haryana government has allowed shopping malls in Gurgaon and Faridabad to reopen from July 1, more than two months after they were shut to combat the novel coronavirus outbreak. The Gurgaon district administration said it would implement the state government's decision on reopening malls with certain restrictions, whereas the Faridabad authorities will take a final call on the matter in a meeting on Monday. According to an order issued by the additional chief secretary of the urban local bodies department, the district administrations have been given permission to reopen malls in Gurgaon and Faridabad in the National Capital Region. The Haryana government had earlier allowed malls to reopen from June 7 across the state, barring Gurgaon and Faridabad that accounted for overwhelming proportions of Covid-19 infections and fatalities. According to a health bulletin on Saturday, Gurgaon accounted for 5,070 of the total 13,427 cases in the state, while Faridabad had 3,325. The Covid-19 death toll in Gurgaon was 83 and in Faridabad 71, out of the state's tally of 218. When contacted, Gurgaon District Commissioner Amit Khatri said the administration would implement the state government order on opening of malls. District Commissioner of Faridabad Yashpal Yadav, however, a final decision on the matter will be taken by the district administration in its meeting on Monday.  The state government in its order has listed out various restrictions to ensure social distancing in malls and has categorically said only 50 per cent of the total sitting capacity in restaurants is allowed. According to the Union Ministry of Health guidelines, cinema halls and children gaming zones in malls will remain shut. The malls can remain open from 9 am to 8 pm so as to ensure compliance of the night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am, according to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Urban Local Bodies Department. People aged 65, children below 10 years, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women will not be allowed to visit shopping malls. The SOPs ask aged and pregnant employees and those with underlying conditions to take extra precautions. “They shall preferably not be exposed to any frontline work requiring direct contact with the public,” the SOPs said. Shopping mall owners shall facilitate work from home for such workers, wherever feasible, according to the SOPs. Hand hygiene as well as thermal scanning of each visitor at the entry point shall be ensured. “Preferably separate entry and exits for visitors, workers and goods/supplies shall be organised,” according to the SOPs. For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of the Central Public Works Department shall be followed “which inter alia emphasises that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius”. Sanitisation shall be done at regular intervals, valet parking, if available, shall be operational with operating staff wearing face covers/masks and gloves. For the visitors and general public, the SOPs state they must wear face covers/masks, follow social distancing, install and use Aarogya Setu App. Meanwhile, civic bodies will regularly monitor the compliance of the directions by all shopping malls by undertaking regular visits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shopping-malls-in-gurgaon-to-reopen-from-july-1-faridabad-to-decide-on-monday-854754.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||No work for them under MGNREGA, Uttar Pradesh villagers take up canal-cleaning project on their own||Unable to find work under the MGNREGA, a group of villagers here have started on the laborious task of cleaning a canal so that water reaches its tail-end. About 70 labourers from Naugava village in Naraini tehsil have decided to do it for free – a “shramdaan” to give life again to land turning barren. Authorities now want to pay them for the job they have taken upon themselves, but the villagers have turned down the offer. They all say they could not find work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Shyamlal, one of the workers, says a stretch of the 40-km-long canal between Guhala Kalan and Divli villages was not cleaned for years. “Due to this, the fertile agriculture land was becoming barren. I was sitting idle since I did not get any job under the MGNREGA. Then I thought that I should clean the canal so that water reaches its tail-end and we are able to grow food grains to feed our children," he says. Another labourer, Ramswaroop, says people from nearby villages have donated food to them, which is being cooked by women involved in the “sharmdaan”. Gulabrani, Mamta, Sumitra and Rani are among the women taking care of the task. They have named their kitchen "Shramdaan Rasoi". At present, 65-70 people are involved in the initiative, says Gulabrani. "Till a few years ago, crops were irrigated by water from this canal. But for the past two to four years due to the non-cleaning of silt, there was a shortage of water," she says. Sumitra, who is also cooking food with Gulabrani, says if every agriculture field gets water, crops can be produced and people will not have to “go to other places to earn a living”. Meanwhile, the Executive Engineer of the Irrigation Department in Banda, Sharad Singh, said, "As we got news on Saturday of labourers doing the 'shramdaan', a departmental staffer was sent.” “We spoke to them over the phone. Their work is praiseworthy. We offered to pay wages but they did not agree to it," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-work-for-them-under-mgnrega-uttar-pradesh-villagers-take-up-canal-cleaning-project-on-their-own-854757.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi Police reaches out to personnel to address stress||Delhi Police personnel have been among the frontline workers during the Covid-19 outbreak, which has not only put them at a greater physical health risk but also amplified their stress levels due to personal reasons, officials said. There is a 30-year-old constable who now sanitises his hands at a gap of every two or three minutes and remains isolated from family members even at home. He also has sleep disorders now that developed around March 15, when the pandemic threat had started to peak, they said. In another case, a 42-year-old sub-inspector, who lost his mother due to Covid-19, is overly stressed thinking he or his family might contract the infection now. A woman personnel, who is spending more time at home during the pandemic, is tensed because her family wants her to get married but she feels that as a sole bread earner of the family she needs to take care of her younger brother, who has health issues, and her elderly mother.  There are also personnel who are stressed due to domestic issues like some property dispute in their native districts outside Delhi, or physical health issues such as blood pressure or diabetes too. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Police has initiated a campaign to reach out to its personnel who are distressed due to personal or health issues and provide them with expert professional help, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Sanjay Bhatia said. The campaign, 'Healthy Police, Happy Police,' has been initiated by the central district, which has a staff of 2,705 personnel, several of whom have informed their seniors about stress due to personal reasons and have sought counselling, he said. The whole process is confidential to respect the privacy of police personnel seeking help, the DCP said. "In the time of the spread of coronavirus pandemic, police personnel are performing duties under challenging circumstances. This not only results in physical but also psychological stress," Bhatia said.  "Under the campaign, all police personnel posted in the district were sent a health problem questionnaire and their health status was taken in a sealed envelope. "These health-related problems were classified under three categories-physical problems, psychological stress and domestic problems. Based on the information received a counselling session will be held periodically, whereby the problems of police personnel will be heard by expert physicians, psychologists and domestic problem counsellors and expert guidance will be provided," he said.  A total of 2,705 such forms were distributed to the personnel in the central district and so far 1,500 filled forms have returned, they said. Around 150 personnel, which include both male and female, have sought help for stress issues, while another 100 have sought administrative assistance for other problems, like leave or work hours, the officials told PTI. The first such session with a batch of 30 personnel in attendance took counselling from professionals on June 26, they said. "The police approach is to identify such cases among its personnel and provide them help so that problems do not escalate. It is to ensure the overall wellbeing of our personnel," Additional DCP Sikandar Singh said. "We will provide them with counselling and also follow up their cases by seeking their feedback on counselling sessions to know if it is really helping them. Any changes required will be made accordingly," Singh said. Clinical Psychologist Kaartik Gupta, who was one of the expert counsellors who interacted with policemen as part of the 'Healthy Police, Happy Police' campaign, said he observed cases of anxiety, sleep disorder and stress during the first session on June 26. "Such health issues need more sessions of psychotherapy over a period of time. It is obvious that not many people open up with experts initially. In some cases, medication or long terms of psychotherapy could be required, which will be handled accordingly," Gupta said. During the first session, the counsellors got an average 20 to 25 minutes each with a personnel with the experts saying this duration could ideally be around 45-50 minutes. Police officials said they are considering re-organising batch sizes for counselling sessions as it is only for the first time that some initiative like this has taken place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-police-reaches-out-to-personnel-to-address-stress-854760.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government deceiving people with promise of jobs: Lallu||The Uttar Pradesh Congress on Sunday accused the Yogi Adityanath government of deceiving people with a promise to provide 1.25 crore jobs and said its claims are "false" and not synonymous with the ground reality. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said the government promise of providing 1.25 crore jobs "is false, and cheating (thagi)". He alleged the government is claiming that the work people are doing in villages as the jobs it has provided, adding, "The public will not forgive it for this cheating and scam (gorakh dhanda)." Lallu said the ground reality is something else. "Every day, at one place or the other, people are committing suicides because of economic hardships," he added. He said a migrant labourer, who had returned from Surat to Amlohra village in Banda district, committed suicide on Friday. "From Banda district alone, news reports of 20 persons ending their lives have come. Who is responsible for their deaths? If people are getting employment, then why are they forced to commit suicide," he asked. "The coronavirus pandemic has brought economic devastation. Industries like glass, brass, carpet, weaving, furniture, leather, hosiery, dairy, earthen utensils, fishery-hatchery have experienced a strong shock. The condition of lakhs of weavers in the state is very bad. Cottage and small scale industries are facing the wrath of recession. But the government did not help them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-deceiving-people-with-promise-of-jobs-lallu-854766.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||BJP burns effigies of 'pro-China' Kamal Nath||In a  seeming role reversal, ruling BJP on Sunday burnt effigies of state Congress president Kamal Nath, accusing him of tweaking with the government policies to benefit China as union commerce minister in the Dr. Man Mohan Singh –led UPA government. The move is being viewed as a clever BJP ploy to turn the heat on the former chief minister ahead of the by-elections for 24 seats due sometimes in September. Never before in the state’s history has a ruling party burnt effigies of the state’s top opposition leader. The effigy-burning protest was organised across the state in defiance of prohibitory measures for Covid-19. The police force was deployed to facilitate the protests instead of taking action against potential violators of social distancing norms in public places.    Ironically, the Bhopal police were quick to register an FIR against former chief minister Digvijay Singh and his 150 supporters on the charge of violating social distancing norms when they organised a bicycle rally last week to register protest against continuous rise in prices of petroleum products.   State BJP president VD Sharma, who led to effigy-burning in Bhopal, alleged that as union commerce minister Kamal Nath drastically lowered custom duties on import from China on many products which were easily available in India. His decision rendered a large number of small artisans and traders jobless and damaged the cottage industry in India, the BJP leader added. A day ago, BJP national vice president Prabhat Jha had accused Kamal Nath of having acted as a Chinese agent for the benefit of the Gandhi family.   Reacting to the allegations, Kamal Nath said the BJP is resorting to diversionary tactics to deflect attention from the Modi government’s failure in dealing with Chinese incursion in Laddakh. “All these allegations against me are baseless but the BJP is disingenuously trying to dig up old matters to create a smokescreen of lies”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-burns-effigies-of-pro-china-kamal-nath-854787.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||2,889 new Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi, tally surges past 83,000; death toll climbs to 2,623||Delhi recorded 2,889 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally in the city over the 83,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 2,623, authorities said. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947, cases till date. Recently, Delhi had eclipsed Mumbai as the city worst-hit by the pandemic in the country. Sixty-five fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department bulletin said on Sunday. The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi stood at 2,558 on Saturday. The bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 2,623, and the total number of cases mounted to 83,077.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2889-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-delhi-tally-surges-past-83000-death-toll-climbs-to-2623-854788.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Final semester exams postpones in Punjab universities till July 15||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced the postponement of final semester exams in all the universities and colleges of the state till July 15. He made the announcement while responding to concerns expressed by students and parents on the conduct of examinations amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The final decision on the subject will, however, be subject to the new directions/guidelines expected to be released by the University Grants Commission (UGC) any time, a state government release said. Seeking to allay uncertainty on this count, Singh said the postponement till July 15 will also give all the stakeholders, especially the universities, time to adapt and align to the new guidelines that will come from the UGC. The chief minister felt there was a need to remove confusion from the minds of students, teachers and parents regarding safe conduct of examinations, the release said. Punjab's universities had taken a decision to conduct exams of exit classes in the month of July 2020, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the UGC on April 29. The UGC had then announced that it would review the situation again. However, the decision regarding academic activities, especially conduct of examinations, is still awaited from the UGC. The chief minister has been repeatedly pointing out that since all the universities and colleges in Punjab are accredited/affiliated to the UGC, any decision on the exams can only be taken by the statutory body under the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/final-semester-exams-postpones-in-punjab-universities-till-july-15-854793.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Kamal Nath a disgrace who had favoured China: Madhya Pradesh CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday dubbed his predecessor and senior Congress leader Kamal Nath "Kalank Nath" (disgrace), saying he had favoured China by his actions as Union commerce minister in the erstwhile UPA government. Addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers of Chhattisgarh from Bhopal, Chouhan said Nath had favoured China when he was heading Union commerce and industry ministry in the erstwhile UPA government. "Kamal Nath is also a friend of China. When he was commerce and industry minister, he had slashed import duty which had allowed China to dump their goods in India and to loot our country. He is not Kamal Nath, he is 'Kalank' Nath," Chouhan said. The chief minister also blamed Nath for "doing nothing" when the latter was at the helm in Madhya Pradesh before March this year. "Nath was busy with preparations for holding an IIFA awards event," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-a-disgrace-who-had-favoured-china-madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-854811.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||No storm can continue forever: Vice President Naidu on Covid-19 pandemic||Asserting that the Covid-19 pandemic cannot continue forever, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday urge people to take all precautions to keep the killer virus at bay as the country emerges from the nationwide lockdown and enters the “unlock” phase. In a Facebook post, he appealed to the people to stay calm and have a firm belief that "no storm can continue forever." Naidu noted that most of the countries have ended the lockdowns and have started focusing on economy. He said the government is taking continuous measures to boost the economy and asked everyone to support it by taking necessary precautions and following the guidelines. Calling upon the people to collectively fight against this unprecedented health crisis, the vice president said India’s strength lies in its faith in spirituality and trust in science. He advised people not to press the “panic button” but reach out for the “prevention and protection buttons”. Maintaining that the solution to Covid-19 lies in precautions, the vice president listed simple steps such as the use of face masks, practising safe distancing and washing of hands frequently as the only known ways of staying safe. Along with these steps, he also suggested the use of traditional foods, herbal and medicinal plant preparations that have proved to be great immunity boosters. Asking people to stay connected with family and friends, he wrote that technology can help them enjoy the feeling of togetherness. Cautioning people not to get carried away by sensational news or "panic-inducing" social media posts, Naidu asked them to refrain from forwarding unfounded and unverified messages. The vice president also opined that there could not be an easy or definitive answer to questions such as 'how long will the restricted lifestyle last and when will we return to our normal lifestyle?' "We have to probably live with both the uncertainty of the duration of the pandemic and the stress it has induced," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-storm-can-continue-forever-vice-president-naidu-on-covid-19-pandemic-854812.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Number of Covid-19 containment zones climbs to 421 in Delhi after re-mapping||The number of COVID-19 containment zones in Delhi has risen to 421 after a re-mapping of such areas -- an increase of 141 zones -- in the last two days, with the Southwest district topping the chart. According to an official, around 2.45 lakh people were screened in the national capital till Saturday night in a mammoth exercise to check the spread of COVID-19. Officials said the count of containment zones is expected to jump further as the authorities in some districts are yet to complete the task of redrawing such areas, following the Centre's directions. Before the re-mapping exercise, the number of containment zones was 280 in the national capital on June 25, an official said. The exercise was launched on June 26. Another official said Southwest Delhi has reported a rise of 37 containment zones since the re-mapping exercise was launched, taking the number of such areas in the district to 80. According to a list of the COVID-19 containment zones issued by the government, there are 421 such areas in the national capital. North Delhi district has 59 containment zones, followed by South Delhi (56), Central Delhi (40), Shahdara (38), East Delhi (33) Southeast Delhi(32), Northwest Delhi (28), West Delhi (25), New Delhi (21) and Northeast Delhi (nine). "Till Saturday night, we have screened around two lakh people for COVID-19 in a house-to-house survey being conducted across the city. Also, 45,000 people have been screened in the containment zones," an official told PTI. The process of screening every household in the national capital has to be completed by July 6. According to the 2011 Census, there were over 34.35 lakh households in Delhi, including 33.56 lakh in urban areas and 79,574 in rural areas. According to the COVID-19 response plan issued by the Delhi government, the re-mapping of the containment zones is to be completed by June 30. Under the new rules, the authorities have to delineate the containment zones on a micro level, instead of big ones. At least 1,100 teams comprising two members each have been formed to screen the national capital's population for COVID-19.  The teams are armed with a mobile application -- SS Corona -- which will send real-time details to a dedicated web portal set up by the government. Apart from basic details like name, age, address and contact number, the teams are feeding the mobile application with information such as every individual's travel history, whether or not they use the Centre's Aarogya Setu app and if they have symptoms of influenza. The same mobile application was being used in carrying out the screening in the COVID-19 containment zones, officials had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-covid-19-containment-zones-climbs-to-421-in-delhi-after-re-mapping-854823.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Jawaharlal Nehru responsible for Indo-China conflict: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday alleged that then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru and the Congress are responsible for the border conflict between India and China. He also attacked Congress top brass over donations allegedly received by Sonia Gandhi-headed Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) and accused former party chief Rahul Gandhi of "demoralising" the Army with his statements. "No Prime Minister from the Congress party had ever dared to build a road on the Indian side adjoining China. Why China is frustrated now? "It is because the Narendra Modi government has constructed roads on borders. China is frustrated because it is thinking that if India continues to grow then it will be the only country in the world which can defeat them," Chouhan said while addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers of Chhattisgarh from Bhopal. He also warned China of consequences for its actions against India. "...China be careful. You (China) cannot cause any harm to India but if 130 crore people of this country (show their resolve) then China will be devastated and ruined," the chief minister said. From the recent face-off in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, China must have understood very well that contemporary India is not what it used to be way back in 1962, he said. "India is now being led by Narendra Modi. Our PM has clearly said that we never provoke anyone, but we will also do not compromise if anyone provokes us. "Our Army personnel have taught a strong lesson to China and given a befitting reply to Chinese soldiers(in the Galwan valley). I bow my head to our brave soldiers who have sacrificed their lives," he said. Chouhan said a new India with a different identity is emerged under the leadership of Modi. "...Recall those days when China used to show eyes (agression) to India while Pakistan, Sri Lanka and other small countries used to threaten us. Have Congressmen forgotten who had raised the slogan of 'Hindi-Chini bhai bhai' in this country? "Nehru ji kept on raising the slogans but did not realise when China entered our borders (in 1962)," he said. "A member of parliament had raised the issue (of China occupying Indian land during the 1962 war while speaking in Parliament), to which Nehru had replied saying 'what we should do with a piece of land where not a single blade of grass grows'. "'That MP then pointed at Nehru's head and said nothing grows on your head, so should it be thrown away considering it as useless?' Nehru's statement shows his and the Congress party's thinking towards our holy land which was termed by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee as 'jeeta Jagta Rashtra purush'," Chouhan said. He alleged that it was Congress which gave birth to Indo-china conflict. "Modi ji will now find its permanent solution," the CM added. He further attacked Congress over the allegations of donations received by the RGF from China in 2005-06. "Sonia Gandhi ji should clarify about the Congress' connection with China...Due to a mistake committed by one family, China occupied 43,000 sq kms of land of India. The Congress should apologise to the nation," he added. BJP president J P Nadda had on Saturday alleged that the RGF, which is headed by Sonia Gandhi, received donations every year from the Chinese embassy between 2005-09 and from the "tax haven" of Luxembourg, which is full of "hawala transactions", between 2006-09. Chouhan also targetted Rahul Gandhi, saying the latter's comments on the Indo-China border conflict are "demoralising" to the Army. "The Congress has committed a sin and offence by demoralising the Army. Rahul Gandhi asks questions. Rahul Baba when you will get wisdom? Your mental age does not seem to have grown beyond five or seven years. How unfortunate that the Congress party has got such a leader. The country will not forgive Rahul Gandhi and his party," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawaharlal-nehru-responsible-for-indo-china-conflict-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-854825.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Cremation of Covid and non-Covid dead going on smoothly, no bodies piling up: North DMC to HC||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC) has told the Delhi High Court that cremations of both Covid and non-Covid dead is going on smoothly and bodies are not piling up at any of the crematoriums in the city. The submission by the corporation was made in an affidavit filed in the high court in response to a PIL by an NGO, which operates green crematoriums in Delhi, offering its facilities to cremate the bodies of those who have died of Covid-19. The corporation has also said the NGO -- 'Mokshda Paryavaran Evam Van Suraksha Samiti' -- was already operating six green crematoriums at Nigambodh Ghat and allowing it to operate more would only create confusion. It said the NGO, represented by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, moved the court before submitting any proposal to the corporations and therefore its plea was premature and liable to be dismissed. Presently, the six green Mokshda furnaces and 50 wood-based pyres are being used to dispose of non-COVID dead bodies, the affidavit stated. Besides that 57 wood-based pyres and three CNG furnaces are being used to cremate coronavirus casualties, it said. The corporation has further said it presently handle 367 Covid-19 bodies per day, which is more than twice of the current average requirement, and therefore, "there is no piling up or waiting of COVID-19 dead bodies at Nigambodh Ghat or any other crematorium of North DMC at any point of time, and are disposed of with dignity". It said all three corporations have sufficient space available to increase the cremation capacity and also accommodate both the Covid and non-Covid dead bodies. It said disposal of Covid-19 bodies was going on smoothly without any waiting at any of the crematoriums all of which were functioning 24x7. The other measures taken by the corporation are allowing the cremation on wood pyres at Punjabi Bagh, Punchkuiyan Road cremation ground, Karkardooma cremation ground and the electric crematorium at Lodhi Road, the affidavit said. North MCD has also said that Nigambodh Ghat crematorium ground is presently working in two sections -- one for Covid casualties and other for non-Covid dead -- and the area is divided into two parts to avoid spread of the virus. The National Disaster Management Authority, in its response, said as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act, its responsibility is to lay down policies, plans and guidelines for ensuring effective and timely response to any calamity. Accordingly, it has issued 'Guidelines for Management of Dead in the aftermath of disasters'. "In the present matter, it is for the Delhi government or relevant municipal authorities to take a decision on whether to allow a green crematorium unit for disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims in accordance with the guidelines issued by both NDMA and Ministry of Health," the authority has said in its affidavit filed in response to the NGO's plea. The NGO filed a petition offering its services after coming to know about the PIL initiated by the court on its own based on news reports about the lack of facilities to cremate those who have died of Covid-19 and that such bodies were piling up in the mortuaries. An anguished high court had said if this was the correct situation then it was "highly dissatisfactory and violative of the rights of the dead".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cremation-of-covid-and-non-covid-dead-going-on-smoothly-no-bodies-piling-up-north-dmc-to-hc-854826.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||UP govt planning to increase number of daily Covid-19 tests to 25,000 by June 30||The Uttar Pradesh government is planning to increase the number of Covid-19 tests to 25,000 per day in the state by June 30. Chairing a meeting of government officials here, Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary RK Tiwari issued directions saying more tests should be conducted, so that the infected persons could be identified and isolated. "The daily testing capacity of the state should be increased to 25,000 from the existing 20,000. Efforts should also be made to increase the number of beds, staff and equipment in hospitals," Tiwari said. Referring to a large-scale campaign that will start from the Meerut division in July, under which a house-to-house survey will be undertaken, the official said, "Under the special programme, a door-to-door-medical screening will be done. The health department should prepare a roadmap to ensure that all the houses are screened within the stipulated time-frame." "The houses should be marked, as it is done during pulse polio immunisation. If Covid-19 symptoms are found in anybody, he should undergo antigen and pulse oximeter tests. If the infection is detected, he should immediately be admitted to a Covid hospital," Tiwari said in a statement here. He also said in the Covid-19 containment zones, only essential and medical services should be allowed. "Covid helpdesks" should be set up at government offices and industrial units, where people gather in large numbers, the chief secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-planning-to-increase-number-of-daily-covid-19-tests-to-25000-by-june-30-854827.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 deaths at Lok Nayak Hospital reduce by half in last fortnight||The number of deaths at the Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest COVID-19 dedicated hospital here, has decreased by around 50 percent in the last two weeks, officials said on Sunday. "The number of deaths in the hospital has decreased from 100 in the week from June 6 to June 12 to 51 in the week between June 20 to June 26," an official said. The reduction is due to the improvement in facilities, streamlining of processes at the LNJP and the significant increase in the number of beds and ICUs in other hospitals in Delhi, he said. Of the 5,777 coronavirus positive patients admitted to LNJP since March 17, when the government declared it a COVID-19 dedicated hospital, 4,169 patients have recovered fully, the official said. The number of ICU beds in the LNJP has been increased from 64 to 100. This also helped in saving the lives because patients with extreme comorbidities are transferred to ICUs as soon as their condition worsens, he said. The official said a hundred more beds will be added to the ICUs. There are 80 ventilators in the hospital, of which 21 are vacant, he said. The bed capacity in the casualty ward of the hospital has been increased from 25 to 40, which means that if there is an inflow of patients in bulk, they can be treated as soon as possible and to ensure there are no deaths, the official said. On Thursday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also launched a video call facility for coronavirus patients admitted to the hospital to talk to their loved ones. "We have installed tablets in coronavirus wards and at a counter outside. These can be used by patients and their relatives for video calling," Kejriwal had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-deaths-at-lok-nayak-hospital-reduce-by-half-in-last-fortnight-854828.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh BJP blames Kamal Nath for 'favouring' China; burns effigies||Amid India-China standoff, the BJP in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday accused senior Congress leader Kamal Nath of favouring the neighbouring country during his tenure as the Union minister under the UPA government. Leaders and workers of the saffron party on Sunday held protests against Nath in parts of the state, wherein they burnt his effigies alleging that he had reduced the import duties on 250 items manufactured in China when he was the Commerce and Industries Minister. However, the Congress hit back saying that the BJP was targeting Nath as the party-led government cannot fight China. "Nath ji, as commerce and industries minister, reduced the import duties on 250 items manufactured in China," MP BJP president V D Sharma, who led the protest in Bhopal, said. "In connivance with China, he gave exemptions ranging from 40 to 200 per cent in import duty on the products that were also available in our own country," he added. Another BJP leader said, "As part of the protest, we burnt Kamal Nath's effigies in around 1,000 places in the state," a BJP leader said. He claimed that the protest was the party's way of expressing anger against the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister. MP Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said the BJP was targeting the Congress and Nath as their government cannot fight China and push back its soldiers, "who have occupied India's territory". "They are targeting Nath as they know that under his leadership, the Congress is going to win the by-elections to 24 assembly seats and bounce back to power in the state," he added. "Nath is an honest politician, who put the country first," he said, alleging that the ruling BJP has ruined the country in the last six years. Meanwhile, a Congress leader said that the party was planning to hold a statewide protest against the BJP. Addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers of Chhattisgarh from Bhopal on Sunday, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also dubbed Kamal Nath as "Kalank Nath" (disgrace), saying he had favoured China by his actions as Union commerce minister in the erstwhile UPA government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-blames-kamal-nath-for-favouring-china-burns-effigies-854843.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan succumbs to Covid-19, death toll in central force now 9||A 53-year-old Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) official succumbed to the novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths in the country's largest paramilitary force to nine, officials said. This is also the 25th death among the five Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) -- CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB. The sub-inspector rank official, posted in the 9th battalion of the force, was recently administered plasma therapy at AIIMS, Jhajjar, where he was admitted, the officials said. He breathed his last on Sunday, they said. He hailed from Assam's Nagaon district, they added. This is the second death in the CRPF in two days after a 43-year-old official passed away in Delhi on Saturday. The 3.25 lakh personnel-strong CRPF accounts for about 1,057 of more than 3,350 COVID-19 cases reported till now in the five CAPFs and two other central forces -- the NSG and the NDRF. According to latest data, there have been 944 coronavirus cases in the Border Security Force (BSF), 740 in the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), 313 in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), about 184 in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 139 in the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and 70 in the National Security Guard (NSG). Out of these, over 2,100 personnel have been cured and about 1,300 are under treatment at various health facilities across the country, the data said. Thirty-three new Covid-19 cases were reported in the BSF, six in the ITBP and four in the CRPF on Sunday. These forces have reported 25 deaths due to the disease till now. Seven fatalities have been reported in the CISF, five in the BSF, and two each in the ITBP and the SSB. These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations, and disaster rescue and relief under the command of the Union home ministry||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-succumbs-to-covid-19-death-toll-in-central-force-now-9-854847.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Withdraw statement on Galwan Valley: Ashok Gehlot to PM Narendra Modi||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw his statement at an all-party meeting, claiming that he had given a certificate to China that it did not intrude into Indian territory or capture any post. "The prime minister should tell the people of the country what happened on the border,” Gehlot told reporters at a video conference while referring to the Ladakh's Galwan Valley clash between soldiers of both countries. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in the clash. “The way the PM told the opposition at the meeting that China did not intrude into our land and capture any post, he knowingly or unknowingly gave a certificate to China. He should withdraw his statement," the Congress leader said. At the June 19 meeting to discuss the situation along the India-China border, Modi said, “Neither is anyone inside our territory nor is any of our post captured.” The Congress later said the remark implied that there was no Chinese intrusion at all. The Prime Minister’s Office termed this a “mischievous interpretation” of the Modi’s statement. “The prime minister’s observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces," the PMO clarified. Gehlot claimed that the Chinese media welcomed the PM’s statement. He is the only PM whose statement is being welcomed by China, Gehlot alleged. Gehlot also sought a clarification from PM Modi about why neighbouring countries are “against” India “despite good international relations”. He said it is the right of the people of the country to know the actual status on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "Isn't it a moral responsibility of the PM to take the people of the country in trust and clarify the status on the LAC," he asked. The Chief Minister said that Opposition is with the government and the PM without any pre-conditions but the situation that developed "despite good relations" is a matter of concern. "Why the PM is hesitating in telling the exact status that where they (China) will do the construction in Galwan Valley. Why are they not telling it,” Gehlot asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/withdraw-statement-on-galwan-valley-ashok-gehlot-to-pm-narendra-modi-854853.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Dietary department following all directions given by higher authorities: GTB Hospital||Amid complaints by Covid-19 patients about poor quality of food being served at government facilities, GTB Hospital on Sunday said its dietary department is "following all the directions" given by higher authorities. GTB Hospital, run by the Delhi government, was declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility on June 2. "The dietary department of GTB Hospital is serving meals, six times a day. In Covid time, we are giving one egg or one paneer, butter or jam, five seasonal fruits, three litres of water bottle, plus 10 extra one-litre bottles to each nursing station for additional requirement over and above our previous normal diet being served (before Covid crisis)," the hospital said in a statement. Besides these, fruit juice, coconut water and biscuits also will be served to Covid patents very soon, it said. Patients and their families over the past several months have alleged that quality of food served at many government-run facilities here not up to the mark. Since being declare a Covid-19 facility, "we are providing healthy, balanced and nutritious diet to all indoor patients and therapeutic diet according to patients' need and condition," a senior official said. The dietary department is "following all the directions given by higher authorities" and the whole team is working with full dedication in the interest of patient care, so that COVID-19 patients are provided healthy, hygienic and homely diet for quicker recovery, it said. Meals are being served in covered disposable plates, cups in view of maintaining hygiene and sanitation level. Now, 'chapattis' are also being made via fully automatic chapatti-making machine, the statement said. Besides, hospital authorities have decided to provide video-call facility between admitted patients and their relatives, as attendants are not allowed. A trial run on a few patients was done on Saturday and it is likely to be made available to all soon. According to hospital authorities, 283 patients with Covid-19 were admitted to the hospital by Saturday 10 am, of them 25 patients were in ICU and 10 on ventilator support, while 202 patients have been discharged. GTB Hospital in east Delhi had started a 24-hour admission helpline number -- 9625900725 -- from June 3. A 24-hour call centre was also established on June 13 for inquiry related to status of indoor patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dietary-department-following-all-directions-given-by-higher-authorities-gtb-hospital-854855.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||UP govt cheating state's unemployed workforce with promise of jobs: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday accused the Yogi Adityanath-led government of cheating the unemployed people of Uttar Pradesh in the name of giving them employment. Addressing a virtual press conference, AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh, while raising questions about Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath having provided 1 crore jobs to people of the state, said, "At the national level in 2019, people got work under MGNREGA for 52 days, while in Uttar Pradesh, it was merely for 42 days. Going by this calculation, the Yogi Adityanath government has given only Rs 8,442 to a family in one year." Claiming that this is the truth, the 48-year-old said the state government is making fun of unemployed persons by cheating them in the name of giving them jobs. Singh also said that no factory has been established in UP, which is ruled by the BJP, nor have any employment opportunities been created. He said the state government takes crores of rupees from unemployed persons in the name of filling forms, but the results of examinations were not put out. "If some results were declared, then they subsequently get stuck in the courts," he said. Referring to the India-China standoff, the AAP leader said, "To teach a lesson to China, the Centre should make a phase-wise plan to boycott Chinese goods. To hit China on the economic front, trade with China should be stopped." He said the entire country wants the martyrdom of soldiers to not go in vain while adding that the Central government should give a befitting reply to China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-cheating-states-unemployed-workforce-with-promise-of-jobs-aap-854857.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||Employees of 102, 108 ambulance threaten to disrupt services in Uttar Pradesh from June 29||Employees of the 102 and 108 ambulance alleged on Sunday that the company operating the services is duping the Uttar Pradesh government by raising fake bills and threatened to disrupt the services from Monday. They demanded a CBI probe into their allegation and claimed that their salaries are also pending. Hanuman Pandey, a senior office-bearer of the drivers' association of the ambulance services, said, "On paper there are around 19,200 workers, but in reality, there are hardly 16,000. Fake bills are being raised in the name of the remaining 3,000 people. We urge the government to order a CBI probe into it. If our demand is not met, we will bring the ambulance services to a halt across the state from Monday." Pandey also said, "There was an arbitrary salary cut and as many as 1,600 workers were shown the exit door by the company on Saturday." Rebutting Pandey's claims, Sunil Yadav, spokesperson of the GVK-EMRI, the company that runs the ambulance services, said, "There is no case of embezzlement of funds. Some external elements are trying to derail the ambulance service in this difficult hour of COVID-19 crisis. As far as the list of 1,600 employees is concerned, it is a list of those not coming to duty without informing the company or missing from duty for a long time. They have not been shown the exit door." Yadav said such lists are prepared every three-four months. "This is a routine process. Only a few workers' leaders of the ambulance service are trying to raise this issue," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/employees-of-102-108-ambulance-threaten-to-disrupt-services-in-uttar-pradesh-from-june-29-854864.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||84 new Covid-19 cases take Chhattisgarh tally to 2,694||With 84 new Covid-19 cases, the overall tally in Chhattisgarh increased to 2,694 on Sunday, where 2,062 patients have been discharged so far post-recovery, a health official said. Of the new cases, 25 were reported from Rajnandgaon district, 12 from Raigarh, nine from Bilaspur, eight from Kabirdham, seven from Durg, six from Gariaband, five from Raipur, four from Balodabazar, three from Janjgir-Champa and two from Kanker, he said. One case each was reported from Dantewada, Balrampur and Narayanpur districts, he added. Earlier in the day, 118 patients were discharged from different hospitals following their recovery, the official said. The number of active cases in the state is 619, as 2,062 people have been discharged after recovery while 13 others have died so far, he said. Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 figures are as follows: positive cases 2694, new cases 84, deaths 13, discharged 2062, active cases 619, people tested so far 1,54,526.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/84-new-covid-19-cases-take-chhattisgarh-tally-to-2694-854871.html
28-06-2020||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath offers prayers at Ram Lalla shrine in Ayodhya||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aadityanath on Sunday offered prayers at Ram Lalla shrine and inspected the ongoing ground levelling work to build a grand temple at the Ram Janmbhoomi site here. The chief minister arrived at Ayodhya after a night stay at Devipatan temple in Balrampur district, said officials. Adityanath on Saturday had visited Balrampur and Gonda to take stock of the law and order situation and work on some infrastructural projects in the two districts. He took a chopper from Gonda police lines and landed at Ayodhya airport early in the morning, said officials. After reaching Ayodhya, the chief minister visited the district hospital and met the patients admitted there, they said. He also held a meeting with all MLAs and MP of various constituencies in Ayodhya district and the district administrative officials at the Circuit House here. Later he reached the Ram Janmbhoomi site where he offered prayers to Ram Lalla and inspected the ground levelling work, which has been undertaken as a precursor to building a grand temple of Lord Ram. In a unanimous verdict on November 9 last year, the Supreme Court had cleared the way for the construction of a Ram Temple at the Ram Janmbhoomi site in Ayodhya, while directing the Centre to allot a five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board to build a mosque. Before visiting the Ram Janmbhoomi site, he chief minister also met Ram Mandir Trust president Nritya Gopal Das and other seers at Mani Ram Chawni temple, managed by Das. “The CM also discussed the present situation of coronavirus and the development works being done in Ayodhya," BJP MLA from Ayodhya, Ved Gupta told PTI. “The also told us that we have won half the battle against coronavirus and remaining half too would be won soon,” he quoted Adityanath as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-offers-prayers-at-ram-lalla-shrine-in-ayodhya-854872.html
28-06-2020||Oasis||Celebrations of life||Okinawa is a remote island south of mainland Japan, known for a high concentration of people living to be a hundred years or more. Even more remarkable is that these centenarians live not only a healthy life but also have the emotional and intellectual capacity to function independently. The experts attribute their healthy longevity to three Japanese concepts, namely, ikigai, moai and hara hachi bun. Ikigai refers to the happiness of being busy. This self-development concept brings satisfaction, happiness and meaning to life. Finding your Ikigai brings value in living and enhances one’s sense of worth. Okinawans have less desire to retire, as they choose the work they love and keep busy with what they are good at. The Okinawan idea of exercise is making physical activity a part of everyday life. The term moai in Japanese refers to meeting for a common purpose. The close-knit friends group serves as a support group that provides social, financial, health or spiritual interests. Originally, moais were formed to pool the resources of an entire village for projects or public works. Later on, the idea expanded to become more of a social support network, a cultural tradition for built-in companionship. Moai is formed even from a young age. A group of children would meet regularly with their moai for play, study and pool their precious resources to share. Some moais have lasted over 90 years! The third, a Confucian concept, ‘Hara hachi bun’ is a dietary rule which encourages everyone to eat only up to 80% full. By limiting the intake to near, but not quite a saturation, fewer calories are consumed but not less than one actually needs. As our brain is about 10-20 minutes behind our stomach, when we stop eating at 80% full, we are actually full. The Okinawan diet is largely plant-based. They eat a lot of green and yellow vegetables as well as whole grains, tofu, fish and other legumes. They eat very little sugar, meat, dairy or eggs. The vegetarian diet is inherently full of antioxidants, flavonoids, fibre, nutrients and is naturally low in calories.  To sum up, find your ikigai (which gives purpose everyday), surround yourself with friends and never fill up the stomach, then life becomes a celebration every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/celebrations-of-life-854846.html
28-06-2020||Opinion||It’s hard to be the next China, not impossible||By Andy Mukherjee  In the 1960s, Japan and Europe exported their way to post-World War II prosperity under the fixed exchange rates of the Bretton Woods agreement. The US went off the gold standard in 1971, but the established way of doing things didn’t collapse. Thirty years later, China essayed the role of being the world economy’s periphery and selling cheap widgets to a revamped core — the West and Japan — with the help of an undervalued exchange rate. This, as economists Michael P Dooley, David Folkerts-Landau and Peter M Garber noted in an influential 2003 essay, was Bretton Woods revived. The “China phase,” they said, would play out over 10 to 20 years as the world economy absorbed 200 million surplus rural Chinese workers at the rate of 10 million to 20 million a year. To that end, Beijing would acquire vast quantities of foreign-exchange reserves regardless of cost. And when China was done, India would take its place. Will it? One clue may lie in official reserves. By purchasing the public debt of a profligate center, a hardworking fringe signals its reliability; any threat to Western business investments, and the periphery’s holdings of US Treasuries and other safe assets could get cancelled. (Far-fetched as it may sound, the idea did get discussed recently when President Donald Trump's administration was contemplating punishing China for its handling of the coronavirus outbreak.)  By the time Dooley et al got down to writing, “The Revived Bretton Woods System’s First Decade” in 2014, China’s reserves were peaking, at about $4 trillion, from under $300 billion at the time of their original study. Just recently, India’s foreign-exchange stockpile crossed the $500 billion mark. In 1990, the country only had enough dollars to pay foreign suppliers for half a month. Now the reserves cover two years of imports.   Yet the domestic political discourse is harking back to a protectionist past. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants self-reliance. Other officials are coaxing Indians to buy local even if it means paying more. It doesn’t look like India sees itself as the world’s next factory, which requires openness. Emboldened by its recent free trade agreement with the European Union, Vietnam may be more suited to playing that role, even though the Southeast Asian nation of fewer than 100 million people lacks India’s labor power. Some of India’s retreat may be tactical and temporary. The US is still coping with China’s rise, and not in a mood to let another 200 million workers latch on to its customers. Industrialization of the periphery requires a fundamental restructuring of the labor force in the core, as the authors of Bretton Woods 2.0 warned. “No country has found a workable way to compensate its own losers.” The Western companies that chose China as a manufacturing location became vocal supporters of its developmental strategy and shielded it from politicians and labor unions in their home countries. This global businesses elite is no longer as powerful amid a rising anti-globalization tide almost everywhere. The threat of being branded a “currency manipulator” by the US Treasury also limits the extent to which the Reserve Bank of India can intervene in the foreign-exchange market.  India has its own constraints. After its Himalayan border with China witnessed the deadliest conflict between the nuclear-armed neighbors in 45 years, there’s little prospect for deeper economic engagement between the two. India’s trade with China is $50 billion in deficit, while that with the US is $22 billion in surplus. The talk of self-reliance in New Delhi may simply be code for weaning the economy off Chinese goods and capital. Hundreds of millions of pandemic-hit Indian workers need jobs, even if that means making things like solar panels that China can supply far more competitively.   The Western tech industry, which remains broadly excluded from China, will probably advocate for India. Even here, though, India’s powerful local business lobby will seek to define the rules of engagement. After investing billions of dollars in the country, Amazon.com Inc. still can’t maintain its own e-commerce inventory. Facebook Inc. has waited for two years for approval for its popular messaging service WhatsApp to send and receive payments. Eventually, investment banks will enable joint ventures and compromises. Indian tycoons’ wealth is tied to stocks traded in Mumbai. However, if they could float their businesses in New York — just as worried Chinese companies leave to seek listings closer to home — they would happily support an artificially low rupee. That would give them an export advantage while enabling them to be counted among the global rich. Bretton Woods could yet reload.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/it-s-hard-to-be-the-next-china-not-impossible-854621.html
28-06-2020||Opinion||OTR-28 June||Show goes on Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi addressed a press conference on Sunday, perhaps the first by a person who is recuperating from Covid-19 infection. Singhvi, a top lawyer and Rajya Sabha member, was found to be infected with the Sars Cov-2 virus about eight days back. He addressed the media through video-conferencing from a room where he is under quarantine. “Show must go on,” Singhvi said referring to his decision to do the presser. He said he was fully protected and did not have any serious symptoms. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  New puzzle  Madhya Pradesh Assembly’s budget session is scheduled to commence from July 20 but the Congress is still undecided about the leader of the opposition. State Congress president Kamal Nath is wary of dissent among the party MLAs on the issue to choose any one from them for the coveted post. In all likelihood, he will assume the charge of the leader of opposition along with the current post. He has indicated to the MLAs that leader of the opposition will be elected after the crucial by-election for 24 seats which is due sometime in September. The Congress is optimistic that if the party fights the election with united face, it can win 20 seats and return to form the ruling government, a position that it was forced to yield to the BJP in March this year following a revolt by Jyotiraditya Scindia and his 22 loyalist MLAs. Congress veteran Digvijay sigh is batting for his acolyte and former minister Dr Govid Singh while Kamal Nath is keen to see is confidante Sajjan Singh Varma on the post of leader of the opposition. Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal  Fight to power Over the decades Kerala has been witnessing the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the CPM-led Left Democratic Front coming to power alternately. For this reason, Congress has high expectations of coming back to power by next year. Ramesh Chennithala, the current opposition leader, has an obvious claim for the Chief Minister post if the Congress comes to power. But former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, who enjoys more popularity, is now seen more active in taking up issues. Also Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran’s recent controversial ‘Covid queen’ remark against Health Minister K K Shailaja was considered to be a strategy to grab more attention. But a recent statement of AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, who was recently elected to Rajya Sabha, that Kerala was still his base, seems to have become a cause for concern for those eyeing the CM seat. Arjun Raghunath,Thiruvananthapuram  Flamboyance The other day when the flamboyant former chief minister of J&K Farooq Abdullah was seen inaugurating an ice cream outlet in Srinagar, there was a hue-n-cry over social media. People questioned why Abdullah had kept mum over political issues in J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 last August. But when he has shunned talking and pursuing even his own brand of politics, what else is left for the idle old man to do than inaugurate an ice-cream outlet to cool himself off in this scorching heat. In the process, many say that Abdullah is trying to stay relevant with such antics to lure the gullible masses of Kashmir. Those expecting political miracles from him should not forget that the octogenarian politician is known for playing these tricks. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Hypocrisy?  Known for his sense of humour, Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Dr Jitendra Awhad chose to target Bollywood icons like Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar and Hema Malini for keeping mum on the rising petrol and diesel prices. “After protesting against prices during UPA regime, the legends finding a solution to fuel hike in Modi regime! @dreamgirlhema⁩ and ⁦@SrBachchan⁩ decide to get back #dhanno which they used in #Sholay for travelling,” he tweeted. In another tweet, he said, “Have you stopped using cars. Don’t you read the newspaper@akshaykumar, there has been a steep #PetrolDieselPriceHike just for your information.” Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/otr-28-june-854845.html
28-06-2020||Panorama||Can Covid-19 damage the brain?||For three months, Chelsea Alionar has struggled with fevers, headaches, dizziness, and brain fog so intense it feels like early dementia. She came down with the worst headache of her life on March 9, then lost her sense of taste and smell. She eventually tested positive for the coronavirus. But her symptoms have been stranger, and lasted longer, than most. “I tell the same stories repeatedly; I forget words I know,” she told me. Her fingers and toes have been numb, her vision blurry and her fatigue severe. The 37-year-old is one of the more than 4,000 members of a Facebook support group for Covid-19 survivors who have been ill for more than 80 days. The more we learn about the coronavirus, the more we realize it’s not just a respiratory infection. The virus can ravage many of the body’s major organ systems, including the brain and central nervous system. Among patients hospitalized for Covid-19 in Wuhan, China, more than third experienced nervous system symptoms, including seizures and impaired consciousness. Earlier this month, French researchers reported that 84 % of Covid patients who had been admitted to the I.C.U. experienced neurological problems, and that 33 % continued to act confused and disoriented when they were discharged. According to Dr. Mady Hornig, a psychiatrist and epidemiologist at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, the possibility that neurological issues “will persist and create disability, or difficulties, for individuals downstream is really looking more and more likely.” Infections have long been implicated in neurological diseases. Syphilis and H.I.V. can induce dementia. Zika is known to invade developing brains and limit their growth, while untreated Lyme disease can cause nerve pain, facial palsy, and spinal cord inflammation. One man with SARS developed delirium that progressed into a coma, and was found to have the virus in his brain tissue after his death.  Neurologists don’t think that every Covid patient will suffer brain damage — far from it. But the virus may, in effect, injure and thereby age the brain through a number of mechanisms that aren’t yet fully understood. It’s likely that these brain injuries aren’t that different from other kinds of insults that might accumulate over a person’s lifetime; the problem is that “Covid is a large bolus of these things at once,” said Dr. Majid Fotuhi, a neurologist and neuroscientist affiliated with Johns Hopkins. Dr. Igor Koralnik agrees. He runs the Neuro Covid-19 Clinic at the Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He expects that when recovered Covid patients go on to develop cognitive issues later in life, “their presentation is going to be worse because of the damage to the brain that was caused by Covid-19.” How does this happen? Research suggests that the coronavirus can directly infect neural cells, said Dr. Jeffrey Cirillo, a professor of microbial pathogenesis and immunology at Texas A&M University. The virus most likely replicates inside the cells and affects how they function. This viral invasion could cause patients to “have persistence of cognitive problems, or maybe they will have persistent seizures,” Dr. Koralnik said. In April, a 40-year-old Los Angeles woman with a headache, seizures and hallucinations was found to have the RNA from the coronavirus in her cerebrospinal fluid. Another way the coronavirus can damage the nervous system is indirect, through widespread inflammation caused by the body’s immune response. Inflammation “is bad for the brain, and we know that for a fact,” Dr. Fotuhi said. One of the leading theories in Alzheimer’s research is that inflammation drives the disease. Brain inflammation can also spark the creation of blood clots. Studies suggest that clots occur in up to 30% of critically ill Covid patients. These clots can permeate the brain, causing it “to function at a lower level,” Dr. Fotuhi said. They can also lead to strokes that starve the brain of oxygen. Studies from China and Italy have suggested that as many as 5% of hospitalized patients with Covid experience strokes, though a more recent N.Y.U. the study found the figure to be lower, at 1%, in hospitalized New York patients. If the inflammation becomes so severe as to involve a “cytokine storm,” in which a patient’s body in effect turns on itself, the blood-brain barrier can be breached, allowing more viruses and cytokines into the brain and ultimately killing brain cells. “It’s like the defense system is called to quiet a small riot in one neighbourhood, and all of a sudden, the whole military is ticked off and they don’t know what’s going on, they just go bomb everything,” Dr. Fotuhi said. A small number of patients with the coronavirus have gone on to develop Guillain-Barré syndrome, in which a person’s immune system attacks their own nerves, causing paralysis. Michele Hart, a 41-year-old psychotherapist in Colorado, is one of them. She began experiencing electrical, shocklike pains in her body, numbness in her extremities and stabbing pains down the side of her face in April. She went to the E.R., worried she might have the coronavirus, but they sent her home, saying her neurological symptoms weren’t consistent with the infection. When her blood pressure skyrocketed a few days later, she returned to the ER and this time was given a coronavirus test that came back positive. She was also diagnosed with Guillain-Barré syndrome. In addition to persistent memory problems and dizziness, she still struggles with nerve pain. “I have pins and needles and shooting nerve pain constantly, as well as burning sensations in my skin,” she told me. Given all of these concerns, neurologists argue that it is crucial to study Covid patients in order to understand how their nervous systems recover — or don’t. Dr. Cirillo, Dr. Koralnik and Dr. Hornig are all undertaking studies on the topic, but more research will be essential, they say. “People have been really slow to recognize this,” said Dr. Cirillo, but “we really need to know what the long-term repercussions are, as quickly as possible.” Among other things, research on the topic may be able to identify drugs or other treatments that can be given to Covid patients to reduce the risk of nervous system injury. Physicians also need to keep in mind that their Covid patients could benefit from cognitive and neurological assessments and prompt neurological treatment. Dr. Fotuhi, for one, believes that all patients hospitalized for the coronavirus should receive brain MRIs to identify nascent issues. So far during this pandemic, the medical community has largely — and understandably — been focused on keeping Covid patients alive. But we need to consider how the virus could shape the rest of their lives, too. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/can-covid-19-damage-the-brain-854842.html
28-06-2020||Panorama||`Tibet's independence key to India's national security’||The border dispute between India and China and India-Nepal has brought focus on the Chinese invasion of Tibet again. The Tibetan people who took refuge in India feel China was never a neighbour of India until Tibet was annexed by China in a proxy imperialist movement. “Tibet was a sovereign country and was invaded by China, it was only India that stood by us in the entire world and India even fought for us in 1962. The time has come for the Tibetans and the other democratic countries in the world to free Tibet from the clutches of China”, are the sentiments expressed by young Tibetans in India and few others studying in Canada, United States and in Europe. The Students for Free Tibet (India) which has roots in India but has assumed international dimension after the members moved on with their education in other countries, like Canada, the USA etc opine that India and the world have now understood the imperialistic nature of China and the change in the stance of Nepal, and Chinese aggression in Doklam and Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.  “I was born in Tibet and escaped to India when I was a little boy. I lost my nation under the occupation by the Chinese Communist Party. As a result, millions of Tibetans died either by military force or as the result of the occupation. It is my dream that I go back to Tibet and die there. Ever since my departure from the homeland, I have always missed my homeland. I always believe that Tibet will be a free nation again,” Younten Phuntsok, a Tibetan student studying in Canada felt.  A large community of Tibetan students, after completing their under-graduate education, have been pursuing their post-graduate education in Canada, the USA and in Europe, and are still active about their motherland.  They warn that what happened to Tibet can happen to India also.  “Before the invasion of Tibet, China was far away from Indian borders. Tibet was a neighbour of India. Now, China is trying to annexe Galwan Valley in Ladakh and soon it might even claim Jammu and Kashmir. This is the time for India to stand up and fight for the Tibetan cause as well as its own, in the international platform. India has got some recognition in the UNSC, it must push harder,” Rinzin Choedon, Director of the Student for Free Tibet Movement from Dharmasala points out.   “For centuries, Tibet and India enjoyed peace and friendship. China did not share a border with India until 1959. Over 1.2 million Tibetans have died as a direct result of China’s occupation of Tibet. However, Tibetans inside Tibet and in exile have never wavered in our struggle against the colonial occupation of our homeland,” Choedon added. Karnataka had been one of the most important centres of rehabilitation of Tibetan people. Their colony at Bylakuppe in Mysuru district has shown how progressive are the people of Tibet. Their good practices in agriculture, education, social movements and above all, their love for peace has been demonstrated amply. Tibetans here feel India and governments across the world must recognise Tibet as a separate, historically independent country that remains under China’s illegal occupation. The Tibetan students studying in University of Mysuru, St Aloysius College in Mangaluru, Kaveri College and Field Marshal Cariappa College in Madikeri and in few colleges of Bengaluru organise Tibetan National Uprising Day on March 10 every year since the 1960s. Socio-political history The ‘Shadow Tibet’ portal compiled by Jamyang Norbu for the Rangzen Alliance charts the socio-political history of Tibet: “Tibet was a fully functioning and independent state before the Chinese invasion. It threatened none of its neighbours, fed its population unfailingly year after year with no help from the outside world, and owed nothing to any country or international institution.” Although insular, theocratic and not a modern democracy, Tibet maintained law and order within its borders and conscientiously observed treaties and conventions entered into with other nations. It was one of the earliest countries to enact laws to protect wildlife and the environment – recurrently cited in the “Mountain Valley Edicts” issued since 1642, and possibly earlier. Tibet abolished capital punishment in 1913 (noted by many foreign travellers) and was one of the first nations in the world to do so. There is no record of its persecuting minorities. Although Tibet’s frontiers with India, Nepal and Bhutan were completely unguarded and Tibetans were “great travellers”, very few of them fled their country as economic or political refugees. There was not a single Tibetan immigrant in the USA or Europe before the Communist invasion, the portal says. This is also vindicated in the 2017 book by France-born author now settled in India Claude Arpi in ‘Tibet: Last Months of a Free Nation”.  “Tibet’s independence is key to India’s national security. China never shared its border with India until Tibet was illegally occupied by the People’s Liberation Army in 1949. India should at least now denounce ‘One China Policy’ and rethink its stand on Tibet,” said another student. Muzzaffar Assadi, head of the department of political science in the University of Mysore is of the opinion that Tibetan issues have cropped up again due to the pro-Chinese moves of Nepal. “China and Nepal belong to the same political ideology. Nepal in the post-King Birendra regime belong mostly to Communism. China might be looking at Nepal as a buffer state which might be a route to enter India for many reasons trade, strategic and even in war.” He added: “So, the Tibetan view is absolutely valid. But India’s support to Tibet can be more viable only when India can muster enough international support to stifle China, socially and more important, economically. China has to also introspect if it can still live with two ideologies - Communism in the mainland and capitalism in Hong Kong.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tibets-independence-key-to-indias-national-security-854844.html
28-06-2020||Right in the Middle||My mentor||I have been very lucky as I have been able to see two of my great-grandparents and learn from them. My great-grandfather passed away in 2011 when he was 103 years old. My great-grandmother who was 91 years then, would always wonder how many more years she would be able to live. Whenever we would visit her, my grandfather pushed me to spend some time with her. Sometimes willing while sometimes annoyed, I indeed spent a lot of time with her. Fondly called Valyammachi, she would tell me stories of her school days, her British principal who loved her, the time she wrote an exam when she was pregnant with my grand-aunt and many more. These stories often inspired me and I would wonder about what a crybaby I was while my great-grandmother lived a stress-free life even in the face of innumerable dangers and apprehensions. I still vividly remember the day that my younger brother Jewel and I carried her up the stairs to ring a bell just because we couldn't reach it. To this day, I feel amused and ashamed when my brother and I fooled her. Jewel who is skilled at mimicking the barks of a dog, mimicked them one day. My poor Valyammachi thought there was actually a dog outside and asked me to stay away from the gate.  Every year she used to gift us some pocket money from the pension she used to get so that we could buy clothes for ourselves. She was also an English teacher, and helped enhance my writing skills. Every year when we said goodbye at the end of our vacations, she would ask me in a sad voice, "Will I be able to see you next year Jesse? " Last year I replied "Valyammachi, come on, you say this every year. Next year also I will come and meet you!" Unfortunately due to the pandemic, we couldn't go to see her this time. Last time in May, when my grandfather video-called us I was shocked to see that Valyammachi was bedridden. On June 18th my uncle called to inform us of the sad demise of my 98-year old Valyammachi. While watching the live-streaming of her funeral, memories rushed in and silent tears trickled down my cheeks. Sad that was gone before turning a centenarian and happy that she had been such an amazing motivator and mentor to me, I hope that Valyammachi is in a happy place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-mentor-854841.html
28-06-2020||Second Edit||TN custody deaths: Deal sternly||The deaths in custody of a father and son after a night of torture at the hands of policemen in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district underscores the gross abuse of power by police personnel in India. The police reportedly took the father into custody for keeping his store open past Covid-19 curfew hours. When his son objected to them beating his father, they took him into custody as well. The two were thrashed mercilessly – batons were shoved into their anus too – through the night by around five policemen. Horrific details of their brutalised bodies have emerged; the violence police unleashed on them was barbaric and perverted. Two days later, both men were dead. The Tamil Nadu government has responded by transferring two of the policemen and extending monetary compensation to the family. This is just not enough. Gross abuse of power has taken place. While police filed FIRs against the victims with great alacrity, they are yet to file one against the police who tortured them. Questions are being raised whether the magistrate did not see the battered and bloodied bodies when they were brought before him, and whether he questioned the police about the arrest and custody. According to some reports, he allegedly gave the remand order without physically seeing the two men. The TN government has now said the case will be handed over to the CBI inquiry which is welcome. Close on the heels of the horrific incident in Thoothukudi has come another in Tamil Nadu’s Tenkasi district, where a 25-year-old man was beaten to death by police. Clearly, custodial violence is widespread in India. According to ‘India: Annual Report on Torture 2019,’ 1,606 people died in judicial custody and 125 in police custody in 2019. Of the 125 deaths in police custody, 14 were in Uttar Pradesh, followed by 11 each in Tamil Nadu and Punjab. There were three deaths in police custody in Karnataka. These figures do not capture the full extent of the problems as tens of thousands suffer custodial violence, do not die and prefer to remain silent. Police often justify their use of violence on those in their custody as necessary to extract confessions and to discipline habitual offenders. From where do these policemen draw their authority to use violence on people in custody for whatever reason? Their position? The lathi in their hands that they wield so freely? Are they not trained on procedures to be followed when a person is taken into custody? Stern action must be taken against policemen using violence on people in their custody. Such violence is illegal. It must be probed and punished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/tn-custody-deaths-deal-sternly-854838.html
28-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: Ammonia leak in private distillery kills senior manager||A pipeline blast and ammonia gas leakage has caused the death of a senior manager at SPY Agros, a private distillery, near Nandyala town in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. Four other staff who managed to escape from the spot are fine. With the Vizag LG Chem styrene leak mishap of 7 May fresh in their memory, people in the adjoining areas were alarmed by the incident. However, Kurnool collector G Veerapandian, who inspected the site, said that there was no need for the locals to panic. The leak was plugged, and the situation is brought under control, he said. The deceased is a 50-year-old general manager of the plant Srinivasa Rao. “The accident occurred inside the unit at about 9:45 AM on Saturday, when after some maintenance work, the production process began. The ammonia pipe blast occurred because of high pressure build-up. Unfortunately, the GM could not move out,” Veerapandian said.   “We could arrest the leak within a few hours. Entire premises and surrounding areas would be sanitized. No need for any worry for the locals,” the collector said. As a precaution, officials asked locals to be confined to homes and wash face with cold water if they felt any irritation, burning in the eyes.   In the wake of the LG Chem mishap, SPY Agros was also issued notices by the AP pollution control board and the inspector of factories, district officials told DH. The collector constituted a committee headed by General Manager of the Kurnool District Industries Centre to probe the incident and submit a detailed report within a week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-ammonia-leak-in-private-distillery-kills-senior-manager-854631.html
28-06-2020||South||Kerala sees spurt in child sexual abuse content during lockdown; police arrest 47||Kerala has witnessed a spurt in content on child sexual abuse available online during the Covid-19 lockdown. 47 persons were held by the police in a statewide covert operation on Saturday. As many as 143 devices, such as mobile phones, hard disks, memory cards and computers containing graphics, illegal videos and pictures of children were seized in the operation code-named P-HUNT 20.1. It was very distressing to notice that many of the videos and pictures were of local children between age group six to 15, said Additional Director General of Police and Nodal Officer of Kerala Police's Cyberdome, Manoj Abraham. Abraham said that the increase in online material on child sexual abuse came to notice during a digital analysis conducted by the Kerala Police's Countering Child Sexual Exploitation Team during the lockdown. Further in-depth probe found many social media groups, with over 200 members each were found sharing such pictures. Many obscene pictures and videos inside houses and flats were uploaded in recent times. Abuse of children locked up in their homes was evident from these. State Police Chief Loknath Behera ordered the statewide operation. Searches were carried out at 110 locations and 89 cases were registered. Those arrested include youngsters working in professional jobs. Most of them were IT savvy and hence encrypted handles were used to upload and download the material. Some were suspected to be involved in the trafficking of children, said Abraham. He said that many other social media groups were under police surveillance. According to law, viewing, distributing or storing of any child pornographic content is a criminal offense that can attract up to five years imprisonment and up to Rs 10 lakh fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-spurt-in-child-sexual-abuse-content-during-lockdown-police-arrest-47-854669.html
28-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu youth dies from wounds inflicted during custody; cops booked||In yet another case of alleged police violence, a 25-year-old auto-rickshaw driver from the Tenkasi district in Tamil Nadu, who was “beaten up mercilessly” by policemen during interrogation in a land issue a month ago, succumbed to his injuries. N Kumaresan from V.K. Pudur town in the district, who was receiving treatment at a Government Hospital in Tirunelveli since June 13, died on Saturday night. Narrating his son’s ordeal, Kumaresan’s father Navaneethakrishnan said his son was heavily assaulted by two policemen – Sub-inspector Chandrashekar and constable Kumar – including in his genital areas when he was summoned by the local police station on May 10. After outrage and protest by the locals, the two policemen have now been booked, hours after Kumaresan breathed his last. According to an FIR registered, the duo have been booked under Section 174(3) in The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 that deals with doubt regarding the cause of death. The incident has come to light even as the dust over the death of a father and his son in police custody in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district refuses to die down. “My son never told me about the torture he underwent at the police station on May 10 because the policemen had threatened him that they would book him under the stringent Goondas Act if he spoke about the incident to anyone. I got an inkling only on June 10 when he vomitted blood and complained of breathlessness,” Navaneethakrishnan told DH over the phone. The father then took Kumaresan to a local hospital on June 10 from where he was shifted to a Government Hospital in Tirunelveli on June 13. It is only while lying on the hospital bed, Navaneethakrishnan said, that his son narrated his ordeal to the doctor who suspected that the injuries inflicted upon him were not normal and asked him to “tell the truth.” “I was shell-shocked to hear what my son went through at the police station. He told the doctor that the sub-inspector made him sit on the floor and stamped him on his chest and his private parts at the same time. Kumaresan was then asked to sit straight after which the constable punched on his back heavily,” Navaneethakrishnan added. The father further added that his son told the doctor that he “kept quiet” as the two policemen threatened him of slapping “stringent laws” against him if he told about their excesses to anyone, including his father. As Kumaresan’s health condition worsened, the 25-year-old was shifted to the ICU of the hospital on June 17, where he breathed his last 10 days later on June 27. Navaneethakrishnan said he and his son were summoned to the police station on May 9 over a land dispute when the sub-inspector slapped Kumaresan and threatened him with “severe action” if he mustered the courage to question him. “We want justice for my son’s death. Policemen think they have the right to attack and assault anyone. This incident is similar to the one that took place in Sathankulam. There is no difference. My son died only due to injuries inflicted upon him by the policemen,” Navaneethakrishnan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-youth-dies-from-wounds-inflicted-during-custody-cops-booked-854670.html
28-06-2020||South||Retired cop dies of Covid-19 in Puducherry, 29 fresh cases reported||A retired police constable died of Covid-19 while 29 fresh cases were reported, taking the toll to 11 and the tally of infections to 648 in the Union Territory on Sunday, the government said. The 61-year old man succumbed to the virus at the JIPMER on Saturday, it said in a bulletin giving details of Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours ended at 10 am. A total of 512 samples were tested and of them 29 turned positive, taking the total cases to 648, it said. Active cases in Union Territory stood at 385 with the discharge of 252 patients and death of 11 people so far. As many as 209 patients were being treated at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital and 97 at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER), the bulletin said. Another 37 people were in COVID Care centres while two patients each had been admitted to hospitals in Cuddalore and Chidambaram in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Karaikal had 35 active cases followed by Yanam (2) and Mahe (1).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/retired-cop-dies-of-covid-19-in-puducherry-29-fresh-cases-reported-854709.html
28-06-2020||South||Not even hurtful language allowed, says Chennai police chief on arrest guidelines||Guidelines laid down for police on handling arrests or accused persons include not even using hurtful language against them, while beating them up was "unlawful," City Police Commissioner AK Viswanathan said on Sunday. His comments, made in response to scribes' queries here on the standard procedure in this connection, come in the backdrop of a national furore over the death of a father-son duo in a hospital in Tuticorin recently after they were allegedly thrashed while in police custody earlier. Popular Tamil cinema director G Hari, known for his blockbuster cop stories like 'Saamy,' expressed concern over the Tuticorin deaths and 'regretted' his glorifying the police in five of his action flicks. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hope-justice-is-served-family-of-father-son-duo-killed-in-custody-854478.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hope-justice-is-served-family-of-father-son-duo-killed-in-custody-854478.html Viswanathan, speaking to reporters here, said there are a number of guidelines, besides Supreme Court directions, vis-a-vis arrests. "Assault and torture (of the arrested) should not be done. As far as the Greater Chennai Police or the state police is concerned, we have reiterated that even language that could hurt someone should not be used," he said. "Beating up is wrong, unlawful. We have been insisting this to all officials, personnel and police stations," he added. P Jayaraj and his son Fennix, arrested for 'violating' lockdown norms over business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with the relatives alleging that they were severely thrashed at the Sathankulam police station by police personnel earlier. The incident had triggered a furore in the state, leading to the suspension of four policemen, including two sub-inspectors. Civil society members and activists, political parties and celebrities have demanded justice for the death of the father-son duo. Meanwhile, director Hari expressed concern over the Tuticorin deaths. He said a Sathankulam-like incident should not recur and said highest punishment for the culprits alone would ensure this. "The excesses of a few personnel in the department has maligned the entire force. I really regret making five films glorifying the police," he said in the statement. Known for his fast-paced action thrillers, Hari had churned out blockbuster cop stories 'Singam' and 'Saamy,' starring Surya and Vikram respectively in titular roles, following them up with sequels. Meanwhile, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder-president Kamal Haasan also sought justice for the father-son duo. In a statement, he said while financial assistance announced by the government was needed, however, the government should not stop with it. He called for a detailed probe into the matter, saying all concerned should be punished for their role in the incident. Meanwhile, a constable attached with the city police has been suspended pending enquiry following a social media post in connection with the Sathankulam incident. "The post maligns the police department," sources said. When enquired, the policeman revealed he had shared his Facebook account password with his friends and that someone had written the post of which he was not aware of. He has been since suspended for bringing disrepute to the police department and an enquiry has been ordered, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-even-hurtful-language-allowed-says-chennai-police-chief-on-arrest-guidelines-854712.html
28-06-2020||South||Rajinikanth condoles death of father-son duo in Tuticorin||Top Tamil actor Rajinikanth has conveyed his condolences to the family of a father-son duo in Tuticorin who died in a hospital after being allegedly thrashed in police custody. The superstar spoke to P Jayaraj's widow over the phone and conveyed his heartfelt condolences, the actor's publicist said in a tweet on Sunday. Jayaraj and his son Fennix, arrested for allegedly violating lockdown norms on business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with the relatives alleging that they were severely thrashed at the Sathankulam police station by police personnel. The incident had triggered a furore leading to the suspension of four policemen, including two sub-inspectors. Demands have been made for stringent action against the policemen. Meanwhile, BJP Tamil Nadu unit president L Murugan expressed hope there would be justice for the death of the two persons. "...the Sathankulam incident is a blot on the Tamil Nadu police," he said and added that action against the culprits was the need of the hour. He extended the BJP's support to the grieving family to get justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-condoles-death-of-father-son-duo-in-tuticorin-854716.html
28-06-2020||South||Uttar Pradesh govt's decision to start classes for MBBS students can jeopardize their safety: Priyanka||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday hit out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh for its decision to start classes for MBBS students, saying it can jeopardise the safety of the students. "At a time when coronavirus cases are rising across the country, UP government's decision to start classes for MBBS students can jeopardize their safety," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi. The UP government should take the matter of students' safety seriously and take a decision after due consideration, she said. Students are saying that online classes are already underway, therefore, it is necessary to listen to the students, take steps for their safety and a take a decision after understanding their and their families' concerns, she said. In a separate tweet, Priyanka Gandhi also attacked the UP government over a media report claiming mismanagement at a post-mortem house, saying despite government claims, news of terrible sufferings are coming in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/uttar-pradesh-govts-decision-to-start-classes-for-mbbs-students-can-jeopardize-their-safety-priyanka-854720.html
28-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu woman sets herself ablaze allegedly over chicken biryani||According to the report, Sowmiya died by suicide, because her husband brought plain biryani instead of chicken biryani. The couple lived in a two-storeyed building in Poonjeri village near Mamallapuram, Tamil Nadu and were married for 12 years. they also had two children, the daily reported. Sowmiya had asked her husband, Manoharan, to buy chicken biryani from a newly launched eatery, but, since the dish was sold out, he could only get the kuska (i.e biryani sans the meat). “Sowmiya was angry and refused to eat the plain biriyani. Later, Manoharan gave the biriyani to a neighbour and went to work,” a police officer told the daily. Following this, she set herself ablaze using petrol. She was admitted to Chengalpet government hospital, when their neighbour alerted the cops. She succumbed to the burns on June 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-woman-sets-herself-ablaze-allegedly-over-chicken-biryani-854728.html
28-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu government for CBI probe into death of father, son after alleged police torture||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to transfer the probe into the death of a father-son duo, alleged victims of police torture in Tuticorin district, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Sunday. The government's decision will be informed to the Madras High Court, which is seized of the matter, and secure its approval before transferring the case to the central agency, he told reporters here. "The government has decided that the CBI will probe the case," Palaniswami said. P Jayaraj and his son Fennix, arrested for 'violating' lockdown norms over business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with their relatives alleging they were severely thrashed at the Sathankulam police station by police personnel earlier. The incident has triggered a national furor, leading to the suspension of four policemen, including two sub-inspectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-for-cbi-probe-into-death-of-father-son-after-alleged-police-torture-854739.html
28-06-2020||South||Telangana govt launches Narasimha Rao's birth centenary fete; CM K Chandrasekhar Rao pitches for Bharat Ratna||The year-long birth centenary celebrations of former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao by the Telangana government got off to a start on Sunday with Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao making a strong pitch for conferring "Bharat Ratna" on the late leader, placing him on par with the country's first PM Jawaharlal Nehru. The Chief Minister paid glowing tributes to the late leader, who hailed from the state, at his 'samadhi' "PV Gyan Bhoomi" here on the occasion of his 99th birth anniversary, saying he was "proud son of Telangana" and recalled his contributions to the country, including ushering in bold economic reforms. Noting that Narasimha Rao did not get the due respect, he announced a slew of measures to honour his memory, including a memorial befitting his stature to be set up at the PV Gyan Bhoomi, kick-starting the birth centenary celebrations. Chandrasekhar Rao said the country's highest civilian award Bharat Ratna should be conferred posthumously on the late Congress leader, credited with leading the country through a critical phase during his tenure of 1991-96. Speaking at the event at PV Gyan Bhoomi, attended by several state ministers, opposition leaders and family members of Narasimha Rao, the TRS supremo said he would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with a delegation from the state and press the demand for Bharat Ratna. Chandrasekhar Rao had recently announced that the birth centenary would be celebrated on a grand scale with year-long programmes and that the state cabinet and the Legislature will adopt resolutions seeking the highest civilian award for the former prime minister. It is not just assembly and state cabinet passing resolutions... I will personally lead a delegation of family members, state cabinet and other important persons, and request the Prime Minister... we will mobilise PVs followers across the country and bring pressure on the Centre through them also, he said. Drawing a comparison between Nehru and Narasimha Rao, he said the latter did not get the respect which he deserved. While Jawaharlal Nehru ji who first started planning (for development) in the country was among the architects of modern India, it was PV Narasimha Rao, who initiated economic reforms ...created a global India. There is no doubt about it. He was in the same league as Nehru. PV was a personality who was on par with Nehru, he said. Hailing Narasimha Rao as a polyglot, a great freedom fighter and as a man who pushed reforms to transform the country, he said the former never boasted of his achievements or let others talk about them during his lifetime. As part of the start of the centenary celebrations, the state government erected hoardings in major metro cities in the country. The TRS leader said the centenary warranted grand celebrations as Narasimha Rao's towering personality needed to be brought to light fully. The chief minister announced that events during the year would be planned in such a way that they will witness the participation of President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former President Pranab Mukherjee and former prime minister Manmohan Singh among others. He said bronze statues of Narasimha Rao would be installed at his native place Vangara, Warangal, Karimnagar and Hyderabad in the state and at the Telangana Bhavan in New Delhi. A portrait of the late leader would be unveiled in the Telangana Legislature, he said, adding it should also be installed in parliament. .similarly, PVs portrait should be there in parliament also. They did not do it. The respect given to former Prime Ministers was not given to our PV. But, let's do it now. We will get it done. Let's fight. PVs portrait should be installed in parliament on a permanent basis, he said. The state government would set up a research centre named after the former prime minister in Kakatiya University and a national-level conclave would be held in Delhi to remember him, he said. It would urge the Centre to release a postal stamp in memory of Narasimha Rao and to name the Hyderabad Central University (HCU) after him. The Chief Minister said Narasimha Rao's birth centenary celebrations were being organised by Telangana people in 51 countries across the globe. Narasimha Rao's son Prabhakar Rao and daughter Vani Devi, who spoke on the occasion, recalled his contributions and thanked the state government for organising his birth centenary. Narasimha Rao was born on June 28, 1921, at Vangara in Karimnagar. He died on December 23, 2004.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-launches-narasimha-raos-birth-centenary-fete-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-pitches-for-bharat-ratna-854741.html
28-06-2020||South||Kerala government engaged SEBI banned firm for Rs. 4,500 cr project, alleges Congress||The opposition Congress in Kerala has alleged corruption in engaging a private firm that faced SEBI's ban for preparing a detailed project report for the Kerala government's e-mobility project. With the decision being taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala held the former responsible for the alleged irregularity. Chennithala said that the private firm was engaged for preparing DPR for an Rs. 4,500 crore project for purchasing 3,000 electric buses. It was mysterious why a London headquartered firm that faced SEBI's ban was engaged. Even as the order appointing the private firm for DPR preparation was issued by the Transport department, transport minister A K Saseendran maintained that he could give a reaction on the matter only after examining.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-engaged-sebi-banned-firm-for-rs-4500-cr-project-alleges-congress-854794.html
28-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu youth dies from wounds inflicted during custody; cops booked||In yet another case of alleged police excess, a 25-year-old auto-rickshaw driver from Tenkasi district in Tamil Nadu, who was “beaten up mercilessly” by two policemen during “interrogation” in a land dispute a month ago, has succumbed to his injuries. N Kumaresan from V.K. Pudur town in the district, who was receiving treatment at a Government Hospital in Tirunelveli since June 13, died on Saturday night. Narrating his son’s ordeal, Kumaresan’s father Navaneethakrishnan said his son was heavily assaulted by two policemen – sub-inspector Chandrashekar and constable Kumar – including in his private parts when he was summoned to the local police station on May 10. After outrage and protest by the locals, the two policemen have now been booked, hours after Kumaresan breathed his last. According to an FIR registered, the duo has been booked under Section 174(3) of The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. The section deals with doubt regarding the cause of death. The incident has come to light even as the dust over the death of a father and his son in police custody in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district has not settled as yet. “My son never told me about the torture he underwent at the police station for a month because the policemen had threatened him that they would book him under the stringent Goondas Act if he spoke about the incident to anyone. I got an inkling only on June 10 when he vomited blood and complained of breathlessness,” Navaneethakrishnan told DH. The father then took Kumaresan to a local hospital on June 10 from where he was shifted to a Government Hospital in Tirunelveli on June 13. It is only while lying on the hospital bed, Navaneethakrishnan said, his son narrated his ordeal to the doctor who suspected that the injuries inflicted are him were not normal and asked him to “tell the truth.” “I was shell-shocked to hear what my son went through at the police station. He told the doctor that the sub-inspector made him sit on the floor and stamped him on his chest and his private parts at the same time. Kumaresan was then asked to sit straight after which the constable punched on his back heavily,” Navaneethakrishnan added. The father further added that his son told the doctor that he “kept quiet” as the two policemen threatened him of slapping “stringent laws” against him if he told about their excesses to anyone, including his father. As Kumaresan’s health condition worsened, the 25-year-old was shifted to the ICU of the hospital on June 17, where he breathed his last 10 days later on June 27. Navaneethakrishnan said he and his son were first summoned to the police station on May 8 over the land dispute when the sub-inspector slapped Kumaresan and threatened him of “severe action” if he mustered the courage to question him. Two days later, his son was again summoned, when the excesses took place. “We want justice for my son’s death. Policemen think they have the right to attack and assault anyone. This incident is similar to the one that took place in Sathankulam. There is no difference. My son died only due to injuries inflicted upon him by the policemen,” Navaneethakrishnan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-youth-dies-from-wounds-inflicted-during-custody-cops-booked-854798.html
28-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to hand over case of custodial deaths of father, son to CBI||Tamil Nadu government on Sunday said it has decided to hand over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) the case regarding alleged custodial deaths of a father and his son in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district. The move is seen as a desperate measure to cool the tempers that have arisen due to the incident that has led to national outrage. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who had last week maintained that the duo died due to their existing medical conditions, said the government will seek the permission of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on June 30 to transfer the case to the CBI. The court had taken suo moto cognizance of the incident and has given specific instructions to the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate to carry out the inquest proceedings. “The government has decided to hand over the case to the CBI. We will move the court during the next hearing seeking permission for the same,” Palaniswami told reporters on Sunday, as the custodial deaths led to national outrage. The statement comes a day after the DMK threatened to move the court seeking a CBI inquiry if the government did not take necessary action. However, political analysts feel the case has been put on the back-burner by the Tamil Nadu government which has decided to transfer it to the CBI, which will take time to take over and investigate. They pointed out that the Tamil Nadu Police was well-equipped to probe this “open and shut” case which establishes that the policemen who handled the father-son duo erred big time. The announcement coincided with a statement from the Tamil Nadu Police that Sridhar, Inspector of the Sathankulam police station who was transferred out immediately after the incident, has been placed under suspension pending inquiry. The controversy over the custodial deaths refused to die down as records maintained at the Kovilpatti sub-jail, where the father-son duo spent two days after being “tortured” in police custody, confirm that they did possess injuries when they were brought to the prison. The records say the father and son had multiple marks on their buttocks – reinforcing claims by people close to the duo that they were sexually tortured by two policemen who took them forcibly. P Jayaraj (61), and his son Emmanuel Bennix (31), were taken into custody by police in Sathankulam town in Thoothukudi district on June 19 following an argument over keeping their shops open beyond 9 pm. The duo is alleged to have been tortured by police during custody and was shifted to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 21. However, the son died on June 22 and the father on June 23 triggering massive protests by family members and relatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-hand-over-case-of-custodial-deaths-of-father-son-to-cbi-854802.html
28-06-2020||South||With spurt in Covid-19 cases, Hyderabad may again see lockdown||The Telangana government is considering to impose lockdown again in Hyderabad as Covid-19 cases from the state capital are being reported in explosive numbers.   Chief Minister Chandrasekhar has asked officials to examine the situation in the city keenly for 2-3 days. “If need be, the state cabinet will be convened in 3-4 days to discuss proposals for the lockdown, alternatives, and related issues for a decision to be taken,” the CM said. On Saturday, the new cases reported from the state crossed the 1000 mark for the first time and stood at 1087. 888 of these cases are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation jurisdiction. The total number of cases in the state is now at 13,436 with 243 deaths. On Sunday, a meeting was held by Rao to review the pandemic situation, especially in Hyderabad. Health minister Etela Rajender has submitted the suggestion of medical experts and health officials for a 15-day lockdown under the GHMC limits. “Hyderabad is a metropolitan city where about one crore people live and like other such cities in the country, here too, the virus spread is high. In Chennai, lockdown was re-imposed to contain the spread. Other cities in the country are also thinking on these lines. But re-imposition of lockdown in Hyderabad will be a very major decision. Government machinery, the public and especially the police department should be made ready,” Rao said.   Merchant associations of several popular shopping and wholesale market areas of Hyderabad like Troop Bazar, General Bazar, Begum Bazar are already implementing a voluntary lockdown as the cases are spreading fast in these areas. The Telangana government has meanwhile, given an ultimatum to the private testing labs to rectify all gaps by Monday, “failing which, their operations shall be suspended.” “Certain labs are not following the standard operating procedures. Data discrepancies in the number of tests conducted, positives reported and portal updating apart, testing quality itself has been compromised. Certain labs are reporting close to 70 per cent positivity rate which clearly indicates huge errors in testing methodology,” the Telangana health directorate stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-hyderabad-may-again-see-lockdown-854805.html
28-06-2020||South||Telangana CM Rao asks PM to name Hyderabad Central University after PV Narasimha Rao||Telangana chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao has requested prime minister Narendra Modi to name Hyderabad Central University after former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao. On Sunday – 28 June, the 99th birth anniversary of PV, as he is popularly known, CM Rao inaugurated the yearlong centenary celebrations. In his Mann-ki-Baat address, PM Modi paid rich tributes to PV. “Today, we remember a great son of India, our former PM Shri Narasimha Rao Ji. He led India at a very crucial time in our history. He was a great political leader and was a scholar. Rao Ji belonged to a humble background. He fought injustice from a very young age. I hope many more Indians will read more about Rao Ji. He connected with India ethos and well-versed with western thoughts. Interested in history, literature, and science. One of India's most experienced leaders,” Modi said. Rao described PV (1921-2004), who had also served as the chief minister of united Andhra Pradesh, as a 360-degree versatile personality whose prowess extended into several fields. The CM said that he would be leading a delegation along with the family members of PV to New Delhi to urge upon the PM to make the government confer Bharat-Ratna posthumously on PV. “There is a strong public demand in Telangana to name Hyderabad Central University after PV Narasimha Rao. I request the government of India through your good offices to name this institution as PV Narasimha Rao Central University of Hyderabad, which will be a fitting tribute to him during his birth centenary year,” Rao wrote to Modi on Sunday. Incidentally, HCU, which ranks among the top educational institutions of the country, was set up in 1974 as a result of the then Telangana agitation, under the Six-point formula to address the imbalance in education infrastructure in Telangana. “Although PV is recognized as a leader ushering in economic reforms, during the unprecedented 1991 economic crisis, bringing the stagnant economy on a high growth trajectory, PV at the same time was a multifaceted son of India, who contributed to the nation’s growth in several other crucial spheres too,” the CM further said praising PV’s contributions in the education sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-rao-asks-pm-to-name-hyderabad-central-university-after-pv-narasimha-rao-854820.html
28-06-2020||South||TN reports highest single day spike of 3,940 new Covid-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported a record single day spike of nearly 4,000 new coronavirus cases, pushing the overall tally beyond 82,000 while 54 fatalities were reported. The toll in the state went up to 1,079, while the total number of positive cases climbed to 82,275, the government said in a medical bulletin. Chief Minister K Palaniswami, while assuring his government was doing its every bit to contain the pandemic, took a dig at DMK chief M K Stalin's statement that the ruling dispensation was not considering his suggestions. The Opposition leader was only issuing political statements, he said. According to the government, as many as 45,537 people including 1,443 on Sunday have been discharged from various hospitals, leaving 35,656 active cases including those in isolation. The capital city Chennai continued to report a high number of cases--as many as 1,992 infections of the 3,940 cases reported on Sunday. The metropolis also shared the unenviable record of having the maximum fatalities--809, of the total 1,079 deaths in the state so far. According to the bulletin, eight of the 54 deceased were patients without 'comorbidities' and the dead include an 18-month old boy baby from Villupuram who died on June 27 due to spastic cerebral palsy, 'global developmental delay' and 'aspiration pneumonia'.  Patients with comorbidities who succumbed to the virus include a 91-year old man suffering from diabetes mellitus. Among the districts, Chengalpet with 5,051 total cases and Tiruvallur with 3,524 of them remained on the top of the charts after Chennai. With government enhancing testing of samples, 32,948 specimens were tested on Sunday, taking the total to 11.10 lakh till date. Meanwhile, Palaniswami and Stalin sparred over the virus situation in the state, with the latter alleging that the ruling dispensation was not considering the suggestions given by him and that he was not doing politics over the matter. "I have been giving hundreds of suggestions so far. Though the AIADMK is in power, the DMK has a duty to protect the people," he said in a video message. Many doctors had interacted with him and he had conveyed their suggestions to the government, the DMK chief said. "But chief minister Palaniswami neither listened to these nor implemented them," he said, adding the CM was 'arrogant' on this matter. Both cases and deaths were increasing while the CM was insisting there was no community transmission, he said. He squarely blamed Palaniswami for the COVID-19 situation in the state. Responding to Stalin's remarks, Palaniswami said the opposition leader's daily statements were only "political" in nature. "They (statements) are only political. Is he saying something regarding the pandemic--how to prevent the spread, or how to cure it. Has he said anything," he told reporters in Salem. The entire government machinery was working in full swing to contain the pandemic, and based on the guidance of WHO, the Centre, ICMR and the panel of experts appointed by it on the matter, he said. The government's proper handling has resulted in lesser fatalities, even as Tamil Nadu fared better in positive to death ratio compared to other states, he said. "This is due to the government acting on the basis of advice provided by the experts and treatment given by our doctors accordingly," he said, adding a whole lot of frontline workers were engaged in fighting against the virus. Hitting out at Stalin, Palaniswami said the former has made it a 'practice' to criticise the government and the CM "because he only stays indoors." "Where has he gone. He has made occasional visits to show he is reaching out to people. But myself, deputy CM (O Panneerselvam), ministers and all others are doing our best," he added. The virus was a 'new disease' and even superpowers were struggling to cope with it, he said. On the possible extension of the lockdown in the state, the chief minister said the government will decide on the matter after its discussions with the expert panel on Monday in the state capital. The government had earlier extended the lockdown in the state till June 30, besides going in for a more intense 12-day one in Chennai and its three neighbouring districts with high case load from June 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-3940-new-covid-19-cases-854833.html
28-06-2020||South||1-year-old dies of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu has recorded its first child death due to Covid-19 with a 1-year-old succumbing to the virus on Saturday evening. This is the first case of a child under the age of 12 losing life due to infection caused by the novel coronavirus. The daily bulletin released by the Health Department said the child died on Saturday at the Villupuram Medical College Hospital due to “global developmental delay/spastic cerebral palsy/microcephaly/aspiration pneumonia/shock/Covid positive.” According to statistics available, as many as 4,012 children under the age of 12 have been found to be Covid-19 positive – 2,057 are male and 1,955 are female. The number of positive cases continued to rise with 3,940 persons, including 179 who returned from abroad or other states, testing positive for the virus. The state’s toll now stands at 82,275, including 45,537 discharges and 1,079 deaths – 54 of which were reported on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1-year-old-dies-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-854865.html
28-06-2020||State||Covid-19: Frontline staff to be screened for lung congestion||Revenue Minister and in-charge for Covid-19 issues in Bengaluru R Ashoka said on Sunday that all frontline staff such as police, Asha workers, nurses and drivers will be tested for Covid-19. They will first undergo a lung congestion test and whoever appears to be disease suspects will be tested.  The government will introduce a new tag system for people under quarantine, which will alert authorities if a patient attempts to run away from the quarantine centre. Speaking to reporters, he said lung congestion test was carried out on a trial basis among police personnel in Yelahanka DCP zone. “The technique will be employed to test frontline staff. Anyone who has more than 80% lung congestion will be tested for Covid-19,” he said. The government has sent a recommendation to the expert committee. “If they clear it, we can conduct testing,” Ashoka said. Karnataka will introduce a tag system to monitor people under quarantine, which is one of its kind in the country. “The tag, which is active for 14 days, will alert authorities if a person violates home quarantine or tries to escape from Covid hospitals,” he said. The government is in talks with a private firm to supply the tags. People not following home quarantine or hospital quarantine can be tracked. If it is removed, an alert is sent out. The movement of the patient will be tracked.  Night parties He said the police had informed the government that night parties was one of the reasons for the spread of Covid-19 cases. “Many people are partying at home during night, where social distancing is not ensured. That is why curfew was imposed from 8 pm to 5 am. From the parties, it is spreading to homes,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-frontline-staff-to-be-screened-for-lung-congestion-854856.html
28-06-2020||State||Student tests Covid-19 positive: Ballari SSLC exam centre sanitised||The SSLC exam centre at Wisdomland School in the city was completely sanitised after a student, who wrote English paper on June 25, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Candidates who wrote the exam in the room where the student tested positive, later on, had appeared, will be assigned a separate room for the next paper. As per the guidelines issued by the Education department, the physical distancing of 6 feet will be maintained between the students. Only one student will be allowed to sit per bench. Arrangements for the same have been made, Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters. The student in question had suffered injuries in a road accident on June 25. He was admitted to VIMS, Ballari, as an in-patient. During the course of treatment, his swab sample returned positive for Covid-19. As per the norms, the student will be allowed to write a supplementary exam as fresher, the DC added. In Udupi, meanwhile, yet another SSLC student tested positive for the virus in Udupi. The girl had written maths paper at Padubidri exam centre on Saturday. Since, two of her family members had contracted Covid-19, her throat swab sample was drawn and sent for Covid lab after the exam. The report came back positive on Sunday. The exam centre had been sanitised, Udupi DC G Jagadish toldreporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/student-tests-covid-19-positive-ballari-sslc-exam-centre-sanitised-854858.html
28-06-2020||State||Coronavirus hits Ballari, Dakshina Kannada with vengeance||After a few quiet weeks, coronavirus has returned with vengeance in the districts. While the cases exploded in Bengaluru with close to 800 infections, as many as 13 districts recorded cases in double digits with Dakshina Kannada and Ballari reporting 97 and 80 fresh infections, respectively, on Sunday. The districts (Bengaluru not included) reported 16 Covid-19 fatalities with Ballari alone accounting for four deaths in the last 24 hours. Dakshina Kannada reported three deaths including that of 31-year-old man with comorbidities of hypothyroidism and obesity, Tumakuru recorded two deaths while Bagalkot, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Hassan, Mysuru reported one death each. The Covid-19 cases in Ballari district continued to see the upward surge with the highest single-day tally of 80. The district’s tally has jumped to 725. A storekeeper of the Toranagallu-based JSW steel plant and a staff of the District Hospital are among those who tested positive for Covid-19. Among the fresh infections: 47 people are the primary or secondary contacts of the previously infected persons, 28 with ILI/SARI complaints and the contact tracing is underway for 19 patients.  Covid cases have surfaced from almost all taluks in the district. Meanwhile, international returnees continued to swell Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada. Among the 97 cases reported in the district on Sunday, 32 are international travellers. Of the remaining cases, 21 are diagnosed with ILI, five SARI, and 10 primary contacts of the previously infected persons while contact tracing is underway for 28 new cases, according to the DK district administration. The Sunday’s cases have shot up Dakshina Kannada’s Covid-19 tally to 665. The coastal district, as on June 28, has 272 active cases. Virus hits Mundargi hard Coronavirus has spread its tentacles to Mundargi taluk in Gadag district. Mundargi town and Dambal village in the taluk have accounted for 29 of the 30 cases reported from Gadag district on Sunday. This includes two health workers from Alvandi in Koppal taluk, working in Mundargi town. Gadag district’s case count has jumped to 170. A Haveri woman’s wedding, scheduled on Sunday, was postponed after her 25-year-old sister tested positive for coronavirus. The district reported 12 new cases in the last 24 hours. Two nurses, one each from Chikkaballapur and KR Nagar town, an SSLC exam supervisor from from Bagalkot town, a head constable of Gandhi Gunj police station in Bidar, five civic workers from Holenarasipur (Hassan) are among those who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The virus-hit Udupi and Kalaburagi districts recorded 40 and 34 new infections respectively, since Saturday afternoon. With the Covid lab of Chamarajanagar medical college having sealed after a lab assistant tested positive on Friday, the district reported zero cases on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-hits-ballari-dakshina-kannada-with-vengeance-854860.html
28-06-2020||State||Karnataka govt allows resumption of online classes||Giving a reprieve to private schools that were continuing online classes despite the ban order issued by the government, the Education Department on Saturday issued a fresh order allowing schools to continue with online classes for children of all classes. The order, coming in the wake of the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, allows private schools to continue online classes. The latest order will be valid until the state expert committee submits its report on online education. As per the order, schools across Karnataka affiliated to the state, CBSE, ICSE boards can hold online classes and shall follow the instructions given by the government. For classes 1 to 5, schools can hold one 30-45 minute session per day on alternate days for up to three days in a week, and for classes 6 to 8, schools can conduct 30-45 minute sessions for not more than two hours, five days in a week. Similarly, schools can hold online classes of 30-45 minute duration for not more than four hours and five days in a week for classes 9 and 10. The order also allows holding classes for pre-primary kids once in a week, spanning 30 minutes for the parents. The government has instructed schools not to collect any additional fees for online classes and revised guidelines will be issued after the submission of the report by the expert committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-allows-resumption-of-online-classes-854861.html
28-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Class X students infected by coronavirus; Karnataka minister allays fears||Certain additional measures would be taken to enable students, who appeared for the SSLC (Class 10) exam with those subsequently testing Covid-19 positive, to write their remaining papers without fear, Karnataka Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Sunday. He said all 18 students and the invigilator of the exam hall in Hassan district, where a Covid positive student appeared to write the maths exam on Saturday, have tested negative. "If any student is confirmed Covid-19 positive during the exam, arrangements will be made for other students to appear for the remaining papers by providing them safety as per the advice of the health department," Kumar was quoted as saying in an official press release. According to the health department, he said, since thermal screening, physical distancing of over one metre, use of face mask and sanitiser were followed in the exam centre, the other students in the hall cannot be considered as contacts. The health department had stated this in response to a clarification sought by the education department on contact tracing, the Minister said.  He directed officials to ensure one student per desk and maintain a distance of six feet between the desks. The department has suggested measures like disinfecting rooms, allowing other students in that room to write the exam for the remaining period in another room or permit them to take the supplementary examination, among others, he added. According to the Minister, the health department has identified about 25 students from across the state to be infected by Covid-19 and they have been exempted from the ongoing SSLC exams. The exams began on June 25 and is scheduled to end on July 4. A student appearing for the exam on Saturday at Government PU College at Mallipattana in Arakalgud taluk of Hassan district had tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, his report came while he was in the middle of the examination following which he was shifted to another hall and was allowed to complete the exam. "Medical tests have confirmed that 18 other students and the invigilator of the exam hall have not been infected by Covid-19. Students and parents need not worry," Kumar said. He said the hall where the infected student wrote the exam has been sealed and all required containment measures have been taken. The infected student is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Other than slight fever, he was showing no other symptoms and was safe, the Minister said adding that all the other students can appear for the exam on Monday without fear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-class-x-students-infected-by-coronavirus-karnataka-minister-allays-fears-854806.html
28-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt tells testing labs not to inform Covid-19 positive patients of test results directly||In a controversial move, the Karnataka state government issued a notification on Saturday, asking Covid-19-testing labs not to inform positive patients of their test results immediately. Labs have instead been asked to send details to respective district administration or local bodies, which are then entrusted to inform patients. While the notification was signed by the Director of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Omprakash Patil, it is said to be the brainchild of the city’s new Covid-19 Czar, R Ashoka, Revenue Minister, according to a reliable source. The notification prompted outrage among some public health experts. Activist Tara Krishnaswamy described the move as disconcerting. “There is no valid reason for the government to hold back on disclosing the status of a test to a Covid-19 positive individual, especially as it might imperil that person’s life,” she told DH. An expert, who did not want to be named, added that the notification was counterproductive to efforts being made to rein in the outbreak. “This notification makes no sense. If you don’t inform Covid-19 positive persons that they are indeed covid-positive, they will spend the next few hours unwittingly infecting perhaps as many as 20 additional people,” the expert said. The notification, however, blames huge sample turnout throughout the state. It adds that: “maintaining the confidentiality of the result status is also crucial. Therefore, exercising power under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 (Central Act 3 of 1897) and also in view of public interest, the following notification is made.” It goes on to state that: “The Covid Positive result status should not be conveyed to the individual by the authorities of the government or private laboratories by any means. All government or private laboratories should upload the details of Covid positive and negative cases in the ICMR Portal daily. The details of the positive results should be submitted to the concerned District Surveillance Officers, Covid Surveillance officer, BBMP, Bengaluru and State Surveillance Unit, Bengaluru.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-tells-testing-labs-not-to-inform-covid-19-positive-patients-of-test-results-directly-854874.html
28-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister K Sudhakar's tweet hints at more disgruntlement within govt||A tweet by Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar about leadership which said - “I believe that Leadership is not in position but in action” - set tongues wagging about differences between him and Revenue Minister R Ashoka over the latter being made in-charge of Bengaluru Covid issues, here Sunday. Sudhakar tweeted an image of a short story with a caption, “Sunday thoughts: I am sharing a story which I read in my school days. Moral of the story: Let’s do our job with conscience and with a great sense of purpose. I believe that Leadership is not in position but in action.” This was interpreted as a dig at Ashoka, with Sudhakar adding to the list of ministers unhappy over revenue minister overseeing Covid affairs in the capital. According to reports, both DyCM Ashwath Narayan - a doctor by profession, and Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, were unhappy over the decision by the chief minister. Responding to queries, Ashoka said that Covid-19 was a battle everyone was fighting. “At such a juncture everyone should work together. It is not important who is leading and who is not. Please do not consider me as a leader in the battle, as we need to work together. We are even taking opposition parties into confidence,” he said. When asked about tweets by some leaders of his party, Ashoka refused to comment on the same. This is among the growing list of instances where ministers in the government are seen squabbling for power, during the pandemic. Sriramulu has been sulking since the beginning of the pandemic, as he was allegedly sidelined in favour of Sudhakar - who is a recent addition to BJP. The differences between the two became pronounced enough for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to appoint Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar as Covid spokesperson of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-k-sudhakars-tweet-hints-at-more-disgruntlement-within-govt-854876.html
28-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Siddaramaiah alleges Rs 3,300 cr irregularities||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday alleged irregularities to the tune of Rs 3,300 cr in procuring equipment to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka. The former chief minister asked the state government to release a White Paper and come clean on the pandemic-related expenses. "Since the government has not acted in a transparent manner in containing the pandemic, there is a lot of doubt, uncertainty and insecurity among people. To reaffirm the faith of the people in the government, I urge chief minister B S Yediyurappa to release a White Paper with complete details of the expenditure for Covid-19," Siddaramaiah said in a statement. He posed a series of questions to the government regarding the procurement of PPE kits, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, masks and other expenses regarding treatment and quarantining of patients. "What is the amount released by the Centre and what equipment has it provided? How many beds are reserved in private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment? What were the parameters for fixing prices for treatment at private hospitals?" the former CM asked. There are allegations that the government procured medical equipment at twice the market price, resulting in irregularities to the tune of Rs 3,300 cr. "The Finance Department has objected to the same. The chief minister should clarify the issue," Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-siddaramaiah-alleges-rs-3300-cr-irregularities-854877.html
28-06-2020||West||Former Gujarat CM tests positive for coronavirus||A former chief minister of Gujarat has tested positive for coronavirus, his aide said on Sunday. He was suffering from fever for the last three-four days and was quarantined at his home in Gandhinagar under doctor's guidance, he said. "He tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday and was shifted to a private hospital on Sunday morning on the advice of his doctor," the aide said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-gujarat-cm-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-854651.html
28-06-2020||West||Conservation amid coronavirus pandemic: Seed balls being used in Aarey||At a time when urban cities are struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic, conservation efforts too are facing challenges in the wake of physical distancing and health protocols. But throwing of seed balls to plant trees seems to be a great, viable option. For Shailesh Parte, who is involved in various conservation efforts, this was the best option - and he has launched the initiative in the Aarey Milk Colony, thw green lung of Mumbai. "Saplings are planted during the monsoons. But in urban areas, conservation activities have taken a hit from the virus. In Aarey Colony we have started with 100 seed balls over this weekend. The plan is to use 10,000 seed balls," Parte told DH  on Sunday. The seed balls comprise of soil, cow dung and have seeds of Indian yellow shower – bahava,  Peltophorum, Ashoka,  Raintree,  Chinch –Karanj and Gulmohar. Parte said that his group is conducting these movements in tribal hamlets - Chafyacha Pada, Habal Pada and Vanicha  Pada where they have been running education centers for the last 8 years. "We have also involved the locals in the initiative," he said. Besides Parte, others in this group are Rasika Parte, Tushar Gaikar, Raju Bandhade, Pramila - and they are helped by Raju, a local villager. "We would raise money through crowdfunding... Raju Dada has the necessary expertise," he said. The Aarey Milk Colony is located in the fringes of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park. The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation planned the Metro Line 3 carshed in the Colony and the previous Devendra Fadnavis government hacked many trees for this project. However, after the Uddhav Thackeray government came to power they gave a temporary stay on the carshed project. The Aarey Milk Colony has a total area of 3,160 acres of land owned by the Dairy Development Department of the Maharashtra Government. The colony houses 30 stables with a capacity to house 500 to 550 animals in each stable. This area is a grass, scrub environ with a few hillocks, possessing two perennial and one seasonal pond as well as many seasonal streams in the area. The vast pastures of the Marutian Para grass are maintained and harvested as fodder for cattle. It is rich in biodiversity and leopards are often seen in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conservation-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-seed-balls-being-used-in-aarey-854652.html
28-06-2020||West||Mission Begin Again: Salons reopen in Mumbai after 3 months||With the further easing of coronavirus-induced curbs in Maharashtra, some salons opened in Mumbai on Sunday after a gap of three months while many remained closed due to lack of manpower. The parlours and salons falling under the Covid-19 containment zones did not open. Salon owners, who opened their shops for restarting business, said they were adhering to the government's guidelines like checking temperatures of their customers, asking them to use hand sanitisers before entering the premises, and serving customers in small batches. Some, however, complained of low turnout, saying people were scared of availing salon services. The Maharashtra government earlier said salons and beauty parlours will be allowed to reopen from Sunday with restricted entry and prior appointments for customers. A revised set of guidelines, issued as part of the government's 'Mission Begin Again' phase four, said only select services like hair cut and dyeing, waxing and threading will be allowed as of now in these outlets. Shailesh Surve, owner of 'Make Over' salon in Worli, said they opened their facility but were allowing customers in small batches. "We are taking three customers each in time slots from 10 am to noon, 12 noon to 3 pm and 3 pm to 6 pm. Customers are approaching us for appointments, but we are not allowing everybody as we have to follow the government's norms," he said. Surve said they were recording the temperature of customers and providing them hand sanitisers on entering the premises.  "We are using fresh towels for every customer and sanitising chairs used for haircuts. I opened my shop today at around 8 am and got a good response on the first day. We were sitting at home since the last three months, but now we can earn," he said. However, Irshad Khan, owner of a salon in suburban Santacruz, said he opened his outlet after three months but did not get the same response as he used to get on a Sunday earlier. "There was low turnout today...people are scared, hence they are avoiding visit to salon," he said. Parvez Ansari, a salon owner from Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), said he did not open his facility due to lack of staff. "I have to keep my shop shut till my staff members do not return from their native places," he said. The state government in its notification on Thursday said skin-related services will not be allowed at present and this should be prominently displayed outside shops. "Employees must put protective gear, including gloves, aprons and masks. All workspace (chairs) must be sanitised after each service. Also, all common areas and floors must be sanitised after every two hours," it said. Disposal towels and napkins must be used on customers, while non-disposal equipment should be sanitised and sterilised after each service, the government order said. Each shop must put up a notice listing precautions for customers, the notification said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mission-begin-again-salons-reopen-in-mumbai-after-3-months-854681.html
28-06-2020||West||Farm loan waiver: Bank unions seek Maha CM intervention||Bank unions have written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking his intervention in getting directions for banks from competent authorities for sanctioning of crop loans to farmers under the debt relief plan in the state. In a letter written to the chief minister on Saturday, United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) said the state-level bankers' committee (SLBC) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should spell out clear terms regarding sanctioning of loans to those accounts that are being covered under the crop loan debt relief scheme by the state government. SLBC is an apex inter-institutional forum to create adequate coordination machinery in all states, on a uniform basis for development of the state. The chief minister is chairman of SLBC. Last week, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had warned of criminal action against banks that are delaying giving crop loans to farmers. "All the government announcements need to be translated into proper directions by the competent authorities and in the absence of such clear directions bank officials cannot implement those announcements," the letter said. The targeted groups of farmers to whom the crop loans are to be disbursed are in dire need of debt relief package from the central and state governments, unions said. Banks are unable to sanction fresh loans as rules do not permit giving fresh loans to non-performing asset (NPA) accounts, they said. According to the minutes of the last SLBC meeting held on May 29, the RBI had clarified that there is no regulatory prohibition on granting additional finance to approved beneficiaries of Mahatma Jotirao Phule Shetkari Karjmukti Yojna (MJPSKY) merely because an account is classified as NPA. Banks are free to grant fresh finance as a measure to support their stressed but viable borrowal accounts, the minutes showed. "We need operative guidelines on this," UFBU Convenor (Maharashtra State) Devidas Tuljapurkar said. In some of the cases, bank officials are facing technical issues such as creating a charge over farmers' land and unavailability of stamp papers due to the lockdown, among others, involved in sanctioning of crop loans and there is a need to resolve these, the letter said. Banks are already facing acute shortage and so they are unable to dispose of the proposals in a speedy manner as expected, the unions said. Branches in rural areas are facing internet and power supply issues that are also creating challenges, the letter said. Unions have requested the chief minister for not taking any action against banks for delay in sanctioning of crop loans. UFBU is an umbrella body of nine unions, including All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) and National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farm-loan-waiver-bank-unions-seek-maha-cm-intervention-854682.html
28-06-2020||West||'Chase the Virus' campaign to be extended across Maharashtra: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the 'Chase the Virus' initiative that received good results in worst-hit Mumbai will now be expanded to other parts of the state to combat the coronavirus outbreak. As part of the campaign, 15 close contacts of a COVID-19 patient will compulsorily be kept in institutional quarantine, while community leaders will tell people about comorbidities, meals and other facilities available at institutional quarantine facilities etc, clinic timings etc. It was launched on May 27. "We have received good results of Chase the Virus campaign in Mumbai and we have now decided to implement it across the state," the CM said in a televised address. He also informed that he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Abhiyaan so that Maharashtra can continue supply of food grains to the poor at low prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chase-the-virus-campaign-to-be-extended-across-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-854701.html
28-06-2020||West||Engineering firms bring back migrant labourers for MMRDA projects||Engineering companies involved in developing various infrastructure projects of MMRDA in the megapolis are bringing back migrant labourers, who had fled the city amid coronavirus pandemic. According to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), thousands of labourers, who had returned to their villages especially in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, are being brought back by their contractors to ensure speedy completion of the works. Contractors of the Dahisar East-Andheri East metro 7, including J Kumar, NCCL, Larsen & Toubro, ITDC and Capacite, are taking efforts to get the labourers back from other states, MMRDA said. "These contractors are getting back the workers mainly by road as the (regular) train services have been cancelled till August 12," MMRDA Joint Metropolitan commissioner BG Pawar told PTI. Apart from these, many locals from different parts of Maharashtra are also coming to Mumbai following Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's call to provide employment to 'sons of the soil' in metro and other infrastructure projects, he said. "As per the CM's direction, we released a requirement of 16,726 workers at different project sites. We have got a good response for this as many locals from different parts of the state are coming on their own," Pawar added.  According to MMRDA, nearly 755 labourers are expected to be brought back from different states in July and so far 115 have already been sourced by the contractors of the metro 7 line. As many as 386 labourers have been sourced from Maharashtra so far (including those who have come on their own) and another 175 locals will be deployed in July for the project. Out of the 755, a total of 680 labourers are expected to be sourced by J Kumar (275), NCCl (355) and ITDC, which are the main contractors of the project. Engineering firm L&T, which has bagged the contract for providing traction and auxiliary power supply and SCADA services for the corridor, has already sourced 37 labourers from states outside Maharashtra so far since the lockdown, are likely to get another 25 in July, a data-sheet by MMRDA showed. Earlier this month, L&T CEO and Managing Director S N Subrahmanyan had said that the company was taking initiatives to mobilise labourers to ensure completion of projects. "In the pre-Covid (period), we had more than 2.2 lakh labourers across our almost 950 project sites, but today we have around 1.2 lakh working. "While some labourers who had left during Holi have not yet returned, some have left because of psychological pressures, may be due to pandemic or seeing others leave. We are working out on mobilising these labourers," Subrahmanyan had told reporters. MMRDA had earlier planned to commission line 7 by December 2020. However, Metropolitan Commissioner RA Rajeev recently said the deadline could be missed by almost 2-3 months because of the extended lockdown and shortage of labourers. When asked if the measures to bring back the labourers were taken to speed up the completion of the project Pawar said, "Yes, they have to complete the projects. Also, labourers want to come back and work. Therefore, almost all contractors of various projects are sourcing labourers either from Maharashtra or other parts of the country. We are still collating data for other projects".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/engineering-firms-bring-back-migrant-labourers-for-mmrda-projects-854721.html
28-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM to visit Pandharpur||The Maharashtra government is yet to take a final call on whether to take the palkhis by road or air to Pandharpur in Solapur district on the occasion of Ashadi Ekadashi. The Solapur and Pune districts, from where the palkhis (palanquins) pass, are among the two worst Covid-19 affected districts.  Each year, lakhs of warkaris, from Maharashtra and neighbouring states, traverse around 230-odd kms from Alandi and Dehu in Pune carrying the palanquins bearing the padukas of the saints to the shrine of Lord Vithoba in Pandharpur, however,  the processions were cancelled but the nearly 800-year-old tradition of carrying the palkhis will be maintained. Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Sunday that he would go to Pandharpur on July 1,  on the occasion of Ashadi Ekadashi to perform the customary puja of Lord Vithoba and Rakhumai. "May Lord Vitthal remove all hurdles and problems," he said on Sunday. Maharashtra's home minister Anil Dehmukh and health minister Rajesh Tope visited Pandhurpur on Saturday to review the situation and met the collector Milind Shambharkar, the civic commissioner and police officials to take stock of the preparedness for the pilgrimage. "In light of the pandemic, we will have to ensure safety while organising this traditional pilgrimage," Deshmukh said.  "Only the nine palanquins which come every year will be allowed to come for the pilgrimage. We are still working on the logistics on whether these will be brought by road like every year or by chopper," he told the mediapersons. He also underlined how some collectorates were issuing passes for the pilgrimage without taking either the home minister or the local collectorate into confidence.  "I want to convey to people that such passes will not be acceptable," he warned.  He requested people to co-operate to ensure that the pilgrimage is conducted in a safe and peaceful manner. "I think Lord Vithoba will also be happy if we do so," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-to-visit-pandharpur-854726.html
28-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: No movement beyond 2 km radius from residence in Mumbai||Rattled by crowding and people not following social distancing norms and hygiene protocols,  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday ruled out lifting the existing lockdown restrictions from July 1 in the worst Covid-19 pandemic-affected state. "Relaxations does not mean the Covid-19 crisis is over....ensure that the lockdown is not reimposed,  it totally depends on you," Thackeray said in his webcast. However,  he assured that the unlocking process as part of government's 'Mission Begin Again' will continue in a phased manner. To combat the pandemic, 'Chase-the-Virus' will be implemented across the state even as plasma therapy is set to be aggressively promoted within the ICMR norms. On the other hand,  the police came out with a strict directive for Mumbai, preventing people from going beyond 2-km-radius of their homes - except for going to workplaces. "Social distancing norms have to be followed, else strict action will be taken," deputy commissioner of police (operations) Pranaya Ashok said. "It is absolutely necessary that we all follow the norms of personal safety and social distancing. However, many people in the city have been found violating these norms, thereby endangering their own health as well as that of others in their vicinity," Ashok said. In the financial capital of Mumbai, all outdoor movements to be restricted for essential activities only.  "While moving outdoors, wearing of face masks is compulsory. Visit to markets, salons, barber shops etc. shall be restricted to those within a radius of 2  km from residence only.  Movement outside this radius for shopping  is strictly prohibited," he said. Similarly, outdoor movement for the purpose of exercise is strictly restricted to open spaces within a radius of 2 km from place of residence. Movement beyond 2 km is permitted only for attending office or medical emergencies. "Shops/markets not following social distancing norms will be closed down," he said. Thackeray said that the state has been using various medicines for the treatment of Covid-19. "We have got permission now from Remdesivir, Favipiravir and people don't need to worry about the cost as the government is making them available," he said, adding that the state is emerging as a big proponent of use of plasma therapy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-no-movement-beyond-2-km-radius-from-residence-in-mumbai-854751.html
28-06-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray says curbs will continue after June 30||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the lockdown curbs in the state will continue beyond June 30. In a televised address, Thackeray ruled out easing the restrictions, adding the state still faces coronavirus threat. "Will lockdown be lifted after June 30? The clear answer is no," Thackeray tweeted later. The unlock process, dubbed Mission Begin Again by the state government, is being gradually implemented to put the economy back on track, Thackeray said in his address. Thackeray said there will be some restrictions in the state after June 30 but more relaxations will be offered gradually. "The state has now started the unlock process under the Mission Begin Again. There will be some restrictions even after June 30, but eventually more and more relaxations will be offered to the people," he said.  "The relaxations will be offered on case to case basis. For example, passenger transportation will continue to have some restrictions but some local services will be resumed or allowed to function, said a senior official from the CM's office. Thackeray emphasised on maintaining stringent discipline as Covid-19 cases are still being reported in large numbers. "Even if I am not using the term lockdown, do not misunderstand and lower your guard. In fact, we need to show more stringent discipline," he said. The crisis is not yet over, the chief minister said. "We can't leave this war halfway in this final phase. I am sure that you will continue to cooperate with the government to ensure that lockdown is not reimposed, he said. "Mission Begin Again may result in more (coronavirus) cases, but the number of tests have also increased," Thackeray said. We are focusing on restarting education as this is more important than reopening schools, he said. Monsoon has started and we have already started meetings to address issues related to heavy rains and diseases, Thackeray said. Rainy days may result in diseases and we have to take precautions by keeping our surroundings clean and ensure that stagnant water is not collecting anywhere," he added. He also requested senior private physicians to resume their practice to share burden of state health machinery. "There is no shortage of PPE kits and N95 masks. Please reach out to the government if there is any shortage in medical supplies. Maharashtra needs your experience right now, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-says-curbs-will-continue-after-june-30-854762.html
28-06-2020||West||Higher education institutions should adopt new tools of teaching: Maharashtra Governor||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday said that higher education institutions should adopt new online tools of teaching and learning. Mentioning that even IIT Bombay has decided to conduct its classes online, he added that a holistic view should be to see if the new technology is foolproof, harmonious and practical. The governor was speaking at the inauguration of a webinar on ‘New Age Tools for Teaching Online’ organised by Academisthan, a platform for teaching faculty serving in Higher Education Institutions. Mentioning that students will not be happy if they are passed without writing examinations, the Governor expressed the view that new technology can be used for conducting exams. He said a thought can be given to provide computers to those not possessing one for writing examination. Founder of Academisthan and Chancellor’s Nominee on the Management Council of University of Mumbai, Deepak Kumar Mukadam informed that more than 6,000 teachers had registered for the three-day webinar which would cover subjects like 'Online Teaching Tools and Applications', 'Creating Online Content' and ‘Student Interaction and Engagement’. Vice Chancellor of University of Mumbai, Suhas Pednekar, Vice Chancellor of SNDT Women’s University Shashikala Wanjari and Vice Chancellors of various universities in the State attended the webinar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/higher-education-institutions-should-adopt-new-tools-of-teaching-maharashtra-governor-854786.html
28-06-2020||West||6 workers of diamond unit in Bhavnagar test Covid-19 positive||Six workers of a diamond polishing unit in Gujarat's Bhavnagar have tested coronavirus positive, following which the establishment has been partially shut, officials said on Sunday. This comes amid Covid-19 cases being reported among the workers of the diamond polishing units in Surat, which is said to be the world's biggest diamond polishing hub. Bhavnagar is one of the smaller diamond polishing hubs in Gujarat with around 800-1,000 units that employ around 1.25 lakh workers. "Six workers of a diamond polishing unit have tested Covid-19 positive so far. We are analysing from where they contracted the infection. We have closed two floors of the unit and its other employees have been home quarantined," Bhavnagar Municipal Commissioner M A Gandhi said. Local authorities have asked the diamond units here to carry out oxygen saturation screening of the workers, in addition to thermal screening, for effective detection of coronavirus cases. "We have closed the floors of the unit from where the cases were reported and also sanitised the entire building. We have directed the units to go for an oxygen saturation screening of workers," Gandhi said. President of the Bhavnagar Diamond Association, Vitthal Mendapara, said that the diamond units in the district are taking special precautions to control the spread of the infection. The association has been running an awareness campaign on Covid-19 ever since the units started functioning again from June 19, he said. "There are around 1.25 lakh workers in around 800- 1,000 diamond polishing units in Bhavnagar district. These establishments started working on June 19," Mendapara said. "These units are ensuring that the workers maintain social distance," he added. Bhavnagar district has reported 240 coronavirus positive cases so far, out of which 147 persons have recovered, while 13 others have succumbed to the infection. A total of 80 cases are active. In Surat, 300 diamond workers have so far tested Covid-19 positive, prompting the local authorities to impose restrictions. Three main diamond hubs in Surat are kept shut two days a week to curb the spread of the virus. The authorities there have decided to keep an entire unit shut for a week if three or more cases are found there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-workers-of-diamond-unit-in-bhavnagar-test-covid-19-positive-854800.html
28-06-2020||West||Covid-19 death: Ahmedabad civic body fines hospital Rs 77 lakh||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has imposed a fine of Rs 77 lakh on a private hospital and its management and filed an FIR for negligence after a COVID-19 patient died, an official said on Sunday. Rajasthan Hospital, where a 73-year-old coronavirus positive man died on June 18 while being shifted from another facility, was issued a show-cause notice by AMC last Sunday, he added. "We have imposed a fine of Rs 77 lakh, which comprises Rs 25 lakh on Rajasthan Hospital, Rs 2 lakh each on eight board members (Rs 16 lakh) and on 18 trustees (Rs 36 lakh). The money will used to treat COVID-19 patients," AMC in charge medical officer of health Bhavin Solanki said, adding that an FIR had also been lodged. A Shahibaug police station official said the FIR was under IPC sections relating to death by negligence and criminal conspiracy among others. The AMC action comes after Gujarat High Court observed in an order that the incident was "very painful" and called for "strictest action" against those responsible. On June 18, the COVID-19 patient was being shifted to Rajasthan Hospital from another facility as he required ventilator support, but he had to wait for 20 minutes at the corona gate of the hospital as the staff took time to open it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-death-ahmedabad-civic-body-fines-hospital-rs-77-lakh-854807.html
28-06-2020||West||Increase in Covid-19 cases not a concern, timely treatment necessary: Centre||The increase in the number of coronavirus cases is not a cause for concern as timely treatment of patients would save the lives of the people and reduce the overall mortality rate,  according to a visiting Central team. This is the advice given by the Central team led by Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, during their visit to Thane district neighbouring Mumbai on Saturday. Although the number of corona cases is rising at present, the Joint Secretary suggested that the emphasis should be on reducing the mortality rate and managing the situation without getting alarmed.  Similarly, the capacity of tests for COVID should be increased so that the affected people can be treated in time.  Agarwal also said that state officials should coordinate with the testing laboratories and help them.  The team has also directed all the municipal commissioners to increase the number of tests so that the patients can be treated well in time.  The team has also suggested strict enforcement of restricted areas, daily review of patients admitted to the hospital and those in critical condition and getting guidance from expert doctors while treating them. The principal secretary of the State Health Department, Dr. Pradip Vyas spoke on the need to increase number of quarantine facilities, conduct large-scale contact tracing, maintain cleanliness of public toilets and increase number of tests. Earlier in the day, the team, along with Principal Secretary, inspected the containment zones in Thane Municipal Corporation area, interacted with residents and gathered feedback on the implementation of containment measures.  Kunal Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Civil Affairs & Director, Smart City Mission and Dr. Vipin Sharma, Municipal Commissioner; E.Ravindran, Central Director (Health) were also present. Initially, the Central team visited the people in containment zones at Amritnagar, Inshangar in Mumbra and interacted with the citizens there. After that, they visited the hospital set up at Dr. Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Stadium and interacted with doctors.   The team then inspected the 1,000-bed Thane Covid Hospital at Balkum Saket, Thane. The Joint Secretary expressed his satisfaction about the arrangements made. After the inspection tour, the Central Team had a meeting with officials from all divisions in Thane, at the Thane Municipal Corporation office. Thane Police Commissioner Dr.  Mekhla; Navi Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Annasaheb Misal; Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi; Mira Bhayander Municipal Commissioner Dr. Rathod, Ulhasnagar Municipal Commissioner   Dayanidhi Adi were present at the review meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/increase-in-covid-19-cases-not-a-concern-timely-treatment-necessary-centre-854808.html
