29-06-2020||Comment||Using dams as weapons||‘Military tactics are like water, for water in its natural course runs away from high places and hastens downwards’. -Sun Tsu, Annals of War The importance Chinese give to Sun Tsu’s teachings can be gauged from the fact that one of the first acts of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on taking over the Galwan Valley in Ladakh was to send bulldozers in order to block the flow of the Galwan river as it enters the Indian side.  One interpretation being given is that the Chinese have blocked the river to build a mini dam. Others claim that since the Galwan river flows along the road built by the Indian government, this water could be used whenever required by the Chinese to create a flash flood. What satellite pictures also reveal is that what was once a blue flowing stream of water is now a muddy dry bed on which the Indian army has parked its trucks.  For the Chinese, water is a key weapon in their expansionist designs. This is obvious in the way they are building huge dams to block the flow of rivers including the Indus, Brahmaputra and the Mekong. This helps them control the quantity of water flowing into the lower riparian countries including India thereby using water to further their own geopolitics.  From the start, India has expressed concern about the construction of the Diamer-Bhasha dam being built on the river Indus in Gilgit-Baltistan which India claims to be its territory. The MoU for the Diamer-Bhasha dam was signed last month between the Chinese state-run firm China Power and the Pakistan army’s commercial wing Frontier Works Organisation and is expected to be completed by 2028. The Diamer-Bhasha dam, which will have a height of 272 metres, will be the highest roller-compacted concrete dam in the world and produce 4,500 megawatts of electricity.  Next in line is the Bunji dam, also being built on the Indus river with an installed capacity of 7,100 mw. A large portion of the capital for this construction will come from the Three Gorges Corporation. The sheer scale of this venture can be assessed from the fact that these dams are much larger than any existing dam in India. In fact, the entire installed hydropower projects in Jammu & Kashmir do not equal even the Bhasha Dam, which is the smaller of these two dams. These two mammoth dams are part of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) of the Chinese government to bolster their economic and geopolitical footprint across a swathe of nations. China is also planning to build 55 reservoirs on the rivers flowing from the Tibetan plateau. They completed construction of the Zangmu dam, built on the upper reaches of the Brahmaputra in 2010.  Three more dams at Dagu, Jiacha and Jeixu are presently under construction. In 2015, work started on the Zam hydropower station – which will be the largest dam on the Brahmaputra river - which the Chinese refer to as the Yarlung Tsangpo. Medog which is located just 30 km north of the Indian border is the site for this mega project as the river makes a huge bend inside a giant canyon, which is around 198 miles long and 3.1 miles wide. The Chinese are using the entire team which built the Three Gorges dam to execute these mammoth projects, expected to generate 40,000 mw of power. Water from this dam will be diverted to irrigate the arid regions of Xingjian and the Gansu in China.  India has rightly been apprehensive about these hydro projects on the Brahmaputra and as far back as 2013, it had lodged a complaint to China. An Inter-Ministerial Expert Group was set up to study this issue but nothing much has come out of this.  Post-Pathankot attack, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that blood and water cannot flow together and that he might well consider abrogation of the Indus Water Treaty if Pakistan does not end these militant attacks, China went public with its plan to build a large dam, with an investment of $740 million, on Xiabuqu river, close to the city of Xigaze located close to Bhutan and Sikkim. Brahmaputra Authority Chandan Mahanta, who heads the Centre for Environment at IIT Guwahati and is an expert on the Brahmaputra river basin, has for the last decade been demanding the setting up of a Brahmaputra River Valley Authority to undertake a comprehensive study of the Brahmaputra basin.   Mahanta points out that with China building four dams on the Brahmaputra, it was imperative that India gets details of the kind of dams they are constructing and how this will affect the river flows as otherwise, Brahmputra would end up becoming a seasonal river. China’s open-and-closed-tap policy is best illustrated when it refused post-Doklam in 2017 to share hydrological data on the Brahmaputra with India but continued to do so with Bangladesh which is the lowest downstream country of the Brahmaputra. These apprehensions are now being expressed across Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam. China has already built eight huge dams on the Mekong river and another three dams are on the cards. This has adversely affected the livelihoods on 60 million people dependent on this river for their fishing and agricultural requirements.  China today is on an expansionistic mode. It has now set its eyes on the waters from Indira Col drain to the Siachen glacier and also the Nubra and Shyok rivers of Ladakh. This may sound far-fetched but till a few weeks ago, no one would have imagined they would sweep across the Galwan Valley either.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/using-dams-as-weapons-855209.html
29-06-2020||First Edit||Ensure changes to Karnataka Industries Act a success||The Karnataka Cabinet’s decision to amend the Industries (Facilitation) Act by offering several concessions to prospective investors is expected to spur economic activity in the state and create new jobs. But many such proposals in the past have remained only on paper. Under the new scheme, upon receiving the go-ahead from the district or state-level single window committees, industries can begin operations immediately and will have a three-year window to obtain other statutory approvals including building plans and environmental clearances. In a way, this defeats the very purpose of the single window concept which was expected to provide all clearances in one go, without making the investor run from pillar to post. The woes of the investor will not end now, except that he can begin production as he continues to wade through the maze of government departments seeking approvals for the next three years. Given Karnataka’s notoriety for red-tape, it will also not be a surprise if bureaucrats put a spoke in the wheel of this well-meaning proposal. Investments to the tune of thousands of crores of rupees, especially agreements signed during the Global Investors’ Meet, have never seen the light of the day, due to the frustrating delay in obtaining clearances. Even projects where the government is an active partner have been subjected to undue and unjustified delays. Though the international airport project was initiated in the early 1990s, it began operations only in 2008, more than 15-years later. Similarly, Bengaluru Metro became active in 2011, several years after it was first mooted. Though Karnataka often boasts that it has an industry-friendly climate, in reality, the atmosphere is far from conducive. The proposal could also be fraught with certain infirmities unless adequate precautions are built-in as there is every possibility of industries not conforming to various laws, especially those relating to environment, pollution control and land use, once approval from the single window agency is received. In such a case, it would be difficult to shut down the unit after the three-year holiday period considering the investment and employment involved. Though Karnataka does have many proactive bureaucrats, no amount of policy changes will help until the entire administrative machinery works in perfect conjunction and plays the role of enabler. Bureaucrats who derive vicarious pleasure out of holding on to files until eternity should be shunted out. Karnataka will emerge as the first choice of investment only if the government facilitates ease of doing business by reducing the plethora of clearances required while ensuring that approvals are granted by various departments in a time-bound manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/ensure-changes-to-karnataka-industries-act-a-success-855206.html
29-06-2020||In Perspective||A rule of law by people's power||The last few weeks witnessed an explosion of mass-protests across the United States, expressing anger, discontentment (by violent means in some cases) on acts of institutional racism against the African-American community with the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor among many others. Protests spilled over to different parts of the world in countries like the United Kingdom, France etc. India, in months before the pandemic struck, saw similar mass people-based movements, condemning the subjugation of minorities from the CAA-NRC combine. There are three common linkages between the nature of people-led protest movements being seen across the world today: a) they are largely peaceful in nature involving a much wider representation of people across class, caste, ethnicity, race and gender; b) most of these have predominantly been led by women (at least for the larger part of the CAA protests seen in India), and c) all appeal for restoring “social justice” through grassroots based networks. The political opposition in democratic nations across the world may learn from these movements to recognise how sustained people-based mass social movements through grassroot-level networks can help mobilise resistance against authoritarian regimes and progressively (re)instate a rule of law. Recent arrests of women social activists Devangna Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Sudha Bharadwaj, to name a few, have drawn criticism from different quarters as instances of a conscious attempt to sanction dissent. Several social movements are countered vehemently (even by force) through institutional sanctions. Institutions do everything in their power to suppress civic freedoms and liberties - including a basic right to peacefully protest against law. A conventional focus on building institutions can often leave many citizens feeling disempowered being expected to wait till “all-important institutions” reform while they continue to be at the receiving end of oppression from those very institutions. To strengthen rule of law, what we require is a focus on strengthening people, not institutions. This warrants a difficult, dangerous task of developing grassroots-based community organisation at a very decentralised level, often through informal networks outside established institutions. In India, rights-based legislations have often yielded the most transformation socio-political change in strengthening the state-citizen contract, allowing greater agency and accountability mechanisms for the citizen to keep the accumulative power of the state in check. Illustratively, the Right to Information Act (2005) was a culmination of sustained collective action from organizations like Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) and National Campaign for People’s Right to Information (NCPRI). The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act of 2006 helped acknowledge the rights of forest-dwelling communities across India. The making of the Act mapped out a dense interplay between different actors in the drafting process. Social activists from the Campaign for Survival and Dignity (CSD) helped raise enough voice to convince the Ministry of Tribal Affairs to consider drafting a new law. Even NGREGA (2006) saw an intense interaction between different state and non-state actors (involving members of the civil society) that helped in actualising a legislation providing an opportunity for the socially-and culturally marginalised to develop new forms of claims to the local state apparatus. Nandini Nayak’s 2012 thesis provides a fascinating account of activism around NREGA in rural Madhya Pradesh that allowed Bhil adivasis a chance to engage and secure livelihood opportunities directly from the state. History, in different times and context, has therefore shown how, even in most established democracies, a failure to have formal institutions safeguarding rule of law is best substituted with an active, more aware and better organised citizenry. An engagement like this cannot be legislated for nor imitated from one city to another. People need to collectively build it bottom up in their own organic way. People’s power People’s power can strengthen rule of law in a more sustained manner while championing democratic processes and conduct in at least three ways. First, such demonstrated people’s-power can help neutralise the “top-down pressure” placed on courts and the police by the executive. Even compromised institutions can be forced into discharging their duties in accordance the spirit of the law - see how charges of murder were levied on cops involved in George Floyd’s killing as massive protests gained momentum to make the executive authorities to act swiftly. Secondly, people power-based social movements allow an organic creation of alternative spaces that help shape a society where a rule of law can be respected. Any act of civil disobedience, of course, needs to have a strategic purpose and need some disciplining too for the engaged people to understand that the act of disobedience is done not with the intention to reject the rule of law but rather see it as a means of (re)establishing it, for a more just and progressive purpose. And third, people’s power can help bring even the most brutal authoritarian leaderships to be defeated with far-reaching consequences that could not have been possible otherwise. Public discussion, collective deliberation and social processes of participatory engagement opens citizens’ minds to a more progressive idea of society that looks at a different way of doing things. People with similar progressive views need to organise themselves better today, learning to connect and engage with one another not on social-media platforms but in the real world. Over time, as people build mutual trust, gain confidence and conviction both in themselves and in collective propriety, it allows new coalitions to be formed and ultimately become more confrontational with authoritarian regimes. More than ever, harnessing this people’s power is critical in reinstating a rule of law and demonstrating the resilience of Indian democracy against any regime which wishes to weaken that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-rule-of-law-by-peoples-power-855207.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Out-going Mangaluru Police commissioner farewell tweet in Tulu wins local hearts||Dr. P S Harsha served as City Police Commissioner since August 2019 in Mangaluru and he is transferred to Bengaluru as the Commissioner, Information and Public Relations. Before leaving Mangaluru, Dr Harsha expressed his gratitude in Tulu through the social media, thanking the people of Mangaluru for their cooperation throughout his tenure as the commissioner of Police of Mangaluru City. The tweet starts with ‘Kudlada matha mokeda bandhule’ (My dear people of Kudla) and said “I had served as the Commissioner of Police in Mangaluru for the last 11 months and now has been transferred. I had served honestly by taking up pro-people programmes. I thank all those who cooperated with me through my journey in Mangaluru.” Further, in his Facebook post, he said “Mangaluru is a sensitive place and has been successful in managing law and order and implementing people-friendly initiatives. The initiative of a new beat system by involving people have helped to strengthen faith in the police department. ‘Ashakirana,’ an initiative of Mangaluru City Police to help rowdy sheeters to come out of the ‘crime world’ and eke a living by learning skills and Campus connect programme to fight against drug mafia had been successful during my tenure.” The tweet in Tulu saw 285 retweets and 250 replies and 2100 likes and the Facebook post too has received a lot of comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/out-going-mangaluru-police-commissioner-farewell-tweet-in-tulu-wins-local-hearts-855024.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada records 14th Covid-19 death||The woman was suffering from diabetes and liver-related ailment. She was admitted to a private hospital in Derlakatte for a surgery. Prior to the surgery, her throat swab was collected and she tested positive for the virus on Sunday,  DHO Dr Ramachandra Bayari said. She was shifted to the designated Covid-19 hospital for treatment, where she did not respond to treatment and passed away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-records-14th-covid-19-death-855033.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress protests against fuel price hikes in Karnataka's Belagavi||Workers and leaders of Congress rural, district and city units staged a demonstration in the premises of the Deputy Commissioners office in Belagavi on Monday demanding the withdrawal of hike in prices of petrol of diesel as commoners were suffering. They raised slogans against the union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded a pause in the hike of petrol and diesel prices. Congress workers and leaders staged a rally from the party office near RTO Circle to the Deputy Commissioners office. They displayed placards demanding the government to put an end to the fuel price rally, which has now been hiked 22 times over four weeks. They stated that people have been suffering amid lockdown and increasing prices of fuels is adding to their woes. KPCC Working President Satish Jarkiholi said that Congress has been protesting against the increase in prices of fuels as the ruling BJP has wronged the people and made mistakes." Oil companies are controlled by the union government and Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, instead of attacking the Congress, should bring this issue to the attention of the central party leaders," he said. "When he was in Congress, he alleged that the party was his breath, we do not know how he changed so much in six months," Satish Jarikholi also said. D K Shivakumar taking charge as KPCC president will facilitate the party to bounce back to power in the state, he added.Responding to the statement that Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi elected Congress member Yuvraj Kadam as APMC chairman, he said, it was good news. MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar, District President Vinay Navalgatti and other leaders were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-protests-against-fuel-price-hikes-in-karnatakas-belagavi-855069.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress protests against fuel price hikes in Hubballi||Staging a unique protest by riding bicycles and bullock carts from Chennamma Circle to Bhagat Singh Circle via Basava Vana and Hosur Circle in Hubballi on Monday, Congress workers asked the Union Government to withdraw the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel announced continuously in recent days, and to issue a white paper on petrol and diesel prices. "Economy has collapsed and poor are in more pathetic condition after Narendra Modi came to power. When crude oil price was $140 at the international rate, petrol price in India was Rs 50. Now, crude oil rate has come down to $40 and petrol and diesel prices in India have crossed Rs 80. Union and State governments are now collecting more than 200% tax on petrol and diesel, and Rs 10,300 crore collected from that is not being refunded for the welfare of people," MLA Prasad Abbayya Lamented, after participating in the bicycle rally. Mangaluru refinery imports petrol at a rate of Rs 38 per litre to Sri Lanka, but it is above Rs 80 in India. A common family bears around Rs 3,000 extra burden each month, due to continuous hikes in petrol and diesel rates, he added. MLC Shrinivas Mane doubted that the '56-inch chest' of Prime Minister Narendra Modi might be fake and 'China-made'. "Citizens who elected BJP MLAs and MPs are also unhappy with the petrol and diesel issue, but we are raising our voice in favour of them. Modi is giving false statements, and the BJP Central leadership is following a step-motherly attitude towards Karnataka, due to its clash with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, which is why pending GST refunds and funds required for flood management were not released fully," Mane alleged. Former MP I G Sanadi, Altaf Hallur, Sadananda Danganavar, Anwar Mudhol, Parasmal Jain, Naveed Mulla, and others took part in bicycle and bullock cart rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-protests-against-fuel-price-hikes-in-hubballi-855073.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi Taluk Panchayat employee tests positive for Covid-19||An employee of Hubballi Taluk Panchayat turned positive for Covid-19 infection on Monday, following which Mini Vidhan Soudha is being sanitised. The 27-year-old person reportedly contracted virus from his close friend. "They were moving together, and when his friend tested positive, he also underwent throat swab test on Friday, but he did not come to office since then. Another round of sanitisation will be conducted on Tuesday," an official said. Due to this incident, barricades are placed at the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) central office entrance, and only those who have essential work are allowed inside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-taluk-panchayat-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-855158.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister K Gopalaiah suggests additional 200-bed hospital for Covid-19 patients||District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah directed Deputy Commissioner R Girish to identify an additional 200-bed hospital, apart from the Covid-19 hospital, as there is a spike in the number of positive cases in the district. Presiding over a meeting of officials of various departments, the minister said, “The district administration should create awareness among the people on maintaining social distance and masks, and conduct a random test for the labourers living in slums.” He also directed to increase the number of tests in the district. The meeting also discussed various issues like road repairs, pruning trees on the roadsides, procurement of copra, shortage of doctors in Sakleshpur taluk hospital, and others. Earlier, the minister inspected the godowns of Food Corporation of India in Channarayapatna and Hassan districts, as there were complaints on the distribution of poor quality of pulses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-k-gopalaiah-suggests-additional-200-bed-hospital-for-covid-19-patients-855170.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru witnesses a series of protests||The city witnessed a series of protests on Monday. While district Congress committee members staged a protest against fuel price hike, farmers demonstrated against the amendment for APMC Act and Karnataka Land Reforms Act. Congress workers, led by district president B J Vijay Kumar staged a protest against the Union government against fuel price hike. They sat on pushcarts and moved on the streets. Members of various farmers associations, in association with Rajya Raitha Virodi Kaidhe Horata Samithi, took out a mobike rally, opposing the amendment to Karnataka Land Reforms Act. The farmers commenced the rally on two-wheelers at Gun House Circle. They tried to lay a siege to the Office of Regional Commissioner. But, the police stopped them. The farmers raised slogans against the government and demanded not to amend APMC Act and Land Reforms Act. Kurbur Shantakumar, general secretary of the samithi, Vidyasagar Ramegowda of Samuhika Nayakatva Raita Sangha, and Sudhir Kumar of Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha were present. In addition, members of other farmers associations staged protests in front of gram panchayat offices across the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-witnesses-a-series-of-protests-855172.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Family composes folk song to combat coronavirus||A family of three, here, including a class IV student, has come out with a unique folk song, in three different languages, to spread awareness about Covid-19. The family has produced a folk song in Kannada, Hindi and Tamil, to sensitise people against coronavirus. Premkumar P Wellington, an employee of All India Radio (AIR), Mysuru, his wife Vijayalakshmi Manapura, assistant professor, Folklore, Maharaja’s College, and their son P Paneel, a student of St Joseph’s Central School, Vijayanagar, have made an effort to create awareness about Covid. While Vijayalakshmi has written the lyrics, composed the music, and sung the song in Kannada, Premkumar translated the song to Hindi and Tamil. The father and the son have sung its Tamil version, while Paneel alone has sung its Hindi version. The song is widely circulated on the social media and the family members are getting appreciation for their efforts. The song is titled ‘Coronaada Karineralu’ in Kannada ‘Killer Corona; Mahaamaari Kaa Kaalaa Saayaa’ in Hindi and ‘Coronaavin Karuppu Nilal’ in Tamil.  The song is about Covid and how to check its spread. Through the song, the family appeals to the people to change their lifestyle and advises to adopt hygienic practices, to fight the pandemic. Senior citizens and children, who are prone to the infection, are asked to stay indoors. The song highlights fake news on Covid-19 and about the contribution of health workers, who are in the frontline, fighting the pandemic. Vijayalakshmi said, "The idea came after she realised the seriousness of the disease and wanted to spread a message in villages." Praneel said, "The motto of the song is to create awareness and to bring back normal situation in the country." Mysore Diocesan Educational Society (MDES) has recognised the efforts and has issued a ‘Certificate of Appreciation’. MDES secretary Vijay Kumar, cheif executive officer Joyce Lobo, St Joseph’s Central School principal Mary Margaret Nirmala and vice principal Susie Pinto have appreciated Praneel’s efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/family-composes-folk-song-to-combat-coronavirus-855174.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Karnataka One’ limited only for bill payment||Karnataka One Centre, that was introduced to provide multiple services of government departments and also private companies, under one roof, is now limited to accepting payment of electricity and water bills in Mandya. The government, in an effort to provide financial help to the workers, who have been facing the worst times due to the lockdown, had invited applications through Seva Sindhu portal. Those working in salons, washermen, autorickshaw and cab drivers, weavers and others, who approached Karnataka One Centre to apply for the benefits, were disappointed as the services are not available. They had to apply for them at private centres. Karnataka One Centre at Mahaveera Circle in the city has a board, displaying the list of services available, like Aadhaar Card, Arogya Card, ration card, application for Seva Sindhu portal and others. But, no such services are available, citing technical problems. The handbills have more than 22 services listed under one roof at the centre. Except Aadhaar correction, no other service is available, according to the employees. The public, who are in need, have to approach Common Service Centre (CSC), managed by a private agency. Narasimhamurthy, a resident of Marigowda Layout in the city said that he made umpteen visits to the Karnataka One Centre to get an Arogya Card. The employee cite network problem and password issues. Later, he got it done elsewhere, by paying Rs 100, which would have been below Rs 35 at Karnataka One. Director of Electronic Delivery of Citizen Services (EDCS), e-administration, district administration and City Municipal Council opened the centre in Mandya, in 2019. However, Karanataka One manager Umesh said, "The login ID and password of the employees are yet to be received from Bengaluru. The services will start once they are received."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-one-limited-only-for-bill-payment-855176.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid effect: Mysuru being marketed as workstation||As Mysuru, the most prefered tourist destination of India, has gone to a slumber in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, those in the hospitality sector are exploring innovative ways to market their services. In view of attracting guests, as flow of tourists is almost nil, a city hotel has launched a seven-day workathon package to market Mysuru as a workstation. Metropole, a heritage property, managed by Royal Orchid has launched the package. Vijay Kumar, director of sales, Royal Orchid Metropole, said, “The hotel is well-known for its heritage and ambience. Work from home has become the new norm for many professionals. But, there are limitations for the’ work from home’ concept.” “There will be family distractions and also people get bored of staying in one place for longer durations. Earlier, they used to switch between home and office, during weekdays and would shift to holiday destinations during weekends. Now, options are limited and chances of boredom is plenty,” he said. “Our concept is instead of working from home, professionals can ‘Work from Mysuru’s most renowned Heritage Hotel’, for a change. We assure a 100% safe, sanitised, secure, silent and green zone. The seven-day package costs around Rs 28,000 for single occupancy and Rs 35,000 for double occupancy. Our rooms are spacious with balcony, we provide pre-set meals, besides tea or coffee, we provide high-speed internet, a workstation, lawn, courtyard and children’s play area,” Vijay Kumar said. President of Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association C Narayan Gowda said, “Unless outsiders come to Mysuru, revival of the economy is difficult, as hospitality and tourism are the main businesses here. We need to explore ways to sustain the hospitality sector and attract people to come and stay in Mysuru. We will also discuss the issue in our association meeting and chalk out new plans.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-effect-mysuru-being-marketed-as-workstation-855178.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi village in fear as Covid-19 test report comes after patient's last rites||Tension prevailed at Chabbi village in Hubballi Rural taluk as a resident of the area near the village died at KIMS due to blood vomiting four days back, and his throat swab tested positive for Covid-19 after his last rites were held near the village. Basically from Morab village in Navalgund taluk, the 73-year-old person was admitted at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) on June 22, and preparations were being made for a surgery. His throat swab was also collected. However, he died on June 25, and KIMS authorities handed over the body to his family. It is said that many people attended the last rites. However, the Covid-19 positive report (of P-11,406) came later, and villagers are in panic now. Charamurtheshwar Ashray Plot near Chabbi, where the deceased was residing, is under strict surveillance now, and some of his contacts have also been quarantined, sources said. Chabbi Gram Panchayat president Mohammad Sadhiq Hussain Mulla blamed the KIMS doctors for handing over the body without getting Covid-19 test report. KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani stated that if anyone with other health problems dies in the hospital, the body can be handed over with suitable precautionary measures like proper packing, even if the swab test report has not come, as per the guidelines. As proper precautions were taken, there is no possibility of spreading of the virus there, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-village-in-fear-as-covid-19-test-report-comes-after-patients-last-rites-855183.html
29-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP high command to decide on Vishwanath's fate: Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi||Karnataka Water Resources and District-in-Charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that BJP high command will take the decision regarding the fate of former minister H Vishwanath who joined the party along with him. Jarkiholi told reporters on Monday that Vishwanath was not made MLC during the recent election. The BJP high command would take a decision on Vishwanath and others and the party would abide by it, he said. Regarding Congress protesting against the hike in prices of petrol and diesel, he said "We are well aware of what that party has done when in power. Soon Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a decision in the interest of the poor." He also said that the decision on cabinet expansion and inclusion of Umesh Katti in the cabinet would be taken by the high command. On Belagavi Rural MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar accepting his dare, Jarkiholi said it is natural in politics. "Even ants react if disturbed, she has been elected as MLA," he said. The BJP did not make an effort to win the APMC chairman and deputy post-elections as we have one member among the nine elected. We can also say I made Yuvraj Madam the chairman, he said on a lighter note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-high-command-to-decide-on-vishwanaths-fate-karnataka-minister-ramesh-jarkiholi-855040.html
29-06-2020||National||DH Toon | P V Narasimha Rao birth centenary: 'Assume it's a 25-hour day and observe contempt extra one hour'||About three decades after he had set the economic reforms ball rolling and over a decade and a half after his demise, former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao will perhaps be receiving his due recognition now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-p-v-narasimha-rao-birth-centenary-assume-its-a-25-hour-day-and-observe-contempt-extra-one-hour-854901.html
29-06-2020||National||DH Podcast | The Lead: Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja on how the state is battling coronavirus||In this episode, DH Journalist Varsha Gowda talks to Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja on how the southern state is battling the Covid-19 pandemic.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-podcast-the-lead-kerala-health-minister-k-k-shailaja-on-how-the-state-is-battling-coronavirus-854902.html
29-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Millions of migrant workers who fled cities don’t want to return||By Shruti Srivastava  Meanwhile, migrant workers aren’t expected to return to the cities as long as the virus is spreading and work is uncertain. States are rolling out stimulus programs, but India’s economy is hurtling for its first contraction in more than 40 years, and without enough jobs, a volatile political climate gets more so. “This will be a huge economic shock, especially for households of short-term, cyclical migrants, who tend to come from vulnerable, poor and low-caste and tribal backgrounds,” said Varun Aggarwal, a founder of India Migration Now, a research and advocacy group based in Mumbai. In the first 15 days of India’s lockdown, domestic remittances dropped by 90%, according to Rishi Gupta, chief executive officer of Mumbai-based Fino Paytech Ltd., which operates the country’s biggest payments bank. By the end of May, remittances were back to around 1750 rupees ($23), about half the pre-Covid average. Gupta’s not sure how soon it’ll fully recover. “Migrants are in no hurry to come back,” Gupta said. “They’re saying that they’re not thinking of going back at all.” If workers stay in their home states long term, policymakers will have more than remittances to worry about. If consumption falls and the new surplus of labor drives wages down, Agarwal said, “there will also be a second-order shock to the local economy. Overall, not looking good.” India announced a $277 billion stimulus package in May and followed it up with a $7 billion program aimed at creating jobs for 125 days for migrants in villages across 116 districts. Separately, local authorities are also looking for solutions. Officials in Bihar have identified 2,500 acres of land that could be made available to investors, said Sushil Modi, deputy chief minister of Bihar, a state in east India. “We can use this crisis as an opportunity to speed up reforms,” he said. The investors haven’t materialised yet, and in the meanwhile, state governments are relying on the national cash-for-work program that guarantees 100 days worth of wages per household. Skilled workers don’t want to do manual labor offered through the program, and even if they did, says Amitabh Kundu of RIS, many think of it as beneath their station. “There will be an increase in social tensions,” he predicts. “Caste may again start playing a role. It’s absolute chaos.” For skilled workers, initiatives vary: * Uttar Pradesh, which received 3.2 million people, is compiling lists of skilled workers who need employment and trying to place them with local manufacturing and real estate industry associations. So far, the government says, it’s placed 300,000 people with construction and real estate firms. * Bihar has placed returners in state-run infrastructure projects and hired others to stitch uniforms and make furniture for government-run schools, even as they waited in quarantine centres, said Pratyay Amrit, head of the state’s disaster management department. * The eastern state of Odisha announced an urban wage employment program aimed at putting as many as 450,000 day labourers to work through September. Some 25,000 people have been employed, so far, under the scheme, G. Mathivathanan, principal secretary for housing and urban development said. Attracting Investments It’s not clear any of this will be enough to make a dent, says Ravi Srivastava, professor at New Delhi-based Institute of Human Development, adding that the states don’t have much of a track record on economic development. “It was the failure of these states to improve governance and put development plans in place that led to the out-migration in the first place,” he said. But officials and workers’ rights advocates see opportunity. Uttar Pradesh has established liaisons to encourage companies from the US, Japan and South Korea to establish manufacturing in the state. There and in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, the government has made labour laws more friendly to employers, making it easier to hire and fire workers. Modi, the minister from Bihar, said the migration may also give workers--historically a disenfranchised group--new power, particularly as urban centres struggle. “The way industries treated workers during the lockdown -- didn’t pay them, the living conditions were poor -- now these industries will realize the value of this force,” Modi said. “In the days to come, labour will emerge as a force that can’t be ignored anymore,” he added. “That’s the new normal. We will work out how to ensure dignity, rights to our people who are going to work in other states.” Bihar is due for elections by November, a vote that could be an early test of the mass migration’s political consequences. The state is currently governed by a coalition that includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party. Amitabh Kundu, a fellow at the Research and Information System for Developing Countries, a New Delhi-based government think-tank, said migrant workers are likely to be angry voters. “Chief ministers are telling these migrants that they will not have to go back for work,” he said. “But their capacity to do something miraculous in the next four to five months is doubtful. If they can retain even one-fourth of the migrants, I would call it a success.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-millions-of-migrant-workers-who-fled-cities-don-t-want-to-return-854903.html
29-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 29||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 5.4 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.     While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 5,65,222  as of June 29 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 16,860 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,08,951  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-29-854908.html
29-06-2020||National||Fact-check | Old message of blood donation drive revived as ‘plasma donation’ in the wake of Covid-19||A list of 64 first names along with individual blood groups and contact numbers has gone viral on WhatsApp. As per the text, the people listed are “ready to make plasma donation” and “you may please add more in the list if you think you can and are willing to help.” The message is circulating in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak where blood plasma therapy is under trial as a possible treatment. The procedure aims at using antibodies from the blood of a recovered COVID-19 patient to treat those suffering from the viral infection. “From a group of people ready to make plasma donation: We are ready to help  For blood donate pls share to u r friends, colleagues, relation etc (followed by 64 names and numbers — as shown in the screenshots) share this to as many groups as possible it may help a broken heart. You may please add more in the list if you think you can and are willing to help someone who is going through a Harrowing experience. Let’s come together to help each other,” reads the complete message, screenshots of which are posted below with the phone numbers blurred.  Unlike the posts, the viral text includes a false and misleading sentence, “From a group of people ready to make plasma donation.” Alt News tried to connect with several donors on the list. Most of the numbers were not functioning. However, we managed to connect with one person (identity concealed at request) who confirmed that the viral message is four years old and related to a blood donation drive. Social media claims suggesting that the people on the list are donating their blood plasma is yet another piece of misinformation floating in the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-old-message-of-blood-donation-drive-revived-as-plasma-donation-in-the-wake-of-covid-19-854911.html
29-06-2020||National||India debates skin-tone bias as beauty companies alter advertisements||Throughout the years she was growing up in southern India, Christy Jennifer, a producer with a media house in the city of Chennai, was traumatised by episodes of prejudice. As she walked through school corridors, classmates pointed at her darker skin and teased her, she said. Even friends and family members told her never to wear black. She said she was constantly advised on which skin lightening cream to use as if the remedy to this deep-seated social bias lay in a plastic bottle. “Every day, my dignity and self-esteem were reduced to the colour of my skin,” she said. “I felt a worthless piece of flesh.” Colourism, the bias against people of darker skin tones, has vexed India for a long time. It is partly a product of colonial prejudices, and it has been exacerbated by caste, regional differences and Bollywood, the nation’s film industry, which has long promoted lighter-skinned heroes. But America’s intense discussion of race, in the wake of George Floyd’s death, seems to be having some effect. This past week, Unilever and other major international consumer brands, facing accusations that they were promoting racist attitudes, said they would remove labels such as “fair” “white” and “light” from their products, including the skin-lightening creams that are wildly popular in India. At the same time, a big Indian matchmaking website, Shaadi.com, decided to remove a filter that allowed people to select partners based on skin tone after facing a backlash from users that began in North America. Jennifer and several other Indians said these were moves in the right direction. “This is a fantastic news — a steppingstone toward ending colourism,” Jennifer said. “Now young people won’t feel ashamed of how they look while growing up with dark-tone skin.” For centuries, discrimination over skin tones has been a feature of Indian society. Some historians say it was greatly intensified by colonialism and a practice by the British rulers of favouring light-skinned Indians for government jobs. Preferences for light-toned skin over dark — when it comes to marriages and some jobs — are still upending the lives of hundreds of thousands of Indians. In some families, daughters-in-law with darker skin are called derogatory names, sometimes branded with the same words used for thieves. Students with dark-toned skin are more frequently bullied in schools. Such attitudes have spawned a huge demand in India for whiteners and bleaching products. Shop shelves are crammed with creams, oils, soaps and serums promising to lighten skin, and some are manufactured by the world’s biggest cosmetic companies. The king of the market is Unilever’s Fair & Lovely cream, a fixture in many Indian households for decades. But even before this past week, the culture had been changing. Earlier this year, India’s government proposed a law that would make it illegal to market products that make false health claims, including those that promise to lighten skin. Kavitha Emmanuel, the director of Women of Worth, an organization in Chennai, started a campaign in 2019 called “Dark Is Beautiful.” Many young men and women, she said, have complained to her that their skin tone is an impediment to social mobility. She welcomed the moves by Unilever and Shaadi.com, but said India was still slow in confronting such discrimination. “While movements like Black Lives Matter have had a profound impact in the West, in South Asian countries it is still a long-drawn battle,” she said. Emmanuel said that skin-tone biases had the greatest effect on marriage and social issues but that in some fields, including entertainment, hospitality and modelling, “the qualification goes without saying that you need to be fair-skinned, particularly for women.” Other commentators, though, insisted that colourism in India is different from racism in the West.“The preference for lighter skin is largely aesthetic and does not have structural economic or power consequences,” said Dipankar Gupta, a well-known sociologist.“It is not as if a policeman would routinely harass darker-skinned people,” Gupta added. “Indians can recognize class and status through a number of markers, but skin colour is not one of them.” Still, across India, there is great social pressure for people to seek light-skinned spouses. Mohinder Verma, a businessman, defended placing an ad in a newspaper in which he sought for his son a “tall, good-looking” bride with “fair skin” who has a university degree but prefers to be a stay-at-home wife. Verma, 72, said parents in India felt pressure within their social circles to find brides for their sons who look “gori,” or fair, although he agreed that “this thinking needs to change.” “It’s somehow ingrained in our minds,” said Verma, who lives in the northern Indian state of Punjab. “When you have a dark-skinned daughter-in-law, people talk behind your back. They ask what wrong had we committed in our previous life.” A 2017 study of 1,992 Indians found that more than half said they were influenced by TV advertisements to appear lighter-skinned. “Indian preference for lighter skins is a reflection of the successful branding of white skin as superior,” said Deepa Narayan, a commentator on gender issues in India. Narayan, who recently published a book on how women are treated in India, said Bollywood had contributed to these prejudices.“Every heroine and now heroes, too, are whitewashed,” she said. “And the villains are dark.” For decades, matrimonial ads in Indian newspapers displayed a preference for lighter skin, reinforcing entrenched beliefs partly rooted in India’s stubborn caste system. Many Indians believe that lower caste people are darker. Social scientists say that there is no direct relationship between caste and skin colour, but that this perception might have been perpetuated by a long history of lower-caste people being relegated to menial jobs, often performed under the sun, that made their skin darker. The debate over skin colour bias flared into the open after a few women of Indian descent started a petition drive against Shaadi.com, the matchmaking service, which claims to have delivered “millions of happy stories.” Meghan Nagpal, who lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, said that four days after the killing of Floyd in Minneapolis, she visited Shaadi.com and was struck by the filter that categorised prospects based on skin tone. She flagged the issue with the website but got no response. She then posted about it on Facebook, which led Hetal Lakhani, a Dallas resident, to open an online petition, which quickly garnered more than 1,500 signatures. The company then removed the filter. Nagpal said that when she was younger, she used skin-lightening products. “It was like buying jeans of size 8 when you want 10,” said Nagpal, 28, a graduate student who was born in Canada. “You are never comfortable with it.” Jennifer, the media producer in Chennai, has spent her adult life struggling with concepts of beauty and the role of skin colour. When she lived in Tirunelveli, in southern India, people gave her unsolicited advice all the time on how to look lighter-skinned. She then moved to Chennai, one of India’s biggest cities, and met a man on a dating website who, she said, was a little lighter-skinned than she is. They chatted online for months, and she eventually travelled to meet him in person. They went to dinner, they talked future plans, they shared laughs, and a warmth grew between them, she said. But the next day, right before she headed home, the man turned to her and asked: “Can you do something about your dark skin?” Jennifer, now 42, immediately ended the relationship. “A family wants their daughter-in-law to be fair-skinned, even if their son might not be?” she said. “I would rather die than marry someone who judges me by my looks.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-debates-skin-tone-bias-as-beauty-companies-alter-advertisements-854926.html
29-06-2020||National||After a day's pause, prices of petrol, diesel rise yet again||After a 21-day rally in fuel prices, oil marketing companies put a pause on price hikes on Sunday. On Monday, however, the prices of petrol and diesel rose again. Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. In Delhi, petrol will now cost Rs 80.43 a litre (increase by Re 0.05) and diesel will cost Rs 80.53 (up by Re 0.13), a day after there was no change in the prices in the national capital yesterday. In Mumbai, petrol price went up from Rs 87.14 per litre to Rs 87.19, while diesel was hiked to Rs 78.83 from Rs 78.71. In Bengaluru, commuters will now pay Rs 83.04 per litre for petrol  and Rs 76.58 a litre for diesel. This puts the cumulative hike, starting from June 7 at Rs 9.17 for petrol and Rs 11.14 for diesel. Rates of petrol and diesel differ from state to state depending on the incidence of VAT. This is the 22nd hike in four weeks in diesel prices, while petrol prices were revised 21 times in the same time period, starting June 7. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-a-days-pause-prices-of-petrol-diesel-rise-yet-again-854936.html
29-06-2020||National||Single-day spike of 19,459 Covid-19 cases takes India's tally to 5,48,318||A single-day spike of 19,459 Covid-19 cases took India's tally to 5,48,318 on Monday, while the death toll climbed to 16,475 with 380 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. This is the sixth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000. The country has seen a surge of 3,57,783 infections from June 1 till date. The number of active cases stands at 2,10,120, while 3,21,722 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data. "Thus, around 58.67 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 83,98,362 samples have been tested up to June 28, with 1,70,560 samples tested on Sunday. Of the 380 new deaths reported, 156 are from Maharashtra, 65 from Delhi, 54 from Tamil Nadu, 19 from Gujarat, 16 from Karnataka, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, 11 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from West Bengal, eight from Rajasthan, seven from Madhya Pradesh, five each from Haryana and Punjab, four from Telangana, three from Odisha and one fatality each was reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand and Bihar. Of the total 16,475 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 7,429 deaths, followed by Delhi with 2,623, Gujarat with 1,808, Tamil Nadu with 1,079, Uttar Pradesh with 660, West Bengal with 639, Madhya Pradesh with 557, Rajasthan with 399 and Telangana with 247 deaths. The Covid-19 death toll reached 223 in Haryana, 207 in Karnataka, 169 in Andhra Pradesh, 133 in Punjab, 94 in Jammu and Kashmir, 60 in Bihar, 38 in Uttarakhand, 22 in Kerala and 21 in Odisha. Chhattisgarh has registered 13 deaths, Jharkhand 12, Puducherry and Assam 10 each, Himachal Pradesh nine, Chandigarh six, Goa three and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,64,626, followed by Delhi at 83,077, Tamil Nadu at 82,275, Gujarat at 31,320, Uttar Pradesh at 22,147, West Bengal at 17,283 and Rajasthan at 17,271, according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 14,419 in Telangana, 13,829 in Haryana, 13,241 in Andhra Pradesh, 13,190 in Karnataka, and 13,186 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 9,212 in Bihar, 7,206 in Assam, 7,093 in Jammu and Kashmir and 6,614 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 5,216 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 4,189 cases. A total of 2,823 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 2,662 in Chhattisgarh, 2,364 in Jharkhand, 1,346 in Tripura, 1,198 in Goa ,1,185 in Manipur, 963 in Ladakh and 916 in Himachal Pradesh. Puducherry has recorded 619 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh 429, Nagaland 415, Arunachal Pradesh 182 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 178 Covid-19 cases. Mizoram has 148 cases, Sikkim has 88 and Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 76 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 47 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 7,285 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-day-spike-of-19459-covid-19-cases-takes-indias-tally-to-548318-854950.html
29-06-2020||National||Delhi to set up plasma bank for Covid-19 treatment||Delhi government will set up a 'plasma bank' to fight Covid-19 within two days, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday as he urged recovered patients to donate plasma that will help people under treatment for the virus infection. The facility will be housed at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in south Delhi's Vasant Kunj and the state government would make travel arrangements for those willing to donate plasma Kejriwal said there is high demand for plasma therapy in the national capital, which is one of the first states to start plasma therapy trials, and that prompted the government to start the first-of-its-kind plasma bank in the country. "In the first phase, we conducted plasma trials on 29 patients. The results are good. I am not saying it is a life saving therapy for all. It helps stabilise respiratory rate of moderate to severe patients. But it cannot save serious patients," he said. He said any patient admitted in government or private hospitals can avail the facilities of the plasma bank. But this can be done only through the recommendation of a doctor. "It cannot be randomly sought by any Covid-19 patient. After recommendation, the concerned hospital has to inform ILBS for plasma," he said. The government is also setting up a helpline to help recovered patients to reach out. Health officials would also start calling them to persuade them to donate plasma, he said. Kejriwal had earlier said that plasma therapy had helped in reducing death rate by around 50 per cent in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-to-set-up-plasma-bank-for-covid-19-treatment-854980.html
29-06-2020||National||Commuter hassles aggravate in Kolkata as several private buses stay off roads citing losses||Transport woes of commuters compounded on Monday with a large number of private buses remaining off the roads in the city, demanding a fare hike in the wake of rising fuel prices and Covid-19 restrictions on the number of passengers allowed to board. Travellers complained of inordinate delays in getting to their destinations as fewer private buses are in operation in the metropolis and its suburbs compared to last week. Commuters have been facing hardships owing to lack of public transport since the beginning of Unlock-1 on June 8, when most government and private offices and establishments reopened. Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, one of the largest associations of private bus operators in the city and the districts, said the current fare structure is not viable. "High diesel prices, coupled with the state government's directive to allow only sitting capacity passengers, have crippled services. Ticket sales are not enough to even pay for the fuel cost, leave alone other expenses," its general secretary Tapan Banerjee said. Fuel prices were hiked for the 22nd time on Monday in just over three weeks. According to All Bengal Bus Minibus Sammanoy Samity (coordination committee) general secretary Rahul Chatterjee, there are around 27,000 private buses in the state. Around 25 per cent of the total number were in operation last week, officials said. "The state government offering to pay a monthly dole of Rs 15,000 each for 6,000 private buses for three months will create confusion and division among the owners," Chatterjee said, adding, a fare hike is the only solution to the current imbroglio. He said the coordination committee has not called for any stoppage of services, but given the losses being incurred daily, owners are withdrawing vehicles from the routes. State transport undertaking, WBTC, however, is running buses at full strength, its managing director Rajanvir Singh Kapur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commuter-hassles-aggravate-in-kolkata-as-several-private-buses-stay-off-roads-citing-losses-854985.html
29-06-2020||National||Separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani quits Hurriyat Conference over nepotism||In a significant development, ailing separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani on Monday resigned as chairman of the hardline faction of Hurriyat Conference, while accusing Pakistan-based separatist leadership of nepotism and political corruption In a two-page letter, the nonagenarian separatist leader, who remained the face of Kashmir's separatist politics for over three decades, accused the Pakistan-based separatist leadership of nepotism and political corruption.  Geelani also accused the Pakistan-based separatists of misinterpreting his speeches and taking decisions arbitrarily without keeping him in the loop. He also accused constituents of the Hurriyat of inaction after the scrapping of Article 370. “I sent messages to you (Hurriyat leaders) through various means so the next course of action could be decided but all my efforts were in vain. Now that the sword of accountability is hanging over your heads for the financial and other irregularities, you thought of calling the advisory committee meeting," he wrote. In the letter, the nonagenarian separatist accused Hurriyat constituents of hatching “conspiracy and resorting to lies against him” and also teaming up with the Hurriyat chapter in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, which had targeted him. “Instead of reprimanding them, you called a meeting in Srinagar and ratified their stand. You people have become part of the conspiracy and lies," the letter reads. A three-time MLA from north Kashmir’s Sopore, Geelani quit electoral politics after militancy erupted in Kashmir in 1990. The Hurriyat Conference was formed in March 1993 as a united political platform of the separatist parties in Kashmir. Ten years after its formation, the Hurriyat split into the moderate group headed by Mirwaiz Umer Farooq and the hardline group headed by Geelani.  Earlier in March 2018, Geelani had resigned as chairman of his party Tehreek-e-Hurriyat but had decided to continue to head the hardline Hurriyat faction then. He had cited his falling health and curbs on him by the government as a reason for resigning then. Since the last few years Geelani’s health, his funeral, and aftereffects of his death have remained a talking point within the administration. In December last year after a rumor about his death, Jammu & Kashmir administration made a plan to brace itself for any eventuality. While at the moment it is not clear who will take over the hardline faction of Hurriyat, as the power vacuum created by the exit will be too large to fill by any existing leaders as Geelani’s sway remains unparalleled in the separatist ecosystem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/separatist-leader-syed-ali-shah-geelani-quits-hurriyat-conference-over-nepotism-854987.html
29-06-2020||National||CJI Bobde takes Twitter by storm as photo on a Harley Davidson goes viral||Sharad Arvind Bobde, the 47th and the current Chief Justice of India, was spotted in Nagpur riding a Harley Davidson. The picture of him on the bike went viral on social media. However, the CJI was spotted in the image without a mask. He was pictured sitting on a 'Limited Edition CVO 2020' Harley Davidson. However, multiple media reports claimed he only "sat" on the bike and the bike did not belong to him. The Chief Justice, who was key to several landmark judgements in India, such as the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case and the judgement that suspended the sale of firecrackers in the National Capital Region, has been hearing cases virtually amidst the coronavirus pandemic and nationwide lockdown. He recently headed the bench that stayed Puri's Jagannath Yatra, saying "Lord Jagannath won't forgive us if we allow this year's Rath Yatra to go on, as such a huge gathering can't take place during the pandemic." The order was, however, modified and the Yatra allowed later by the Supreme Court. The picture created a storm on social media with Twitterverse hailing the CJI for his cool quotient. Many, however, questioned why the CJI wasn't wearing a mask or helmet. 
<!--//--><![CDATA[// ><!--
//--><!]]>||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-bobde-takes-twitter-by-storm-as-photo-on-a-harley-davidson-goes-viral-855000.html
29-06-2020||National||Floods in Assam force a million from their homes||Heavy flooding triggered by monsoon rains has forced more than a million people to flee their homes in Assam, authorities said on Monday, warning that the crisis was becoming more critical by the hour. The Brahmaputra River, one of the largest rivers in the world which flows from Tibet into India and then into Bangladesh, burst its banks in Assam over the weekend, inundating more than 2,000 villages, and it was still raining on Monday. "Two people have died in separate incidents of drowning in the past 24 hours and more than one million people have been affected, with the flood situation turning critical by the hour," a state government flood bulletin said. Torrential rain hit at least 23 of Assam's 33 districts and the federal water resources body said water levels in the Brahmaputra were expected to rise, with more rain forecast over the next three days. "The flood situation remains extremely grave with several embankments breached," Assam Water Resources Minister Keshab Mahanta told Reuters. Most of the Kaziranga National Park, home to the rare one-horned rhino, was under water, authorities said. Assam, famous for its tea plantations, is hit by seasonal flooding each year, forcing state and federal governments to spend millions of rupees on flood control. Paramilitary personnel were deployed across the state for rescue operations and to ensure people maintain social distance in makeshift shelter camps to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, authorities said. Assam has so far reported 7,492 coronavirus infections and 11 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/floods-in-assam-force-a-million-from-their-homes-855007.html
29-06-2020||National||SIDBI sets up ‘Swavalamban Crisis Responsive Fund’ to help MSMEs||The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), the principal financial institution engaged in the promotion, financing, and development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), is setting up ‘Swavalamban Crisis Responsive Fund’ to support free onboarding of MSMEs on Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS). Receivables Exchange of India Ltd. (RXIL), M1xchange and Invoicemart are three TReDS platforms that help MSMEs gain access to working capital through invoice discounting via multiple financiers. In a press statement, SIDBI CMD Mohammad Mustafa said the government has been taking several steps to strengthen the MSME ecosystem and these vehicles to implement several Government of India initiatives towards quick response to Covid-19 fallout. "The present endeavour of setting up Swavalamban Crisis Responsive Fund (SCRF), under Swavalamban Resource Facility, where SIDBI partners with Department for International Development (DFID) UK, is yet another differentiated intervention by the Bank. It aims at offering relief to the MSMEs during these challenging times. We are hopeful that MSMEs shall maximise this opportunity to onboard TReDS, thus getting much-needed breather from squeezed/severely crunched cash flow," he said. TReDS is an electronic platform where receivables of MSMEs drawn against buyers (large corporates, public sector undertakings, government departments, etc.) are financed through multiple financiers at competitive rates through an auction mechanism. TReDS is an answer to the everlasting cash flow issues of the MSMEs, particularly in these Covid-19 challenging times. In order to induce MSMEs to increasingly join on these platforms and leverage the gains, discussions were conducted with these platforms. They have all proactively come forward to join the national responsive initiative to extend free onboarding access to MSMEs till September 2020. The fund would be utilised to partially offset the cost of joining/registration fee on the TReDS platform and support the TReDS Companies to ensure free onboarding charges for MSMEs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidbi-sets-up-swavalamban-crisis-responsive-fund-to-help-msmes-855012.html
29-06-2020||National||Agreement for Indo-Bhutan joint venture hydroelectric project signed||A concession agreement for the 600 MW Kholongchhu Indo-Bhutan joint venture hydroelectric project was signed on Monday, paving the way for the commencement of its construction and other related works. The concession agreement for the project between the Bhutanese government and the Kholongchhu Hydro Energy Limited was signed in the virtual presence of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Bhutanese counterpart Tandi Dorji, a Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) statement said. "The signing of the concession agreement will lead to commencement of construction and other works of this first Joint Venture Hydroelectric Project between India and Bhutan. The project is expected to be completed in the second half of 2025," it said. The 600 MW run-of-the-river project is located on the lower course of the Kholongchhu River in Trashiyangtse district in eastern Bhutan. The project envisages an underground powerhouse of four 150 MW turbines with water impounded by a concrete gravity dam of 95 metres height, the MEA said. It will be implemented by Kholongchhu Hydro Energy Limited, a joint venture company formed between Druk Green Power Corporation (DGPC) of Bhutan and Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (SJVNL) of India, the statement said. Both Jaishankar and his Bhutanese counterpart emphasised the importance of hydropower development as an important pillar of mutually beneficial bilateral economic cooperation. They also recalled the trust, cooperation and mutual respect that have long characterised the unique and special friendship, anchored in mutual understanding and reinforced by a shared cultural heritage and strong people to people links between India and Bhutan, the statement said. Bhutan Economic Affairs Minister Loknath Sharma, and senior government officials including foreign secretaries of India and Bhutan, secretary (power), Government of India, ambassador of India to Bhutan and ambassador of Bhutan to India were also present at the signing ceremony held through videoconferencing, the MEA said. The hydropower sector is the flagship area of India-Bhutan bilateral cooperation, it said. The 720 MW Mangdechhu hydroelectric project was jointly inaugurated earlier in August 2019 by the prime ministers of India and Bhutan. With this, four hydroelectric projects of bilateral cooperation (336 MW Chukha HEP, 60 MW Kurichhu HEP, 1,020 MW Tala HEP and 720 MW Mangdechhu HEP), totalling over 2,100 MW, are already operational in Bhutan, according to the MEA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agreement-for-indo-bhutan-joint-venture-hydroelectric-project-signed-855017.html
29-06-2020||National||Why were foreign Tablighi Jamaat attendees not deported if visas were cancelled: SC asks Centre||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to ascertain if visas of about 2500 members of Tablighi Jamat from 35 countries were cancelled after they attended the Nizamuddin Markaz event in Delhi in March. A bench of A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna sought to know if there was a general direction for cancellation of visas and blacklisting them or if an order was passed in each individual case. The court also asked the Union government to clarify why these foreign attendees had not been deported if their visas were cancelled. After posing these queries, the court posted a batch of petitions filed by Maulana Ala Hadrami and others, including a pregnant woman, for consideration on July 2. Senior advocate C U Singh, appearing for the petitioners, contended that no individual order was passed or served on cancellation of visas but a general press note was issued. Hadrami, a resident of Indonesia, said subsequent seizing of their passports without hearing them out was an affront not only to their right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution but also to the rudimentary principle of natural justice. The petitioners asked the court to declare the move as arbitrary and unconstitutional, reinstate their visas and allow them to return to their respective countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-were-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-not-deported-if-visas-were-cancelled-sc-asks-centre-855027.html
29-06-2020||National||Army of women health workers on coronavirus front line||About a million accredited social health activists, or ASHAs, are deployed in cities and villages to administer basic medical care such as vaccinations and delivering babies. But as the number of confirmed infections in India soars past 500,000, the women find themselves on the front line of the battle against the contagion, identifying potential cases and educating locals in the hope of slowing its spread. ASHA workers told AFP they had nothing except their headscarves to protect them from the virus and were often abused by people angry about the government's handling of the outbreak, which is one of the worst in the world. "I have been an ASHA for 14 years now and never have I been as scared to knock on a door with my bare hands. We don't have gloves, not even masks," said Alka, who asked AFP not to use her surname.  Alka and her colleagues visit households and ask the occupants to fill out a questionnaire on any virus symptoms they might have and their recent travel histories. Many of the residents are among the millions of migrant workers left jobless and destitute by the months-long virus lockdown imposed by the government in March. If someone looks like a potential case, the ASHAs report them to authorities. Some ASHAs have been physically attacked by villagers who fear they are carrying the virus or are government spies. During a recent doorknock in a village in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, Alka and her two colleagues were spotted by eight men in a store who came out and surrounded them. The men shouted at the women about the shortage of basic food and protection against the virus. Standing her ground, Alka said she told the men: "Even we don't get gear and grains. Where will we get it for you?" Such harassment is bearable, she told AFP. "Recently some locals tore the clothes on one woman while she was working." Given the lack of contact tracing in India, the ASHAs were "critical elements" in India's fight against Covid-19, said Anant Bhan, a leading public health expert. The women know their communities well, Bhan said. But their work is difficult and poorly paid despite a Rs 1,000 ($13) coronavirus bonus. Alka supports her husband -- who does not approve of her work and often calls her names -- and three children with a monthly salary of Rs 6,000. But she has to pay for her own transport to and from the communities she is helping. Sometimes she has to walk home because she has run out of money or there are virus restrictions affecting public transport. Alka and her team say they have formed a "sisterhood" that keeps them going. "Our supervisors give us orders over the phone from the comfort of their offices or homes. We sacrifice our family lives and take daily risks to educate and help people," said Alka.  "We are the heroes." During a recent visit to the village of Bahadarpur, Alka used a homemade flour-based glue to stick up a poster outside a home explaining the need to wash hands and take other precautions against the virus. "The glue on the poster is not strong enough," she said. "But if I have to use even a rupee from my salary for glue, it's a huge dent in my budget." The women's pleas for people to wear face masks and self-isolate if they have symptoms are often not welcomed, especially in impoverished communities where many are day labourers. "I'll stay home if you guarantee me that my kids won't die of hunger," a man told the ASHAs during a visit accompanied by AFP. Alka said it was not easy to get people to heed their advice. "People are struggling to feed their families," she said. "What can we do?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-of-women-health-workers-on-coronavirus-front-line-855037.html
29-06-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: Three lightning victims buried in cow dung for 'cure'; Two of them die||Three people, including a woman, were allegedly buried in cow dung by some villagers in a bid to 'cure' them after lightning struck them in the tribal-dominated Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh, a police official said on Monday. They were later shifted to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead, he said. The incident took place on Sunday evening when the three were working in paddy fields in Baagbahar village of the district, located around 400 km from the state capital Raipur, Jashpur Sub-Divisional Officer of Police Rajendra Parihar told PTI. When the rainfall and thunderstorm started, they took shelter under a tree in a field. Suddenly, lightning struck there, causing serious injuries to the three people, he said. Instead of taking them to hospital, their family members and some villagers buried them from bottom to neck in cow dung as part of a superstitious practice among them. "The villagers in the area believe cow dung has the power to heal burn injuries," he said. Later, when some other villagers intervened, the three victims were shifted to a local hospital where two of them - Sunil Sai (22) and Champa Raut (20) - were declared brought dead, the official said. The other injured person, aged 23, was undergoing treatment at the hospital, he said. A case was registered, the official said, adding that compensation will be provided to the kin of the deceased as per the rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-three-lightning-victims-buried-in-cow-dung-for-cure-two-of-them-die-855038.html
29-06-2020||National||India records single-day spike of 19,459 COVID-19 cases; tally at 5,48,318||A single-day spike of 19,459 COVID-19 cases took India's tally to 5,48,318 on Monday, while the death toll climbed to 16,475 with 380 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. This is the sixth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000. The country has seen a surge of 3,57,783 infections from June 1 till date. The number of active cases stands at 2,10,120, while 3,21,722 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. The gap between recoveries and active cases is 1,11,602 as of Monday, with the recovery rate now at 58.67 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 12,010 COVID-19 patients have been cured since Sunday. The graded, pre-emptive and pro-active steps taken by the government along with the states and Union territories for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 continue to show encouraging results, it said. India now has 1,047 diagnostic labs dedicated to COVID-19, including 760 in the government sector and 287 private labs. The 11 labs that have been inducted since Sunday are all operated by the government. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 83,98,362 samples have been tested up to June 28, with 1,70,560 samples tested on Sunday. Of the 380 new deaths reported, 156 are from Maharashtra, 65 from Delhi, 54 from Tamil Nadu, 19 from Gujarat, 16 from Karnataka, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, 11 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from West Bengal, eight from Rajasthan, seven from Madhya Pradesh, five each from Haryana and Punjab, four from Telangana, three from Odisha and one fatality each was reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand and Bihar. Of the total 16,475 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 7,429 deaths, followed by Delhi with 2,623, Gujarat with 1,808, Tamil Nadu with 1,079, Uttar Pradesh with 660, West Bengal with 639, Madhya Pradesh with 557, Rajasthan with 399 and Telangana with 247 deaths. The COVID-19 death toll has reached 223 in Haryana, 207 in Karnataka, 169 in Andhra Pradesh, 133 in Punjab, 94 in Jammu and Kashmir, 60 in Bihar, 38 in Uttarakhand, 22 in Kerala and 21 in Odisha. Chhattisgarh has registered 13 deaths, Jharkhand 12, Puducherry and Assam 10 each, Himachal Pradesh nine, Chandigarh six, Goa three and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry. More than 70 per cent of the deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,64,626, followed by Delhi at 83,077, Tamil Nadu at 82,275, Gujarat at 31,320, Uttar Pradesh at 22,147, West Bengal at 17,283 and Rajasthan at 17,271, according to the ministry data. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 14,419 in Telangana, 13,829 in Haryana, 13,241 in Andhra Pradesh, 13,190 in Karnataka, and 13,186 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 9,212 in Bihar, 7,206 in Assam, 7,093 in Jammu and Kashmir and 6,614 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 5,216 infections so far, while Kerala has 4,189 cases. A total of 2,823 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 2,662 in Chhattisgarh, 2,364 in Jharkhand, 1,346 in Tripura, 1,198 in Goa ,1,185 in Manipur, 963 in Ladakh and 916 in Himachal Pradesh. Puducherry has recorded 619 COVID-19 cases, Chandigarh 429, Nagaland 415, Arunachal Pradesh 182 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 178 COVID-19 cases. Mizoram has 148 cases, Sikkim 88 and Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 76 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 47 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 7,285 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-single-day-spike-of-19459-covid-19-cases-tally-at-548318-855046.html
29-06-2020||National||First batch of six Rafale jets likely to arrive in India by July 27; to be based in Ambala||India would receive its first six French origin Rafale fighter aircraft by July end, boosting the Indian Air Force’s ability to strike at the enemy while defending the skies. Armed with Meteor beyond-visual-range air-to-air missile and several other lethal weapons, the fourth generation multi-role combat jets will arrive by July 27, sources said. On June 2, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a telephonic conversation with his French counterpart Florence Parly in which she conveyed that the Rafale jets would be delivered to India as scheduled notwithstanding the novel coronavirus-2019 pandemic in France. The first half a dozen jets would be housed in Ambala airbase, which will be the home base of the 17 Squadron that would fly these birds. The second base to house the IAF’s latest weapons is Hashimara in West Bengal which would be populated later. The first aircraft to be flown-in would be piloted by the Commanding Officer of the 17 Squadron (Golden Arrows) along with a French pilot. Besides fueling once in mid-air, the IAF Rafale would also make a stop somewhere in the Middle East. Chief of Air Staff R K S Bhadauria'a initials (RB) will feature in the tail of the first aircraft that was handed over to the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in France on the Air Force Day last year. This is to recognise his contribution to the protracted negotiations as the Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. Compared to the existing IAF combat platforms, the Rafale not only has a far superior weapon package but it has the ability to see the enemy way ahead and engage with multiple targets at the same time. As a result, the enemy needs to deploy multiple fighters to take on a single Rafale jet, effectively lowering its strength in a war-like scenario. In September 2016, India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France for the procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets (two squadrons) at a cost of nearly Rs 59,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-batch-of-six-rafale-jets-likely-to-arrive-in-india-by-july-27-to-be-based-in-ambala-855047.html
29-06-2020||National||Will not interfere in decision to transfer custodial deaths probe to CBI: Madras HC to TN||Observing that it cannot have a say in Tamil Nadu government’s decision to transfer the case involving custodial deaths of a father and his son to the CBI, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday (June 29) asked the Thoothukudi collector to direct revenue officials to take control of the Sathankulam Police Station to collect relevant documents.  A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi also came down heavily on the Sathankulam Police for not cooperating with the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate who is probing the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj (61), and his son Emmanuel Bennix (31). As Additional Advocate General (AAG) K Chellapandian sought permission from the court to transfer the case to CBI, the judges said they have no say in the issue as it was a policy decision by the government. The duo were taken into custody by the police in Sathankulam town on June 19 following an argument over keeping their shops open beyond 9:00 pm. The duo were alleged to have been tortured by police during custody and was shifted to Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 21. However, the son died on June 22 and the father on June 23 triggering massive protests by family members and relatives. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took suo moto cognizance of the case and had constituted a team of doctors to conduct the post-mortem on the father and his son. It had also issued a slew of direction to the judicial magistrate regarding inquest into the custodial deaths. On Monday, the bench noted that the Principal District Judge, Thoothukudi, who is closely monitoring the investigation into the custodial deaths, has brought to their notice that the Sathankulam police were not cooperating with the judicial magistrate (JM) probing the incident.   While expressing displeasure at the behaviour of the Sathankulam police, the judges asked Thoothukudi district collector Sandeep Nanduri to direct revenue officials to take control of the Sathankulam police station, where the duo were allegedly tortured before being lodged in a sub-jail, to facilitate the JM to collect relevant documents or evidence for the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-not-interfere-in-decision-to-transfer-custodial-deaths-probe-to-cbi-madras-hc-to-tn-855059.html
29-06-2020||National||SC asks ICAI to revise scheme for CA exams||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to revise its scheme for conducting examinations for the Chartered Accountant course between July 29 and August 16. The court suggested ICAI to give the candidates an option to choose centres in the middle of examinations and go for opt-out schemes till the last moment, in view of the uncertainty prevailing due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked the ICAI to bring out a fresh notification, also mandating adherence to safety guidelines by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and posted the matter for consideration on July 2. The top court was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, on behalf of Anubha Shrivastava Sahai, who wanted setting up more exam centres and stay on 'opt-out scheme' and taking up more measures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, the court told the counsel, appearing for the ICAI, that it was a professional body and must take care of its candidates. The court said as the situation was still evolving, a candidate, unable to appear for the examination, should be considered under the opt-out scheme, even if he or she did not choose it. A student can suddenly come under a containment zone, so he or she should be considered under this opt-out scheme, it said. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for the ICAI, submitted the Standard Operating Procedure has been put in place, allowing the authorities to shift the centre in case it fell under the containment zone. The court said the option of change of Centre should be extended to all to avoid extensive travel. The ICAI fixed June 29 as the last date for candidates to go for the opt-out scheme. Out of 3.46 Iakh candidates, who applied for appearing in the May 2020 cycle of the examinations, only 57,092 candidates have availed the opt-out option so far. The May 2020 examinations were earlier scheduled to be held between May 2 and may 18, 2020 in about 500 centres in 207 cities in India and five overseas centres. However, due to the extension of lockdown, the examinations have now been rescheduled to take place between July 29 and August 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-icai-to-revise-scheme-for-ca-exams-855064.html
29-06-2020||National||66% of fresh graduates have no job offer, survey claims||The economic gloom following the Covid-19 pandemic appears to have shattered the dreams of fresh graduates as a survey claiming that two-third of them have no job offer at hand. Out of those who have received a job offer, 44 per cent have said that their joining dates have been delayed, while another 9 per cent have their offer rolled back. According to the survey, the pandemic has led to a major impact on the jobs market and affected the campus hiring scenario in 2020-21. The survey claimed students anticipate major changes in the education system with half of the students agreeing that virtual classes are the future of pedagogy and the majority of colleges have already started conducting virtual classes. A majority of students are also considering freelancing as a viable future career option. With unemployment and layoffs increasing during the period, the survey of around 1,300 students showed that a majority have switched to online job portals to hunt for a job while another 17 per cent are taking the referral route and connecting with their college alumni. "Almost half of the students confirmed that companies have postponed their visit to campuses. In these times of social distancing, the companies are resorting to new age technology solutions for hiring and are conducting video interviews and online assessments to recruit candidates from various campuses. It will be imperative for students to start preparing for remote interviews as a new way of getting hired," it said. The reliance on online courses and certifications to bridge skill gap is increasing with the survey showing that 70 per cent of students have already subscribed to online courses, followed by half of them reading news regularly to stay abreast of developments in their fields. "Interestingly, the current pandemic has not impacted the higher education plan of 80 per cent surveyed graduates," the survey said. Firstnaukri Chief Business Officer Sharad Sindhwani said the pandemic has hit placement prospects of the 2020 batch across 82 per cent colleges. "It has further impacted internship offers of 74 per cent pre-final year students. However, students are not losing morale and going virtual for their learning as well as job interviews. In fact, most companies are also using new-age technology to hire remotely," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/66-of-fresh-graduates-have-no-job-offer-survey-claims-855071.html
29-06-2020||National||Govt allows export of Covid-19 PPE medical coveralls; Quota fixed at 50 lakh units per month||Partially relaxing export norms, the government on Monday permitted shipments of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) medical coveralls for Covid-19 with an export quota of 50 lakh units per month. The product was banned for export earlier, but has now been moved to the restricted category, under which an exporter would have to seek a licence from the government for shipments. In a notification, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said: "A monthly quota of 50 lakh PPE medical coverall for Covid-19 units has been fixed for issuance of export licence to the eligible applicants to export PPE medical coveralls for Covid-19 as per the criteria to be separately issued in a trade notice". All other items that are part of PPE kits remain prohibited and the monthly quota shall not be applicable on export of these items, it said. These items include medical goggles, all masks other than non-medical/non surgical (cotton, silk, wool, polyester, nylon rayon, viscose - knitted, woven or blended); nitrile gloves and face shield. These products are in huge demand due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted: “Boosting Make in India exports, PPE medical coveralls for Covid-19 have been allowed with a monthly export quota of 50 lakh.”  DGFT has also laid out a detailed procedure and criteria for export of PPE coveralls. An exporter has to apply online through a DGFT's system for export authorisation and there is no need to send a hard copy of the application. "Only applications for export of PPE medical coveralls for Covid-19 filed from 1st to 3rd day of each month will be considered for the quota of that month," the directorate said adding that all approvals/allocations will be done by 10th of every month. Validity of the export licence will be for three months only. Further, it said that the firm applying should be a manufacturer of PPE coveralls and copy of testing/accreditation of the product shall be issued to the firms from the laboratories notified/recognised by the textiles ministry. "The firm shall either submit a copy of importing country's PPE medical coveralls standards certificate obtained by it or a copy of Bureau of Indian Standards certificate obtained by it, if the importing country does not insist on a standard certificate," it added. All the relevant documents have to be submitted along with the online application to fulfill the eligibility criteria and incomplete applications will not be considered for any allocation, it said. Earlier on June 22, the government had decided to continue exports ban only on specific PPE such as medical coveralls of all classes and goggles. For the first time, on January 31, India had banned export of all PPE including clothing and masks. Hailing the decision, Apparel Export Promotion Council of India (AEPC) Chairman A Sakthivel said the government should also allow export of N95 masks. The decision to permit export of PPE medical coveralls has opened the entire global market for domestic players who were fast enough to seize this opportunity of producing and supplying PPE kits as the world struggles to control coronavirus pandemic, Sakthivel said. The production of PPE is more than sufficient to cater to the needs of the country and allowing exports of such items will not only help the health workers across the world, but also support the revival of the apparel industry in the country, he added. The council has been requesting the government to allow these exports as the production of PPE has increased to over 8 lakh units per day. “A single mask manufacturing machine can produce one lakh pieces per day and we have more than 200 such machines currently,” he said. The government should soon extend the export opportunity for N95 masks as well, he said, adding that the size of the global market for PPEs is more than USD 60 billion for the next five years. The chairman further said that India is in competition with countries like Bangladesh, Indonesia and Pakistan as they have lifted the ban on PPE exports and are receiving huge orders from large buyers in the US and Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-export-of-covid-19-ppe-medical-coveralls-quota-fixed-at-50-lakh-units-per-month-855075.html
29-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Delhi to set up plasma bank; Terrorists attack Pakistan Stock Exchange||In today's episode, Delhi will set up a 'plasma bank' to fight Covid-19 within two days, Four militants attack Pakistan Stock Exchange building, Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar announced that the results of the second pre-university and the SSLC results will be out by July last week and August first week and Congress launches "Speak Up Against Fuel Hike" campaign across the country and Sonia Gandhi attacks the BJP government at the Centre for raising fuel prices 22 times since the lockdown.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-delhi-to-set-up-plasma-bank-terrorists-attack-pakistan-stock-exchange-855081.html
29-06-2020||National||India to use Israeli solution to safeguard public places in its fight against COVID-19: Report||India is to use an innovative antiseptic disinfectant, which was originally developed for the Israeli Defence Forces to deal with biological warfare, to protect its public places in its fight against the highly contagious coronavirus, a media report here. The solution developed by the Israel Institute for Biological Research (IIBR), an organisation that works under the supervision of the Prime Minister’s Office and the Defence Ministry and is at the forefront of efforts to develop a vaccine against the Coronavirus pandemic, is distributed by an Israeli company Tera Novell. Tera Novell will transfer the solution, under a confidentiality agreement as to the unique compound expected to aid in cardinal disinfection of airports, hospitals, the public transport system and more, to its Indian distributor Zhiva Innovations Biotech, The Jerusalem Post reported on Sunday. The new solution has been found to disinfect surfaces off 100 per cent of bacteria, viruses (including coronavirus), molds and fungi, and remains active for a long time after being sprayed in a manner which is safe for the public, the report claimed. Prior to signing the cooperation agreement with India, the technology went through successful trials at several public places in Israel, especially those running high risk of getting infected, it added. The disinfection process was carried out in collaboration with Tera Novel, which has exclusive marketing rights on a variety of the IIBR's products, including the WT Sterile product, which was developed for the military to be used against biological warfare, providing a full disinfection of wet surfaces and places. With the Covid-19 pandemic posing grave threat, Tera Novel shifted its aim to finding targeted and innovative solutions to prevent the spread and infection of the new coronavirus in public institutions, the report said. "This is a breakthrough for the environmental war on the coronavirus and, in fact, any other virus or pollutant. The antiseptic allows for maximum protection while fully killing the virus and can be used on vertical and horizontal wet surfaces. "These features make it ideal for use anywhere, whether in public places and institutions, tourist sites, sports facilities, or for home use”, Keren Cohen Hazon, CEO of Tera Novel, was quoted as saying by The Jerusalem Post. "I am confident that the state-of-the-art technology will be able to assist India in the stubborn war against the coronavirus," Hazon said. India like many other nations is under the grip of coronavirus and till now has reported 5,48,318 cases with 16,475 deaths, according to India’s Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-use-israeli-solution-to-safeguard-public-places-in-its-fight-against-covid-19-report-855084.html
29-06-2020||National||Srijan scam: Ex-IAS officer, who contested poll as JD (U) nominee, in CBI net||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing the multi-crore Srijan scam in Bihar, has filed a charge-sheet against 60 accused. This includes former IAS officer KP Ramaiah, who earlier served as District Magistrate of Bhagalpur, the district from where several hundred crores were embezzled by transferring funds from Government treasuries to an NGO called Srijan.  Ramaiah, who took VRS before joining the ruling Janata Dal (United), contested the Lok Sabha election as the JD (U) nominee against Congress’ Meira Kumar from Sasaram parliamentary constituency in 2014. However, after losing the poll, he was appointed chairman of a tribunal. The controversial ex-IAS officer was also found to have wrongly disbursed Rs 2.24 crore two days before his voluntary retirement. As such, he was separately charge-sheeted in another case of embezzlement of funds meant for uplift of SC/ST students. Meanwhile, the CBI chargesheet in the Rs 2000 crore-Srijan scam also names the NGO founder late Manorma Devi, her son Amit Kumar and daughter-in-law Priya Kumari (both absconding), besides several governments and bank officials. Srijan scam came to light on August 3, 2017, when it was detected by the then Bhagalpur District Magistrate Adesh Titarmare that there has been pilferage of government funds to the tune of around Rs 500 crore by a Bhagalpur-based NGO, Srijan. An investigation by top cops indicated that around Rs 355.7 crore were fraudulently transferred from three heads – land acquisition (Rs 270 crore), urban development schemes (Rs 70.7 crore), and district administration (Rs 15 crore) – into the account of the NGO, Srijan Sahyog Mahila Samiti. Srijan was run by a social worker Manorma Devi, who reportedly flaunted her connections with politicians and bureaucrats and helped Srijan spread its tentacles. Altogether 17 persons, including Prem Kumar, the personal assistant (PA) of Bhagalpur District Magistrate, were arrested after nine FIRs were lodged by the police. Later, when it was found that the embezzled fund had crossed Rs 1000 crore, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar ordered a CBI probe into the scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/srijan-scam-ex-ias-officer-who-contested-poll-as-jd-u-nominee-in-cbi-net-855112.html
29-06-2020||National||Partial Metro services for emergency service workers may start in Kolkata||Kolkata Metro Rail authorities have informed the West Bengal government that they will only be able to resume partial service in the city for workers in the essential services, said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. Last Friday Banerjee said that Metro Services can resume if social distancing is maintained and passenger is allowed traveling while standing. “We have requested the Kolkata Metro Rail authorities to resume service in the city. They have told us that as of now they will be providing service for those working in essential services such as police and health workers,” said Banerjee. She also said that the Kolkata Metro Rail authorities are also preparing a mobile application for these workers.  Banerjee said that she wants partial Metro Rail services to start as soon as possible as it will relieve pressure on the limited number of buses currently plying in the city. “We want to start this as early as possible. The Chief Secretary will speak to the Railway Board Chairman about it,” said Banerjee. Speaking to journalists Kolkata Metro Rail spokesperson Indrani Bandyopadhyay said that they can only resume full service after the Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Home Affairs, and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. “We have certain limitations regarding rake maintenance and manpower. Social distancing will be difficult to maintain. We have suggested we can provide limited service for workers in the essential services,” said Bandyopadhyay. Earlier in the day, a meeting was held between officials of the state government and Kolkata Metro Rail at the State Secretariat. According to sources in the state administration during the meeting at the state secretariat, Kolkata Metro Rail authorities said that at present there are some issues with immediately resuming service, especially while maintaining social distancing. They have said that since four doors of metro compartments open simultaneously it will be extremely difficult to control the entry of passengers when 32 passengers open at once after a train enters a station. It will also be difficult to manage the entry of passengers at the main entrance of metro stations since there is a lack of adequate RPF personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/partial-metro-services-for-emergency-service-workers-may-start-in-kolkata-855116.html
29-06-2020||National||1 killed, 10 injured as bus carrying migrant workers overturns in Jharkhand||One person was killed and 10 others were injured when a bus carrying migrant workers to West Bengal from Gujarat overturned in Jhakhand's Ramgarh district, police said. The accident happened at Kenjhia valley on Gola- Ormanjhi state highway under Rajrappa police station of the district around 3.30 am, the Officer-in-Charge of the police station, Vinod Kumar Murmu, said. He said the bus overturned after a front tyre burst.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-killed-10-injured-as-bus-carrying-migrant-workers-overturns-in-jharkhand-855134.html
29-06-2020||National||NGT orders automobile makers to give info on sound level of vehicles to buyers||Terming that noise pollution is posing a serious threat to the health of people, the National Green Tribunal has asked the automobile manufacturers to provide information about the sound level of the vehicle to consumers while selling it. A bench comprising Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and Siddhanta Das said that only those vehicles that carry valid Pollution Under Control Certificate (PUC) issued by the authorised agency are permitted to ply in Maharashtra so as to prevent air pollution due to vehicles. The tribunal passed this order after hearing a petition filed by advocate Dileep B Nevatia against the violation of The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, caused due to complete neglect and apathy on part of the authorities. The petitioner also said that concerned authorities are neither monitoring the noise levels of constructed vehicles at the manufacturing stage nor they are ensuring compliance of noise limits by these vehicles. The green bench also said that information about sound emissions due to the automobile to consumers and public authorities has the potential to influence purchasing decisions and accelerate the transition to a quieter vehicle fleet. "Accordingly, we hold that the automobile manufacturers should provide information on sound levels of vehicles at the point of sale and in technical promotional material, providing information to the consumers about the sound emissions of a vehicle and also the horns based on Precautionary Principle," the tribunal said. The bench said that increasing noise levels in the urban areas is posing a serious threat to the health of the people in general andespecially to the children and old, in particular. The bench also Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to notify the noise emission standards for vehicles at the manufacturing stage and thereafter issue necessary directions under Section 20 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, to the concerned authorities for enforcement of such standards. The tribunal also directed the authorities to record the PUC (pollution under control) data only so as to automatically linked with the Central Server with uniform standardise software and introduce annual third party inspection of PUC centres. While asking transport department to strengthen inspection of PUC centers for quality control and licensing programme, the NGT directed it to make a quality audit of centers and calibration quarterly and upgrade testing centres for the high levels of automatic emission testing so that operators and vehicles drivers are prevented from manipulation of results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-orders-automobile-makers-to-give-info-on-sound-level-of-vehicles-to-buyers-855139.html
29-06-2020||National||Covid-19 widened educational divide: UNESCO||As schools opt for online classes in times of Covid-19, UNESCO has flagged concerns of exclusion of a large number of students, mostly due to lack of access to technology. The global education body said distance learning during the pandemic was an “imperfect substitute for classroom instruction” and urged countries to devise methods to make imparting of education more inclusive. “Overall, the setback on learning is expected to be considerable, although its magnitude is difficult to pin down,” UNESCO’s Global Education Monitoring Report said. It said depending on the structure of the academic year, school closures had affected their calendars, teacher training, and licensing schedules, besides examinations. “Rethinking the future of education is all the more important following the Covid-19 pandemic, which further widened and put the spotlight on inequalities. Failure to act will hinder the progress of societies,” Audrey Azoulay, Director-General of UNESCO said. The report said the Covid-19 crisis has shown that the issue was not just about technical solutions to tackle the digital divide.  “Although distance learning has captured many headlines, only a minority of countries have the basic infrastructure to focus on the pedagogical challenges of online approaches to teaching and learning. Most children and youth have suffered a short-term direct, but hopefully temporary, loss of learning,” it said. “Many low and middle-income countries have not been able to support learners at risk of exclusion during the Covid-19 pandemic. Governments need to take a close look at the inclusion challenges to rebuild education systems that are better and accessible to all learners,” the report said. According to the UNESCO estimates, over 154 crore students are severely impacted by the closure of educational institutions across the world amid the Covid-19 outbreak, owing to which girls will be the worst hit as it will lead to increased dropout rates and further entrench gender gaps in education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-widened-educational-divide-unesco-855148.html
29-06-2020||National||Govt of India bans TikTok, Shareit, UC Browser among other Chinese apps||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology decided to block 59 apps by invoking its power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act in light of the new threats, the country is facing, referring to the India-China tensions over the past few weeks along the Line of Actual Control where 20 soldiers were martyred and many more injured. The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre under the Ministry of Home Affairs has sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these malicious apps, informed the Press Information Bureau.  These apps include popular short-form video and social media platform TikTok, UC Browser, file sharing app Shareit and leading phone manufacturer Xiaomi's Mi Video Call and Mi Community.  In view of information available these apps are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order, the Press Information Bureau said in a statement. The Ministry of Information Technology said that they had received complaints from several sources including many reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for "stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India." Elements hostile to national security and defence of India are compiling this data, mining it, and profiling, which ultimately damages the sovereignty and integrity of state. "This is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures," the ministry said in a statement. The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) has also received appeals from citizens regarding security of data and breach of privacy resulting in other public order issues, they added. Based on the inputs received from public and security concerns from experts, such apps that pose a threat to sovereignty and integrity of India, the Centre has decided to ban the usage of 59 apps. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that Indian soldiers have given a befitting response to those who cast an evil eye on Indian soil in Ladakh, asserting that the world has noticed India’s commitment and might when it comes to safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity, yesterday during his Mann Ki Baat address to the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-of-india-bans-tiktok-shareit-uc-browser-among-other-chinese-apps-855149.html
29-06-2020||National||No demands for Shramik special trains: Railways||Demand for Shramik Special, trains, meant to ferry migrant workers to their home states, came to end as there no request for the train for Tuesday. "Only one train Bangalore to Muzzarpur / Barauni operated on Monday. There is no demand for a train in any zones," said an official from the railways. Indian Railways, which started Shramik Special on May 1,  so far operated 4596 trains and ferried around 68 lakh migrant workers, students, and stranded tourists to their home states. Earlier Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters that though demand for Shramik Special trains came down drastically, the railways will operate the trains as long as the state want. The railways operating these trains based on the request of state governments. Since the railways already started 100 pair fixed timetabled special trains and 15 pair Special Rajdhani, several people using these trains for the commute. Yadav also said those migrants, who have gone home, also started returning to cities as lockdown eases and economic activities started.  The railways also said there is no plan to operate Shramik Special trains for reverse migrants but several special trains coming to big cities like Bengaluru, Mumbai, and Ahmedabad running full capacity as workers returning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-demands-for-shramik-special-trains-railways-855150.html
29-06-2020||National||Kerala: One more held in blackmail case||One more person was held in connection with the bid to blackmail actress Shamna Kasim in Kochi, while an actor was quizzed by the police in this connection. Harris, a hairstylist, was arrested by the police. He was suspected to be a key conspirator in the blackmailing bid. Actor Dharmajan's statement was collected by the police on Monday. He later said that one of the gang members called him and asked for contact numbers of two actresses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-one-more-held-in-blackmail-case-855152.html
29-06-2020||National||Ladakh clash: Third Corps Commander meeting on Tuesday at Chushul||Top commanders from the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army will meet once again on Tuesday, giving yet another shot to resolve the ongoing tense stand-off between the forces in eastern Ladakh in an amicable manner. “The meeting is scheduled to start at 1030 AM. This time it will be held in Chushul on the Indian side,” said a source. The two previous such meetings between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military on June 6 and June 22 took place at Moldo in the Chinese territory opposite to Chushul. The second one was a marathon engagement that continued for 11 hours but any big breakthrough eluded the talks. The stand-off between Indian and PLA troops began since the onset of summer in April in multiple locations on northern banks of the Pangong lake as well as in the Galwan Valley and Depsang bulge near Daulat Beg Oldi airfield, north of Galwan. A peace formula was framed by the two sides on June 6 but when the Indian troops want it to be implemented, it led to a bloody clash near Patrol Point 14 in the Galwan valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers including a Col rank officer and a significant number of PLA soldiers were killed in brutal hand-to-hand combat. Historical records and satellite images show that the Chinese troops have crossed their own claim line and positioned themselves on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control. The PLA also constructed supporting infrastructure near the LAC and depth areas. China’s original claim is listed in a document, published by the Ministry of External Affairs in 1960-1961. The document - tweeted by former Foreign Secretary Nirupama Menon Rao – lists out the specific coordinates of the Chinese claim line in the Galwan river areas. According to the document, the alignment passed over the two peaks and went south along the mountain ridge, where it crossed the Galwan river at Long. 78° 13' E, Lat. 34° 46' N.' When these coordinates are placed on the Google Earth Pro, they show where the Chinese claim line was. When such images are compared against the recent satellite images shared by the analysts on open source platforms, it clearly establishes the fact that the PLA troops are ahead of their own claim line. The coordinates on the Chinese claim including exact latitude and longitude figures are given in the ''Report of the Officials of the Governments of India and the People's Republic of China on the Boundary Question.” Rao tweeted only two relevant pages from the report. Issues like crossing the disputed boundary at Galwan valley and heavy fortification of the PLA troops on the northern banks of the Pangong Tso (lake) would feature in the military commanders meeting as India would press for the restoration of the status quo and complete withdrawal of the troops from the Indian side of the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-clash-third-corps-commander-meeting-on-tuesday-at-chushul-855160.html
29-06-2020||National||Govt announces guidelines for ‘Unlock 2’ to be in force till July 31||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday issued guidelines for Covid-19 Unlock 2.0. Expansion of domestic air travel in a calibrated manner, relaxation in night curfew and permitting more than five persons in shops depending on its area are among a few relaxations provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in Covid-19 Unlock 2.0 that starts from July 1. Lockdown will continue to be implemented strictly in the Containment Zones till July 31, according to the new guidelines issued on Monday. Educational institutions will continue to remain closed till July 31 though training institutions of the central and state governments will be allowed to function from July 15.  The guidelines issued for Unlock 2.0 also said that international air travel and Metro services will continue to remain suspended. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls will not be allowed to open during this period. Political, academic, cultural, religious, sporting events and other large congregations also continue to be prohibited during Unlock 2.0. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to Chief Secretaries of all states and UTs, urging them to ensure compliance of Unlock 2.0 guidelines and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation. However, dates for opening these will be decided separately based on the assessment of the situation.  The new guidelines are based on the feedback received from states and union territories and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments, an official statement said.  The authorities are looking at expanding the domestic air services in a "calibrated manner", it said. Night curfew timings have been further relaxed and the new timings will be between 10 pm and 5 am instead of 9 pm and 5 am at present. There will be relaxations on the number of customers allowed in a shop at a given time depending upon their area, the statement said. At present, only five people can be inside a shop. In containment zones, which will be demarcated by district authorities by following guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, there will be strict lockdown aimed at effectively breaking the chain of Covid-19 transmission.  The guidelines also allowed the states to prohibit certain activities outside containment zones or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. However, there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. Persons above 65 years, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes.    More details to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-announces-guidelines-for-unlock-2-to-be-in-force-till-july-31-855166.html
29-06-2020||National||Delhi's Covid-19 cases decline in three days||Covid-19 cases have witnessed a decline in the national capital for the past three days even as India reported nearly 20,000 new infections on Monday, taking it past the 5.5 lakh mark. As Delhi saw a slight dip in the number of cases, states such as Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh registered their highest daily increase in Covid-19 infections, prompting healthcare workers to step up control measures. According to the Health Ministry, India had added 19,459 new infections on Monday taking the total confirmed cases to 5,48,318, while 380 patients succumbed to the disease taking the death toll to 16,475. Over the past three days, Delhi had witnessed a decline in fresh cases as it reported 3,460 fresh infections on Friday, 2,948 new cases on Saturday and 2,889 cases on Sunday. However, the decline has to continue for some more days to establish a trend.  On Monday, Tamil Nadu reported 3,940 fresh infections, West Bengal (572), Karnataka (1,267) and Andhra Pradesh (956) which were the highest daily increase for the respective states. According to the health ministry, the gap between recoveries and active cases was 1,11,602 as of Monday. “So far, as many as 3,21,722 patients have been cured of Covid-19. The recovery rate continues to steadily improve. It has reached 58.67% amongst Covid-19 patients,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday. According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 5,61,840 confirmed cases of Covid-19, at 8:30 p.m. on Monday, an intra-day increase of 13,522 cases. The fatalities had risen to 16,832, an intra-day increase of 357 deaths. India now has 1,047 laboratories dedicated to test swab samples for Covid-19, including 760 state-run and 287 in the private sector. The labs tested 1,70,560 samples for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total samples tested since January to 83.98 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-covid-19-cases-decline-in-three-days-855184.html
29-06-2020||National||Demand for MGNREGA work sees steep rise in 116 districts with return of migrants||Demand for work under the MGNREGA rose by more than 86 per cent in May this year compared to the same period in 2019 in 116 districts, which saw the highest number of migrants return during the Covid-19 lockdown, as per official data. The number of households availing work under the national employment guarantee scheme in these 116 districts in six states, including Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, jumped to 89.83 lakh during May compared to 48.22 lakh in the same month last year, a rise of 86.3 per cent, according to data on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) website. Demand for work in a few districts jumped by five times, it said. Among the 116 districts are 32 districts of Bihar, 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh, 24 districts of Madhya Pradesh, 22 districts of Rajasthan, four districts of Odisha and three districts of Jharkhand. A close analysis of the data reveals that out of these six states, the highest jump in demand for work was from Uttar Pradesh, where 27.78 lakh households in 31 districts got work in May this year compared to 6.71 lakh in the same month last year, as per the data. The demand for work in eight of these 31 Uttar Pradesh districts -- Ghazipur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Mirzapur, Deoria, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Amethi and Maharajganj -- rose by 500 per cent or five times in May this year compared to same month in 2019, the data mentioned. At the same time, the demand for MGNREGA work in the entire country during May this year also rose by 55 per cent to 3.29 crore compared to 2.12 crore last year. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched a dedicated Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore for these 116 districts, with an aim to provide employment to migrant workers. This scheme is separate to MGNREGA which is already running across the country, which ensures 100 days of employment to every household which seeks work. It is a demand driven scheme with budgetary allocation of more than Rs one lakh crore this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-mgnrega-work-sees-steep-rise-in-116-districts-with-return-of-migrants-855187.html
29-06-2020||National||'CJI did not know about owner of Harley Davidson bike, did not ride it'||Chief Justice S A Bobde just took the feel of the Harley Davidson bike and did not ride it as has gone viral on the social media, nor did he know about its owner, people aware of the incident said on Monday following the controversy. The Chief Justice of India was spotted with the bike at Nagpur, his home town, and the picture of him on it had gone viral on the social media. While some hailed it, others including lawyer Prashant Bhushan questioned it raising a controversy by saying Justice Bobde was neither wearing a mask nor a helmet. “CJI rides a 50 Lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan Nagpur, without a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC in Lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access Justice,” Bhushan tweeted. The people aware of the incident said that the CJI had participated in a tree plantation function there and an automobile dealer sent the bike to him so that he can have a feel of it. Justice Bobde was looking at buying a Harley Davidson after his retirement, they said, adding that the CJI neither rode it, nor knew about its owner. The CJI was pictured sitting on a 'Limited Edition CVO 2020' Harley Davidson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-did-not-know-about-owner-of-harley-davidson-bike-did-not-ride-it-855190.html
29-06-2020||National||1 killed, 10 injured as bus carrying migrant workers overturns in Jharkhand en route West Bengal||One person was killed and 10 others were injured when a bus carrying migrant workers to West Bengal from Gujarat overturned in Jhakhand's Ramgarh district, police said. The accident happened at Kenjhia valley on Gola-Ormanjhi state highway under Rajrappa police station of the district around 3.30 am, the Officer-in-Charge of the police station, Vinod Kumar Murmu, said. He said the bus overturned after a front tyre burst.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-killed-10-injured-as-bus-carrying-migrant-workers-overturns-in-jharkhand-en-route-west-bengal-855192.html
29-06-2020||National||India must raise Tibet issue with China, says exiled leader||The political leader of Tibetans in exile on Monday urged India to take a more prominent role in resolving the Tibetan issue with China, an appeal that could further inflame tensions between the two Asian giants. India and China are locked in their most serious political crisis in years after a deadly clash between soldiers on their disputed Himalayan border which has reignited long-standing differences between the world's two most populous countries. China has long reviled the Tibetans' spiritual leader the Dalai Lama - who lives in India in exile - as a dangerous separatist and his activities in India have been a source of friction. But Lobsang Sangay, president of the Tibetan government-in-exile based in the northern Indian hill town of Dharamsala, said China's expansionist policy had resulted in renewed focus on the Tibetans' struggle for autonomy and India had a unique role to play. "India has the largest Tibetan population in exile, the Dalai Lama calls himself proud son of India, and historically geopolitically, culturally, and for all these reasons, India can raise the issue of Tibet," Sangay told the Foreign Correspondents Club of India, South Asia. The Indian government has in recent years discouraged large-scale Tibetan protests and even banned a rally to mark the 60th anniversary of the uprising in 2018 in order not to upset China. But following the clash this month in the Ladakh region in western Himalayas in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, former Indian diplomats and military generals have suggested the government ends its reluctance to promote the Tibetans' cause. Sangay said Tibet, which historically served as a buffer between India and China, is just as important for India as it is for China's security. "India for various reasons has a lot at stake, it should intervene and take up the leadership in solving the issue of Tibet," Sangay said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-must-raise-tibet-issue-with-china-says-exiled-leader-855195.html
29-06-2020||National||India's first Covid-19 vaccine candidate gets nod for human clinical trials||India’s drug regulator has granted approval for clinical trials of the first indigenously developed vaccine candidate against Covid-19. The vaccine candidate Covaxin is developed by Bharat Biotech using the Covid-19 genome isolated by the National Institute of Virology, a Pune-based research facility under the aegis of Indian Council of Medical Research. “We are proud to announce COVAXIN, India’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19,” Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech said in a statement. It said the Drug Controller General of India has granted permission to initiate Phase I & II human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response. Human clinical trials are scheduled to start across India in July 2020, the statement added. Expedited through national regulatory protocols, the company accelerated its objective in completing the comprehensive pre-clinical studies, Ella said adding that the results from these studies have been promising and show extensive safety and effective immune responses. A number of drug manufacturers across the globe are working to find a cure for Covid-19, but no pharmaceutical firm has succeeded yet. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), of the 140 vaccines at different stages of development worldover, 16 are currently in late-stage clinical trials. Of these 16 vaccine candidates, five are being researched in China, three in the US, two in the UK, and one each in Australia, Germany, and Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-gets-nod-for-human-clinical-trials-855196.html
29-06-2020||National||Not wearing a mask may mean a prison term: Goa CM||In Goa, not wearing a mask may lead to cooling your heels in prison.  Chief Minister Pramod Sawant also told reporters late on Monday, that imposing yet another lockdown, in face of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, was no longer a solution, and that taking the right precautions would help the state beat Covid-19.  "We will be more strict. I have just instructed the police. If need be, for those not wearing masks, the fine amount will be increased and those who do not follow these instructions will also be put in prison," the Chief Minister told reporters at the state secretariat.   The state over the last two weeks has witnessed a steady increase in the number of active cases, with the tally reaching 724 on Monday. Sawant however said that imposing a lockdown would not help rein in the spread of Covid-19.  "Maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask, not touching others, using a sanitiser is the right precaution. A lockdown cannot be a precaution. Lockdown cannot be a solution," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-wearing-a-mask-may-mean-a-prison-term-goa-cm-855199.html
29-06-2020||National||China declines to admit any inbound passenger from India||The Air India aircraft flew from New Delhi to Guangzhou without any passenger onboard as China declined to admit anyone from India. Beijing conveyed to New Delhi earlier that two Indians, who were on board an Air India special flight to Shanghai on June 21, were tested Covid-19 positive upon arrival and that was why it would now allow anyone from the country to enter China. Sources in New Delhi said that it was mutually agreed that the special Air India aircraft would not have any passenger onboard when it would fly to Guangzhou to bring back Indians. The Air India operated the special flight from Guangzhou to New Delhi as part of the “Vande Bharat Mission” – the repatriation mission launched by the government to bring back citizens, who got stranded in foreign countries after the Covid-19 pandemic prompted the government to ban arrival of international passenger flights in the airports in India. The national carrier had on June 21 sent to Shanghai a special aircraft to bring back home Indians. The aircraft had about 100 people onboard when it flew from New Delhi and they included the officials of the Consulate General of India in Shanghai, executives of financial institutions in the city, and their families. Two of them tasted Covid-19 positive after arrival in Shanghai, while others who had come in contact with them were put in isolation.  It later flew back to New Delhi with 186 Indians, who were stranded in and around Shanghai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-declines-to-admit-any-inbound-passenger-from-india-855201.html
29-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to address nation today at 4 PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Tuesday evening, amid an ongoing stand-off between India and China and the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. His office tweeted that he will make the address at 4 pm. The address to the nation comes two days after his monthly radio address 'Mann Ki Baat' on Sunday, where he said that India would defend its sovereignty at any cost. This will be his first address to the nation after the June 15 "violent face-off" in Galwan Valley where 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives. He had spoken about Chinese border row during an all-party meeting on June 19, followed by 'Mann ki Baat'. In the previous address to the nation, Modi had announced a Rs 20,000 lakh crore 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' (Self Reliant India) package to boost economic activities, which were hit by Covid-19 lockdown. His address also comes on a day the Covid-19 Unlock 1.0 is ending and he is expected to give his views on its success and way ahead during Unlock 2.0. However, there was no official word on the content of his address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-nation-today-at-4-pm-855202.html
29-06-2020||National||Gujarat: 23-year-old conman influenced by 'Catch Me If You Can' movie held||The Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) on Monday said it has arrested a 23-year-old man, allegedly involved in over 20 cases of cheque frauds in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Jaipur while working as "accountant or auditor" by faking identities in each case. Police said that the alleged conman and his father, said to be partner-in-crime, were inspired from a crime film "Catch Me If You Can" based on the life of an imposter in the United States. DCB officials said that the suspect Jayesh Soni, 23, was arrested while he was out to give an interview for a new "job" at a firm situated in the outskirts of Ahmedabad. They said that Soni was under surveillance for many days by a team of policemen who were working to detect at least four similar cases registered at different police stations in the city and that had the same modus operandi. He is originally from Sabarkantha district but has been living in Ahmedabad and Udaipur. Police said that in one of the cases in the city, the suspect had cheated a firm -Kothari Papers-by stealing the company's cheque book and withdrew Rs14.78 lakh. Police said that in all five cases registered in Ahmedabad, the photo of the suspect was the same while his names, bank accounts, mobile numbers, among other details were different. Later, those details were found to be forged as the police could not find anyone on those addresses and other details. The investigating team started trailing the looted money and based on human intelligence, tracked Soni to Udaipur in Rajasthan and put a watch on his house. They said that the police team watched Soni's movement for many days to verify he was the same person they were looking for. They said after verifying details, they trailed Soni to Ahmedabad who came to appear in an interview for a job at a firm located at an industrial area in Changodar in the city outskirts where he was finally arrested. In the police custody, Soni is said to have told the cops that he defrauded at least 20 firms where he worked either as an accountant or as auditor. A police officer told DH, "We are verifying many details that he has told us like he is a school dropout and learnt accounting and other computer related work on Youtube with the help of his father who is also alleged to be his partner-in-crime. He learnt how to duplicate PAN card, Aadhaar card and other documents which he would use in crime later on." "He has told us that he and his father were influenced by the movie "Catch Me If You Can," which they watched in 2015 and started conning people from 2016 . He speaks fluent English, Hindi and Gujarati which used to impress his employers," said Assistant Commissioner of Police, VB Gohil, DCB. He added that "We are trying to ascertain the amount of money he has cheated so far but his victims are in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Jaipur. Police have so far identified 15 cases in these three cities. Meanwhile, it has also been revealed that Soni's father Ramesh Kumar had been arrested in two cases for stealing cars and selling them on the basis of duplicate registration certificates or RC books in Ahmedabad in 2003-04. Police said that Soni used to steal cheques from the company's chequebook. He would use these stamps on cheques which were to be deposited in the banks or filling RTGS forms with the signature of the firm's owner. Later, he would leave the job on some or the other pretext, destroy the SIM card and the phone to avoid getting tracked. After leaving the job, the father-son duo would deposit the cheques in their bank accounts in other cities where cheques used to get clear without any suspicion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-23-year-old-conman-influenced-by-catch-me-if-you-can-movie-held-855216.html
29-06-2020||National||Priyanka criticizes Mayawati for supporting govt on China standoff||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at BSP chief Mayawati for her support to the government on the border standoff with China, saying one has to develop courage to fight the government that "loses" the country's territory. Dubbing Mayawati BJP's "undeclared spokesperson", she said this is not the time to stand with any political party but to stand together as fellow Indians and with the country's territorial integrity. "As I said earlier, some opposition leaders have become undeclared spokespersons of the BJP, which is beyond my comprehension," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "There is no point in standing with any political party at this time. Every Indian will have to stand with fellow Indians, stand with our territorial integrity. And one will have to develop courage to fight the government which loses the country's territory," she said. Mayawati has said her party has always stood with the government on issues related to defence and security irrespective of the party in power at the Centre. She said "burning issues" such as fuel price hike have taken a back seat as BJP and Congress continue with their war of words on the India-China border issue. "The BSP is a principled party...and it has always stood with the central government, no matter which party is in power, on issues of defence and security," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-criticizes-mayawati-for-supporting-govt-on-china-standoff-855219.html
29-06-2020||National||ITBP constable who had shot himself dead was Covid-19 positive: Test report||The Covid-19 report of a 31-year-old ITBP constable, who had allegedly shot himself dead inside Karol Bagh police station last week, has come positive, officials said on Monday. "The post-mortem (of the deceased) was conducted on Saturday. He was also tested for Covid-19 and the report has come positive," a senior police officer said.  Officials said on Friday, the constable - Sandeep Kumar - had shot himself with his service weapon at the Karol Bagh police station in central Delhi where he, along with other personnel, had come for arrangement of duty. After his duty was over, Kumar was waiting for his bus at the Karol Bagh police station. Meanwhile, he shot himself with his INSAS rifle. Kumar hailed from Gorakhpur district in Uttar Pradesh. He had joined as constable in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on February 12, 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-constable-who-had-shot-himself-dead-was-covid-19-positive-test-report-855224.html
29-06-2020||National||Govt asks Google, Apple to remove 59 Chinese apps||Soon after the Centre announcing its decision to ban 59 Chinese apps, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology issued orders to Google and iPhone to follow the government order by banning it within 24 hours. The Ministry also asked the Department of Telecom to order telecom companies and Internet Service Providers to block access to these apps, said an official in the Ministry. Amidst border tension with China, the Centre on Monday issued an order banning 59 Chinese apps, including popular TikTok, UC Browser and Shareit. Citing national security and privacy, the government banned these apps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-google-apple-to-remove-59-chinese-apps-855225.html
29-06-2020||National||15th Finance Commission meets HRD ministry officials over education amid pandemic||Impact of technology in schooling in times of Covid-19 pandemic and parameters for monitoring quality of education for providing incentives to states was discussed at the meeting of the 15th Finance Commission with the HRD Ministry on Monday. The Commission, chaired by N K Singh, also had a detailed discussion with the Department of School Education and Literacy and the Department of Higher Education on the necessity of submission of a revised memorandum to the Finance Commission by the ministry in the light of the recent developments in the sector. An official statement said that the Commission had called for this meeting more specifically for the purpose of making its recommendations in its report for 2020-21 and 2025-26 on the subject of education, especially in the time of COVID-19. "The meeting was called to discuss the impact of the new tools of pedagogy, including online classes and the use of other technology for education, the need for which has arisen out of the ongoing pandemic," it said. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, Minister of State for HRD Sanjay Dhotre and other senior officials attended the meeting||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15th-finance-commission-meets-hrd-ministry-officials-over-education-amid-pandemic-855227.html
29-06-2020||National||Single-day spike of 19,459 Covid-19 cases takes India's tally close to 5.5 lakh||Another big single-day spike of 19,459 Covid-19 cases took India's tally close to 5.5 lakh on Monday, even as the recovery rate further improved to 58.67 per cent. India's Covid-19 case tally rose to 5,48,318, while the death toll climbed to 16,475 with 380 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. This is the sixth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000. The country has seen a surge of 3,57,783 infections from June 1 till date. The number of active cases stands at 2,10,120, while 3,21,722 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. The gap between recoveries and active cases is 1,11,602 as of Monday, with the recovery rate now at 58.67 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 12,010 Covid-19 patients have been cured since Sunday. The graded, pre-emptive and pro-active steps taken by the government along with states and Union territories for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 continue to show encouraging results, it said. India now has 1,047 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19, including 760 in the government sector and 287 private labs. Eleven labs have been inducted since Sunday and these are all operated by the government. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 83,98,362 samples have been tested up to June 28, with 1,70,560 samples tested on Sunday. Meanwhile, the National Blood Transfusion Council (NBTC) said in a fresh set of guidelines that blood can be collected from a person, who tested positive and recovered from COVID-19, only after 28 days of discharge from a treating facility or 28 days after home isolation ends, The second interim national guidance for blood transfusion amid the Covid-19 pandemic stressed on safe functioning of services. The NBTC had issued the first interim recommendations in March. To maintain safety, the NBTC in its guidelines urged blood banks and camp organisers to exclude donors who are in the risk category. Very mild, mild, pre-symptomatic, moderate and severe Covid-19 cases must be deferred for 28 days from donating blood after discharge from a treating facility or 28 days after the end of home isolation, stated the guidelines issued by the NBTC, which comes under the ambit of the Union health ministry. The definition of end of discontinuation of home isolation should be as per the home isolation guidelines issued by the ministry from time to time, they said. Individuals with history of contact with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 cases, including those under quarantine, should be deferred from donating blood for 28 days from the last time they came in close contact with a Covid-risk person, the guidelines stated. Of the 380 new deaths reported, 156 are from Maharashtra, 65 from Delhi, 54 from Tamil Nadu, 19 from Gujarat, 16 from Karnataka, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, 11 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from West Bengal, eight from Rajasthan, seven from Madhya Pradesh, five each from Haryana and Punjab, four from Telangana, three from Odisha and one fatality each was reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand and Bihar. Of the total 16,475 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 7,429 deaths, followed by Delhi with 2,623, Gujarat with 1,808, Tamil Nadu with 1,079, Uttar Pradesh with 660, West Bengal with 639, Madhya Pradesh with 557, Rajasthan with 399 and Telangana with 247 deaths.  The Covid-19 death toll has reached 223 in Haryana, 207 in Karnataka, 169 in Andhra Pradesh, 133 in Punjab, 94 in Jammu and Kashmir, 60 in Bihar, 38 in Uttarakhand, 22 in Kerala and 21 in Odisha. Chhattisgarh has registered 13 deaths, Jharkhand 12, Puducherry and Assam 10 each, Himachal Pradesh nine, Chandigarh six, Goa three and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Union health ministry. More than 70 per cent of the deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-day-spike-of-19459-covid-19-cases-takes-indias-tally-close-to-55-lakh-855228.html
29-06-2020||National||India slams Pakistan for 'absurd' remarks on Karachi terror attack||India on Monday hit out at Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi for his "absurd comments" linking India to the terror attack on the Pakistan stock exchange building in Karachi. In a strongly-worded response, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said unlike Pakistan, India has no hesitation in condemning terrorism anywhere in the world including in Karachi. He also reminded Qureshi how the Pakistan prime minister described a global terrorist as a "martyr". Hours after gunmen attacked the Pakistani stock exchange in Karachi, Qureshi alleged that the clues of strike are leading towards sleeper cells activated by India. "India rejects the absurd comments of the Foreign Minister of Pakistan on the terrorist attack in Karachi. Pakistan cannot shift the blame on India for its domestic problems. Unlike Pakistan, India has no hesitation in condemning terrorism anywhere in the world, including in Karachi," Srivastava said. "Foreign Minister Qureshi may wish to reflect on this, as also his own government's position, including his prime minister's description of the global terrorist as a "martyr"." the Spokesperson said. Four heavily armed militants attacked the busy Pakistan Stock Exchange building here with guns and grenades on Monday morning, killing four security guards and a police officer before being shot dead in an exchange of fire, Pakistani authorities said. The militants, who arrived in a car, opened indiscriminate fire and lobbed hand grenades at the main gate of the multi-storey building situated in the city's high security commercial hub as they tried to storm it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-pakistan-for-absurd-remarks-on-karachi-terror-attack-855231.html
29-06-2020||National Politics||Create infrastructure in UP, Bihar to decongest Mumbai: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday hit out at Union minister Nitin Gadkari's remarks on the need to decongest Mumbai, saying if smart cities like Mumbai and Pune are created in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the population density of the country's financial capital will naturally come down. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' claimed that nearly 1.50 lakh migrant labourers, who went to their native places during the lockdown, have returned to Maharashtra as they "do not have any work" back home. Mumbai has been significantly contributing to the national treasury, but it has "not got the due share of financial assistance from the Centre" in the battle against Covid-19, it claimed. Gadkari last month said there is a need to decongest Mumbai as the densely populated city is facing "disastrous consequences", referring to the mounting coronavirus cases. In response, the Sena on Monday said, "If you create smart cities like Mumbai and Pune in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the population density of Mumbai and Pune will come down naturally. Jobs should be created in those states first." Gadkaris concerns will automatically be addressed if those states create more and more infrastructure, the Marathi publication said. "Nearly 1.50 lakh migrant labourers have returned to Maharashtra again during the lockdown period. They do not have any work in their native states. The reason behind it is that development has not reached those states, it said. Some seven to eight lakh migrant workers went back from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha (during the lockdown), it noted. "Nearly three lakh left from Pune and now they have started coming back. This is what is increasing the burden on Mumbai and Pune, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. "It clearly indicates that hunger is prevailing over the coronavirus threat. People are willing to take the risk and are travelling in search of jobs, it said. The Union government launched the 'Smart City' mission in June 2015, but how much of it has actually materialised in so many years? the Sena asked. "Mumbai has taken the burden of the countrys population and is significantly contributing to the national treasury, but it did not receive the due share of financial assistance from the Centre in the current fight against the Covid-19 pandemic," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/create-infrastructure-in-up-bihar-to-decongest-mumbai-shiv-sena-854969.html
29-06-2020||National Politics||Cong unable to digest strong govt at Centre which cannot be remote-controlled: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||Hitting out at the Congress for its criticism on issues of national security and economy, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday said the opposition party is unable to digest the fact that there is a strong government at the Centre which cannot be remote-controlled. With the Congress attacking the Modi government over the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, the economic situation and the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Naqvi said the Congress leaders' remarks remind him of the proverb "empty vessels make the most noise". In an effort to prove themselves "greatly learned", the Congress leaders are "wrecking" their own party, the minority affairs minister claimed. The Congress is still suffering from a "prejudiced feudal mindset and arrogance of power", Naqvi told reporters after laying the foundation stone for "Sanskritik Sadbhav Mandap" (multi-purpose community centre) at the Numaish Ground in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh. "One cannot change one's nature, no matter how much time passes. They (Congress) try to give orders, directions on the issues of national security, economy, welfare of poor, interests of farmers based on their narrow minded knowledge," Naqvi was quoted as saying in a statement from his office. "They are unable to digest the fact that today there is a strong Modi government at the Centre which cannot be remote-controlled, like they used to do during their regime," he said. The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is dedicated to the country's safety, dignity and prosperity, he said, adding that "country first" is the Modi dispensation's mantra. The "Sanskritik Sadbhav Mandap" is being constructed with the cost of Rs 92 crore by the Union Minority Affairs Ministry under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karykram (PMJVK). The community centre will be utilised for various socio-economic cultural activities, skill development training, coaching, relief activities during disasters such as corona and different sports activities. Speaking on the occasion, Naqvi said that during the last about six years, the Modi government has developed socio-economic educational and employment oriented infrastructure across the country in backward areas under PMJVK. Similarly, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's commitment to "inclusive development" has resulted in the creation of a large-scale infrastructure development during the last about three years under PMJVK in the state, he said. Under PMJVK, a total of around 1,84,980 projects with a cost of about Rs 3,000 crore have been constructed in Uttar Pradesh. He said a self-reliant India is the guarantee for "Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat". A total of around 13,276 projects with a cost of more than Rs 350 crore have been constructed in Rampur, he said. Naqvi said that be it economy, safety of country's borders or national security, the Modi government has created new records of development. The government has fulfilled the commitment to "empowerment with dignity", he said. More than 10 lakh people belonging to minority communities have been provided employment opportunities through schemes such as 'Hunar Haat', Garib Nawaz self employment scheme and 'Seekho Aur Kamao' etc. during the last six years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-unable-to-digest-strong-govt-at-centre-which-cannot-be-remote-controlled-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-855019.html
29-06-2020||National Politics||Govt 'extorting' people with fuel price hikes: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday attacked the BJP government at the Centre for raising fuel prices 22 times since the lockdown, accusing it of extorting people, and sought an immediate rollback of the hikes. She charged the government with profiteering at the expense of the people, saying its duty was to help them in times of crisis and not make profits out of their hard-earned money. The Congress launched the countrywide campaign on Monday to press the central government to roll back fuel prices as they were hurting the common people. Party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also joined the campaign on social media, and urged people to join them in pressing the government to reduce fuel prices. "I, along with all Congressmen and others together, demand from the Modi government to immediately roll back the increase in prices of petrol and diesel raised during this crisis due to the corona pandemic," Sonia Gandhi said in a video message. "I also urge them to roll back the rise in excise duty on petrol and diesel since March this year and give this benefit to the countrymen. This will be a big relief in this period of economic crisis," she said. The Congress chief said this in its own was the living proof of taking the hard-earned incomes of the people and filling the government's coffers. "The government's duty is to support the countrymen in difficult times and not take advantage of their plight and profiteer. "The government has set a new example of extortion from people through this unjustified increase in petrol and diesel prices. This is not only unjust but also insensitive," Gandhi said, noting that it directly hurts the country's farmers, the poor, the working class, the middle class and the small businesses. She said the price of petrol in national capital Delhi and other big cities has crossed Rs 80 per litre. "After the March 25 lockdown, the Modi government, in the last three months, has raised the prices of petrol and diesel 22 times," the Congress chief said, adding that the price of diesel has gone up by Rs 11 per litre and that of petrol by Rs 9.12 per litre. "The Modi government has made provision for collecting lakhs of crores by raising excise duty on petrol and diesel in the last three months. All this is happening at a time when the international crude oil prices are continuously falling," she said. The Congress president said that since 2014, instead of giving relief of the falling international crude oil prices to the people, the Modi government has raised the excise duty 12 times, which helped it collect additional revenue of nearly Rs 18 lakh crore. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also put out a video as part of the campaign, alleging that the government has collected Rs 1.3 lakh crore through the fuel price hikes since the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-extorting-people-with-fuel-price-hikes-sonia-gandhi-855023.html
29-06-2020||National Politics||Union Home Minister Amit Shah meets S Jaishankar, Piyush Goyal||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, officials said. It is immediately not known the subjects the three ministers discussed in the meeting. The meeting comes amidst the ongoing stand-off between the Indian Army and China's PLA in Ladakh. There have been campaigns in certain quarters to boycott the China-made products in view of the stand-off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-home-minister-amit-shah-meets-s-jaishankar-piyush-goyal-855088.html
29-06-2020||National Politics||Government using oil money for welfare of poor, not RGF: BJP's attack on Congress||BJP leader and Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan hit out at the Congress on Monday, saying the central government is using the tax revenue earned from the petrol and diesel sale to fund welfare programmes for the poor and not for any "son-in-law or Rajiv Gandhi Foundation". Pradhan's barb at the Congress came after the opposition party president, Sonia Gandhi, attacked the BJP-led government for raising fuel prices 22 times since the lockdown, accusing it of "extorting" people, and sought an immediate rollback of the hikes. Hitting back, Pradhan said Gandhi seems to have forgotten that states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Jharkhand, where the Congress is in power on its own or with allies, have also hiked VAT on petrol and diesel and burdened people.  Instead of doing politics over the issue, the Congress chief should get factual information from these states, he said in a statement, adding that the Centre and states are using the money to meet challenges being posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Pradhan said, "The tax earned from petrol and diesel is being spent on healthcare, generating employment and giving people financial security. The BJP government uses people's money for the poor's welfare through direct benefit transfer. It is not like the Congress, which would use the revenue for welfare of a son-in-law and the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF)." "Sonia Gandhi is saying so because the Congress has for generations used power to transfer money meant for government schemes to bank accounts of son-in-law and the RGF," he alleged. The BJP has targeted Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra for alleged dubious land deals and has also been raising the issue of donations to the RGF to attack the Congress.  Pradhan said the global economy is undergoing a crisis due to the pandemic, which has also posed demand and supply issues for petroleum products.  The common consumer has not been affected much by the recent hike in oil products as, he said, their demand had gone down by 70 per cent in April and May before it was revived in June after the 'unlock' began.  When a family faces a crisis, then its members arrange financial resources to deal with it, he said, adding that the recent hike in oil products should be seen in a similar manner.  Gandhi charged the government with profiteering at the expense of people, saying its duty was to help them in times of crisis and not make profits out of their hard-earned money. Participating in the Congress' "Speak Up Against Fuel Hike" campaign across the country, she said on the one hand, the COVID-19 pandemic was wreaking havoc and on the other, the rise in petrol and diesel prices was making life very difficult for the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-using-oil-money-for-welfare-of-poor-not-rgf-bjps-attack-on-congress-855117.html
29-06-2020||National Politics||Govt should stop profiteering from petrol, diesel; Reduce fuel prices: Rahul Gandhi||The government should stop "profiteering" from petrol and diesel, and immediately roll back price hikes as well as the excise duty imposed on the fuels, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Monday. The former party president also said that prices of petrol and diesel are constantly increasing in the country when global crude oil prices are continuously falling. "The biggest ill-advised decision the government took was to hike petrol and diesel prices 22 times since May 25. Not once but 22 times, they raised the prices of petrol and diesel. This decision has dealt the biggest blow to the vulnerable and the poor," Gandhi said during the Congress' "SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike" campaign. A large number of party leaders put out their messages during the campaign to press upon the government to reduce fuel prices. "The government should stop profiteering from petrol and diesel and should immediately reduce prices and excise duty on them," he said as part of his video message on social media. "We demand immediate roll back of petrol and diesel price hikes and excise duties on both the products. We all should speak in one voice, then only the government will understand, the prices of petrol will be reduced," Gandhi said. Every section of society has been “hurt”, but the maximum damage has been done to farmers, traders and the middle and salaried classes, Gandhi said. He said the Congress had earlier said that the government should step forward to help the vulnerable and the middle class, and had made two suggestions. The first was to prepare a package on the lines of the minimum income guarantee scheme, he said, adding that the scheme could be implemented for three months, if not for a year and money be put directly into accounts of the poor every month. With this, the poorest of the poor and the weakest would get relief, Gandhi said. The second was, the Congress leader said, “we told the government to secure the micro, small and medium enterprises, which employ 40 per cent of our people”. The government has to save them from bankruptcy and give them a package, he said. "But the government did not agree to this also. Instead, it waived off loans worth lakhs of crores of 15 crony capitalists and put money into their pockets,” Gandhi said. The Congress demands that the government immediately roll back excise duty and price hikes on petrol and diesel, he said in his video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-should-stop-profiteering-from-petrol-diesel-reduce-fuel-prices-rahul-gandhi-855122.html
29-06-2020||National Politics||Congress leaders protest fuel price hikes by riding bicycles, horse-carts||Riding horse-carts and bicycles, Congress leaders across the country led protests against the daily increase in fuel prices with party chief Sonia Gandhi terming it as a new form of extortion. Congress leaders fanned out across cities with microphones and video cameras in hand, seeking views of citizens on fuel prices that have seen increase for the past three weeks and were retailing at more than Rs 80 per litre. Senior Congress leaders KC Venugopal, Rajeev Satav, and Manickam Tagore rode bicycles from the AICC headquarters to Parliament, while Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary set off the city streets on a horse-cart waving banner protesting the successive increase in petrol and diesel prices. “It is the duty of the government to support the citizens in times of crisis and not resort to profiteering in the time of trouble. The government has set a new example of extortion from people through this unjust increase in prices of petrol and diesel,” Congress President Sonia Gandhi said. She noted that the price of diesel has increased by Rs 11 per litre and petrol by Rs 9.62 per litre in the past three weeks, mainly due to the increase in excise duty by the central government. Rahul Gandhi said crude prices were at an all-time low world over, but petrol and diesel prices were at an all-time high in India. “The government has hurt the interest of the common man by increasing fuel prices for 22 days,” he said and demanded an immediate rollback. In Odisha, state Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik set off interviewing auto-rickshaw drivers about the impact of fuel price hike, while Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, led a protest march in West Bengal. Congress also whipped up a social media storm as its workers and supporters posted videos protesting the fuel price hike and demanding its roll back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-protest-fuel-price-hikes-by-riding-bicycles-horse-carts-855135.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 death toll climbs to 62 in Bihar; no. of cases 9,224||Bihar reported four more Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, taking the death toll due to the disease to 62 in the state, while the number of cases shot up to 9,224 with 245 fresh ones, the health department said. Of the four fatalities, two were reported from Patna, while one each was reported from Rohtas and Nawada, it said, adding that all the victims had comorbidities. Of the 62 deaths in Bihar, Darbhanga, Patna and Saran have accounted for five each, while four have been reported from Begusarai. Coronavirus cases have been reported from all 38 districts of the state and those with the higher numbers are Patna (584), Bhagalpur (479), Madhubani (439), Siwan (402), Begusarai (398), Rohtas (330) and Khagaria (298). Bihar has 2,006 active COVID-19 cases currently, while 7,156 people have recovered from the disease in the state. The health department said the recovery rate of coronavirus patients is 78 per cent in the state, significantly higher than the national average of 58.20 per cent. A total of 2,05,832 samples have been tested for the disease in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-62-in-bihar-no-of-cases-9224-854899.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||'Doda militancy-free' as three militants killed in Anantnag encounter in J&K||Three militants, affiliated with Lashker-e-Toiba and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen outfits were killed in an early morning encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doda-militancy-free-as-three-militants-killed-in-anantnag-encounter-in-jk-854918.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Odisha Congress to stage demonstrations against fuel prices hike||The Odisha unit of the Congress will stage demonstrations across the state on Monday and Tuesday to protest the "unprecedented" increase in prices of petrol and diesel, a senior party leader said. Legislator Suresh Kumar Routray said party workers will stage demonstrations in front of central government offices in Bhubaneswar during the day to protest the rise in fuel prices. "We demand an immediate rollback of the hike in prices of petrol and diesel," he said. Party workers will stage similar demonstrations in all district and block headquarters on Tuesday, the Congress leader said. The statewide demonstration programme is aimed at highlighting the plight of the people because of the spiralling fuel prices and also to counter the BJP's policies and programmes that have adversely affected the masses, he said. "Even though the crude oil price has touched a record low, there has been a continuous increase in the prices of petrol and diesel in the country, putting an enormous burden on the common people," another senior Congress leader said. The central government should take immediate measures to bring down the fuel prices, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/odisha-congress-to-stage-demonstrations-against-fuel-prices-hike-854941.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal lauds LNJP doctor who died fighting Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday paid tribute to the senior doctor of city government-run LNJP Hospital who died battling Covid-19, saying the society has "lost a very valuable fighter". The 52-year-old doctor served in the front line of the war against the pandemic at the government facility, and died of novel coronavirus infection in an ICU of a private hospital on Sunday. "Dr Aseem Gupta, a senior doctor of LNJP Hospital succumbed to Covid yday. He was known for going out of his way to serve his patients. We have lost a very valuable fighter. Delhi salutes his spirit and sacrifice...," Kejriwal tweeted. The chief minister also said in his tweet that he has spoken to Dr Gupta's wife and "offered my condolences and support".  LNJP Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the Delhi government. It recently completed 100 days of being declared a coronavirus facility. "LNJP Hospital has displayed great fortitude in the face of acute challenges. It's recovery rate is going up, death rate is reducing, ICU capacity is being ramped up - the hospital is saving so many lives," the chief minister said. A condolence meeting to pay respect to Dr Gupta has been scheduled at 1 pm in the office of the Medical Director of the hospital, a senior official said. The doctor, a consultant anaesthesiologist died at the Max hospital, Saket in south Delhi, a private dedicated Covid-19 facility. "He was a front line anaesthesia specialist who contracted Covid-19 infection while on duty. He tested positive on June 6, when he had mild symptoms and was shifted to a quarantine facility. His symptoms aggravated on June 7 and he was admitted in the Intensive Care Unit of the LNJP Hospital," the LNJP Hospital said in a statement on Sunday. He was shifted to Max Hospital, Saket on June 8 on his request, it said. The doctor was battling the disease for the last two weeks at Max Hospital, where he succumbed to the illness on Sunday, the statement said. He was Specialist, Grade I, in the Department of Anaesthesia at the LNJP Hospital, the statement said. Several hundreds of healthcare workers have been infected with Covid-19 till date in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-lauds-lnjp-doctor-who-died-fighting-covid-19-854968.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Two girls raped in Uttar Pradesh in separate cases, suspects arrested||Two girls were allegedly raped by their uncles in separate incidents in Uttar Pradesh's Banda and Chitrakoot, police said on Monday. In Banda, a nine-year-old girl was abducted by her uncle from her home on Saturday night while she was sleeping, they said. He allegedly took her to a forest and raped her, SHO of Tindwari police station Ram Dinesh Tiwari said. The accused, identified as Chandu, was arrested by police based on a complaint lodged by the girl's father, Tiwari said, adding that he confessed to his crime during interrogation. The girl was recovered from the forest on Sunday and was rushed to the hospital, where her condition was stated to be stable, the SHO said. In a similar incident, a 10-year-old girl, who had gone to her grandmother's house in Chitrakoot for a marriage function, was allegedly raped by her uncle, police said. SHO of Bharatkoop police station Sanjay Upadhyay said the incident took place on June 20. The girl narrated her ordeal to her family members on June 24 after which police were informed and an FIR was registered in the case on June 27, he said. Police arrested the accused, identified as Gorelal, on Sunday and the girl was sent to a hospital for medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-girls-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-in-separate-cases-suspects-arrested-854972.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Police detain Delhi Congress chief, workers during protest against fuel price hike||Delhi Congress leaders on Monday staged a protest across the city against hike in fuel prices, raising slogans against the BJP-led central government and the AAP dispensation in the national capital. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar and party workers, however, were detained later by police at a petrol pump near Parmanand hospital. Kumar said police detained him and party workers as they tried to go to Raj Niwas, which is Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal's official residence, to lodge their protest against the rising prices of petrol and diesel. Police said they were detained around 10 am and would be released soon. Diesel price on Monday scaled a new high after prices were hiked for the 22nd time in just over three weeks, taking the cumulative increase to Rs 11.14 per litre. Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. In Delhi, a litre of petrol now comes for Rs 80.43 per litre as compared to Rs 80.38 earlier. Diesel rates have been increased to Rs 80.53 per litre from Rs Rs 80.40. The Delhi Congress leaders, along with party workers, held protests at petrol pumps in all the districts of the city. Party leader Parvez Ahmed was also detained at Maurice Nagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-detain-delhi-congress-chief-workers-during-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-854988.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Ambiguity in notification extending time to give suggestions to draft EIA 2020: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Monday said there was "ambiguity" in the Centre's decision extending time till June 30 for giving objections and suggestions to its draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification of 2020, terming it as "unfair" to the public. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said there was ambiguity in the Environment Ministry's May 8 notification, extending the time for giving objections and suggestions to the draft EIA 2020, as it mentions a further period of 60 days and also that the window closes on June 30. The ministry, represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Maninder Acharya and central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, told the bench that intent was to extend the period only till June 30. She also said that till date over 1,000 suggestions have come in. The bench, thereafter, suggested that the ministry can continue processing the suggestions while keeping the window open for some further time to receive more. The ASG said she will take instructions from the ministry with regard to the court's suggestion. The court, thereafter, listed the matter for hearing on Tuesday, June 30. The court was hearing a plea seeking an extension of the period for receiving objections with regard to the draft EIA 2020, which proposes post-facto approval for projects and doing away with public consultation in some instances, till the Covid-19 lockdown subsists. The petition by environmental conservationist Vikrant Tongad claimed the May 8 notification states that the period for inviting objections has been extended by another 60 days, but it is not clear as to when the initial period of 60 days commenced.  "If the sixty-day period commences on the date of the draft notification, i.e., March 23, 2020, the extended date of expiry will be July 18, 2020. If the date of notification in the Gazette (i.e. April 11, 2020) is taken as the start of the sixty-day period, the extended date of expiry will be August 9, 2020," the petition has said. It also stated that at the same time a contradiction arises in the extension notification as an end date of June 30, 2020, is specified, which is less than sixty days from the date of issuance of the extension notification May 8. "Thus, the extension notification is unclear and contradictory," it claimed. The bench on June 26 had asked the Centre to clarify on the next date as to what would be the last date for giving objections/suggestions. The petition has sought that the period for receiving public opinion regarding the draft notification be extended till September 30 or till such time the lockdown remains. The draft EIA 2020, according to the petition, completely supersedes and replaces the existing environmental norms. "This draft notification proposes significant changes to the existing regime, including removing public consultation entirely in certain instances, reducing the time for public consultation from 45 days to 40 days, and allowing post facto approvals for projects," it has said. Tongad, in his plea, filed through advocates Srishti Agnihotri and Abishek Jebaraj, has said that the draft EIA was issued on March 23 and first published by the Environment Ministry on its website on April 11 and a 60 day period was given for receiving objections and suggestions from all stakeholders, including the general public. However, due to the Covid-19 outbreak and resultant lockdown, the ministry on May 8 issued a notification extending the period for inviting objections/suggestions till June 30, the plea has said. It has also sought that the translated copies of the draft EIA "be available across the country in the official vernacular languages mentioned in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, and be uploaded on all websites including those of the Environment Ministries of all States as well as those of the State Pollution Control Boards." The ASG said the draft EIA 2020 has been published in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ambiguity-in-notification-extending-time-to-give-suggestions-to-draft-eia-2020-delhi-high-court-854990.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti reports first Covid-19 case||Himachal Pradesh's tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti reported its first Covid-19 case on Monday after a 25-year-old labourer from Bihar tested positive for the disease, officials said. The sample of the labourer, who is working with the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), was taken at the Keylong regional hospital, they said. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh has risen to 918. The state has 379 active cases. So far, 518 people have recovered, 11 migrated out of the state and eight died, according to the officials. Hamirpur has the maximum number of active cases in the state at 117, followed by 115 in Kangra, 45 in Solan, 31 in Una, 20 in Shimla, 16 in Bilaspur, 14 in Sirmaur, nine in Chamba, five each in Mandi and Kinnaur, and one each in Lahaul and Spiti and Kullu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradeshs-lahaul-spiti-reports-first-covid-19-case-854996.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt issues transfer and posting order of 144 RAS officers||The Rajasthan government has issued transfer and posting orders of 144 state administrative service officers, effective immediately. More than three dozen sub-divisional magistrates have been transferred, while the transfer of eight officers done earlier was cancelled and three officers were put under Awaiting Posting Order, an order of the Department of Personnel released on Sunday night said. The move comes ahead of local body and gram panchayat elections in the state. The State Election Commission of Rajasthan has completed preparations for polls to gram panchayats, zila parishad and panchayat samitis. It is yet to declare a schedule. The terms of 129 local bodies will end in August. As per the order, 89 officers of the 2019 batch of the Rajasthan Administrative Service have been given postings. These officers still have two months of training left but the government has given them posting in view of the coronavirus crisis, the authorities said. Earlier, in March, the government had transferred 50 RAS officers. In September 2019, 237 RAS officers were reshuffled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-issues-transfer-and-posting-order-of-144-ras-officers-854998.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore to family of LNJP doctor who died fighting Covid-19: CM Arvind Kejriwal||The 52-year-old doctor served in the front line of the war against the pandemic at the government facility and died of novel coronavirus infection in an ICU of a private hospital on Sunday. "Dr Aseem Gupta was a senior doctor, and was serving Covid-19 patients for the last few months with his duty being in the ICU. His colleagues speak about the dedication and commitment with which he served patients," Kejriwal said in an online press briefing. The chief minister said, his wife, also a doctor, had contracted Covid-19 too but has now recovered. "It is because of people like him that we have been able to fight Covid-19. He is a big inspiration to us and we bow to his spirit of service to humanity. As a mark of honour, Delhi government will offer an ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore to the family of Dr Gupta," he said.  The chief minister also said that this is a small amount and someone's life is priceless. The amount will be given by the government on behalf of the country, and the people of Delhi, for the services rendered by the doctor, he said. Earlier in the day, he had tweeted to pay tribute to Dr Gupta, who was battling the disease for the last two weeks at Max Hospital, where he succumbed to the illness early in the morning on Sunday. "Dr Aseem Gupta, a senior doctor of LNJP Hospital succumbed to Covid yday. He was known for going out of his way to serve his patients. We have lost a very valuable fighter. Delhi salutes his spirit and sacrifice...," Kejriwal tweeted. The chief minister also said in his tweet that he has spoken to his wife and "offered my condolences and support". "I spoke to his wife this morning, and had an extended talk," he told reporters. Gupta, a consultant anaesthesiologist died at Max Smart hospital, Saket in south Delhi, a private dedicated Covid-19 facility. LNJP Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the Delhi government. It recently completed 100 days of being declared a coronavirus facility. A condolence meeting to pay respect to Dr Gupta was held in the office of the Medical Director of the hospital, a senior official said. Lt Governor Anil Baijal also tweeted to express his condolences: "Deeply saddened at the death of Dr Aseem Gupta of LNJP who served tirelessly in fight against Covid-19. He was a great warrior who brought glory to the frontline doctors and health workers. My utmost sympathies are with family members !".   The LNJP Hospital in a statement on Sunday had said, "He was a frontline anaesthesia specialist who contracted COVID-19 infection while on duty. He tested positive on June 6, when he had mild symptoms and was shifted to a quarantine facility. His symptoms aggravated on June 7 and he was admitted in the Intensive Care Unit of the LNJP Hospital.  He was shifted to Max Hospital, Saket on June 8 on his request, it said. He was Specialist, Grade I, in the Department of Anaesthesia at the LNJP Hospital, the statement said. Several hundreds of healthcare workers have been infected with Covid-19 till date in Delhi. Kejriwal in his tweets also praised the city government-run facility, "LNJP Hospital has displayed great fortitude in the face of acute challenges. It's recovery rate is going up, death rate is reducing, ICU capacity is being ramped up - the hospital is saving so many lives. "DelhiFightsCorona".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-gratia-of-rs-1-crore-to-family-of-lnjp-doctor-who-died-fighting-covid-19-cm-arvind-kejriwal-855011.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Army porters detained for 'suspicious’ use of WhatsApp in J&K||Security forces detained three Army porters in the border Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday on suspicion that they were using WhatsApp in a manner which has deemed 'sensitive'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-porters-detained-for-suspicious-use-of-whatsapp-in-jk-855013.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Centre allows export of Covid-19 PPE medical coveralls; monthly quota fixed at 50 lakh units||The government on Monday lifted the ban on the export of personal protection equipment, a move that was welcomed by domestic manufacturers who had ramped up production leading to a glut. However, the government has placed quantitative restrictions on the exports by placing a cap of 50 lakh PPE kits per month. “A monthly quota of 50 lakh PPE medical coverall for Covid-19 units has been fixed for issuance of export licenses to the eligible applicants,” read a notification issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the government had encouraged domestic production of PPE kits that include coveralls, N-95 masks and gloves, to meet the growing demand, but put a complete ban on exports.  “We welcome the lifting of the export ban,” Karan Bose, Managing Director, Hula Global, a Noida-based apparel manufacturing firm that had forayed into PPE manufacture responding to the government call. However, the export ban that was imposed led to the loss of international business for the supply of PPEs to countries such as the UK, Canada, the US, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and Iran. Bose wanted the government to reconsider the cap on the export of 50 lakh PPE kits per month as most of the manufacturers were having huge stocks due to overproduction. “With aggressive production and entry of local players in the segment, most of the players reached production surplus and the move will definitely help in channelizing the production”, said Vivek Tiwari, CEO & Founder, Medikabazaar. Bose also wanted the government to formulate guidelines for different categories of PPEs and verify the quality of coveralls manufactured in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-allows-export-of-covid-19-ppe-medical-coveralls-monthly-quota-fixed-at-50-lakh-units-855014.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court to hear on July 6 pleas relating to Jamia violence during CAA protests||The Delhi High Court Monday said it will hear next week the pleas related to the violence during Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December last year. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan listed the matter for July 6 as pleading were not complete in the matter and the rejoinder filed by one of the petitioners was not on record. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Delhi Police, contended that “irresponsible” pleadings are filed in the rejoinder of one of the petitioners Nabila Hasan who has sought action against the police for allegedly brutally attacking the petitioners, students and residents of JMI. Hasan’s plea has also sought action against the alleged ruthless, and excessive use of force and aggression unleashed by the police and paramilitary forces on students within the university. As her rejoinder to Delhi Police’s reply, filed in the petition, was not on court’s record, Mehta said he will address the bench on this issue on the next date of hearing. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for Hasan, said he has filed an application seeking an addition to the prayer made in the petition. The court said it will hear it along with other pleas on July 6. Delhi Police, in its affidavit filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair in response to the petitions, has sought dismissal of pleas seeking quashing of FIRs and directions against alleged police brutality in the university during the anti-CAA protests. It said the petitions were an utter abuse of PIL jurisdiction as the incidents of violence in and around the campus were well-planned and orchestrated attempts by some persons with local support. Opposing a batch of six PILs seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the violence, the police has said the claim of police brutality is utter falsehood. The police has filed the affidavit in response to various petitions, moved by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla in south Delhi, where the university is located and the Imam of Jama Masjid mosque opposite Parliament House, in which they had also sought medical treatment, compensation and interim protection from arrest for the students. The pleas have also sought registration of FIRs against the erring police officers. The affidavit filed by Rajesh Deo, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, has said exercising the fundamental right to dissent should be respected, but “no person can be allowed to commit a breach of law, indulge in violence, arson and riotous activity causing danger to life, limb and property of innocent citizens under the garb of exercise of the fundamental right of free speech and assembly”. Such fundamental rights are not absolute and are liable to reasonable restrictions under the Constitution, it has said. Under the garb of organising a protest, it is completely impermissible for the citizens to create law and order situation and to lay a siege and paralyse the day to day activity of fellow citizens who are completely unconnected with the cause for which protests are organised by a section of the society, it has said. The police has said that videos and photographs collected by it show that under the garb of student protest, it was a well-planned and orchestrated attempt by some persons with local support to intentionally perpetrate violence in the area. It has said the evidence showed that there was large scale violence, arson and stone-pelting on December 13 and 15, 2019, which resulted in lodging of three FIRs. Regarding the prayer in the petitions to frame guidelines on the use of force to govern the conduct of police personnel in such cases, the affidavit has said it is not maintainable and added that due procedure/ standard protocol was followed by the police authorities to control the unruly mob and to maintain law and order in the area. On the violence incident of December 15, the affidavit has said, police received an input that some former students and other persons will assemble at JMI for protesting the newly acted CAA and NRC and will go to Parliament and the President House. The investigation revealed that local leaders and politicians were instigating the protestors and were raising extremely provocative and inciting slogans and the gathering had swelled to about 3500, it has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-to-hear-on-july-6-pleas-relating-to-jamia-violence-during-caa-protests-855025.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||BJP MLA from Madhya Pradesh's Rewa tests positive for coronavirus||Three legislators, two from the BJP and one from the Congress, have been detected with the infection this month. The swab sample of the MLA was collected on Sunday and contract tracing had begun as per protocol, Pandey informed.  The MLA had earlier said he was going into self-isolation after a fellow legislator from Mandsaur tested positive for the virus on June 20. The two MLAs had come in contact during the Rajya Sabha polls in the state on June 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-from-madhya-pradeshs-rewa-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-855026.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||2 men found hanging from trees in separate incidents in Uttar Pradesh||Two men were found hanging from trees in separate incidents in Uttar Pradesh's Lalitpur and Hamirpur districts, police said on Monday. In Lalitpur, one Rahul (26), who was missing for the past two days, was found hanging from a tree in Purakalan area on Sunday. His motorcycle was found lying near the spot, they said. According to Rahul's brother, he left home on Friday with Rs 2,500 to buy diesel and was missing since then, the police said. An investigation is underway, they said. In Hamirpur, a farmer, Pyarelal (45), a resident of Aundara village in Rath area, was found hanging from a tree in a forest area on Sunday, the police said. He was wanted in a culpable homicide case and was missing since June 14, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-men-found-hanging-from-trees-in-separate-incidents-in-uttar-pradesh-855028.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court stays 50% reservation for Delhi students in NLUD||The Delhi High Court Monday stayed the National Law University, Delhi (NLUD) decision to reserve 50 percent seats for candidates from the national capital. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked the NLUD to issue fresh admission notification on or before July 2. The court said a prima facie case was made out for a stay on the university’s decision. The court’s interim order came on a plea by NLUD students and alumni who challenged the reservation decision saying it "strikes at the heart of national character and the standards of excellence" of the university. The students filed the petition against the introduction of 50 per cent horizontal reservation at the university for candidates who have cleared their qualifying examinations from an institute in Delhi. The last date for submission of application form is June 30, 2020, the petition has said. The court listed the matter for further hearing on August 18. One of the petitioners Pia Singh said she intended to pursue LLM from NLUD after graduating from a university in Rajasthan. The petition also challenges NLUD's move to increase the seat intake from 80 to 120, saying it was against the express decision of the varsity's governing council and there was also lack of infrastructure like residential hostels for students, accommodation for teaching and other staff and classrooms. The plea has claimed that the new admission policy, which provides for the reservation and increased intake, was bad in law as it was notified on January 14, 2020, without approval of the governing council, the plenary authority of NLUD. Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh had questioned the locus standi of the alumni to move such a plea and the court directed that their names be removed from the petition. On the petition, Singh had argued that NLUD was not a central university or a national institute of excellence and was only a state university which came into existence on the basis of the Act enacted by the Delhi legislature. The petition has contended that NLUD's decision to introduce the reservation from the academic year 2020-21 was "unconstitutional and illegal". NLUD has decided to reserve 50 per cent of the total seats for candidates passing the qualifying examination from a recognised school, college or institute located within the National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCTD). The petition has claimed that the new admission policy seeks to take away the "mandatory residential nature" of NLUD, which would result in "disrupting the academic curriculum, various seminar and certificate courses taken by industry experts and former judges". The petition has sought setting aside of the admission notification and related guidelines and a direction that Delhi government has no power to interfere in administrative functioning of NLUD. Besides that, the plea also seeks a direction to NLUD to bring a fresh revised policy "in conformity with the previous admission notification for the academic year 2019-20 and guided by the existing infrastructural constraints and a limited number of seats".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-stays-50-reservation-for-delhi-students-in-nlud-855029.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Bareilly girl suffering from lung disease secures 69% in Class 10 UP Board exams||Sixteen-year-old Safia Javed, who made headlines for her indomitable spirit after she appeared in her Class 10 Uttar Pradesh Board exams here in February with an oxygen cylinder in tow, has secured 69 per cent marks. Suffering from a lung disease for the past five years, the teen, a resident of Shahabad area, needs constant oxygen support. Unable to attend regular classes, she appeared in the exams as a private student. Safia fought with her family to let her appear in the exams, said her mother Amna Javed. "She was adamant on appearing in the exams and fought with us for it. We were confident she will pass. She secured 69 per cent marks," she said. The results for Class 10 and 12 UP Board exams were declared on Saturday. Joint Director, Education, Pradeep Kumar said Safia has set an example for other students facing similar odds. He said he came to know about Safia from a social worker, who told him that the girl was adamant on appearing in the board exams but she could not do so without an oxygen cylinder due to her disease. "After I got to know about it, I directed the centre incharge at the Government Girls' Inter-College (Safia's exam centre) to make arrangements for her. I am happy that she passed with good marks. It will boost the morale of all those facing similar situations. She has set an example," he said. According to Safia's family, a local charitable organisation has decided to honour her for her achievement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bareilly-girl-suffering-from-lung-disease-secures-69-in-class-10-up-board-exams-855057.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Is new militancy rearing its head in Kashmir?||After the abrogation of Article 370 last August, New Delhi has virtually crushed Jammu and Kashmir's separatist groups advocating a political struggle for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. There is little space even for mainstream political parties to carry out their activities and none among them has so-far openly raised a voice against the unilateral decision of New Delhi to withdraw J&K’s autonomy. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lost-five-men-in-hand-to-hand-battle-with-militants-on-loc-all-infiltrators-killed-army-822051.html||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/is-new-militancy-rearing-its-head-in-kashmir-855058.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||16-year-old girl hacked to death in Uttar Pradesh for filing molestation complaint||A 16-year-old girl was hacked to death allegedly for lodging a molestation complaint with the police against the nephew of a village 'pradhan' (panchayat chief) in Uttar Pradesh's Baharaich district, about 200 kilometres from here. According to the father of the victim, the pradhan of Bishunapur village, identified as Ibrahim, and his goons kidnapped the teen from his house late on Saturday night. ''We tried to save the girl but the kidnappers were armed and outnumbered us,'' the distraught father said.  The blood-stained body of the teen was recovered from an orchard near the village on Sunday. Police said that she had been hacked to death with a sharp-edged weapon. Police sources said that a week back, the teen had lodged a complaint accusing the nephew of the pradhan of 'molesting' her. The police had arrested the accused, identified as Chhotkau, after the complaint was lodged. The victim's family members said that the 'pradhan' was ''very angry'' after his nephew's arrest and had threatened them with serious consequences. A case was registered against the village pradhan and some others in this regard and pradhan was taken into custody. ''We have arrested the main accused... he is being quizzed... a hunt has been launched to nab other culprits,'' said a senior police official in Baharaich.  Earlier also several girls had been killed, some even burnt alive, in the state for daring to approach the cops with complaints of rape and molestation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-year-old-girl-hacked-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-for-filing-molestation-complaint-855070.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP raises issue of 'huge' power bills for lockdown period, wants relief for consumers||The Delhi BJP Monday alleged that the discoms in the city have sent "huge" power bills to consumers for the lockdown period, and demanded the AAP government waive off fixed charges for commercial connections. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that instead of provisional bills, actual ones should be sent to consumers and the facility of payment in instalment be given. The data on bills received from RWAs of Delhi and complaints received from other consumers showed that power subsidy was not provided to them for the three months period of lockdown, Gupta claimed at a press briefing. A Delhi government official rubbished the claim, saying subsidy is being provided as per the rules to all eligible consumers. "Delhi has the cheapest electricity rates for domestic consumers in the county. Those consuming up to 200 units get zero bills and those consuming between 201 and 400 units, get Rs 800 shaved off," he said. Gupta, however, charged that “huge” power bills were sent to the consumers. "There are around two lakh small and big industries that were closed during the lockdown period, but huge electricity bills are being charged from them with fixed charge and average bill. “Also there are more than 7 lakh shops and offices in Delhi that were closed in lockdown but being made to pay huge bills," he claimed. Discom officials said that provisional bills were sent to consumers during lockdown as per Delhi Electricity Regulatory Authority (DERC) direction, since physical metre-reading was postponed to protect the consumers and the staff from the spread of coronavirus. "As per the DERC order, Delhi power companies are raising provisional bills in absence of actual meter-reading. These provisional bills are getting regularised as and when the actual meter-reading for the provisional period is available," one of them said. The discoms have resumed meter-readings for industrial and commercial consumers. In case of domestic connections, many consumers are not allowing meter-readers to enter their societies, also many are in containment zones and only such connections are being issued with provisional bills as per DERC guidelines, they said. The consumers can also do meter-reading of their power consumption themselves and get actual bills. They are also being given a financial incentive for doing this till June 30, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-raises-issue-of-huge-power-bills-for-lockdown-period-wants-relief-for-consumers-855087.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||30 more coronavirus patients recover in Ladakh, active cases drop to 347||Thirty coronavirus infected patients were discharged on Monday after they were declared cured in Ladakh, bringing down the number of active cases in the Union Territory to 347, officials said. The active cases included a new patient who was tested positive for Covid-19 in Kargil district on Sunday evening, the officials said. The officials said 18 patients from the COVID designated hospital in Kargil and three patients from a COVID Care Centre in Kargil were discharged on Monday after they were tested negative for the virus twice as per the set protocol. Similarly, nine more patients, who were in home isolation in Leh district, were also tested negative twice and subsequently discharged, they said. With this, the number of active cases in Ladakh has dropped to 347 -- 98 in Leh district and 249 in Kargil district, the officials said adding that the condition of all the 347 patients is “stable”. Ladakh has recorded a total of 964 positive cases, out of which one person had died while 616 others have recovered till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/30-more-coronavirus-patients-recover-in-ladakh-active-cases-drop-to-347-855091.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists may enter India through Nepal border: Bihar Intelligence||The Special Branch of Bihar Police has issued an alert that several terrorists, trained by Pak ISI, could infiltrate the country through the porous Indo-Nepal border in the next fortnight. The alert, issued to all the Superintendent of Police (SPs) in the North Bihar districts sharing a border with Nepal, says that 20-25 trained cadres of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Taliban are likely to enter India through LoC in J-K, while “5-6 such cadres may enter India through Indo-Nepal border in the next fortnight.”   The Intelligence alert, a copy of which is with Deccan Herald, assumes significance as it was the Bihar-Nepal border near Raxaul from where Yasin Bhatkal, one of the most wanted terrorists and co-founder of Indian Mujahideen (IM), was arrested. The dreadful militant was apprehended from Birganj-Raxaul border in August 2013. His key associate Assadullah Akhtar, alias Haddi, who was an expert in configuring improvised explosive devices (IED), was also arrested in a joint operation launched by Bihar Police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Bhatkal and Haddi were said to be the key conspirators in bomb blasts carried out in Delhi, Varanasi, Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore and Hyderabad. Meanwhile, the alert issued by the Special Branch says several top Indian politicians and vital installations are on the radar of the JeM militants. The letter, addressed to the IGs, DIGs and SPs in Bihar, has asked “to intensify patrolling and frisk people coming from Nepal side.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-e-mohammed-terrorists-may-enter-india-through-nepal-border-bihar-intelligence-855103.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Father hugs dead body of one-year-old child in a Uttar Pradesh hospital, parents blame doctors on tape||In a heart-wrenching incident caught on tape, parents were seen grieving over the death of their one-year-old child at a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj. An emotional father was seen clinging to the body of his son Anuj who died of fever after he was brought to the district hospital there for treatment on Sunday night. Premchand, a resident of Mishripur village in Kannauj district, is heard alleging in the video that no doctor saw his child. "No doctor attended to him though we stayed there for around 45 minutes. We were told to go to Kanpur. I am a poor man; I have no money. What can I do," he is heard saying in the video that has gone viral on social media. Kannauj Chief Medical Officer Dr Krishna Swaroop has denied the charge. "A resident of Mishripur, Premchand, admitted his son Anuj to the hospital. A child specialist treated the child. But the child died after half an hour of treatment. It is wrong to say that the child was not admitted and that doctors did not attend to him," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-hugs-dead-body-of-one-year-old-child-in-a-uttar-pradesh-hospital-parents-blame-doctors-on-tape-855151.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana to start plasma therapy as Covid-19 deaths rise to 232, total cases to 14,210||Nine more people succumbed to COVID-19 and 381 more tested positive for the disease in Haryana, raising the death toll in the state due to it to 232 and the total cases of infection to 14,210 on Monday. The state will soon start convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in all its medical colleges, Health Minister Anil Vij said. “Haryana to start Plasma Therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients in all its medical colleges after approval from ICMR,” Vij said in a tweet. Gurgaon, which has emerged as the worst-hit district in the state, reported six fatalities, while two persons died in Faridabad and Mahendragarh reported its first death, said the state’s Health Department daily bulletin. Gurgaon and Faridabad now have a total of 90 and 75 COVID-19 related fatalities and these two districts together account for nearly 9,000 infections. There are a total of 4,476 active cases in the state currently while 9,502 have been discharged after recovery. The state's recovery rate on Monday stood at 66.87 percent. The districts, which reported fresh cases, include Faridabad with 134 infections, Gurgaon 102, Rewari 31, Karnal and Panipat 18 each, Sonipat 13 and Fatehabad 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-to-start-plasma-therapy-as-covid-19-deaths-rise-to-232-total-cases-to-14210-855156.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||144 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Jammu and Kashmir, total 7,237||As many as 144 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the total number coronavirus cases in the Union Territory to 7,237, officials said. While 45 of the new cases were from Jammu region, 99 cases were from the valley, they said. There are 2,557 active cases in the Union Territory, while 4,585 patients have recovered from the infection. The cases detected on Monday include 53 persons who had returned to the UT recently. Officials said Pulwama  district in south Kashmir recorded the highest number of cases – 29 -- followed by 18 in Shopian and 17 in Srinagar. Kishtwar was the only district where no fresh case was defected. With these fresh cases, the total number of infected persons in Jammu and Kashmir reached 7,237. "Of these, 5,658 are in Kashmir, while 1,579 are in the Jammu region," the officials said. The number of people who had died after testing positive for COVID-19 is 95.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/144-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-jammu-and-kashmir-total-7237-855165.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops fire mortar shells at Indian positions along LoC||Pakistani troops opened unprovoked fire at Indian positions along the Line of Control (LoC) in Tangdhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, an army official said. "On 29 June 2020, in the evening hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Tangdhar (in north Kashmir's Kupwara district) by firing mortars and other weapons," the official said. He said befitting response was being given to the Pakistani fire. There were no reports of any casualties so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-fire-mortar-shells-at-indian-positions-along-loc-855194.html
29-06-2020||North and Central||Attorney General KK Venugopal gets fresh one-year tenure||Attorney General K K Venugopal was on Monday reappointed as a top law officer of the country for one more year. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and five Additional Solicitor Generals, Vikramjit Banerjee, Aman Lekhi, Madhavi Divan, KM Nataraj, and Sanjay Jain got another three-year term beginning July 1, 2020.  Six senior advocates Balbir Singh, Suryaprakash V Raju, R S Suri, N Venkataraman, Jayant K Sud, and Aishwarya Bhati are new faces in the legal team of the Union government as they were also appointed as Additional Solicitor General for a period of three years. Eleven ASGs would represent the Union government in the Supreme Court.  Two Additional Solicitor General Pinky Anand and A N S Nadkarni were, however, dropped from the list of law officers, so far representing the Centre in the Supreme Court. A series of notifications, approving the appointment of law officers, was issued on Monday. Earlier, Venugopal, 89, was offered an extension by the government but he has consented to it for the period of one year only on the ground of his age. Known as the doyen of Indian Bar, Venugopal has appeared for the Centre in Aadhaar and Rafale cases, among others, in the Supreme Court. He, along with Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, has been defending the Union government in other important cases including those related to the Citizenship Amendment Act and the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attorney-general-kk-venugopal-gets-fresh-one-year-tenure-855222.html
29-06-2020||Oasis||Our birthright||Life is what it is, never consistent with what we hope it will be. History tells us what plagues and pandemics are all about, especially the destruction and sorrow they bring. The latest Covid-19 is no exception and one that has struck worldwide with force. It has cloistered us, ripping us all apart. Getting out into the open requires masks and other self–saving gadgets that shut us off from the smiles and interested glances of others. Our favourite means of communication now is the telephone, but it can never replicate the warmth of personal interaction. Life has become sterile and stifled with normal living a distant dream. Under such circumstances, many questions arise in the mind. Are our possessions, won through hard work, always in danger of being snatched away? Are our well-thought-out goals just mirages?  Philosophers have, from time immemorial, tried to provide answers, but not so effectively as to quell all doubts. No wonder then that many of us are frustrated. We are apt to shrug and say, ’Que sera sera’ (Whatever will be, will be).  Yet there are reasons to remain strong, if not optimistic. Retrospection, easy to indulge in now, will reveal what these are. Our problems might appear singular and we often feel alone in our struggles. But no struggle is free from the involvement with others and sharing it will bring not only comfort but also the opportunity to help others. The experience will teach us to be more understanding and awaken much-needed generosity. Second, being quiet lets the inner person surface. We realise we live in an imperfect world and live with inhabitants who are imperfect. The only peace we can know comes from kindness and compassion. Third, and most important of all, is what Viktor Frankl, psychotherapist and Auschwitz survivor pointed out. When we are desperate and the future seems bleak, we are tempted to blame Fate or Destiny for our misfortune. But there is a vast difference between the two. While belief in Fate makes one capitulate meekly, Destiny comes from facing it with courage and dignity. This power, no less than our birthright, lies within the heart of every individual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/our-birthright-855214.html
29-06-2020||Opinion||Why it won’t be easy to end custodial violence in India||The brazen deaths of a father and son in police custody in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district the deaths have received a lot of attention in the media. The widespread attention has also triggered a competitive politicisation of these deaths. However, the reality is that none of these developments are likely to prevent similar deaths in the future. In order to understand why, we need to undertake a deeper exploration of this issue. It requires us to ask and answer this question: What kind of systems are created and institutionalised to protect life and liberty of citizens in India? The State from the beginning was very clear about the kind of power it wants in order to govern. The makers of the Constitution did not accept the ‘due process of law’, which mandates ‘hear before condemning and judge after trial’. Article 21of the Constitution provides the ‘procedure established by law’, which in practice has been reduced to whatever procedure the powerful are comfortable with. The Supreme Court’s direction in Maneka Gandhi’s case (1978) that the procedure of law cannot be anything but reasonable, fair and just has not cut ice with governments. Citizens are not only consumers of law, but its masters. But this has been given the go-by in practice. Moreover, today those who fought against the arbitrary power of the state during the Emergency have become its masters.   NHRC’s struggles With the worsening of the human rights situation everywhere, the international community understood that self-control of the State in a democracy is an oxymoron. Consequently the Paris Principles for human rights were formulated in 1991. The idea that the institutional regime for rights ought to be autonomous – legally, financially and functionally – gained credence. In response, the Indian government enacted the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, but ensured its foundations remain weak. It led to the formation of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), however without the constitutional mandate to act. Its directives remain only recommendatory but not mandatory against the state. In a sense, the next battle for rights was already lost. The creature cannot tame a creator with an arbitrary instinct. Governments in India have systematically sabotaged rights commissions from within.    Yet the NHRC has persevered to prevent torture and arbitrary detention of citizens. The battle between an unruly police force violating life and liberty and the NHRC began in 1993. It sent a series of missives to the governments suggesting how to reduce the custodial crimes. “The custodial crimes are increasing, failure to report the incidents of deaths within 24 hours will be construed as attempts to suppress the facts,” it said in a letter to chief ministers in 1995. In response, governments narrowly interpreted the directives as police custody and refrained from reporting prison custodial deaths. Realising this, the Commission again issued directions to improve the conditions of custodies.  In 1995, NHRC started complaining that the police were drawing up postmortem reports casually and they were unhelpful to form a definite opinion about the cause of death. It viewed that a systematic attempt is being made to suppress the truth and the reports are merely the police version of incidents. “The local doctors are succumbing to police pressures resulting in distortion of facts. So please video-film the postmortem and send the cassettes along with the report. The extra-cost involved is justified as the life is more valuable,” the NHRC held.   The Commission still felt that the autopsy reports sent by the police were giving scope for doubt and manipulation. To plug the loopholes and make it more purposeful, the Commission modified and adopted the United Nations Model Autopsy Protocol. It further suggested the methods of assessing the exact time of death and development of rigor mortis. The Commission must have thought this would tighten its grip around the recalcitrant police personnel. But it has not really happened. In 2000, the Commission examined the cases of custodial deaths for five years and found more defective methods in police reporting. The quality of the videography was poor. It directed that wounds on the dead body be numbered and scaled. It said a forensic photography expert should use a good quality digital camera with 10x optical zoom and minimum 10 mega pixels and take photos from 25 positions! The clothes of the dead body should be preserved. Before the autopsy the doctor should record his prima facie opinion.   The next step of NHRC reflects its deeper distrust of the Executive. On its recommendation, the Parliament amended the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and mandated judicial enquiry into every custodial death under section 176-1A. Have all these measures resulted in the punishment of unruly police personnel and reduced custodial deaths? Tamil Nadu recorded 21 deaths in 1995 and 82 deaths in 2018. For those two years, India recorded 338 and 1845 deaths respectively. What does all this tell us? It speaks volumes about the ingenuity of governments to dodge accountability; it talks of the deep distrust the sentinel of rights has developed; it also is a testimony to its helplessness to protect human rights and the collusion of higher level police officers, doctors, magistrates, bureaucrats and ministers. Impunity breads more contempt for the laws and lives of citizens.   We require some courage to see through the happenings. In case of a popular incident of custodial violence, the politicians look for political dividends. The suo moto drama of the courts hides the acquittals of police personnel very often. Yearly, the governments keep on publishing the deaths as natural as if the custodies are spiritual resorts for ordinary citizens. Civil society is too busy to develop a critical attitude towards these unconscionable deaths.  Ordinary citizens repeatedly ask what the solution for deaths in custody are. Every time they agitate, governments pretend to create newer modes of accountability for the police but to no avail. The situation should surprise none as people with arbitrary power instincts have occupied the public positions everywhere. They believe that ethics of how to wield power are for losers. Meanwhile, the institutionalised anarchy of governments and the trampling of lives of ordinary citizens goes on.  (Dr Murali Karnam teaches at the NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-it-won-t-be-easy-to-end-custodial-violence-in-india-855008.html
29-06-2020||Opinion||The challenges of Covid-19 pandemic for queer youth||When Brittany Brockenbrough’s transgender son lost his in-school counseling and the ability to have meet-ups with other L.G.B.T.Q. youth during the pandemic, his mental health suffered. “He began to feel depressed and was withdrawn,” said Brockenbrough, a mother of two in Virginia. She was later able to get her son teletherapy and in-home support from a local mental health agency and to find ways for him to stay in touch with others in his community through such activities as weekly Zoom meetings and online game nights. “He is doing much better now that he is back in treatment and staying connected to the community,” she said. “Social distancing and taking precautions is necessary, but for the L.G.B.T.Q.+ community, even those who have supportive parents, losing the ability to have that in-person social support with other L.G.B.T.Q.+ youth can have a significant impact.” As young people continue to adjust to the pandemic, some are dealing with increased anxiety and stress. For those who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, there may be additional challenges and risks resulting from limited access to community support, lack of in-school counselling and, in some cases, the difficult circumstances of quarantining with unsupportive family members. “My parents do not accept that I am gay,” an 18-year-old from Yonkers, N.Y. who did not want his name published, said. “My support system was mostly at school, and now I am quarantining with family members who don’t accept who I really am.” The young man, whose virtual high school graduation was last week, said his parents reacted with “anger” and “disgust” when they found out he was gay, and that being home with them during the Covid-19 shutdown has been very uncomfortable. “It is humiliating to have to rely on people who do not respect you,” he said. L.G.B.T.Q. youth are already a vulnerable population and at higher risk for anxiety, depression, homelessness and self-harm than their non-L.G.B.T.Q. peers. A 2018 study in JAMA Pediatrics by researchers at Harvard University and the Fenway Institute found that transgender youth were at a greater risk for attempted suicide, depression and anxiety, and that gender-affirming mental health services are greatly needed to address these concerns. Sarah Gundle, a clinical psychologist in New York City, said that while online supports are available during this crisis and can provide help, for many they cannot replace in-person treatment and interaction with a community that accepts and validates your identity. “L.G.B.T.Q.+ youth who have to be at home for extended periods of time and live with unsupportive family members — or their family environment makes it unsafe for them to be out at home — can experience a profound sense of isolation,” Dr. Gundle said. “A pandemic brings significant uncertainty — there is no definitive end — and it can feel as if there is no escape. Many L.G.B.T.Q.+ youth also have to worry about their safety and the repercussions if their family members find out.” When college campuses closed in March because of the pandemic, having to return home to an unsupportive space was not a safe option for some students. Danushi Fernando, the director of L.G.B.T.Q. and Gender Resources at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., said that approximately 225 students — following state guidelines — remained on campus through the spring semester for various reasons, some because they did not feel safe sheltering with their families. Vassar also provided support for students through virtual gatherings, support groups and counselling. Vassar has an annual Lavender Graduation reception to recognize the accomplishments and contributions of L.G.B.T.Q. graduating seniors, which was held virtually this year. “We had students who had to go to their car or a park or sit in their closet to be able to safely participate,” Fernando said. “It’s heartbreaking that it is not safe for them to be out, and they have to decide between survival and being able to participate in supportive events that recognize their accomplishments.” Compounding the challenges that L.G.B.T.Q. youth face is the high rate of homelessness they experience worldwide. The Williams Institute at U.C.L.A. School of Law reports that 20% to 45% of homeless youth in the United States identify as L.G.B.T.Q. and that family rejection is a significant contributing factor.  “How do you stay home when there is no safe home? This pandemic has really shown how critical gender-affirming environments are,” said Alex Roque, president and executive director of the Ali Forney Center in New York City, an organization that provides housing and support services to L.G.B.T.Q. youth ages 16 to 24. When Ali Forney’s 24-hour drop-in center shut down in the pandemic, the organization mobilized quickly, creating a Covid-19 task force, having its outreach team go online and providing telehealth and crisis mental health services. Although the drop-in center has reopened at a limited capacity, with Covid-19 cases spiking in many states, it is unclear how mental health outreach services around the country will be affected in the months ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-challenges-of-covid-19-pandemic-for-queer-youth-855212.html
29-06-2020||Panorama||‘India should stop appeasement of China’||Dolkun Isa was a university student in Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region when he first stood up to China in the late 1980s protesting against the repressive rule of the Communist regime in his homeland. He drew the Chinese government’s ire and finally had to flee to Germany in 1994. He is now the president of the World Uighur Congress, which leads Uighurs’ global campaign against China’s rule over what was known as East Turkistan before the invasion by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in October 1949. Amid China’s latest military aggression along its disputed boundary with India not very far from his homeland, Dolkun Isa tells Anirban Bhaumik of the DH that New Delhi must drop its policy of appeasing Beijing and join the world to call out Xi Jinping's regime for its atrocities on Uighurs, Tibetans and Hong Kongers as well as for its expansionist aspirations. Excerpts: Q. How do you view China’s recent aggression along its disputed boundary with India? A. This is just the latest in a series of aggressive and irresponsible actions by the Chinese government. While committing serious human rights violations and crimes against humanity against Uighurs and others, China has become increasingly assertive abroad. It is depriving Hong Kong of its rights and autonomy, making regular threats against Taiwan, trying to falsely claim the South China Sea and bullying its neighbours, imposing economic punishments on Australia for asking for an investigation into the Covid-19 pandemic, building dams on the Mekong River while its neighbours downstream suffer from drought, exporting repressive security and surveillance technology and undermining human rights and common values in the United Nations. China’s aggressive and expansionist behaviour is following a disturbing pattern and is a threat to international peace and security. Its aggressive actions are linked to its sense of insecurity. The Uighurs and the Tibetans have no space in Xi Jinping’s Han-centric vision because they have unique history, cultures, languages, religious traditions and historically-defined homelands. He wants absolute and complete control and this is what is at the core of both his domestic and foreign policies. Q. China lodged protest when India issued you a visa in 2016. The visa was eventually cancelled. Do you think India should review its approach to China? A. The policy of appeasement does not work when it comes to dealing with China. India should immediately hold China accountable for its crimes against humanity. India should call upon China to respect the rights of the Uighurs and to close down the internment camps it set up in Xinjiang. We have been calling on the Government of India to speak up against violation of human rights in Xinjiang and detentions of thousands of Uighurs. But New Delhi has so far remained silent. The government of no other nation should have friendly relation with Xi Jinping’s regime which is detaining millions of people only because they have district ethnic and religious identity. To pretend that normal relations can be conducted with such a regime is unethical and naive. Q. Why do you think China stepped up its aggression in the Covid-19 era? A. China’s current actions are the result of its hyper-nationalist propaganda and to placate its own citizens by projecting strength internationally. When feeling weak, the Communist Party of China (CPC) postures and threatens. With the pandemic, the trade war and international attention to the CPC atrocities against Uighurs, Tibetans, Hong Kongers and others, the CPC is under a lot of pressure, internationally and domestically.  Q. How should the international community respond to what China is doing? A. The international community must take national and international measures to hold China accountable for its crimes against humanity and aggressive and expansionist policies. The international community must come to understand that China’s actions threaten international peace and stability. China’s growing influence must be countered in the United Nations and China must be made to honour its promise to give the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights unfettered access to investigate crimes against humanity in East Turkistan. The Chinese government must know that the world will not tolerate its abuses of power. The governments of other nations should impose targeted sanctions on Chinese government officials responsible for gross human rights violations, along with visa ban and asset freezes. Targeted national legislation, such as the Uighur Human Rights Policy Act of the United States, should be passed in parliaments around the world.   Q. What is the latest situation in Xinjiang, particularly in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis? A. The confusion and chaos caused by the Covid-19 pandemic allowed the CPC to divert attention from its crimes against humanity. As the pandemic began, the Chinese government forced Uighurs (in Xinjiang) to stay home but provided them with no food or basic supplies, resulting in hunger and food shortages. There has been no transparency about the potential spread of the virus in the internment camps, where the Chinese government detained thousands of Uighurs – a vulnerable, captive population that would have been ravaged by the virus. A report by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute revealed that the CPC had transferred at least 80,000 Uighurs, including many from the internment camps, to forced labour facilities around China, where they had been forced to make products, often for western brands. We urge India and Indian companies to investigate supply chains in China to ensure that they are not complicit in China’s use of modern slavery and crimes against humanity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-should-stop-appeasement-of-china-855211.html
29-06-2020||Panorama||ISRO: Two extremities||It’s been a marvellous journey of success for the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) for the last few decades. Some major landmarks, over these decades, are the Satellite Instructional Television Experiment (SITE), one of the earliest programs to use satellite TV technology for adult education and vocational skill improvement (in agriculture and allied sectors). The success of SITE has opened new vistas for ISRO. Notable among them are (a) Earth observation/Meteorological missions (Kalpana-I, OceanSat, CartoSat, SARAL) helped India to minimize loss of life during the natural disasters and have enabled the agencies to issue early warnings to farmers, (b) Astronomical pursuits (Aryabhata, Astrosat) has helped us to enhance our knowledge about the universe, (c) Extra-terrestrial exploratory missions (Chandrayaan, Mangalyaan) have enabled us to reach our neighbouring astronomical bodies, (d) Navigation (IRNSS) for mapping of location, (e) launch of few dozen satellites at one go.  However, the flip side of this success is sub-optimum utilization of the infrastructure thus created by ISRO. So far, the focus of ISRO appears to be reaching a flag post rather than resource optimization. For instance, ISRO received several kudos for its successful operation of the Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) during the year 2014 in its first attempt. On the contrast, in the same year, Kailash Satyarthi was honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts on eliminating child labour in the country. The point of concern is the existence of two different India’s --one aiming to touch the frontiers of science and technological development while the other, struggling to provide basic facilities to its future generations and exclusivity to each other. These two extremities underline the limited use-value of space sector advancements in other developmental aspects like the realization of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), be it agriculture or education or urban planning. In terms of weather alerts, one of the first aspect to be taken up in the form of earth observation programme, we are yet to reach a stage to downscale the weather alerts to gram panchayat levels to enhance the use-value of earth observations for the farming community in a real sense. Even the indigenous navigation system – NavIC is yet to take off with full steam, we are still dependent on the American system of Global Positioning System (GPS). Despite its vast experience with education right from SITE years, online education never took off till Covid-19 has struck us and the educational institutions forced to close. Even then, it is limited to a few institutions. Similarly, South Asia Satellite launched for regional cooperation is yet to reach its optimum usage by the partner countries. Except for transponding activities (for telecommunications and entertainment purposes), Indian space operations appear to hit a wall. In sum total, it’s evident that the space sector infrastructure created seems to belong to a sector that never explored options for contributing to the welfare of society. Over and above, the proposed missions of Gaganyan and Chandrayaan III appear to enlarge the gulf between place value and theface value of our space operations. Probably, it is time to incorporate the element of societal interests also into our space programs.   In this background, the recent announcements of our Finance Minister to open the space sector operations to private investment is certainly a welcome move, though, already there is significant involvement of private sector in space operations, in the form of ancillary industries like the supply of different parts, tools and segments of launch vehicles, or scientific parts of satellites. Looking at India Inc, it appears, despite policy changes to participate, private investment will be limited to supply accessories and spare parts only. It may be over-ambitious to expect another Elon Musk of Space X in the Indian context.  However, the circumstances are perfect for the private sector to make a kill by offering their skill sets to facilitate space infrastructure to help India achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For instance, the private sector can develop different knowledge modules required for proposed twelve new educational channels, also by establishing the infrastructure required to deliver the content to concerned stakeholders. By ensuring proper checks and balances, this move of private involvement can also help in overcoming the problem of inadequate skill sets in students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/isro-two-extremities-855213.html
29-06-2020||Right in the Middle||The punishment||It was judgement day in Vaikunta. Vishnu reclined on Adisesha reading His own sahasranaama. A special human had travelled from Bhoolokha to hear the verdict. He was calm and composed as he bowed before the Lord.  “I am afraid I have to punish you despite your personal integrity,” began Vishnu. There was a stir in Vaikunta.  “I am sending you back to Bhoolokha to rule a land of 100 billion people who break rules as a matter of principle, are utterly irresponsible, refuse to wear masks in Covid-19 times and are generally a tough lot to handle.”  The human smiled. He knew the power of his eloquence. Vishnu continued, “You will not make speeches to the nation every month or talk to the citizens every morning. You will compulsorily sleep from 9 pm to 6 am and not make midnight announcements.” The human thought he would find a more creative alternative. “I will remodel you into a frail-looking leader with a 36’’ chest. Your tailors will have to re-make your wardrobe.”  This was not fair. The human tried to say something, but Vishnu held up His hand. “Yoga will be banned in this country. Your citizens will be taught breakdance instead.” The human wiped tears from his eyes. This was a harsh judgement. But Vishnu continued, unconcerned.  “You may address the media. But, you will never, never mention that you sold tea in a railway station.”  The human cried out, “please, Maha Vishnu, I beg you not to impose this punishment on me. My tea selling past lent romance to my leadership.”  The Lord calmly continued, “but I am changing your earlier vocation too. You will be the owner of the largest five-star hotel chains in the country instead of an ordinary tea seller.” The human groaned. All thejoys of leadership were gone. Vishnu lay down on his serpent bed and closed His eyes. The human was transported to the earth where he ruled his land for the next 1000 years, bereft of his favourite pastimes. He returned as ruler with a bigger and bigger mandate every five years with no opposition whatsoever. The punishment was absolute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-punishment-855210.html
29-06-2020||Second Edit||Co-op banks under RBI, right move||The government took an important decision last week to bring the country’s co-operative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). It is a welcome, though belated, step. The ordinance brought 1,482 urban co-operative banks and 58 multi-state co-operative banks under the scrutiny of the RBI, which will now have the same powers of supervision over them as on scheduled banks. There are 8.6 crore depositors in these banks with deposits of about Rs 4.85 lakh crore and many of these are in rural or semi-rural areas. Their low capital base has always made them vulnerable. Many are poorly managed and there have been reports of failure of at least one bank a month. There were reports that the net worth of some of them had turned negative. The crisis that gripped PMC Bank last year is well known. The RBI had to stop its business for six months, cap withdrawals to Rs 1,000 and appoint a regulator. The crisis was a result of fraud and mismanagement. It had lent 70% of its loans to a single firm whose management consisted of the bank’s chairman. Most co-operative banks are controlled by politicians who use them for power, pelf and patronage. That is why the supervision is lax, and it has been difficult to improve their functioning. Leaders of all parties have their fingers in the pie. The excuse to allow them to operate without effective supervision was that they function in rural areas where banking facilities are inadequate. But this is no longer so. The risk is actually more because the failure of a bank hits people in rural areas harder. Customers lose most of their deposits then. Oversight by the RBI will give better safety and security to the depositors.  With the supervisory powers shifting from state governments to the RBI, the banks’ functioning can be expected to improve. There is likely to be more accountability, adherence to norms and better management practices. They will be required to meet capital adequacy norms strictly. Doubts have been expressed whether politicians would give up their control easily. But the new regulatory regime should be implemented at the earliest, without giving a chance to anyone to scuttle it. The ordinance will have to be regularised with the legislation in Parliament within the next six months. The RBI has sometimes been accused of not taking effective remedial action in a time when cases of malfunctioning of co-operative banks were bought to its attention. Now it has full powers to act and it should use them to good effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/co-op-banks-under-rbi-right-move-854910.html
29-06-2020||Second Edit||Right step, now pull out product||Hindustan Unilever’s announcement that it will be dropping the word ‘Fair’ from the name of its ‘Fair and Lovely’ cream is a welcome step, albeit a cosmetic and long-overdue one. Had it pulled out the product from the market, as has Johnson & Johnson, its decision would have been more meaningful.  The company has said it will stop using words like ‘fairness’ ‘whitening’ and ‘lightening’ to peddle its line of skin whitening products. Other brands including Procter & Gamble and Garnier have followed its lead. The decision of the cosmetic giants has come in response to the ‘Black Lives Matter’ protests, which have triggered debates and discussions relating to institutionalised racism. In India, debates have centred on the continuing grip of colourism and racist prejudices in our society.  Fearing that public backlash would hit their sales, the cosmetic giants seem to have chosen an image makeover: they decided to distance themselves from overtly peddling white skin as an ideal to aspire for. India’s obsession with fairness, especially when it comes to women, is not new. The perception that fair is lovely and beautiful goes back centuries. Dark-skinned women have always been the target of prejudice. This has bred insecurity among dark-skinned women as in India, skin colour determines not only whether one is perceived as beautiful or not but also one’s life chances, professional success and value in the ‘marriage market.’ Products like ‘Fair and Lovely’ and scores of other skin whitening creams, gels and lotions that followed, including many that targeted men, fuelled such insecurities. It is telling that all these skin whitening products did brisk business; so deeply ingrained is India’s obsession over fairness. The perception that fair is beautiful has deepened in recent years with women and men now turning to skin lightening surgeries. Cosmetic giants spend billions of rupees to perpetuate the myth that fair is beautiful and that dark is ugly and undesirable. In the process, they have caused immeasurable damage to people’s self-esteem and success, even their health. Will they continue with their promotion of colourism in our society? They can be expected to do so. But they will use words that disguise their privileging of fair skins by promoting ‘glowing’ or ‘radiant’ skin tones. By dropping ‘Fair’ from the name of its skin whitening cream, Hindustan Unilever has taken a step in the right direction. It should take this to its logical conclusion by pulling out the product from the market. It should campaign in favour of more inclusive and healthy notions of beauty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/right-step-now-pull-out-product-855205.html
29-06-2020||South||Unable to breathe, taken off ventilator: Hyderabad man's last video message to father before dying of Covid-19||“They have removed the ventilator and have not been responding to my plea for the last three hours to provide oxygen support.... Only lungs are working, but I am unable to breathe, daddy. Bye daddy. Bye all, bye daddy,” the man said in the video message to his father from the bed of the Government Chest Hospital, Erragadda in Hyderabad. The video message was recorded almost an hour before the hospital declared the man dead on Friday, June 26, multiple media reports suggested. “My son was suffering from high fever on June 24. After trying for admission in a few hospitals, he was finally admitted to the Chest Hospital on June 24, where he succumbed on June 26,” the father, who hails from Jawaharnagar, Hyderabad told HT. The hospital’s superintendent, Mehboob Khan, however, denied the allegation that the ventilator was removed, according to HT report. “The ventilator support was very much there, but the patient was in such a critical stage that he could not feel the oxygen supply,” he said. Stating that this wasn’t the fault of the doctors and the fact that this was a new phenomenon that they have been observing with patients recently, Khan said: “We have come across such cases in the last few days. Usually, aged people die because of the collapse of the lungs infected by Covid-19. We are seeing a new phenomenon of people in the age group of 25-40 years succumbing because of viral infection in the heart. They will be provided oxygen but they feel it insufficient.”  At least six members of the deceased's family are said to be exposed to the virus. "We got the test results so late and the hospital just handed over the body. We have all been exposed. But no one is conducting any tests on us. I have two young grandchildren, my son's 12-year-old daughter and 9-year-old son, who still don't even know their father is dead. What should I do?" the father told HT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unable-to-breathe-taken-off-ventilator-hyderabad-mans-last-video-message-to-father-before-dying-of-covid-19-854976.html
29-06-2020||South||Puducherry reports 42 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally rises to 690||Puducherry on Monday reported 42 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the overall tally in the union territory to 690, a top Health Department said. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar told reporters here the total active cases were 417 while 262 patients were treated and discharged so far. The number of fatalities remained at 11 as no death was reported due to the virus during the last 24 hours, he added. Mohan Kumar further said 10 patients from neighbouring Tamil Nadu (five from Villupuram, four from Cuddalore and one from Chennai) were receiving treatment in hospitals here for Covid-19. He said currently there were 163 containment zones in Puducherry after 95 were lifted from the list. The Health and Family Welfare Department Director said there were reports that people from the containment zones were moving around freely and asked them to remain indoors in view of the increase in number of coronavirus cases in the past few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-42-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-rises-to-690-854983.html
29-06-2020||South||Kerala school brings out notebooks honouring health workers||As a mark of respect to the health workers who are fighting against Covid-19, a school at Malappuram district in Kerala has brought out a notebook with drawings of health workers on its cover. The TRKA UP school at Vengad near Valancherry, about 25 kilometres from Malappuram town, has come up with the novel initiative aimed at conveying the dedicated service of health workers to the children as well as to salute the health workers. The school had made such initiatives during the natural calamities in the state as well as during the row over CAA. As many as 500 notebooks are brought out by the school with covers dedicated to the health workers. It carries a painting of children giving flowers to health workers and a sketch of sister Lini, who lost life after getting NIPAH infection while on duty. While artist O C Martin did the painting, the digital sketch of sister Lini was done by artist Sumesh. Messages for social distancing are also given on the cover. School headmaster Subash P K said that the books would be distributed to students hailing from poor families in the school. If the schools were functioning, some actvities involving students to salute health workers could have been also initiated, he said. After the 2019 flood and calamities, the school made the children make a model of Kavalappara, a major landslide spot in the district, with models of houses installed on it. During the row over CAA, the national pledge was written on a wall and the students were asked to write their names on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-school-brings-out-notebooks-honouring-health-workers-855035.html
29-06-2020||South||Monkey hanged to death in Telangana; Video goes viral||In a case of extreme brutality, a monkey was hanged to death from a tree by three people in a bidto scare other simians in Khammam district of Telangana, about 275 KM from here, forest department officials said on Monday. "The perpetrators, who admitted their guilt, are being booked under the Wildlife Protection Act," Sathupalli Forest Range Officer A Venkateswarlu said. The incident happened on June 26 in Vemsoor village and the video of the primate being hanged using a rope went viral, prompting the officials to investigate. "The accused wanted to scare other monkeys by hanging the one which was caught.We found the carcass in a decomposed state. The accused are being booked under the Wildlife Protection Act," the official told PTI. According to Venkateswarlu, people at Sathupalli and surrounding areas are suffering from monkey menace with the simians raiding the orchards giving sleepless nights to the locals. The official said as per a Telangana government directive 30 per cent of the area in Sathupalli forest range during afforestation will have edible wild fruit species to enhance the food base of monkeys and other wild animals so that when they are rehabilitated, there will be sufficient food available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/monkey-hanged-to-death-in-telangana-video-goes-viral-855051.html
29-06-2020||South||Day after video surfaced of Covid-19 patient dying at chest hospital, Telangana govt defends its health care||The Telangana government has denied allegations of neglect in treatment of a man who succumbed at the Government Chest Hospital in Hyderabad on Friday. A test report that came later revealed him to be Covid-19 positive. “Ignoring my pleas that I am unable to breathe, they … stopped. I am tired of imploring them. It has been three hours, I cannot breathe, I can feel my heart has stopped beating. Bye daddy, bye. Everyone, bye,” the man said in what was to be his final communication to his father who was in the hospital premises. The man died shortly afterwards.   However, chest hospital superintendent Dr Mahaboob Khan said that his oxygen supply was intact and that his death occurred due to a heart condition called Myocarditis. “Because of Covid-19, it seems his heart was affected in addition to lungs. In such cases, gasping would continue even after oxygen supply. There is no dearth of ventilators or oxygen supply in our hospital. As when someone should be put on a ventilator depends on a protocol,” Dr Khan said, adding that he was admitted in the hospital on June 24 in a frail condition. According to Dr Khan, since the last 10-15 days, people in the 35-45 age range are coming with similar conditions and heart involvement is observed in such cases because of the Coronavirus. “In 90-95 percent cases, Covid-19 was in the lungs but unfortunately now it is affecting the heart leading to Myocarditis.” On Monday, health minister Etela Rajender defended the health personnel at the hospital. “The said patient came to the Chest Hospital at midnight, after being denied treatment by several private hospitals. We took him in and provided 24-hour oxygen supply,” the minister said. A head nurse working at the same hospital had succumbed to Covid-19, a few days ago. A total 258 employees of the health department are affected by the virus. “Our health machinery is working dedicatedly under such testing conditions and sending thousands of people home safely after treatment. It is unfair that one or two such incidents are highlighted, thus, damaging the morale of our doctors, nurses and other hospital staff,” Etela said. Expressing his displeasure over “the social media campaigns”, the minister even remarked that mobiles are allowed with patients to be in touch with their family but not to make videos showing government facilities in poor light.   The Telangana government states its Covid-19 death rate of 1.52 per cent is far lower than the national average of 3.04 per cent.    The minister stated that only 10 patients at the nodal facility for Covid-19 treatment – Gandhi Hospital – as with ventilator support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/day-after-video-surfaced-of-covid-19-patient-dying-at-chest-hospital-telangana-govt-defends-its-health-care-855053.html
29-06-2020||South||Telangana home minister tests positive for coronavirus; Central team on inspection in state||Telangana home minister Md Mahmood Ali has been infected by Covid-19, becoming the first minister in the K Chandrasekhar Rao government to be hit by the virus. At least three legislators of the ruling TRS party were tested positive earlier, along with some of their family members. Earlier, several of the gunmen, personal assistants of Telangana public representatives had tested positive keeping them fretted over the possibility of having contacted the virus. Tests conducted on such ministers and MLAs came as negative.   Minister Ali was admitted in a corporate hospital in Hyderabad on Friday night reportedly along with his grandson. About six of his staff including security personnel had tested positive last week. The minister is facing flak now on social media for attending public events like the state government’s plantation drive programme – Haritha Haaram on 25 June, after his aides tested positive.     Telangana DGP Mahender Reddy and Hyderabad CP Anjani Kumar were among those who attended the event in the Goshamahal police grounds in the old city area, which has been reporting a spurt in cases. There is no official confirmation on the home minister’s test reports or condition from the government till now. According to health minister Etela Rajender, 184 police persons from the state were Covid-19 infected, out of which two have died of comorbid conditions. In addition, at least 180, including staff, trainers, and cadets, at the Telangana state police academy, on Hyderabad outskirts have also tested positive.         Central Team Visit A central team led by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare is in Hyderabad to inspect the state’s preparedness and response to the massive addition in cases lately. Telangana has till Sunday night reported a total of 14,419 cases with most of them from Hyderabad. The daily new case figures are hovering around 1000 nowadays. On Monday, the central team – the third such central checking squad to be in Telangana since the onset of Covid-19 cases in March – is visiting some containment localities apart from the Covid-19 treatment hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-home-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-central-team-on-inspection-in-state-855068.html
29-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 783 new coronavirus cases, 11 deaths; Tally mounts to 13,891||The CVODI-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh spiraled to 13,891 on Monday as 783 fresh cases were added while 11 more deaths took the toll to 180. According to the latest bulletin, as many as 81 people from other states and six from abroad were among the 783 new cases reported in the last 24 hours ended at 10 am, as a record 30,216 samples were tested. Kurnool and Krishna continued to report more deaths as the two hotspot districts accounted for five and two fresh fatalities. SPS Nellore also recorded two COVID-19 deaths. Vizianagaram and West Godavari had one death each, according to the bulletin. In the last 24 hours, a total of 302 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the aggregate to 6,232, leaving total active cases of 7,479. Of the gross 13,891 coronavirus cases in the state so far, 11,554 were locals and 1,946 were from other states while 391 were foreign returnees. The state so far has carried out 8,72,076 tests at the rate of 16,330 per million population, with a positivity rate of 1.59 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-783-new-coronavirus-cases-11-deaths-tally-mounts-to-13891-855078.html
29-06-2020||South||CCTV footage demolishes Tamil Nadu police’s 'lies' on custodial deaths||Footage recorded in a CCTV camera near the shop of Emmanuel Bennix and his father P Jeyaraj, who were killed allegedly in police custody, clearly contradicts the First Information Report (FIR) filed by the Sathankulam Police which said that the duo “rolled on the road” and entered into an argument with them before their arrest. The footage, accessed by DH, vindicates the statements of the family of the father-son duo and traders’ in Sathankulam town, 660 km from here, that there was no crowd outside the shop, no argument between Jeyaraj and the police and that it was the men in khaki who took the 61-year-old to the police station without “any reason”. ‘Footage shows father-son duo did not argue’ The footage, recorded by a CCTV camera installed at King Electricals, shows Jeyaraj, wearing a white shirt and a dhoti, standing outside his son’s mobile shop, and talking on his phone. A few seconds later, two policemen on a patrol vehicle arrive there, talk to Jeyaraj, and go near the car. After a few seconds, the policemen seem to gesture Jeyaraj to come towards their vehicle, which the latter obliges. Another footage shows Bennix (31), coming out of his shop after his father was summoned by the police. While the police take Jeyaraj in their vehicle, the son is seen coming to his shop again and taking his two-wheeler to go to the police station. The visuals are in complete contradiction with the FIR filed by P Raghuganesh, a sub-inspector at the Sathankulam police station, at 10 pm on June 19, following a complaint by head constable S Murugan and constable Muthuraj. After taking them into custody during which they were alleged to have been tortured, the police shifted them to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 21. However, the son died on June 22 and the father on June 23 due to injuries sustained during the custody. What did the FIR say? The release of the footage is an embarrassment to the AIADMK government as Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami almost toed the police line by describing events mentioned in the FIR in his statement issued on June 23, after an uproar over the custodial deaths. As the death of the father and son within hours of each other led to national outrage, Palaniswami had on Sunday announced that the state government has decided to hand over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The FIR said that the father-son duo entered into an argument with Murugan and Muthuraj, who were on a routine patrol at the Kamaraj Salai in Sathankulam town, at 9.15 pm over keeping Bennix’s shop open beyond permissible hours during Covid-19 lockdown. According to the footage, the incident is recorded at 9.45 pm, but the shop owner said the clock in the system was “fast” due to a technical glitch. “There was a crowd standing outside the shop and when the two policemen asked them to disperse, everyone left except Jeyaraj and Bennix who squatted on the road and asked the men in khaki on the duty to mind their own business. Further, they were rolling on the floor leading to them getting hurt,” the FIR said.  The background The CCTV footage bust all the “lies” mentioned in the FIR – there was neither a crowd nor Jeyaraj and Bennix argued with the police. Also, the footage shows Jeyaraj engaging with the police and getting into the police vehicle smashing the claim in the FIR that they squatted on the road. While the FIR mentions that the duo was taken into custody together, the CCTV footage says Jeyaraj was taken by the police in their vehicle and Bennix taking his two-wheeler to go to the police station to meet his father.  Eye-witnesses and family members have maintained that Bennix was arrested only at the police station after he took objection to his father being assaulted by the policemen. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took cognizance of the incident and appointed a team of doctors to conduct the post-mortem after which the family accepted the bodies and buried them. It had also issued a slew of direction to the Kovilpatti judicial magistrate regarding the inquest into the custodial deaths. DMK seeks action against the policemen As the CCTV footage went viral, the principal Opposition party, DMK, which has been raising the issue since the beginning, sought to know why Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was still not ordering the concerned to book the policemen in question for murder.  “CCTV footage and media reports establish that Jeyaraj and Bennix were taken by the police without any injuries. Should I remind the Chief Minister that the murderers should be booked under Section 302 of the IPC (Murder)?” Stalin asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cctv-footage-demolishes-tamil-nadu-police-s-lies-on-custodial-deaths-855114.html
29-06-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan clarifies on allegations related to PwC||Vijayan was provoked because of an allegation by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday that a foreign firm banned by the SEBI was a consultant for an e-mobility project by the government as consultant for an e-mobiity project. He said that the opposition's allegation was baseless as it was not PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwC), but their audit firm. PwC had also issued a clarification on this on Monday. The Opposition leader raised a series of allegations against the government, all turned out to be baseless. The opposition leader needs to be more responsible, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-clarifies-on-allegations-related-to-pwc-855136.html
29-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 3,949 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported nearly 4,000 fresh coronavirus cases and the tally crossed 86,000 while 62 more deaths brought the toll to 1,141. Chennai recorded 2,167 of the 3,949 new cases in the state and nearby Chengelpet reported 187, Tiruvallur 154 and Madurai 303 while the remainder was scattered in other districts, a health department bulletin said. Tamil Nadu's tally stood at 86,224 while Chennai's share was 55,969. As many as 2,212 patients were discharged from various hospitals and in total, 47,749 people have recovered and theactive cases were 37,331. In 44 government and 18 private hospitals, 62 people died and 51 of them had co-morbidities. A 13-year-old boy and a 23-year-old man were among a number of patients below 45 years to have died. Since June 25, Tamil Nadu has been reporting 3,500 plus cases and today is the second succesive day of nearly 4,000 cases. On Sunday, 3,940 fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-3949-new-covid-19-cases-62-deaths-855138.html
29-06-2020||South||Animal cruelty: Cow injured by explosives in Andhra; Wild monkey hanged to death in Telangana||In a shocking incident, a cow was grievously injured after it chewed on an explosive kept for wild boars in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. The episode is a reminder of the killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Palakkad district in May, which caused nationwide outrage.   The tragic incident occurred on Sunday evening at Kogileru village of Peddapanjani mandal when few cows from a goshala wandered into the nearby forestry area where the crude bombs were kept. Speaking to DH, Lokesh Reddy, SHO of Panjani Police station, said that one 42-year-old suspect is under interrogation. “Crude bombs are kept in rotting substances and placed in bushes to attract boars. Unfortunately, the cow chewed it causing an explosion and damaging its lower jaw,” Reddy said. According to Anitha Arjun Reddy, the caretaker at the Sri Jalakanteshwara Goshala, following treatment locally, the badly injured cow was taken to the Sri Venkateshwara Veterinary University hospital in Tirupati for the required procedures to save its life. A case was registered under 286 (using explosives to cause hurt) 429 (mischief of killing, maiming cattle) etc., IPC sections, Section 11 of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act 1960 and relevant provisions of the explosives act. Local villagers are demanding severe punishment for the culprits to avoid such dangers to animals and humans in the future.   Monkey hanged to death in Telangana In another such cruel incident, a monkey was hanged to death from a tree by three men in Khammam district of Telangana. The incident at Ammapalem village of Vemsoor Mandal occurred on 26 June and came to notice with a video on social media. The men committed the inhumane act to deter the monkeys from the adjacent forests from invading their premises. The local forest officer said that they have identified the culprits and that stringent provisions of the wildlife protection act would be invoked in the case against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/animal-cruelty-cow-injured-by-explosives-in-andhra-wild-monkey-hanged-to-death-in-telangana-855142.html
29-06-2020||South||Kerala records 121 fresh coronavirus cases||Kerala reported 121 COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, with as many as 2057 people undergoing treatment for the infection and the death toll rose to 23 as the sample of a deceased man tested positive. Of the positive cases, 78 had come from abroad and 26 from other states and five had been infected through contact. Nine CISF personnel and three health workers were among those who wereinfected, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. This is the 11th consecutive day thatthe state has reported over 100 cases. Seventy-nine people have recovered from the disease, Vijayan told reporters. A man from Tamil Nadu had died on June24 at the Manjeri Medical college hospital and his sample was found positive for the infection. Giving the district wise break-up of the cases, Vijayan said Tjhrissur reported the highest number of cases--26, while 14 cases were reported from Kannur, Malappuram and Pathanamthitta 13 each, Palakkad 12, Kollam 11, Kozhikode nine, Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Idukki five each, Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram four each. There are 118 hotspots as of today. With steep rise in Covid cases in Ponnani taluk in Malappuram, from 5 pm Monday to July 6, triple lockdown will be enforced and there will be a lot of restrictions in the movement of people. Large-scale testing also wouldbe conducted at Edappal and Ponnani, Vijayan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-121-fresh-coronavirus-cases-855145.html
29-06-2020||South||Telangana HC clears hurdles for new secretariat construction||The Telangana high court has dismissed a set of petitions challenging the TRS government’s plans to construct a new secretariat in Hyderabad, razing the present buildings. Congress and other parties had objected to chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao’s Vastu compliant vision of a grand secretariat, saying it would be an unnecessary expenditure of the public money. On 27 June last year, Rao had laid the foundation stone for a new state of the art secretariat complex planned to be built with Rs 400 crore. The present secretariat buildings near Hussain Sagar in the heart of Hyderabad were divided between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana following the bifurcation of the united state in June 2014. The arrangement was in accordance with the AP bifurcation act, which states Hyderabad as a joint capital till 2024. However, AP’s share of buildings has been lying idle since the then chief minister Chandrababu Naidu shifted his government to Amaravati by the middle of 2017. The Jaganmohan Reddy government which came to power in May 2019 handed over AP’s four blocks to Telangana, a week before the foundation ceremony by Rao. The high court bench hearing the matter has reportedly noted no arbitrary move on the part of the Telangana cabinet to decide to construct a new secretariat. Though the handing over of AP’s buildings and the high court order now have cleared the path, it has to be seen as when the Rao government, besieged by the massive spurt in the Covid-19 cases, will initiate the construction works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-hc-clears-hurdles-for-new-secretariat-construction-855157.html
29-06-2020||South||Police used disparaging remarks: JM probing father, son custodial deaths||In a serious development, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday initiated contempt proceedings against two police officers and a constable from Thoothukudi district for preventing a Judicial Magistrate appointed by it from conducting an inquiry into the alleged custodial deaths of a father and his son. The contempt proceedings came after the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate (JM), M S Bharathidasan, submitted a report to the high court bench narrating the events at the Sathankulam Police station, where the duo was allegedly tortured, on Sunday evening when he went to conduct the inquiry. In the report, the JM said a police constable, Maharajan, made a “very disparaging remark” against him in the presence of D Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, and C Prathapan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, even as policemen at the station recorded videos of the proceedings. “You cannot pluck anything,” the constable told the Judicial Magistrate, according to the suo-moto contempt petition, a copy of which was accessed by DH. Taking a serious view of the report by the JM, the division bench of P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi ordered the aforementioned policemen to appear before it at 10.30 am on Tuesday (June 30). P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix (31), were taken into custody by the police in Sathankulam town on June 19 following an argument over keeping their shops open beyond 9 pm. The duo are alleged to have been tortured by police during custody and was shifted to Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 21. However, the son died on June 22 and the father on June 23 due to injuries sustained during the police custody. The bench also observed that a “free and fair investigation and inquiry” was “very difficult” unless the state government intervenes and transfers the ASP, DSP, and other policemen in the Sathankulam police station. Noting that the Judicial Magistrate sent the report to the bench via e-mail on Monday afternoon, the division bench observed that “a reading of it clearly shows that the district police administration are doing everything within their command to prevent the learned Magistrate from proceeding with the enquiry.” While taking cognizance of criminal contempt on “our own motion”, the division bench also asked the Range Deputy Inspector General of Police and the Thoothukudi district Superintendent of Police to accompany the Additional Advocate General (AAG) K Chellapandian during the hearing on Tuesday. Monday’s development of the JM complaining to the Madurai Bench has sent shockwaves across the state. People on social media wondered how the common man can live peacefully when judges are threatened by policemen in the state. The court initiated the contempt proceedings hours after it observing that it cannot have a say in the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to transfer the case to the CBI and asked the Thoothukudi collector to direct revenue officials to take control of the Sathankulam Police Station to collect relevant documents. The Madurai Bench, which has taken suo moto cognizance of the incident and appointed a three-member team to conduct the post-mortem of the duo had directed the Kovilpatti JM to conduct the inquest proceedings. Earlier, as Additional Advocate General (AAG) K Chellapandian sought permission from the court to transfer the case to CBI, the judges said they have no say in the issue as it was a policy decision by the government. While expressing displeasure at the behaviour of the Sathankulam police, the judges asked Thoothukudi district collector Sandeep Nanduri to direct revenue officials to take control of the Sathankulam police station, where the duo was allegedly tortured before being lodged in a sub-jail, to facilitate the JM to collect relevant documents or evidence for the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-used-disparaging-remarks-jm-probing-father-son-custodial-deaths-855180.html
29-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu extends coronavirus lockdown till July 31||Tamil Nadu government on Monday extended the Covid-19 lockdown across the state till July 31, hours after an expert committee of doctors said they have not recommended against the measure. The complete lockdown that is in force in this metropolis, parts of three neighbouring districts and the whole of Madurai city, has also been extended till July 5. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said e-pass will be mandatory for inter-district and inter-state travel movement, while a temporary ban on public transport within districts will also be imposed from July 1 to July 15. Ban on inter-state public transport will continue to remain, the announcement said. A host of restrictions have been allowed in Chennai, the hotspot of coronavirus in the state with over 55,000 cases, from July 6. The relaxations that were in force in Madurai till a complete lockdown came into force on June 25 would continue from July 6. In Chennai and parts of three districts, which are under complete lockdown, stand-alone textile and jewelry showrooms will be allowed to function with 50 per cent staff from July 6, while restaurants can open their doors for service with 50 per cent occupancy. Autorickshaws and taxis can ply on the roads, mutton shops and fish stalls can open from July 6 in Chennai. These relaxations apply only to outside of containment zones. In the rest of the state, from July 6, a host of activities have been allowed by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-july-31-855188.html
29-06-2020||South||Superstitious villagers in Andhra Pradesh leave pregnant woman's body in forest||In an appalling case, dead body of a pregnant woman was left in the forest by her family as the village elders objected to her cremation in the village. The horrendous act driven by superstition took place in B Nagireddipalle village of Rudravaram mandal in the Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh and came to light on Monday. According to Rammohan Reddy, sub-inspector of Rudravaram PS, the woman aged 23 died at a government hospital in Nandyala on Saturday morning. The woman got married about 10 months back to a farmer. “The family brought her back to the village, where the community elders prohibited them from conducting the rituals saying that a pregnant woman’s cremation would bring misfortune on the village,” Reddy told DH. “Her family members instead of reporting to us, followed their irrational diktat and took the body to the forest area nearby and left it under a tree,” the SI said.   On Sunday evening, passersby noticed the body and alerted the officials. Police and revenue officials went to the village and on Monday morning buried the decomposing body at the same spot, the policeman said. Cases were booked on 15 persons including the family members under IPC sections of 504 (intentional insult), 270 (malignant act spreading disease infection dangerous to life), 269 (negligent act spreading disease infection), etc. The woman reportedly died of government hospital staff's negligence, which the police officer did not confirm. A similar incident of leaving a body in the forest, the SI said, took place about 10 years back according to the locals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/superstitious-villagers-in-andhra-pradesh-leave-pregnant-womans-body-in-forest-855191.html
29-06-2020||South||They beat Covid-19, yet kin of over 50 patients refuse to take them home in Hyderabad||Family members or relatives of over 50 people who have recovered from Covid-19 are not willing to take their loved ones home fearing getting infected, forcing the government to keep them in state-run facilities, a senior official said on Monday. According to Dr Prabhakar Reddy, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Gandhi Hospital here, about 50 such people are being kept at Nature Cure Hospital as their kin did not come forward to take them home. "We had 60 such cases where the relatives or family members refused to take the recovered people home fearing that they and their children would also get infected. We are trying to convince them. As of now 50 such people, both men and women, are being kept at the Nature Cure Hospital," Dr Reddy told PTI. Some of the recovered patients are aged people, including a 93-year old woman and are still in Gandhi Hospital while the rest have been sent to different facilities. "We cannot use police force on the kin and ask them to take them back home. We are counselling them saying there is no harm due to the recovered persons. Some three or four people were taken home after we convinced them," he added. The State-run Gandhi Hospital which was declared a Covid-19 treatment facility is currently treating 723 patients, out of which over 350 are on oxygen supply. According to him, the regular mortuary at Gandhi Hospital can accommodate 65 to 70 bodies. The hospital has set up an exclusive morgue for Covid-19 deaths with a capacity of about 20 bodies. Reddy said separate teams have been set up to handle the special morgue as per Covid-19 protocols. As on Sunday night, Telangana has 14,419 Covid-19 positive cases and 5,172 people have been discharged so far, while 9,000 were under treatment, a state government bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/they-beat-covid-19-yet-kin-of-over-50-patients-refuse-to-take-them-home-in-hyderabad-855200.html
29-06-2020||State||Soliga tribals brew a perfect success story||C Nanjegowda is a proud man these days. A Soliga tribal from Yerakana Gadde Podu in BR Hills, Nanjegowda is a radiographer by profession. But that is not what entirely makes him swell with pride. “There are 540 tribals cultivating coffee and pepper over 2,500 acres of land,” says Nanjegowda. “They would have sold the produce to middlemen and families earning about Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 a year. Hence we decided to trade on our own and supply the produce to established companies in Chikkamagaluru directly.” For the past 20-25 years, Soliga tribals from Kollegala and Yelandur taluks of Chamarajanagar district regularly traded in coffee and pepper. Unfortunately, they didn’t get the right price for the product, as they were exploited by the middlemen network. Fed up of the exploitation, educated tribals from the community finally decided to take matters into their own hands. The result: tribal youth not only set up their own trading firm — ‘Biligiri Soligas Producer Company Limited’ — but also achieved a turnover of Rs 1 crore, a rare feat. Drawing technical support from the Coffee Board, Maharshi Valmiki ST Development Corporation, NABARD, and the Karnataka government sensitised the community members but also ensured technical assistance in cultivation. “Our ancestors used to cultivate seedlings that were picked from the forest. But the coffee board and Spice Board helped our parents with quality seedlings, and they are cultivated completely by organic method,” says Nanjegowda, who is also the secretary of the company. Headquartered at Hosa Podu in BR Hills, the company was started in late 2019 and traded only coffee. “Last year, we sold about 40 tonnes of coffee. In 2020, for the first time, we traded in black pepper. This year, we have produced close to 10 tonnes of pepper. Trading in both coffee and pepper and assisted by Coffee Board coordinator Ashwini Kumar, this year we have achieved Rs 1 crore turnover,” Gowda says. Adding to their success, the Spice Board of India also appreciated the quality of black pepper, terming it one of the best-cultivated varieties. “The pepper is grown organically under a forest environment. It not only weighs more due to the big size but also has a unique taste,” Nanjegowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/soliga-tribals-brew-a-perfect-success-story-854888.html
29-06-2020||State||Two Covid-19 patients booked for hiding travel history||The Padubidri police have filed cases against two Covid-19 patients for not revealing their primary contacts and hiding their travel history. P 10186 and P 10187, brothers from Hejamadi in Padubidri, had tested positive for Covid-19 recently. After shifting them to the hospital for treatment, the officials collected information about their primary contacts and travel history. But, they reportedly furnished false information. When officials begun collecting information from various sources, they realised that the duo had travelled to Bantwal, Kasargod, Ullal and other places in Dakshina Kannada, District Health OfficerDr Sudhirchandra Sooda said. Thus, the district administration decided to file cases against them. It is learnt that the family members and primary contacts of the infected had symptoms of Covid-19, which is yet to be confirmed by the officials. The throat swab samples of the infected persons and primary contacts have been collected and sent to the laboratory for testing, said the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-covid-19-patients-booked-for-hiding-travel-history-854892.html
29-06-2020||State||Dredger Bhagavati Prem is listing: local residents||Dredger ‘Bhagavati Prem’, that was beached near Surathkal, has begun listing leaving residents apprehensive over a possible oil spill from the submerged dredger. The 114 metre-long and 21 metre-wide dredger with a deadweight of 9,492 tonnes and a draft of 7 metres, was beached at the Surathkalcoast in October by NMPT after the vessel witnessed flooding following damage to the hull. The dredger, belonging to M/s Mercator, was brought for dredging in the port area. However, the NMPT had terminated the contract with M/s Mercator for dredging the Portand asked the company to remove the dredger from the Port area. Before it was removed from the port area, the dredger developed flooding and the NMPT had to initiate measures to the beach it. The NMPT had served notices to the Mercator to clear the dredger. However, no action had been initiated to clear it. Members of Mogaveera Sanghatane have already urged the elected representatives and the state government to initiate measures to shift the dredger. So far, no action has been initiated.   Former deputy mayor Purushotham Chitrapura in a Facebook post said, “There is a threat of oil leakage from the dredger. The process of auctioning the vessel, following its owner M/s Mercator’s failure to remove it, is yet to commence. The NMPT should hold a meeting with the members of Mogaveera Sangha before the situation goes out of control at the earliest.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dredger-bhagavati-prem-is-listing-local-residents-854896.html
29-06-2020||State||Six more personnel from Ullal Police Station test positive for Covid-19||Five police personnel and a Home Guard attached to Ullal Police Station have been tested positive for Covid-19.   With this, 10 personnel attached to the Ullal Police Station have been tested positive for coronavirus so far. In addition to the police personnel, two suspects arrested by the Ullal police on the charges of murder attempt at Thokkottu Olapete too were tested positive for Covid-19, on Sunday (June 28).  Police had arrested 42-year-old and a 32-year-old man from T C Road in Thokkottu on the charges of a murder attempt on a meat shop owner recently. After the police personnel was tested positive, the throat swab of the suspects too was collected and the report tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/six-more-personnel-from-ullal-police-station-test-positive-for-covid-19-855031.html
29-06-2020||State||Covid-19: More curbs likely after July 7, says Karnataka minster R Ashoka||Anticipating a surge in cases in July and August, the Karnataka government is mulling stringent action against the spread of Covid-19 infection.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa may announce strict measures after July 7, Revenue Minister and in-charge of Bengaluru Covid-19 affairs, R Ashoka, said Monday. He said that the government was waiting for SSLC exams to conclude to announce new guidelines to curb the pandemic. Indicating that the government might tighten regulations at parks after SSLC exams are completed, he said, "For example, there have been complaints about use of parks which were opened by the government to allow walkers. Many people are found loitering there." Disclosing precautionary measures taken by the government to tackle any surge in cases he said that the government has plans to set up a 5,000 bed facility at Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre. Sri Sri Ravishankar Ashram has agreed to provide 170 beds, 432 beds will come at Hajj Bhavan, 1,000 beds at Rajiv Gandhi University of Agricultural Sciences, 300 at Government Ayurveda Hostel and another 1,000 beds at hostels in Bangalore University, Ashoka said. "Since experts say that cases might spike in July or August, these measures are being taken," he said. The government will also ramp up testing in BBMP limits from 3,000 to 7,500 per day. NGO teams A 10-member team will be deputed in each ward, who will be authorised to monitor people affected by Covid-19. "Families of victims are seen as villains by neighbours. The teams will create awareness (against such behaviour)," he said. They will also coordinate in shifting patients to either hospitals or quarantine centres. He said that doctors at ward level will be deputed to help patients affected in a particular ward to shift symptomatic patients to hospitals and asymptomatic ones to quarantine centres. "This will avoid the inconvenience caused to patients in being admitted to hospitals," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-more-curbs-likely-after-july-7-says-karnataka-minster-r-ashoka-855066.html
29-06-2020||State||Karnataka govt committed to generating jobs, says CM||A mega online job mela is to be organised on July 7 to bridge the gap between job-seekers and providers that was created due to the pandemic, Yediyurappa was quoted as saying in a press release. Stating that the government has taken several initiatives to improve the skills of the youth, he said a talent acceleration programme with the help of the skill development department would be implemented for 1,000 graduates at a cost of Rs 2 crore. Yediyurappa was speaking after launching the 'Skill Connect Forum', a portal, that connects both private entrepreneurs and job- seekers on the same platform. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also the skill development Minister, said the portal would be a boon to the youth seeking jobs. "It will solve the unemployment issue to a great extent," he was quoted as saying in a statement. All these years, there have been no information and communication between job-seekers and recruiters. The portal would solve that problem, he said. Narayan said there was no proper information on skilled workers and the job market. Moreover, the skill development was not in sync with the market and all these issues have been addressed by the portal. The portal skillconnect.kaushalkar.com connects the job- seekers and those who want to hire, the release said. All one has to do is to register on the portal by uploading their educational, skill qualifications and other details, it said. Similarly, those looking for hiring specific skilled people can also register on the portal by giving a job description. If they find someone suitable for the specified job skill, the companies or industries can contact the job- seekers directly and vice-versa, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-committed-to-generating-jobs-says-cm-855118.html
29-06-2020||State||Revenue dept deputy secretary in soup over tahsildar transfer||A deputy secretary in the Revenue Department has landed in soup for allegedly subverting the procedure and trying to exploit Tahsildars in the matters of transfer. In his order dated June 25, which has come to light recently, Revenue Department Principal Secretary N Manjunath Prasad has stated that T C Kantharaj (Services-3), deputy secretary, has pressurised officials to bypass higher ups in issuing transfer orders. The order further states that Kantharaj would call Tahsildar Grade-2 officials to his room and reveal details of senority list, which had led to unnecessary pressure from MLAs and ministers. "He has pressurised staffs to issue transfer orders, despite stay orders from the courts, without bringing the same to the notice of higher ups," the order said. Things came to the head when the official started subverting the procedure for issuing recruitment orders for Tahsildars of the 2017 batch. As per the rule, the orders should be sent via post to the candidates without mediation. However, the deputy secretary handed over the copy of the orders and told them to report to work "in violation of the rule". While mentioning that Kantharaj has been sent back to the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms with immediate effect, the order which accuses him of misdemeanor, doesn't recommend any action. To a question, Prasad said, "I have mentioned the charges, DPAR will take a call."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/revenue-dept-deputy-secretary-in-soup-over-tahsildar-transfer-855155.html
29-06-2020||State||No decision on reopening schools: Minister||The state government has not taken any decision about the reopening of schools. Clarifying to some posts going viral on various online platforms, Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Monday that there was no proposal before the government for reopening the schools in July. "We have no clarity about when to reopen schools and colleges. This issue needs to be discussed at various levels before making the decision," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-decision-on-reopening-schools-minister-855168.html
29-06-2020||State||Allow states to fill posts in Health dept, KDA tells Centre||Seeking prominence for the regional language in Health department services, the Kannada Development Authority has urged the union government to stop the system of centralised appointments to various posts through the ministry and allow state governments to fill these posts.  The government has been making appointments to different posts under the Health Ministry, in accordance with the Central Health Service Rules 2014. "Prior to 2014, officials who were appointed to different states had to learn the local language and clear an exam for the same. This would allow the official to be fluent in the local language by the time of the appointment. However, now the government is giving a two-year window for them to learn the language, which has led to apathy on the part of the officials," KDA chairperson T S Nagabharana said in an official statement. This is leading to conflicts at the ground-level, he said. Each state should be given the freedom to appoint staff, which will not only ensure that services are offered in a language comprehensible to the locals, but also provide employment for people in the state, he added. Speaking to DH, Nagabharana pointed out how in institutions such as Nimhans, for example, the staff appointed through this centralised system were not aware of Kannada, leaving local patients in the lurch. "One can see a similar trend in banks where the staff are unable to converse with locals in Kannada. The situation is different with Grade 'A' officials. For Grade 'B' and 'C', the job involves more public interaction, it becomes difficult if they do not know the local language," he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/allow-states-to-fill-posts-in-health-dept-kda-tells-centre-855177.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 1,267 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka registered a staggering 1,267 cases on Sunday, with state capital Bengaluru notching up a grim landmark of 783 new infections, a clear sign that the infectious disease is tightening its grip on the tech hub. The state also saw 16 new deaths, the highest in a single day so far. No other district came close to Bengaluru on Sunday. To put it into perspective, the district with the next highest tally was Dakshina Kannada, which saw a paltry 97 cases. Neither the BBMP nor the Department of Health and Family Welfare has so far released an official statement about the high number of cases. Officials and experts, however, said there were several factors involved.   Dr. Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist on the State Covid Task Force, told DH that the numbers were part of a surge in cases in Bengaluru predicted to start on June 21.  Since that time, the city has seen 2,238 new cases, a figure which has eclipsed the city’s cumulative totals from March 9 to June 20, during which a total of 1,086 cases were registered. In fact, Karnataka’s tally has increased by 51.6% since June 21, as the number of total cases touched 13,190 on Sunday. “The surge had been expected because of relaxations to the lockdown,” Dr Babu said. He added that the situation had been worsened as a large percentage of the population was not practicing social distancing and wearing masks. The disease has been witnessing exponential growth. By March 31, Karnataka had recorded its 100th Covid case. Less than a month later, on April 25, it registered its 500th case while the 1,000th case arrived on May 15. This came during the period of Lockdown 3.0, which saw interstate travel open up On June 6, the state saw its 5,000th case. Two days later, Unlock 1.0 came into place. By June 24, the caseload had hit 10,000.  Meanwhile, the closure of labs at Nimhans and the BMCRI could result in more cases being revealed in the days to come. Both labs were testing 1,000 samples and have been closed for a week now after a staffer at each location tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-1267-new-covid-19-cases-854886.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada writer Geetha Nagabhushan dies of cardiac arrest||Kannada writer Geetha Nagabhushan died of cardiac arrest at a private hospital at Kalaburagi on Sunday night. She was 78. The first woman writer in Kannada literature to bag the Kendra Sahitya Akademi and Nadoja awards, she has authored 27 novels, 50 short stories, 12 plays and two collections of poetry. She was born on March 25, 1942, at Savalagi village Kalaburagi district. She served as a lecturer, reader and professor for over 30 years. She was the President of 76th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana at Gadag in 2020. She began her career as a writer in 1968 and published her first novel Thavare Huvu. Some of her works include Baduku (novel), Hasimamsa Mattu Haddugalu (novel), Avva Mattu Itara Kathegalu (collection of short stories), Jwalantha (collection of short stories) and Jogini (play). A feminist, she resisted patriarchy and targeted gender stereotypes in her writings. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa tweeted condoling Geetha Nagabhushan’s death. She made an impact in Kannada literature. Her writings in different literary genres reflected hard realities of women and life. Facing hurdles in Kalyana Karnataka region, she went on to bag Nadoja and Kendra Sahitya Akademi awards, the tweet read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-writer-geetha-nagabhushan-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-854952.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru accounts for 25.92% of total Covid-19 cases in Karnataka: K Sudhakar||The minister also said the state's recovery rate stood at 57 percent, while the mortality rate remains low at 1.56 percent compared with the national rate of 3 percent. "Bengaluru had 1556 #COVID19 cases as on Jun 23 which has doubled to 3419 cases as on Jun 28. Bengaluru now constitutes 25.92 per cent of total cases in Karnataka. State Govt is taking all measures to ensure that every Covid patient gets best treatment," Sudhakar tweeted.  "Karnataka COVID recovery rate stands at 57 per cent with 7,507 discharges & 5472 active cases. So far we tested 5,95,470 samples and 5,66,543 of them are negative with positivity rate of 2.21 per cent. Our state's mortality rate remains low at 1.56 per cent while national mortality rate is 3 percent," he said in another tweet. Karnataka on Sunday recorded a biggest single-day spike of over 1,200 new Covid-19 cases and 16 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections in the state to 13,190 and the toll to 207. Out of 1,267 fresh cases reported in the state on Sunday, a whopping 783 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. The city also tops the list of districts with positive cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-accounts-for-2592-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-k-sudhakar-855001.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC results in first week of August, PUC results in last week of July: S Suresh Kumar||The results of second pre-university and the Secondary School Leaving Certificate examination results will be out by July last week and August first week, Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Monday. Instead of giving general promotion to the 10th and 12th standard students as the Central Board of Secondary Education and other states have done, the Karnataka government decided to hold the examination defying the coronavirus scare. "We are trying to get the SSLC results out by the first week of August.The PUC results will be out in the last week of July," the minister told reporters in Bengaluru. Amid reports of schools increasing the school fees ignoring the government's direction, the minister said he has got reports that 1,150 schools have increased their fees of which action has been taken against 450 schools. "We have directed all the schools not to increase the fees in view of the coronavirus scare. It is a peculiar year.Humanity says no one should increase fees. We have set up a helpline. If we come across such practices, we will initiate action," Kumar said. He said an officer has been entrusted to look into the complaints against schools. Speaking about online classes for kindergarten students, the minister said such classes are not allowed. The schools can hold talks with parents twice a week about grooming their children. Kumar said a decision on opening kindergarten schools will be taken after July 5. He, however, conceded that most parents are unwilling to send their children to school. The government is gathering the opinion of parents based on which a decision would be taken, he added. Regarding education to students from Class one to Class 10, Kumar said the Centre has given guidelines, which will be followed. The state has formed an expert committee to recommend guidelines on education to children from Class I to Class six. "Once the committee report comes, we will formulate regulations," Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-results-in-first-week-of-august-puc-results-in-last-week-of-july-s-suresh-kumar-855004.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government launches job portal to tackle unemployment, slump in economy||In a first of its kind effort, the state government has launched a job portal connecting employers and job seekers. The portal, 'Skill connect' provides region-wise and sector-wise job listings. An interested candidate can register on the portal and either apply for jobs or can also seek skill training.  The portal works more or less on similar lines as that of any private job portal, except that those posting jobs and candidates searching for employment will have to register with the Skill Development Department.  Launching the portal on Monday, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa hoped that the portal would provide an impetus to job creation, as well as the economic revival of the state.  Deputy Chief Minister Dr. C.N. Ashwath Narayan who is also the skill development Minister added, "All these years, there was no information and communication between job seekers and recruiters. This portal will solve that problem." Also, until now, there hasn't been comprehensive information either on those seeking jobs or those looking for employees. The skill development efforts have not been in sync with the market. All these issues would be addressed by the portal, he said.  As on Monday, the portal, https://skillconnect.kaushalkar.com/, has 25 registered companies with over 2000 jobs available in various sectors.  According to Karnataka Skill Development Authority Managing Director Ashwin Gowda, the portal has already seen a response with about 68 applicants in just a day.  Officials said even the organisations will have to register with the government while providing all documents concerned. The government aims to avoid any fake job advertisements through this. "We will also enable virtual interviews between the candidate and the employer," sources in the department told DH.  Recently, the government had also launched a portal exclusively for migrants who had returned to Karnataka from other places. This was meant to work as a skill registry. However, the portal that was launched on Monday, went a step ahead by connecting both the prospective employers and employees, according to officials in the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-launches-job-portal-to-tackle-unemployment-slump-in-economy-855129.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM approves Rs 5 crore for Ambareesh's memorial||The Karnataka government has decided to allot an initial budget of Rs 5 crore for late actor Ambareesh's memorial.  The memorial, the construction work of which is set to begin soon, will come up on a 1.34 acre space in Kanteerava Studio. The decision was taken on Monday in the meeting of a high-level committee constituted by the government in January this year, to look into all issues pertaining to the memorial. The eight-member committee, which includes the late actor's wife and Mandya MP Sumalatha as one of its members, is headed by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa.  In the meeting, Yediyurappa directed officials to speed up the process and start the work at the earliest. While the proposal to build the memorial in Kanteerava Studio already existed, it was officially approved on Monday.   Soon after the meeting, Sumalatha tweeted: "Heartfelt thanks to BS Yediyurappa for honouring the memory of Ambareesh and as a recognition of his social, films and political services and contributions by granting 1.34 acres of land at Kanteerava Studio and proposing an initial fund of Rs 5 crore for Ambareesh Smaraka."  The Kannada film star, fondly known as 'Rebel Star' in the Sandalwood industry, passed away in November 2018. He was also active in politics and served as an MP and as a minister of state for information and broadcasting between 2006-08 during the Manmohan Singh government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-approves-rs-5-crore-for-ambareeshs-memorial-855137.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||98% SSLC students appear for Monday’s examination||As much as 97.93% of the SSLC students who had registered themselves for the examination turned up on Monday.  A total of 7,91,102 students had enrolled for the examination in science, political science and music out of whom 7,74,792 appeared on Monday. However, there were anxious moments for students as Covid-19 positive cases were reported from some of the examination centres. But the department of education said that it would complete the examination. Two students tested positive for coronavirus infection in Arsikere taluk of Hassan district. They will be permitted to appear for supplementary exams as fresh candidates. An invigilator tested positive at an exam centre in Bagalkot and the whole staff deputed there for duty were replaced. The building was fumigated later. In Udupi district a student tested positive after she returned from Saturday’s exam.  Briefing the media after the exams, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that some students were appearing for the examination despite facing many hurdles. “Some of the children wrote the exam despite losing their loved ones. I appreciate their efforts and interest,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/98-sslc-students-appear-for-monday-s-examination-855169.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rain triggers flash floods in Doni river; widespread rain in north K'taka||The Sunday night showers in the Vijayapura district triggered flash floods in the Doni river and Sogali stream causing untold misery to the farmers and students in Talikote taluk. The overflowing Doni submerged the British era Talikote-Hadaginal bridge and the vast tract of agricultural land. The farmers of the region had sown tur a week back. Scores of SSLC students had a tough time in crossing the flooded Hadaginal bridge and Hatti stream of Nalatwad to reach the exam centre on Monday. The overnight showers left many houses flooded at Nalatwad and several other villages in Talikote taluk. More than five houses have suffered partial damage in the incessant rain that lashed the region for seven to eight hours.Vijayapura city, Muddebihal, Basavana Bagewadi, Muddebihal and Sindagi taluks also experienced heavy showers. Farmer washed away  Most of the Kalyana Karnataka and Mumbai Karnataka districts received moderate to heavy showers on Sunday night and Monday. A farmer from Harobelavadi in Dharwad district washed away in the Tuppari Halla stream. The deceased farmer has been identified as Madiwalappa Jakkappanavar (40). The stream, notorious for flooding during monsoon, came alive on Monday owing to heavy showers in the catchment of Malaprabha river in Belagavi district. Twin cities Hubballi-Dharwad received heavy showers on Monday evening. Kalyana Karnataka districts - Kalaburagi, Bidar, and Yadgir experienced heavy showers since Sunday night. A cotton-laden tractor washed away in a stream near Kondapur in Vadagera taluk of Yadgir district. Passengers waiting for the buses at Basava Kalyana bus stand had a torrid time after a spell of heavy rain left the place inundated with rainwater.Heavy showers lashed parts of Kalaburagi district, including Chincholi taluk, Tajalapur Cross, Jevargi, Ijeri. Meanwhile, the coastal districts experienced intermittent rain amid overcast conditions on Monday. Moderate to heavy showers lashed many parts of the Malnad districts and old Mysuru region on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rain-triggers-flash-floods-in-doni-river-widespread-rain-in-north-ktaka-855171.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka appeals Centre to extend crop insurance deadline||Agriculture Minister B C Patil said on Monday that the state government had appealed to the Centre to extend weather-based crop insurance registration period till July 10. Speaking to media persons after inspecting Chatnahalli-Puradakere lift irrigation project work in Shikaripur taluk, he said July 31 is the last date for registration of agricultural crops under the weather-based crop insurance scheme. But June 30 is the last date for the registration of horticultural crops such as ginger, pomegranate, areca and pepper under the scheme. Since the period is short, the Agriculture minister has appealed to the Centre to extend the registration period by 10 days. The Centre is likely to approve it, he hoped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-appeals-centre-to-extend-crop-insurance-deadline-855175.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||South Western Railways revises booking timings||Computerised Passenger Reservation Centres in Bengaluru Division will function from 8 am to 6 pm from Monday to Saturday, to comply with the latest restrictions. These centres are situated in KSR Bengaluru, Cantonment, Yeshwantpur, Krishnarajapuram, Hosur, Tumakuru, Mandya, Yelahanka, and Kengeri. On Sundays, due to complete lockdown announced by the state government, all reservation centres in the division will remain closed, except for KSR Bengaluru which will function from 8 am to 2 pm. In a release, the South Western Railway said that the revision in timings was due to the decision by the government of Karnataka to impose a curfew from 8 pm to 5 am on weekdays and complete lockdown on Sundays. There will be no change in the working hours of Reservation Centres at Dharmapuri, Sri Sathyasai Prasanthinilayam, Hindupur and Bangarpet which are working in a single shift from 8 am to 2 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/south-western-railways-revises-booking-timings-855179.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shepherd tests positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka; Herd to be tested||Forty-three sheep were quarantined after a shepherd tested positive for novel coronavirus at Godekere Gollarahatti in the taluk. District Minister J C Madhuswamy has instructed the district administration and the Animal Husbandry department to subject the sheep to Covid-19 tests. The move followed after five sheep found dead in mysterious circumstances at the village. All 43 sheep of the infected person have been isolated from the herd and kept at a place in Jakkanahalli. "There is no evidence that the sheep can contract Covid-19 and transmit the virus to the people. But since the virus has many strains and keep changing its genetic make-up, draw throat swab samples of the sheep and send the same to Covid-19 lab. Till the report comes, keep the livestock in isolation," Madhuswamy told the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shepherd-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-karnataka-herd-to-be-tested-855181.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,105 new coronavirus cases, 19 deaths||Karnataka reported marginally lesser Covid-19 cases than yesterday with 1,105 new infections. On Sunday, it had reported 1,267 cases. Bengaluru continues to be the top contributor with 738 cases. However, the recoveries were not as many as the number of new cases. Only 176 people were discharged on Monday. The total number of discharges stands at 7,683 in the state. This brings the total number of active cases to 6,382. The new Covid-19 deaths have mounted the death toll to 226. Now the total number of patients to have tested positive for Covid-19 are 14,295 and those in the ICU are 268. 178 patients are in Bengaluru's ICUs alone. Bengaluru reported almost as many cases as it did on Sunday, only 45 lesser. The state capital breached the 4,000 mark on Monday with 4,052 testing positive. Surprisingly, Bengaluru saw no discharges on Monday. But the state health department maintained that this was the case even on Sunday as the BBMP had not been sending discharge data to the stateand not because there were no recoveries in the state. The city now has 3,427 active carriers of the virus and has witnessed deaths of 92 Covid-19 patients. Unlike Bengaluru that saw cases in the triple digit for the third consecutive day, 12 districts saw cases in double digit and the others in single digit. Ballari was second with 76 cases and Dakshina Kannada with 32.  12 of the 19 deaths on Monday were from Ballari, three from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Bagalkot, Ramnagar, Dakshina Kannada and Hassan. The state for the third consecutive day withheld contact history and travel history of patients that makes it difficult to verify the existence of patient clusters and patterns of disease transmission. It is also missing in the daily analysis reports released by the state war room. Munish Moudgil, Director, State Covid-19 War Room, said, "It's tough to trace the source of every case within two to three hours when Covid-19 positive patient was not either a contact or in quarantine. As a good number were neither, hence, field verification is needed." "Hence, it's shown under investigation. As a new list of cases is issued daily, the discovery of source the next day isn't being noted. It's being streamlined and it could be a good idea to check source next day when some field check would have found the source. The history/source of infection column will soon be back. The health department is working on it," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1105-new-coronavirus-cases-19-deaths-855198.html
29-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to revoke licence of doctors who refuse treatment||In a significant move, the Covid-19 ministerial task force on Monday decided to revoke the licence of medical professionals who refuse to treat virus patients or attend to any other Covid mitigation work. The government also decided to make use of the Rapid Antigen Testing method to detect cases in Bengaluru, after Ballari. This method will detect the presence of antigens with the help of throat swabs. The decision is expected to speed up the testing process in Bengaluru, which is seeing a spurt in cases. According to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai who took part in the task force meeting, "The test was successfully implemented in Ballari. We will now extend it to Bengaluru, by taking up the testing in fever clinics."  Roping in paramedical staff to overcome staff deficit in several places was another decision taken at the meeting. On the other hand, the government has decided to provide PPE kits even to private medical professionals in order to boost morale among the medical community and to ensure their safety. "We also discussed the issue of strengthening government hospitals, apart from various ways in which we can coordinate with private hospitals. Another point discussed at the meeting was to ensure that those who test negative get to know about it at the earliest," Bommai told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-revoke-licence-of-doctors-who-refuse-treatment-855229.html
29-06-2020||West||Pune has over 20,000 coronavirus cases||The Pune district in Maharashtra now has over 20,000 Covid-19 progressive positive cases. In India, the financial capital of Mumbai is the worst affected with 75,539 cases and 4,371 deaths, it is followed by Thane with 34,257 cases and 845 deaths.Pune had reported 20,870 cases and 714 deaths. The total active cases are 10,708. If one looks in detail, 16,944 cases and 611 deaths have been reported from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area,  2,283 cases and 46 deaths were reported from the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area. In the Pune district elsewhere 1,643 cases and 57 deaths were reported. The Mumbai-Pune belt - involving six districts and two huge metropolitan regions is the worst-affected in the country.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Mumbai example of Chase-the-Virus to be implemented elsewhere in Maharashtra and the entire Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and Pune metropolitan region (PMR) would be covered.  The MMR and PMR,  combined, accounts for 1,39,692 progressive cases and death toll of 6,126.Maharashtra's first two cases was reported in Pune on 9 March while the city reported the first death on 30  March. Last week, the situated in Pune eas reviewed at a high level meeting chaired by NCP president Sharad Pawar in which his nephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh and health minister Rajesh Tope were present. The meeting passed on instruction to the administration to impose strict restrictions to prevent spread of Covid-19."There has been  a surge in cases in the last three to four cases in Pune that was bound to happen with the easing of lockdown," a Pune-based health official said.   ** The first two cases in Maharashtra were diagnosed in Pune when a couple with travel history to Dubai tested positive on 9 March. ** The first death was reported in Pune on 30 March when a 56-year-old man with co-morbidities died in a private hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-has-over-20000-coronavirus-cases-854957.html
29-06-2020||West||Covid-19 patients to shift from rundown Ulhasnagar hospital in Thane||Dayanidhi had taken a round of the hospital recently and gave orders for shifting of Covid-19 patients to Vedant Hospital and the process will begin soon, ESIS Hospital Superintendent Dr Vilas Dongre told PTI.  "The ESIS hospital building was constructed in 1975. It has a capacity of 100 beds and presently 51 Covid-19 patients are admitted here," Dongre informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patients-to-shift-from-rundown-ulhasnagar-hospital-in-thane-855030.html
29-06-2020||West||Fuel price hike protest: Gujarat Congress chief, 50 workers detained||Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and nearly 50 other party workers were detained in Ahmedabad on Monday while they were trying to take out a rally against the ruling BJP at the Centre over the fuel price hike, police said. They were not given permission for such a gathering, a senior police official said. The opposition party also organised similar protests in Rajkot, Vadodara and Surat districts of Gujarat and demanded roll back of the hike. In Ahmedabad, Chavda and 50 other Congress workers, including MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh, were detained near Sardar Baug area while trying to take out a rally against the increased prices of petrol and diesel. Police said the demonstrators were not given permission for such a gathering or for taking out a rally. "The Congress workers gathered in a busy area without any permission. We have detained nearly 50 protesters, including Chavda and Shaikh, for holding protests and trying to take out a rally without permission," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone 2, Dharmendra Sharma said. Before being detained, Chavda slammed the government over the fuel price hike and denying permission for the protest. Congress workers in other parts of the state were also detained for holding protests over the issue, officials said. Diesel price scaled a new high on Monday after prices were hiked for the 22nd time in just over three weeks, taking the cumulative increase to Rs 11.14 per litre. Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. While the diesel rates have been hiked for the 22nd time since June 7, petrol price has been raised on 21 occasions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fuel-price-hike-protest-gujarat-congress-chief-50-workers-detained-855032.html
29-06-2020||West||Maharashtra Congress protests against fuel price hike||The Maharashtra Congress staged protests across the state on Monday against the increase in fuel prices, and demanded roll back of the hike. A senior party leader said people were already hit hard by the coronavirus-induced lockdown, hence at such a time the Centre should reduce the fuel prices. Several Congress ministers, including Balasaheb Thorat, Ashok Chavan and Nitin Raut, staged a protest at the party office in Mumbai. "The petrol and diesel prices have been increased by the Centre in last some days. The prices should be slashed as people are already affected by the lockdown, said Thorat, who is the Maharashtra Congress president and the state revenue minister. Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan led a protest in Sangli along with state minister Vishwajit Kadam. Besides, state minister Satej Patil staged a protest against the fuel price hike in Kolhapur. Diesel price scaled a new high on Monday after prices were hiked for the 22nd time in just over three weeks, taking the cumulative increase to Rs 11.14 per litre. Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. While the diesel rates have been hiked for the 22nd time since June 7, petrol price has been raised on 21 occasions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-protests-against-fuel-price-hike-855041.html
29-06-2020||West||COVID-19: Ahmedabad gets 7 new micro-containment areas||Seven new micro-containment zones have been added to the 37 existing ones in Ahmedabad city in Gujarat, taking the total number of people placed under restriction in civic limits to 27,509, an official said. While six of the new areas are in the western zone of the city, one is in the south-west, he added. The western part accounts for 643 or 22 per cent of all COVID-19 cases in Gujarat's largest city, the highest among all six zones here. The new micro containment zones are in Chandlodia, Chandkheda, Bodakdev, Vasna, Sabarmati, Naranpura and Sarkhej localities, covering 270 houses with 1,080 residents. Till Sunday evening, Ahmedabad city reported 19,681 COVID-19 cases, of which 15,358 patients have been discharged. The number of new coronavirus cases being reported in Ahmedabad has dropped over the last one week, with the daily rise remaining within the 250-mark, compared to over 300 in the early days of June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-ahmedabad-gets-7-new-micro-containment-areas-855044.html
29-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM launches world's largest convalescent plasma project||In a major initiative to combat Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government on Monday launched Project Platina - that is being described as the world's largest plasma therapy trial. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the project spearheaded by the Medical Education and Drugs Department. "This trial will help formulate definite treatment guidelines for the entire country in managing serious Covid-19 patients and thus be a milestone in turning a page in this pandemic," Thackeray said. He has approved Rs 16.65 crore for this project cum clinical trial from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The project has reached an inaugural stage in around 21 days. The government intends to benefit and save around 500 lives of critically-ill Covid-19 patients of Maharashtra. "Convalescent Plasma therapy is now coming up as one of the most important methods in the treatment of severe Covid-19 patients in the absence of definite treatment drugs for the same," he said. The trial will be carried out in 17 medical colleges under the Department of Medical Education and Drugs, the government of Maharashtra and four colleges of BMC medical colleges in Mumbai - a total of  21 centres. All critical patients will receive two doses of 200 ml of convalescent plasma. The plasma of recovered Covid-19 patients contains antibodies against coronavirus thereby fighting infection and helping critically-ill patients. The entire plasma therapy treatment will be free of cost to all the patients of Maharashtra admitted in the above centres. The donors are available in large numbers and have no weakness whatsoever after plasma donation as RBC are returned back to the patient. "We also intend to take this study further and isolate monoclonal antibodies against Covid-19 from this plasma and study its structure and possibly produce it in an artificial form," a government statement said.  As a collateral benefit, this will create an infrastructure of plasmapheresis in all medical colleges in various districts of Maharashtra which will cater to the collection of FFP, SDP in treatment of dengue and other diseases. The project was inaugurated in the presence of revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, medical education minister Amit  Deshmukh, public health and family minister Rajesh Tope, minister of state for health, medical education and drugs Rajendra Patil Yedravkar. The project initially involves the commencement of the clinical trial, the inauguration of Covid-19 plasma Blbanks in 13 centres. Besides it involves commencement of plasma collection from eligible donors,  permitting emergency authorisation of convalescent plasma in mild and moderate cases in dedicated COVID hospitals - government, private and charitable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-launches-worlds-largest-convalescent-plasma-project-855045.html
29-06-2020||West||Maharashtra Govt extends coronavirus lockdown till July 31||Maharashtra government on Monday said the lockdown in the state is being extended till July 31. The current lockdown was to end on June 30. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Sunday ruled out lifting the lockdown from that date. An order issued by Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta on Monday said wearing face covers or masks, maintaining social distancing, restricted gatherings, and other measures shall continue to prevail. Prior to this, Thane had extended complete lockdown in the city for 10 days.   The state government has also advised that work from home should be followed as far as possible. Mehta's order said private offices can operate with up to 10 per cent strength or 10 people whichever is more. On Sunday, Maharashtra reported its biggest single-day spike of 5,493 COVID-19 cases, which took the tally of patients in the state to 1,64,626. The state death toll has gone up to 7429.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-july-31-855049.html
29-06-2020||West||'Milkar for Mumbai' initiative to help the needy||Godrej & Boyce (G&B), the RPG Foundation and FromU2Them today announced a new partnership with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), to support an online platform - Milkar for Mumbai - bringing together local government, NGOs, citizens and corporate partners to ensure that the ongoing city-wide food relief distribution efforts are data-led, aligned and focused. ‘Milkar for Mumbai’ will enable concerned Mumbaikars to support food relief efforts. Individual donations will be matched 5X by Milkar’s corporate partners like G&B, RPG Foundation and ATE Chandra Foundation. Donations can be made on Milkar.org. which has been built in association with the crowd funding platform Ketto. Speaking at the launch of this important initiative on Thursday, June 27, 2020 the Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said, ‘In these uncertain times, food security is very important for those left most vulnerable by the Covid-19 pandemic. I would like to congratulate all the stakeholders - large corporates, NGOs, BMC and Mumbaikars - on the occasion of launching Milkar for Mumbai - an online platform that will help provide food safety to those vulnerable over the long-term in Mumbai and I hope every Mumbaikar will donate to this noble cause where every rupee raised will be matched five times by corporates.” Anant Goenka, MD & CEO CEAT Tyres said, “We, at RPG Foundation are grateful to the BMC and to the Government of Maharashtra for giving us the opportunity to support this unique initiative. With Milkar, we aim to feed the many people that are going hungry due to the Covid 19 crisis. We urge everybody to come forward, contribute generously to ensure that every person in Mumbai city is free from hunger and can live with dignity.” Nyrika Holkar, Executive Director, Godrej & Boyce said, “We believe Milkar is a great example of Mumbai’s stakeholders collectively making an impact during a time of great adversity. We would like to thank the chief minister and members of the BMC for supporting the innovative Milkar model to enhance the efficiency of ration distribution in Mumbai. With Milkar, we aim to empower all Mumbaikars to play their part to ensure the food safety of those at-risk in a transparent and sustainable manner.  We hope that this platform can evolve into a sustainable crowd-funded initiative, with engaged Mumbaikars, to tackle urgent civic issues like access to healthcare, sanitation, education, upskilling and re-skilling in a focused manner.” Kunal Kapoor, Founder, Ketto said, “We at Ketto are proud to be part of a unique initiative like Milkar. It’s the first of its kind in various aspects. Never before have I seen the BMC, corporates and so many NGOs coming together to help those in need especially when the world is battling with the COVID-19 crisis. The corporates matching five times the funds that have been donated by the general public is another example of what makes Milkar so unique. We are looking forward to helping and touching more lives through this initiative.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/milkar-for-mumbai-initiative-to-help-the-needy-855083.html
29-06-2020||West||103-year-old discharged after recovering from Covid-19||After fighting for nearly a month and defeating Covid-19, a 103-year-old man walked home to cheers and tears of joy in the Thane district on Monday. As Sukha Singh Chhabra was wheeled out of the Kaushalya Medical Foundation Trust Hospital in Thane, he got a warm round of applause also when he got home at his bungalow in Khopat locality of Thane. He nodded and thanked the hospital. He is perhaps the oldest Covid-19 survivor in India. But for nearly a month, the senior Lahore-born Sukha Singh's family was practically on tenterhooks.  His first throat swab was taken on 31 May and was admitted at the Kaushalya Medical Foundation Trust Hospital, Thane on 2 June after being tested positive for Covid-19. “He had a very tricky uphill and downhill course. Twice in and out of the ICU, requiring NIV  (Non-Invasive Ventilation) and inotropic supports to maintain his heart and lung functions for moderate ARDS (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome) along with COVID Pneumonia,” said Dr. Amit Lala Khomane, Chief Intensivist & Head, Department of Critical Care Medicine at Kaushalya Hospital, while sharing his experience on the road to recovery of Sukha Singh Chabbra.  The special team of  Dr. Amit Lala Khomane with Dr. Jayprakash Pednekar and Dr. Santosh Dwivedi treating  Sukha Singh Chabbra, believe that patient’s own determination to fight it out at this age is very important.  The team asserts “as doctors, we leave no stone unturned to help our patients win this battle.” To commemorate this miraculous recovery, the Trustees, Dr. Amol Bhanushali, and Dr. Sameep Sohoni of Kaushalya Medical Foundation Hospital along with the hospital management decided to sponsor this entire course of treatment for Sukha Singh Chabbra. His younger brother aged 86 years, was also in the ICU and has been shifted to the ward now. He awaits his discharge post clinical recovery. Sukha Singh's grandson Gurdeep Singh Chhabra said that his grandfather is a bit weak. "He will bounce back, we are sure," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/103-year-old-discharged-after-recovering-from-covid-19-855119.html
29-06-2020||West||Maharashtra extends lockdown: Full list of activities allowed till July 31||However, Maharashtra government has allowed certain services to continue during this extended period of lockdown. Here is a list of activities allowed during the period. 1) Essential shops, allowed to remain open prior to the order, to continue operation.2) Non-essential shops can continue service by following the guidelines issued on May 31 and June 4.3) Non-essential markets and shops, except malls and market complexes, can remain functioning from 9 am to 5 pm.4) Liquor shops to operate if permitted, home delivery of otherwise.5) Saloons, beauty parlors, spas can operate as per guidelines issued by state govt.6) Services provided by self-employed persons like plumbers, electricians, etc. are allowed.7) E-commerce services for both essential and non-essential products to continue.8) Marriage gatherings on open spaces, non AC halls allowed with restriction.9) Printing and distribution of newspapers to continue.10) Home delivery by restaurants allowed.11) Online distance education permitted.12) Inter-district movement of people within area of MMR for essential activities and office work allowed.13) Movement of vehicles allowed with certain restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-full-list-of-activities-allowed-till-july-31-855121.html
29-06-2020||West||Maharashtra lockdown comes in different form||With rising cases of Covid-19 and a large population lowering guard, the Maharashtra government on Monday extended the current lockdown restrictions for a month's time till July 31.  The show and steady unlocking process as part of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's Mission Begin Again will continue.  In the Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions, the restrictions are being imposed strictly.  Among the relaxations that has been allowed, all government offices with exceptions like emergency, disaster management, health and medical services and police will function with 15 per cent strength or 15 employees, whichever is higher. Private offices can allow 10 per cent or 10 employees, whichever is higher.  Intra-district bus services will also be allowed up to a maximum capacity of 50 per cent of the bus.  Meanwhile,  the MMR witnessed severe traffic jams in the major arterial routes in the wake of 2 km-radius movement norms except for visiting office. The police also issued challan to  several persons who were not following traffic and physical distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-lockdown-comes-in-different-form-855125.html
29-06-2020||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 cases up by 5,257 to 1,69,883; death toll at 7,610||Maharashtra on Monday reported 5,257 new COVID-19 cases, taking the number of the infected patients in the state to 1,69,883 while fatalities rose by 181, including 21 in Mumbai, to 7,610, a Health official said. Monday is the fourth consecutive day when Maharashtra has reported more than 5,000 cases in a single day. The state has added more than 20,000 patients in the last four days. "Of the 181 deaths, 76 had occurred in the last 48 hours and the rest earlier, but they were not reported as COVID-19 fatalities," the official said. With 2,385 patients being discharged in the day, the number of the recovered patients has mounted to 88,960, he said. The number of active patients stands at 73,298. Of the total 1,69,883 cases in the state, Mumbai city accounts for 76,765 cases and 4,463 deaths. Mumbai on Monday reported 1,226 new COVID-19 cases and deaths of 21 people, the official said. With this, the Thane division that comprises areas under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has so far recorded 1,22,325 cases and 5,412 fatalities. In Nashik division, 9,040 people have tested positive till now, of whom 521 have died, while in Pune division the overall tally stood at 24,980 with 1,040 deaths. Pune city's case count stood at 17,223, while the number of dead is 634, he said. In Kolhapur division, 1,997 cases have been reported with 51 deaths, while in Aurangabad division, the tally of cases stood at 6,004 with 258 fatalities. Latur division is inching towards the 1,000-mark with 981 cases and 43 deaths, the official said. There are 2,654 cases in Akola division and 126 deaths, while Nagpur division has so far reported 1,817 cases and 18 deaths. Some patients who are from other states are also being treated in various hospitals in Maharashtra, the official said. There are 85 such COVID-19 cases, while 23 have died so far, he added. A total of 5,74,093 people are currently placed under home quarantine and 37,758 others under institutional quarantine. A total of 9,43,485 people have been tested in the state so far, he added. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,69,883, new cases 5,257, deaths 7,610, discharged 88,960, active cases 73,298, and people tested so far 9,43,485.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-cases-up-by-5257-to-169883-death-toll-at-7610-855162.html
29-06-2020||West||Dharavi records 17 new Covid-19 positive cases; sees one more death||The coronavirus tally in Mumbai slum colony of Dharavi rose to 2,262 on Monday with the addition of 17 new cases, while one more patient succumbed to the infection, the city civic body said. A senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said a fresh death was reported in Dharavi in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 82. He said the slum-dominated area has only 598 active COVID-19 cases as 1,580 patients have already been discharged from hospitals following recovery. Spread across 2.5 square km, Dharavi is the largest slum in Asia and has a population over 6.5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-records-17-new-covid-19-positive-cases-sees-one-more-death-855163.html
29-06-2020||West||Covid-19: Mumbai adds 1,247 new cases, 92 deaths||On the 100th day of the lockdown, the coronavirus tally in Mumbai increased to 76,294 on Monday with the addition of 1,247 new cases, while the death toll rose to 4,461 after 92 more patients succumbed to the infection, the city civic body said. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) release stated out of the 92 deaths, 21 occurred in the past 24 hours and the remaining 71 earlier, but they were added to the fatality count on Monday. The civic body said the number of recovered Covid-19 patients increased to 43,545 with 391 patients discharged from hospitals. According to the release, presently the city has 28,288 active cases, while 763 new suspected Covid-19 patients were admitted in hospitals. Starting from the 'janata curfew' on March 22, the government authorities enforced lockdown in Maharashtra to stem the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-adds-1247-new-cases-92-deaths-855223.html
