30-06-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||Ballari shocker: Covid-19 dead bodies thrown into single pit; DC replaces field team||Karnataka's seemingly laudable management of Covid-19 took a hit on Tuesday with the video of insensitive burial of Covid-19 patients going viral. Shockingly, the incident reportedly happened in Health Minister B Sriramulu's home district Ballari. After the Puducherry shocker, the Ballari video reflected poorly on district administration over the management of Covid-19 scenario. Ballari district administration apologised to the families of the deceased. In a shocking video that went viral on social media, masked men covered in body suits could be seen bringing dead bodies in body bags from a hearse van one by one and throwing them into the same pit. In all, three bodies were thrown into the same pit in the video. Ballari DC SS Nakul in a statement said that in all, eight people were buried at the site shown in the video.  The district reported 12 Covid-19 deaths on Monday. Five more people succumbed on Tuesday, taking the total fatalities to 29. In a similar incident, the body of a 44-year-old Covid-19 patient was thrown into a pit in Puducherry earlier this month after which a few health workers were suspended. In the video, a pit is seen which appears to be disinfected. SS Nakul in his statement further said, "The video shows that the protocols to be followed for burial (body bags/lining, etc) have been strictly followed. However, the district administration is deeply upset and sorrowful at the manner in which the remains of the deceased were handled." "The district administration condones the disrespectful handling of the bodies while being lowered onto the ground by the field staff. The entire field team involved has been disbanded and will be replaced by a new team trained by the HoD, Forensic, VIMS. The district administration regrets the incident and hereby, unconditionally apologises for this incident to the families of the departed in particular and people of Ballari in general," the statement further said. Ballari has 773 total cases out of which 437 are active. According to the protocol set by the Union health ministry for burial of Covid patients, the patients' orifices (nose, mouth and ears) have to be sealed and the body has to be wrapped in three layers of personal protective equipment (PPE). Thereafter, it should be placed in a body bag. Family members should not be allowed to accompany the body in the hearse van. Covid-19 patients have to be given a deep burial. The grave should be a minimum 10-feet deep. The grave should be disinfected with bleaching powder and the area should be cordoned off so that the general public are not in the vicinity. The vehicle used to transport the dead body of a Covid-19 patient -- ambulance or a hearse van -- has to be disinfected for 16 hours before being used again. Most Covid-19 patients in the state have had burials in the absence of family members as they are generally in quarantine for being the primary contacts of the patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/ballari-shocker-covid-19-dead-bodies-thrown-into-single-pit-dc-replaces-field-team-855405.html
30-06-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||Indian companies can develop alternative and equally-efficient apps, says Jagadish Shettar on Chinese app ban||In the wake of the Union Government banning 59 Chinese apps, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday expressed confidence that Indian companies would develop alternative and equally-efficient apps. "Earlier, there was a shortage of ventilators and masks in India, but we are manufacturing them in sufficient quantity now. A youth has already developed an alternative app for a Chinese app to share files. That process will continue. Blocking Chinese apps is a good move. Bengaluru has the maximum number of startups, and they may come up with good and safe apps alternative to Chinese apps. If required, the government would think about giving them incentive also. Special package is already announced for Indian industries," he said. When asked about the possibility of a lockdown-like situation in Karnataka after July 7, Shettar said, 'no minister has said so'. Lockdown restrictions are in place now, and the government would take a suitable decision before July 7, he added. In Dharwad district, preparations are made to arrange 6,000 beds for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals, which have agreed for the price suggested by the government. Only 50% of beds in private hospitals would be used, if such a situation arises, he noted. Compared to other districts, Covid-19 is under control in Dharwad district. Unlike Bengaluru, there is no such fear here, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/indian-companies-can-develop-alternative-and-equally-efficient-apps-says-jagadish-shettar-on-chinese-app-ban-855426.html
30-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Petrified Covid-19 patient attempts to flee Mangaluru hospital||A petrified Covid-19 infected patient from North India attempted to flee while being taken to hospital for treatment in Mangaluru. The officials finally convinced him and got him admitted to the hospital for treatment. The labourer from North India was a worker in a construction site in Mangaluru. He had symptoms of Covid-19 and was admitted to a private hospital. After his throat swab tested positive, a team of officials from the health department visited the private hospital. On learning that he was tested positive, he fled while boarding the ambulance. Later, when he was found near Clock Tower in Hampankatta, the Mangaluru North Police and health officials rushed to him and convinced him by instilling confidence and admitted him to the Covid-19 hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/petrified-covid-19-patient-attempts-to-flee-mangaluru-hospital-855410.html
30-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||SSLC student, mother test positive for Covid-19 in Harihar||A SSLC student and her mother, residents of Agasarabeedi which has been declared as containment zone in Harihar town, tested positive for Covid-19. Harihar tahasildar K B Ramachandrappa said the student had written examination of three subjects in DRM examination centre in JC Lay-out in the town. Now, she had been directed not to appear for the remaining examinations. She would be permitted to appear for supplementary examinations, slated to be held later. Firefighting staff sprayed disinfectant around the centre as she tested positive for Covid-19. Those who wrote the exam with her will be allowed to write the exam by providing special health safety equipment to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-student-mother-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-harihar-855523.html
30-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Second Covid-19 death recorded in Belagavi||A 32-year-old man from a village in Athani taluk died due to Covid-19 on Monday, making it second casualty due to the pandemic in the district. Report of the swab sample sent for test was made available on Tuesday and it confirmed the cause of death.  The man had complained of breathlessness and was brought to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital for treatment of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). He was dead by the time he arrived at the designated hospital.  District Health Officer Dr S V Munyal said that the swab sample of the person was collected after his death and his report has tested positive for SARI. The deceased had returned from a foreign destination in the month of January.  It is the second death recorded in the district. Earlier a woman aged 80, who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive patient, had died.  Two persons including a woman aged 25 who had returned from Maharashtra tested positive for Covid-19, while three persons who recovered were discharged on Tuesday.  According to the Health Department bulletin, the district has recorded 328 Covid-19 positive cases, of whom 303 have recovered and discharged and active cases were 23, with 2 deaths being reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/second-covid-19-death-recorded-in-belagavi-855526.html
30-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Engg final year students of Hubballi college write online exam||Claimed to be the first in the State, even when the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has not yet taken a final call about conducting online examinations for final year engineering students this year, the Hubballi-based KLE Technological University (KLETU), an autonomous university, has already started online examinations for the final year students, many of whom are selected in campus interview and their joining date is nearing. KLETU (BVBCET) started online classes just after a week the lockdown was announced, and minor exams were already completed. Though online examinations for lower classes of the engineering students have not yet started, the varsity has already begun online examinations using digital platforms, with final semester students sitting anywhere, but with less duration and staggered syllabus. "Many final semester students have been selected in campus interviews, and their joining dates is usually July or August. If examinations are not held and results are not out before that, they will be in trouble. Therefore, we took this unique initiative of online examinations for them, for the first time in the State, though the VTU has not yet issued guidelines in this regard," said KLETU Vice-Chancellor Ashok Shettar. Sources in the VTU stated that the varsity has to receive guidelines from higher authorities, and the circular can be issued only then, but autonomous universities can use the online mode for conducting the examinations. Over 1k students For a total of 1,185 final year students, including 380 girls of seven branches, the KLETU is conducting online examinations for three papers, in five sessions of one-and-a-half-hour each. When physical examination was conducted earlier, it was of three years. Now, using different softwares in laptop and phones of students, over 50 supervisors monitor the examination process through computers, in four rooms. Each supervisor is observing nine students. Students' face and paper are seen on the monitor, while the students can also see the supervisor. "We conducted a demonstration on June 22 to understand the challenges. The first examination, with two sessions, was held on June 27. The second examination was held on June 29, while the last examination will be on July 1. The evaluation of answer sheets and announcement of results would also be online," said KLTU Controller of Examination Anilkumar Nandi. The students have to log-in half-an-hour before the examination, and their ID card, hall ticket, and rooms will be checked. Examinations for the projects are planned to be held from July 1 and 5. Online project examination can be conducted for electronics and computer science, but options are being searched for mechanical, civil, and other branches. Results can be expected after a week all the examinations are over, Prof Nandi noted. Around 3,600 students are studying in other semesters at the KLETU, and the plan is to conduct examination for them from July 2, and August 1, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/engg-final-year-students-of-hubballi-college-write-online-exam-855554.html
30-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga records 22 Covid-19 cases||Fear has gripped Shivamogga, on Tuesday, as it recorded 22 Covid-19 cases, the highest in a day so far. With this, the number of cases rose to 173. Of the 22 cases, eight cases belong to Shikaripur, seven - Bhadravathi, three - Thirthahalli, two - Shivamogga, and one each at Hosanagar and Sorab. The cases include a 26-year-old male (P-14378), returnee from Bengaluru, a 53-year-old male (P-14379), contact of P-9546, a 39-year-old female (P-14380), contact of P-11197, a 26-year-old female (P-14381), contact of P-10827, a six-year-old boy (P-14382), contact of P-10827, a 44-year-old female (P-14383), contact of P- 10827, a 44-year-old female (P-14383), contact of P-10827, a 56-year-old male (P-14385), contact of P-10827, 39-year-old male (P-14386), returnee from Qatar. A 32-year-old male (P-14387), a 46-year-old female (P-14388), returnee from Tamil Nadu, a 31-year-old male (P-14389), with inter-district travel history, a 57-year-old male (P-14390), returnee from Tamil Nadu, a 26-year-old female (P-14391), contact of 10830, a 42-year-old male (P-14392), contact of P- 9546, a two-year-old boy (P-14393), contact of P-11197, a three-year-old girl (P-14394), contact of P-11197, a five-year-old boy (P-14395), contact of P- 11197. A 64-year-old male (P-14396), a 28-year old female (P-14397), with inter-district travel history, a 35-year-old male (P-14398), contact of P-9546 and a 52-year-old male (P-14399) were tested positive. They are undergoing treatment in District McGann hospital. Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said, as many as 22 areas in the district have been declared as containment zones, and four more areas are likely to be declared shortly. Of the 22 cases, only five are new cases, and the remaining persons are either primary contacts of Covid-19 patients or with travel history. There are no statistics to prove community transmission. He said, the district administration is collecting throat swabs of people in high-risk zones such as Durgigudi, Gandhi Bazaar, Nehru Road, known for crowds. Besides, the primary importance has been given to help Covid-19 patients recover, and strengthen health care centres to ensure that patients get healthcare in time, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-records-22-covid-19-cases-855594.html
30-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||KU Deputy Registrar suspended a day before retirement over fake caste row||Kuvempu University Deputy Registrar, D V Gayathri has been suspended, a day before the retirement, on charges of obtaining government job by submitting fake caste certificate. Speaking to DH, Kuvempu University Registrar S S Patil said that dalit organisations had filed a complaint against her alleging that she obtained government job by submitting fake ST certificate, despite belonging to the backward class in 2009. She had approached the District Court and had obtained a stay order on the issue. Hence, she had resumed her service at the university. But the court had vacated the stay order in 2018. However, she had not informed the university authorities about it. Following the submission of the copy of the court order, the university initiated action against her. Besides, the university has filed a chargesheet against her. She served in the university for nearly 30 years, he added. It may be mentioned that she began her career in the university as first division assistant in 1987-88. Later, she was promoted as deputy registrar after serving in various positions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ku-deputy-registrar-suspended-a-day-before-retirement-over-fake-caste-row-855604.html
30-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Set up all party Covid-19 monitoring panel: Siddaramaiah to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa||Citing allegations of corruption and nepotism in the management of Covid-19 treatment, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to immediately constitute an all-party Covid monitoring committee to examine related issues. In a series of tweets, the leader of opposition in the state assembly also demanded that the treatment protocol be made clear to the patients and not to keep them in dark. "@CMofKarnataka should immediately constitute an all-party #CovidMonitoringCommittee to monitor treatment-related issues in the hospitals. This is very much needed to increase public confidence in the backdrop of several complaints," the former chief minister tweeted. He said there were corruption and nepotism allegations in the management of Covid-19 treatment and the need of the hour was to manage this unprecedented health crisis with public safety as the only objective. "#Covid19 patients would already be in despair, and any negligence during the treatment will further demoralise them. I urge @CMofKarnataka to make the treatment protocol clear to the patients and instil hope. Don't keep them in dark," he said in another tweet. The Congress Legislature Party leader also thanked private hospitals for extending support to treat Covid patients. "I welcome & thank the private hospitals for extending their support to treat #Covid19 patients. I also urge @CMofKarnataka to extend insurance & other benefits to private hospital doctors, nurses & support staff," he tweeted. Private Hospitals and Medical Colleges in Bengaluru have agreed to provide about 50 per cent beds, which is about 2,000 and 4,500 beds respectively, for the treatment of COVID- 19 patients. The government has also agreed to include private doctors and paramedical staff involved in the treatment of Covid patients under insurance cover||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/set-up-all-party-covid-19-monitoring-panel-siddaramaiah-to-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-855524.html
30-06-2020||Mysuru||Rehabilitation centre in Mysuru helps migrants acquire skills, build confidence||Ram, a 28-year-old youth from Chikkamagaluru, who used to sleep by the roadside in Mysuru, after spending all his day’s earnings on liquor, is now working in an Ayurveda plants nursery and has plans to meet his mother, after a long time, with some savings. Life on streets “After the demise of my father and a personal problem, I was shattered. I came to Mysuru and used to sell soda and masala soda on a push-cart near Gandhi Square. I used to sleep at a Gaadi (Bus) stand. I was a drunkard and spent all my day’s earning on liquor. I had no goal in life. After the lockdown was imposed, MCC officials took me to the rehabilitation centre,” he recalled.  “We were engaged in Yoga, meditation and lectures or demonstrations by inspiring personalities every day. The activity of making paper covers kept us engaged. I made around 60 kg of covers and earned Rs 1,800, which gave me confidence, when I stepped out of the rehabilitation centre on May 16," Ram said. "Since April 8, when I joined the centre, I led a disciplined life. We heard a few de-addicted persons from Alcoholic Anonymous. Now, I do not feel like consuming alcohol. The volunteers of CREDIT-I helped me find work. As I know a new vocation, of making paper covers, I can survive somehow,” he said. Kiran Kumar, an executive of Paytm in Bengaluru, could not travel to his native Chikkaballapur as the lockdown was imposed. Thus, he was admitted to the rehabilitation centre at Nanjaraja Bahadur Choultry. “I used to work for Paytm in Mysuru and was stuck here, as public transport was suspended. Instead of whiling away my time, I was engaged in making paper covers. It is good that I learnt a new skill. I also got some money,” he said. M P Varsha, a managing trustee and CEO of CREDIT-I, said, “We wanted the rehabilitation centre to be a model. Our centre was self-sustained, even though it was established by the MCC and the premises was given by the District Administration. We got the support of government officials to experiment. We urged donors, who wanted to donate food, to provide other needs of the inmates”. “We wanted to keep the inmates engaged and train them in some skills, but both time and resources were limited. We initially bought raw materials, newspapers. Later, we sought donations of newspapers, reducing production cost. When we concluded, we had made covers weighing 1,700 kg and earned Rs 51,000. We were still left with 900 kg of raw newspaper, which fetched us Rs 8,100. Many NGOs, individuals, government officials and businessmen like Nasir Mohammed, promoter of A2Z Square and A2Z supermarket, helped in our endeavour. We could give some money, depending on their effort, to the inmates, when they left the centre,” Varsha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/rehabilitation-centre-in-mysuru-helps-migrants-acquire-skills-build-confidence-855374.html
30-06-2020||National||Hike in fuel prices shows BJP's 'insensitive' governance: Gehlot||Charging the Union government with profiteering, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the rise in fuel prices is a proof of the BJP's “insensitive governance”. The continuous increase in fuel prices is the result of “wrong policies” he added while stressing that it will increase inflation and make transportation and agriculture inputs costlier. "The rise in fuel prices in the nation is a proof of the BJP's totally insensitive governance. The NDA is profiteering at a time when people are facing so many hardships. Govt should stop fleecing public," Gehlot tweeted. He said in the past one month, petrol and diesel prices have been increased almost every day. Gehlot also hailed Congress president Sonia Gandhi, saying she stands with the people of the country and shares the troubles of the common man who is struggling due to coronavirus and fuel price hike. He said the Congress president reminds the government that it is their responsibility to support the countrymen in difficult times, instead of taking advantage of their troubles and profiteering. "INC under leadership of Sonia Gandhi ji demands that the Govt rolls back raised petrol, diesel prices in order to provide relief to people during the present time of crisis. It is time to support citizens not to increase their sufferings," Gehlot said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hike-in-fuel-prices-shows-bjps-insensitive-governance-gehlot-855233.html
30-06-2020||National||Indian Army to procure multipurpose survival kits for infantry troops||The Indian Army will procure multipurpose survival kits for foot soldiers as part of its infantry modernisation plan, said Army sources on Monday. The sources stated that the Army will be floating an open tender to procure these kits in which foreign vendors will also be able to bid. Each such kit should consist of components such as drop point blade, wire cutter, electric wire stripper, flat blade screwdriver and can opener, the sources noted. The Indian Army has drawn a mega plan for infantry modernisation under which various equipment are being procured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-to-procure-multipurpose-survival-kits-for-infantry-troops-855237.html
30-06-2020||National||India's first Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech gets DCGI nod for human clinical trials||The country's 'first' indigenous Covid-19 vaccine COVAXIN, developed by city-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and NIV, has got the nod for human clinical trials from the Drug Controller General of India, the company said on Monday. The Phase I and Phase II clinical trials of the vaccine for SARS-CoV-2, approved after pre-clinical studies demonstrated safety and immune response, would start across the country next month. The collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) was instrumental in the development of the vaccine, the company said in a release. The indigenous and inactivated vaccine has been developed at Bharat Biotechs BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) high containment facility located in the Genome Valley here, a release said. The Drug Controller General of India CDSCO (The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation), Ministry of Health & Family Welfare granted permission to initiate Phase I & II Human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from pre-clinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response. Human clinical trials are scheduled to start across India in July 2020, the release said. Chairman and Managing Director of the company Dr. Krishna Ella said: We are proud to announce COVAXIN, Indias first indigenous vaccine against COVID-19. The collaboration with ICMR and NIV was instrumental in the development of this vaccine. "The proactive support and guidance from CDSCO has enabled approvals to this project. Our R&D and Manufacturing teams worked tirelessly to deploy our proprietary technologies towards this platform," he said. Expedited through the national regulatory protocols, the company accelerated its objective in completing the comprehensive pre-clinical studies. Results from these studies have been promising and show extensive safety and effective immune responses, the released added. Besides Bharat Biotech, at least five other Indian companies are working on a vaccine for the deadly coronavirus while similar efforts are underway in different countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-covid-19-vaccine-by-bharat-biotech-gets-dcgi-nod-for-human-clinical-trials-855241.html
30-06-2020||National||India to ask China to keep its side of bargain||India will this week ask China to keep its side of the bargain to resolve the military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. With the diplomats of the two nations likely to hold a video-conference within the next few days, New Delhi is planning to drive home the point that Beijing must do its bit and make the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) implement on the ground the understanding, which the senior military officials of the two sides had reached in the meeting on June 6. A source in New Delhi told the DH that some recent activities of the Chinese PLA on the ground had raised doubts about its commitment to implementing the process of disengagement in accordance with the understanding reached previously. The reports of new transgressions and build-up in Depsang Bulge and re-construction of some structures on the scene of the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley by the Chinese PLA made New Delhi suspicious about the intent of Beijing. The source said that New Delhi would convey to Beijing China and its PLA should strictly implement the disengagement understanding in order to de-escalate the situation.   The recent clash at Galwan Valley was a setback for the process of disengagement, which was agreed upon by the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA during the meeting at Chushul-Moldo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – on June 6. India lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash at Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the numbers of its soldiers killed or injured in the violent face-off. A week after the clash, the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA, Lt Gen Harinder Singh and Maj Gen Liu Lin, had another marathon meeting on June 22, when they had discussed in detail the implementation of the process as agreed upon on June 6. Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), will lead the delegation of the Government of India in the video-conference. The delegation of the Chinese Government will be led by Hong Liang, the Director General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Srivastava may also hold a separate video-conference with Hong’s colleague Wu Jianghao, Director General (Asian Affairs) in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-ask-china-to-keep-its-side-of-bargain-855246.html
30-06-2020||National||India should raise Tibet issue in bilateral talks with China: Tibetan leader||India should raise the Tibet issue in bilateral talks with China and make it one of its core issues, Lobsang Sangay, the head of the Tibetan government in exile, on Monday said, amid the Sino-India standoff in eastern Ladakh. Tibet is one of the factors that there is tension between China and India, Sangay said during a webinar organised by the Foreign Correspondents Club. Tibet always acted as a buffer zone between two of the most populous countries of the world -- China and India -- but after Tibet's occupation that ended, he said. He said it was with the Panchsheel Treaty that China sowed the seeds of betrayal, the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) president said. India has paid a huge price after the occupation of Tibet, Sangay said. "China says Tibet is the core issue, India should say the same," he said. "Tibet is very important for China and Tibet is equally important for India. They (China and India) have so many bilateral talks, during those talks, given all these tensions, Indian government should raise the issue of Tibet as well," Sangay said. India should take leadership in solving the issue of Tibet, he added. Dharamshala is home to the Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama as well as the CTA, often called the Tibetan government-in-exile. The Dalai Lama fled to India in 1959 amid an abortive uprising against the Chinese rule in his Himalayan homeland. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks, and the tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-raise-tibet-issue-in-bilateral-talks-with-china-tibetan-leader-855249.html
30-06-2020||National||Bihar reports highest single-day spike of 394 Covid-19 cases||Bihar on Monday reported 394 coronavirus cases, its highest single-day spike, pushing the infection tally to 9,618, while the death toll rose to 63, the state health department said. The latest fatality was reported from Nalanda district, which had previously accounted for three Covid-19 deaths. According to data shared by the health department, as many as 394 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Patna district has reported the highest number of 673 confirmed cases till date, followed by Bhagalpur (483), Madhubani (445), Siwan (409) and Begusarai (403).  All 38 districts of the state have reported Covid-19 cases and only two districts of Jamui and Sheohar have less than 100 cases. The state, however, also boasts of a good recovery rate of 77 per cent. As many as 7,374 people have been discharged from isolation wards till date after having tested positive. The number of active cases across the state is 2,069. The number of samples tested to date is 2.12 lakh, the department said. Nearly 6,000 tests are being conducted in the state every day and instructions are in place from Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, to raise it to at least 10,000 per day. Although the state began reporting Covid19 cases in the last week of March, the incidence has risen steeply since the beginning of May. The state had reported close to 9,000 cases during the period, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-394-covid-19-cases-855254.html
30-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 30||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 5.8 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 5,82,774 as of June 30 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 17,337   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,44,644  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-30-855264.html
30-06-2020||National||The Lead: Students and uncertainty over exams amid Covid-19 pandemic||In this episode, DH Journalist Varsha Gowda talks to Dr Ali Khwaja, who assuages students feeling that have been marred with the uncertainties of the pandemic.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-students-and-uncertainty-over-exams-amid-covid-19-pandemic-855280.html
30-06-2020||National||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Naugam sector of Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistani troops opened unprovoked fire towards Indian positions along the Line of Control (LoC) in Naugam sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, an army official said. "On 30 Jun 2020, in the morning hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Naugam sector (in north Kashmir's Kupwara district) by firing mortars and other weapons," the official said. He said befitting response is being given to the Pakistani aggression. There were no reports of any casualties so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-naugam-sector-of-jammu-and-kashmir-855307.html
30-06-2020||National||18,522 fresh cases take India's Covid-19 tally to over 5.6 lakh||With 18,522 people testing positive for Covid-19 in a single day, India's case count reached 5,66,840 on Tuesday while the death toll rose to 16,893 with 418 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of active cases stands at 2,15,125, while 3,34,821 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data at 8 am. "Thus, around 59.07 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners.  Of the 418 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 181 are from Maharashtra; 62 from Tamil Nadu; 57 from Delhi; 19 each from Gujarat and Karnataka; 14 from West Bengal; 12 from Uttar Pradesh; 11 from Andhra Pradesh; nine from Haryana; seven from Madhya Pradesh; six each from Rajasthan and Telangana; five from Punjab; three from Jharkhand; two each from Bihar and Odisha and one each from Assam, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18522-fresh-cases-take-indias-covid-19-tally-to-over-56-lakh-855321.html
30-06-2020||National||Partnership with US critical in translating India's bold vision for development into reality: Envoy||Describing India and the US as "natural allies," the country's envoy here has said that India’s partnership with America was critical in translating its "bold vision" for development into reality. Indian Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu, speaking at the Hudson Institute, an influential American think-tank, said India and the US were bound by “shared values - democracy, liberty and equality of opportunity, all under the rule of law.” “As the world’s largest and oldest democracies, we are natural allies,” he said. “Our partnership with the US is critical in translating India’s bold vision for development into a reality. There is much that the India-US partnership has achieved, and there is much more that remains to be done in the days ahead,” Sandhu said. The discussion on ‘US-India partnership’ was hosted by Hudson Institute's director of India Initiative, Aparna Pande, who referred to the Indo-US ties as one between “natural allies.” She asked a series of questions on “the three pegs” that comprise the partnership: economic, strategic and people to people. Citing the bilateral trade figure of USD 150 billion, the Indian envoy spoke about how all major US Fortune 500 companies are among the 2,000 American companies that have invested in India. At the same time, Indian companies, numbering over 200, have invested more than USD 22 billion in the US economy. The Indian companies have created more than 1,25,000 jobs in America, he noted. Similarly, the strong defence partnership is shown not just by the USD 21 billion in trade but the two countries also support a free and open Indo-Pacific based on a rules-based order, based on ASEAN centrality, with freedom of navigation and peaceful settlement of disputes under the framework of international law, he said The Covid19 pandemic has boosted this partnership, Sandhu said. "Not only are Indian-American and Indian-origin doctors and healthcare professionals at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic but there are three ongoing partnerships in Covid-19 vaccine development between companies and institutions of the two countries," he said. Gilead Sciences has entered into an agreement with seven Indian companies to manufacture and distribute remdesivir, which has been authorised for emergency use against Covid-19, to several other countries in the world, he said. Sandhu also emphasised the critical role played by the four million-strong Indian-American community along with over 200,000 Indian students and other professionals who work in the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/partnership-with-us-critical-in-translating-indias-bold-vision-for-development-into-reality-envoy-855327.html
30-06-2020||National||India accounts for 45.8 million of the world's 'missing females': UN report||India accounts for 45.8 million of the world's 142.6 million "missing females" over the past 50 years, a report by the United Nations said on Tuesday, noting that the country along with China form the majority of such women globally. The State of World Population 2020 report released on Tuesday by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the world organisation's sexual and reproductive health agency, said that the number of “missing women” has more than doubled over the past 50 years - from 61 million in 1970 to a cumulative 142.6 million in 2020. Of this global figure, India accounted for 45.8 million missing females as of 2020 and China accounted for 72.3 million. “Missing females” are women missing from the population at given dates due to the cumulative effect of postnatal and prenatal sex selection in the past, the agency said. “Between 2013 and 2017, about 460,000 girls in India were ‘missing' at birth each year. According to one analysis, gender-biased sex selection accounts for about two-thirds of the total missing girls, and post-birth female mortality accounts for about one-third,” the report said. Citing data by experts, it said that China and India together account for about 90-95 per cent of the estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million missing female births annually worldwide due to gender-biased (prenatal) sex selection. The two countries also account for the largest number of births each year, it said. The report cites data by Alkema, Leontine and others, 2014 ‘National, Regional, and Global Sex Ratios of Infant, Child, and under-5 Mortality and Identification of Countries with Outlying Ratios: A Systematic Assessment’ from The Lancet Global Health. According to their analysis, India has the highest rate of excess female deaths, 13.5 per 1,000 female births, which suggests that an estimated one in nine deaths of females below the age of 5 may be attributed to postnatal sex selection. The report notes that governments have also taken action to address the root causes of sex selection. India and Vietnam have included campaigns that target gender stereotypes to change attitudes and open the door to new norms and behaviours. “They spotlight the importance of daughters and highlight how girls and women have changed society for the better. Campaigns that celebrate women's progress and achievements may resonate more where daughter-only families can be shown to be prospering,” it said. The report said that successful education-related interventions include the provision of cash transfers conditional on school attendance; or support to cover the costs of school fees, books, uniforms and supplies, taking note of successful cash-transfer initiatives such as ‘Apni Beti Apna Dhan’ in India. It said that preference for a male child manifested in sex selection has led to dramatic, long-term shifts in the proportions of women and men in the populations of some countries. This demographic imbalance will have an inevitable impact on marriage systems. In countries where marriage is nearly universal, many men may need to delay or forego marriage because they will be unable to find a spouse, the report said. This so-called "marriage squeeze", where prospective grooms outnumber prospective brides, has already been observed in some countries and affects mostly young men from lower economic strata. "At the same time, the marriage squeeze could result in more child marriages,” the report said citing experts. Some studies suggest that the marriage squeeze will peak in India in 2055. The proportion of men who are still single at the age of 50 is forecast to rise after 2050 in India to 10 per cent, it said. The UN report said that every year, millions of girls globally are subjected to practices that harm them physically and emotionally, with the full knowledge and consent of their families, friends and communities. At least 19 harmful practices, ranging from breast ironing to virginity testing, are considered human rights violations, according to the UNFPA report, which focuses on the three most prevalent ones: female genital mutilation, child marriage, and extreme bias against daughters in favour of sons. “Harmful practices against girls cause profound and lasting trauma, robbing them of their right to reach their full potential,” says UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem. This year, an estimated 4.1 million girls will be subjected to female genital mutilation. Today, 33,000 girls under age 18 will be forced into marriages, usually to much older men and an extreme preference for sons over daughters in some countries has fuelled gender-biased sex selection or extreme neglect that leads to their death as children, resulting in the 140 million “missing females.” The report said that ending child marriage and female genital mutilation worldwide is possible within 10 years by scaling up efforts to keep girls in school longer and teach them life skills and to engage men and boys in social change. Investments totalling USD 3.4 billion a year through 2030 would end these two harmful practices and end the suffering of an estimated 84 million girls, it said. A recent analysis revealed that if services and programmes remain shuttered for six months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, an additional 13 million girls may be forced into marriage and 2 million more girls may be subjected to female genital mutilation between now and 2030. “The pandemic both makes our job harder and more urgent as so many more girls are now at risk,” Kanem said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-accounts-for-458-million-of-the-worlds-missing-females-un-report-855348.html
30-06-2020||National||Aamir Khan's staff tests positive for Covid-19||Superstar Aamir Khan on Tuesday said that some members in his staff have tested positive for coronavirus. The 55-year-old actor said he and the other members of his family have tested negative for Covid-19 but he is awaiting the reports for his mother’s test. "This is to inform you that some of my staff have tested positive. They were immediately quarantined, and BMC officials were very prompt and efficient in taking them to a medical facility. I would like to thank the BMC for taking such good care of them, and for fumigating and sterilising the entire society,” Aamir said in a statement. “The rest of us have all been tested and found negative. Right now, I am taking my mother to get her tested. She is the last person in the loop. Please pray that she is negative,” he added. The “Dangal” star also thanked the doctors and nurses at Kokilaben Hospital for taking care of his family and staff during the testing process. On the work front, Aamir will next be seen “Laal Singh Chaddha”, an official remake of Tom Hanks' 1994 feature "Forrest Gump". The film is being directed by Advait Chandan and Kareena Kapoor Khan is playing the female lead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aamir-khans-staff-tests-positive-for-covid-19-855357.html
30-06-2020||National||Former Union minister Suresh Prabhu to head forum for promoting cooperative movement||Former Union minister and Rajya Sabha member Suresh Prabhu will lead a Co-Operative Development Forum (CDF) that will work towards promoting cooperative movement in the country and boost the rural economy. The forum is likely to be formally launched on July 24, according to a statement. Seven prominent cooperative leaders would be part of the forum. They are C P Yadav, MP and President of NCUI; U S Awasthi, MD of IFFCO; Dileep Bhai Sanghani, Chairman of NAFSCOB; Jyotindra Mehta, Chairman of NAFCUB; Satish Marathe, Director on RBI Central Board; Mangal Jit Rai, Chairman of NCDFI and Uday Joshi- National General Secretary of Sahakar Bharati. NCUI is the National Cooperative Union of India, NAFSCOB is the National Federation of State Cooperative Banks Ltd, NAFCUB is the National Federation of Urban Cooperative Banks and Credit Societies Ltd and NCDFI is the National Cooperative Dairy Federation of India. Prabhu, who is also India's Sherpa for G20, would head the forum that has identified five key action points. It includes formulation of modern National/ State Cooperative Policy in the context of creating 'AtmaNirbhar Bharat'. Recognising the importance of access to finance, the forum would also work towards the creation of a section for financial cooperative institutions in the department of financial services under the finance ministry. Among other activities, it would write to state governments to amend their respective State Cooperative Acts in line with 97th Constitution Amendment Act, 2011, as per the statement. While maintaining the autonomy of cooperatives, the forum would pitch for permitting the cooperative sector to raise capital/ long term funds through a Social Sector Exchange. "The international presence of cooperatives with their effective contribution to the socio-economic fabric of nations and India's surge as a key global player, has prompted Indian cooperators to create Co-Operative Development Forum. "This will foster a paradigm shift for Indian cooperatives that have for long suffered disrepute at the hands and deeds of some individuals who digressed from the path of cooperation per its 10 cooperative values including honesty and openness," the statement said. According to the statement, the success of cooperatives like IFFCO and Amul emphasises the need to usher in yet another era of cooperativism in India which is poised to lead the world in uplifting lives of millions of farmers and promoting the culture of peace and sustainable development. Based on the innovative path-breaking measures taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to create a New India with a five trillion dollar economy, the Indian cooperative movement needs the right political, financial and technological support for its members to continue their role as an effective agent for transforming the lives of the rural Indian community, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-suresh-prabhu-to-head-forum-for-promoting-cooperative-movement-855361.html
30-06-2020||National||PMLA case: ED questions Congress leader Ahmed Patel again||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday questioned senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel for a second time in three days regarding a multi-crore money laundering case against Sandesara brothers of  Vadodara-based pharma firm Sterling Biotech. Patel, a Rajya Sabha MP, will be questioned again on Thursday. Responding to the second round of questioning, he said people of his "two important friends" had come to him again to ask some questions and that he had responded to all their queries. "They were very slow in asking questions. It was like they were asking questions like a (train on) narrow guage's speed, Maybe, they wanted to show it to their bosses that they had questioned Ahmed Patel. They will come again on Thursday. I don't want to make any political statement. I respect the rule of law and law will take its course," Patel said after the questioning. Last year, the ED had questioned Patel's son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui in this case and recorded their statements, based on a statement from Sandesara group employee Sunil Yadav, who claimed he bore expenses of Rs 10 lakh for a party attended by Faisal, arranged his entry in a night club and once delivered Rs five lakh to his driver in Delhi. The Patels had denied the allegations. On Friday, Patel had said that his questioning showed a "clear pattern" that the investigating agencies become active on the instructions of "one individual" whenever there is an election or the government is facing a crisis. "‪Unfortunately, this time the Modi government’s failure to manage a economic, health and national security crisis is now so huge, that none of the agencies can help spin the narrative‬. Rather than fighting the pandemic and China, this government is more keen to fight the Opposition. ‪Nonetheless, our conscience is clear. We have nothing to hide, nor are we afraid to criticise and expose the government’s failures ‬and their past corruption," he said. The money laundering case involving the Sandesara brothers is the offshoot of a CBI case and chargesheet filed in court against them in connection with the Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud. Patel was earlier asked to appear before the investigators on June 9, which was the second time, but he responded saying he is above 65 years and it would be risky for him to step out due to Covid-19. Patel (70) was assured that adequate precaution would be taken at the ED headquarters but the Rajya Sabha MP cited that there were cases of Covid-19 in the agency's office. He was then told that he would be quizzed at his residence. The ED calls it a bigger scam in volume compared to the case against Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi where the total scam is pegged at Rs 13,400 crore. The Sandesaras brothers, who are simultaneously probed by CBI and Income Tax Department also, are suspected to be now in Nigeria. They are also suspected to have a nexus with high-profile politicians. The ED had also attached Sandesara brothers' assets worth around Rs 14,000 crore in India and abroad, including oil rigs in Nigeria and ships registered in Panama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmla-case-ed-questions-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-again-855370.html
30-06-2020||National||Delhi’s Jama Masjid to reopen on July 4: Shahi Imam||The historic Jama Masjid, which had closed earlier this month due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, will reopen for congregational prayers (namaz) from July 4, Shahi Imam of the mosque Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Tuesday. The mosque was closed on June 11 in view of the "critical" conditions in the city due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, till June 30. Earlier, the mosque had reopened on June 8 after a gap of over two months with the government allowing further relaxations as part of unlock 1.0, the first phase of a calibrated exit from the coronavirus lockdown. Bukhari said that the decision to reopen the mosque was taken after consulting people and experts. "Under unlock 1.0, almost everything has opened and normal activities have resumed. We took this decision to open the mosque for people to offer namaz as the scare of the virus has lessened and awareness about safeguards against it has increased," Bukhari told PTI.  He said that safety precautions like maintaining social distancing, wearing protective gear and sanitisation will be followed to prevent people from catching infection. A private secretary of the Shahi Imam, Amanullah had died due to coronavirus earlier this month During the closure, people were asked to offer namaz at home, and only a few staff members offered the prayers five times a day at the mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-s-jama-masjid-to-reopen-on-july-4-shahi-imam-855373.html
30-06-2020||National||IRCTC keeps order to terminate over 500 catering supervisors in abeyance till further notice||Days after issuing an order to terminate the services of over 500 contract employees, the IRCTC has now decided to keep the order in abeyance till further notice¨. In 2018 the IRCTC ( Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation) hired 560 supervisors for hospitality division on a contract basis for a period of 2 years.  Their main task was to monitor operations of the pantry car onboard trains which essentially means to look after the preparation of the food, quality inspection, handling passenger complaints, and to ensure that the charges of food are according to prices notified by the national transporter. Since railways has suspended passengers' train services since March 24, the  IRCTC, in a letter, dated June 25, informed all its zonal offices that there was no requirement for these contractual workers under the present circumstances and they be given one month notice and their contracts terminated. However, the contractual employees sought the intervention of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. Now the IRCTC has decided that the decision on terminating the services of these employees kept abeyance till further order.  "The order has been kept in abeyance till further notice,¨ a spokesperson for IRCTC said. Sources, however, said that the contracts of most of these workers are to get over by the end of this year.   At present, the railways operates only 100 pair special timetabled trains and 15 pair of Special Rajdhani Express.  The railways suspended regular mail/express and suburban trains services till August 12 as part of the government efforts to fight against Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-keeps-order-to-terminate-over-500-catering-supervisors-in-abeyance-till-further-notice-855381.html
30-06-2020||National||Covid-19 peak linked to consistent decline in daily toll, says public health care expert||Only when the daily death toll due to coronavirus comes down consistently can one say for sure that Covid-19 has peaked in India, a prominent public health care expert said on Tuesday. President of Public Health Foundation of India Prof. K Srinath Reddy said the country is seeing greater spread of the virus because of increase in testing rates, and mobility and mixing of people post the Covid-19-induced lockdown. The explosion in cases is seen mostly in big cities and in surrounding districts, while large parts of India are still not showing high intensity of infection, according to him. "So, our duty is to try and protect those places and slow down the spread there as well as quickly put down the infection in some of the urban areas where we are seeing high intensity of infections," Reddy, who formerly headed the Department of Cardiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), told PTI. With 18,522 people testing positive for coronavirus in a single day, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 5,66,840 on Tuesday while the toll rose to 16,893 with 418 new fatalities, the Union Health Ministry data said. He said with testing numbers increasing and testing criteria changing, it's difficult to say in relative terms when Covid-19 will peak and when it will come down. "But if daily death counts start coming down, then we are certain about it. Because if the daily death counts steadily keep coming down over ten days, then we can say we have peaked and started coming down in a consistent fashion," said Reddy, who has been involved in several major international and national research studies, having been trained in cardiology and epidemiology.  He also noted for example that there are very little infections in States like Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand and in rural areas. "So, you can't say it's peaking all over India at the same time. If infection spreads in some of those States, they will peak at a later date," said Reddy, who obtained M.Sc. (Epidemiology) from McMaster University (Hamilton, Canada). "So, I don't think we should be looking at it as one epidemic in India," added Reddy, who presently serves as an Adjunct Professor of Epidemiology at Harvard and is also an Adjunct Professor of the Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University and Honorary Professor of Medicine at the University of Sydney. "We should be looking at it as multiple, simultaneous and sequential epidemic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-peak-linked-to-consistent-decline-in-daily-toll-says-public-health-care-expert-855382.html
30-06-2020||National||HC declines to entertain plea seeking free Covid-19 testing, treatment for all at pvt labs, hospitals||The Delhi High Court Tuesday declined to entertain a plea seeking free of cost Covid-19 testing and treatment at all private labs and hospitals in the national capital for everyone, rich or poor, saying PILs should be filed with "some responsibility". A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said it would dismiss the petition with costs after which the petitioner''s counsel sought to withdraw the plea. "The petition is disposed of as not pressed at this stage," the court said. The petitioner, Sushant Mishra, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to bear the cost of testing and treatment for Covid-19 at private labs and hospitals, do away with reservation of beds for the economically weaker section (EWS), reimburse costs on testing and treatment already incurred by patients and providing ex-gratia compensation to families of those who succumbed to coronavirus. After perusing the relief sought by Mishra, the court remarked that the petition has been filed for the benefit of rich people. The court suggested that the petitioner file such pleas for the benefit of the poor who cannot afford the costly treatment or testing for Covid-19. "Don't mix it up like this," it said.  The bench also said that the reliefs sought are part of the policy decisions of the government, the Centre or states, which will decide who is eligible for benefits like free treatment and ex-gratia compensation.   It further said the Delhi government was the only one to offer Rs 1 crore as ex-gratia to families of frontline healthworkers who have succumbed to the virus, so "let them work". "It is better that we do not interfere." the bench said.  During the hearing, the Delhi government told the court that it was providing free treatment for Covid at all of its hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-declines-to-entertain-plea-seeking-free-covid-19-testing-treatment-for-all-at-pvt-labs-hospitals-855390.html
30-06-2020||National||Exclusive shop for Covid-19 protective gear opens in Kerala||Make hay while the sun shines. This is what a seasoned businessman at Kochi in Kerala is doing. With his hotel business suffering a huge loss during the time of Covid-19, Abdul Nisar, who has been running a chain of hotels in Kochi, has now opened an exclusive shop for all protective gear related to Coronavirus, like masks and PPE kits in Kochi. Masks ranging from Rs. 5 to over Rs. 1,000 are up for sale at the shop named 'The Mask' at Kalloor in Kochi. Ayurvedic perfumed masks will reach the shop shortly. Sanitizers, PPE kits, gloves, and face shields are the other safety items at the shop. Nisar told DH that it was the dull hotel business that prompted him to open the shop for selling Covid-19 related items, as it was the present trend. At present all major dress manufactures are also bringing out masks. Moreover many local mask manufacturers have mushroomed, said Nisar who also started a mask manufacturing unit. Nisar said that to his knowledge, it was the first such exclusive shop for Coronavirus related items in Kerala and even the country. Even during the opening day of the shop on Monday (June 29) there were considerable sales. People of all ages are visiting the shop. The prices of the masks are quite competitive in the shop compared to other shops since items are purchased in bulk, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exclusive-shop-for-covid-19-protective-gear-opens-in-kerala-855409.html
30-06-2020||National||Need to cut logistics cost; old Defence planes can be converted into cargo carriers: Nitin Gadkari||India needs to enhance its cargo-carrying capacity to reduce logistics cost and there is a need to look into the possibility of converting old aircraft of Defence and airlines into cargo carriers, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday. Interacting with members from Domestic Air Cargo Agents Association of India, the Road Transport and Highways Minister also said India has huge potential in the fishery and the fish economy can reach Rs 6 lakh crore from the present Rs 1 lakh crore. "Transportation of agriculture, fish and other products is a major problem the country is facing...We need to enhance the cargo-carrying capacity to bring down logistics cost. There is a need to explore the possibility of converting old Defence and Airlines aircraft into cargo carriers," Gadkari said addressing the Association through video conference. The Minister said the logistics costs in India is as high as 13 per cent as compared to 8 per cent in developed nations. "Defence and airline old planes can be converted into cargo carriers for taking products to foreign countries and pilots could be employed on a contract basis," the Minister said and added that the Association should also look into the possibility of roping in Jet Airways' fleet. Gadkari also urged the Association to look into developing infrastructure around airports and if cooling plants etc could be installed on the side of the airports. He also said NHAI is working on 17 such highway stretches which could double up as airstrips and could be explored for it later. He said India has huge potential to export goods that include agriculture products, fruits, vegetables and fisheries. "The fish economy, which is at present of Rs 1 lakh crore has the potential to reach Rs 6 lakh crore," the Minister said. He said likewise oranges and prawns could be exported from Nagpur while onions and grapes could be sent to London, Dubai etc from Nasik. Besides, litchi from Bihar can be exported. But economic viability will be there, only if the logistics cost is less. He urged the Association to look into investing in the sector from a public-private partnership. Besides, he asked them to look into utilising passenger flights for transporting goods, if returning empty. Only one or two per cent of India's cargo volume is carried through the air, the Association said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-cut-logistics-cost-old-defence-planes-can-be-converted-into-cargo-carriers-nitin-gadkari-855428.html
30-06-2020||National||Key takeaways from PM Modi's speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on Tuesday, following the government issuing guidelines for Unlock 2.0 on Monday. The PM spoke about the current coronavirus scenario in the country, and again stressed on the need for the citizens to stay careful and maintain social distancing. The biggest announcement made during the speech is government to grant free ration under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana till November end. 1) PM urges citizens to stay alert and not ignore the guidelines prescribed to fight Covid-19.2) Modi said that after Unlock 1.0, people have been seen to be careless, flouting the norms. 3) Local administration should be active and strict in tackling the situatiom, he said.4) Every month, every family will get free 5 kg wheat or rice till November end under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.5) Plus, every family each month will get 1 kg chana for free under the same scheme.6) One nation, one ration card system is also going to happen. It will benefit poor people who settle down in different states for jobs, PM said.7) Farmers and honest tax payers should get the credit for which govt is able to give free ration, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-pm-modis-speech-855434.html
30-06-2020||National||Accused entitled for reports from jail superintendent in bail matters: HC||In a significant judgment, the Delhi High Court has held that whenever a report is called upon from jail superintendent by a court to decide upon a bail plea, its copy must be provided to the accused in advance to allow them to defend their case effectively and efficiently. "This is a basic need for access to justice and for rendering justice to the public at large," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said. The court allowed a writ petition filed by Chirag Madan in its judgement on Monday (June 29) and solved a long pending problem for the accused in seeking bail. Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that in several cases, reports are being called from Jail Superintendents in bail matters. Though the same are being relied upon by the courts in deciding upon applications filed under Section 437, 438 and 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code, its copies are not being supplied to the accused. Delhi government's counsel Rahul Mehra said normally, there is no reason for not supplying the copy of the report given by the Jail Superintendent or even the report of the Investigating Officer, save in exceptional cases where reasons are to be recorded. Such a report may be related to the medical condition and conduct of the accused. The court said, "Every rule has its own exceptions and, depending upon the facts and circumstances of the case, there may be some cases where the report cannot be so supplied."  "However, as a general rule, a copy of the report given by the Jail Superintendent as well as the report given by the Investigating Officer should be supplied to the applicant so that accused can properly understand the reasons given therein and defend their case in the Court of law," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accused-entitled-for-reports-from-jail-superintendent-in-bail-matters-hc-855439.html
30-06-2020||National||PM Modi announces extension of free ration scheme till end of November||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced a five-month extension of a free ration scheme for 80 crore needy citizens at an additional cost of Rs 90,000 crore. In an address to the nation, Modi also thanked farmers and taxpayers to help make the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana possible. The scheme was launched in March to provide free food grains to the poor from April to June as India went into lockdown to combat the Covid-19 outbreak. “Under this scheme, for the next five months, five kilograms of free rice or wheat, and one kilogram of chana will be provided to 80 crore Indians,” Modi said noting that it would help the poor, particularly during the upcoming festive season. Last week, Congress President Sonia Gandhi had written to the Prime Minister seeking an extension of the free ration scheme for three months till September. Similar requests were also received from several states including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala. Modi said the extension of the scheme would entail an additional expenditure of Rs 90,000 crore, but will ensure food security for 80 crore people through the festive season beginning with Guru Purnima on July 5 to Chhath Puja in November. He said if one added the expenditure incurred during the last three months, the government would have spent Rs 1,50,000 crore to ensure that no one went without food. The reference to Chhath Puja, a major festival in Bihar, set the political circles abuzz whether the Prime Minister’s address was also targeted at the upcoming Bihar elections. Modi said during the past three months, 20 crore poor households had received direct benefit transfers to the tune of Rs 31,000 crore and Rs 18,000 crore was deposited in the bank accounts of nine crore farmers.   Congress and other opposition parties have been demanding cash transfers to the poor to drive up demand to kick start the economy and have been targeting the government over the high fuel prices due to an increase in excise at a time when global crude prices were at an all time low. Modi appeared to blunt the opposition criticism by expressing gratitude to the “honest taxpayers” who, he said, fulfilled their duty due to which the poor were able to cope up with such a big crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-announces-extension-of-free-ration-scheme-till-end-of-november-855440.html
30-06-2020||National||Cong leader arrested over anti-CAA protest, Priyanka slams UP govt||A senior Uttar Pradesh Congress leader was arrested on charges of alleged destruction of public properties during last year's 'anti-CAA' protest in the state capital of Lucknow triggering a sharp reaction from party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Shahnawaz Alam, who was the chairman of the party's minority cell in the state, was arrested from his residence in Lucknow on Monday(June 29) night along with another person. ''Alam has been charged with torching vehicles and attacking the cops during violent demonstration at Parivartan Chowk against the Citizenship Amendment Act,'' a senior police official here said on Tuesday. Hundreds of Congress workers and leaders, including UP party president Ajai Kumar Lallu, created a ruckus at the police station, where Alam was kept, after which the cops made lathi charge to disperse them. Priyanka, who also in-charge of the state, slammed the state government for Alam's arrest and said that Congress would continue to raise its voice against the repressive tactics of the government. ''You (UP govt) can silence other parties by repression but you can not crush the voice of the Congress workers,'' Priyanka said in a post on Twitter. The Congress leader also uploaded the CCTV footage of the residential complex from where Alam had been picked at night. ''See how the police picked up our leader in the darkness of night,'' she said in her post. UP police had booked hundreds of people in connection with last year's violent demonstrations against the CAA and had also imposed hefty fines over the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-leader-arrested-over-anti-caa-protest-priyanka-slams-up-govt-855444.html
30-06-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccination must be affordable, universal: Prime Minister Narendra Modi||India would follow an “anyone, anywhere” principle while administering a vaccine against Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, laying the ground rules for the Covid-19 vaccination programme as and when such a vaccine hits the market. This would mean the vaccine would be administered to everyone all over the country without imposing any domicile restrictions. Also, the vulnerable groups like doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, and front-line personnel on duty like the police and paramilitary forces should be among the first groups to receive the shot when the vaccine becomes available commercially. The Prime Minister reviewed the planning and preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination programme of the future, a day after the first indigenous vaccine against the novel coronavirus 2019 infection received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India to carry out phase-1 and phase-2 clinical trials.  Developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotechnology, the homemade inoculation, Covaxin is based on a strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The Drug Controller General of India has granted permission to initiate clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response. Human clinical trials are scheduled to start across India in July 2020. In his review, Modi also told the officials to ensure that the vaccine remains affordable, which would be administered universally so that no one is left behind. The vulnerable people among the general population like the elderly individuals would be given a priority. The fourth ground rule for the vaccination programme would be strict monitoring of the entire process from production to vaccination in real time with the use of technology. Globally there are more than a dozen Covid-19 vaccines that are in clinical trials at the moment. The first set of results from one such vaccine trials at Oxford University, however, was not very promising but a second vaccine undergoing (developed by US firm Moderna) trials in the USA produced encouraging results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-must-be-affordable-universal-prime-minister-narendra-modi-855448.html
30-06-2020||National||Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients nearing 60%||The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the country is fast approaching 60 per cent, with the Union Health Ministry attributing it to collective and focussed efforts of the Centre and states for containment and management of the pandemic. As on date, there are 1,19,696 more recovered patients than Covid-19 active cases. The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 2,15,125, while 3,34,821 patients have been cured/discharged. A total of 13,099 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the last 24 hours, the ministry said.  "This has resulted in the recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients further improving to 59.07 per cent," it said on Tuesday. The number of diagnostic labs is continuously increasing and India now has 1,049 labs dedicated to Covid-19. These include 761 labs in the government sector and 288 private labs. According to the ICMR,  a cumulative total of 86,08,654 samples have been tested up to June 29 with 2,10,292 samples tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recovery-rate-of-covid-19-patients-nearing-60-855451.html
30-06-2020||National||Chinese forces inscribe Mandarin symbol and map of China on disputed territory: Report||The Mandarin symbol and map illustration on the ground measure about 81 metres and are located between Finger 4 and Finger 5 in length and 25 metres in width, large and clear enough to be spotted by imagery satellites, stated the report. Earlier, Wang Hajiang, a top commander of the PLA in Tibet was photographed repainting a Mandarin character that meant ‘China’ along the India-China border in the region, said the report. The images show Chinese PLA have consolidated in the region where Indian soldiers are being obstructed from patrolling after violent clashes in May in which several Indian soldiers may have been injured, says the publication.  “At least 186 prefabricated huts, shelters and tents of varying sizes are visible in the new images with the Chinese occupying areas not just along the bank of the lake but eight kilometres along a ridge-line which extends to Chinese territory,” says the report. There have been several clashes between Indian forces and PLA soldiers but the recent one was one of the most deadliest. The June 15 clash between both forces led to the loss of 20 Indian Army soldiers and many others injured. The Chinese side had also reportedly suffered casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-forces-inscribe-mandarin-symbol-and-map-of-china-on-disputed-territory-report-855456.html
30-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM Modi addresses the nation; Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at BJP||In today's episode, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extends the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana for 80 crore people across the country till end of November,  Rahul Gandhi takes a swipe at the BJP over the rising imports from China, a UN report says that India accounts for 45.8 million missing females and Some members of actor Aamir Khan’s staff have tested positive for coronavirus.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-addresses-the-nation-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-bjp-855463.html
30-06-2020||National||PM or village head, spare no one for violating social distancing norms: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday cautioned against increasing negligence in maintaining social distancing and personal hygiene norms and asked local administration to enforce the same strictly. “Be it a village pradhan or the Prime Minister, no one is above the law,” Modi said citing the example of the Bulgarian Prime Minister who was fined an equivalent of Rs 13,000 for not wearing a mask in public. “In India too, the local administration should work with the same enthusiasm. This is a drive to protect the lives of 130 crore countrymen,” the Prime Minister said. He said the timely imposition of lockdown and other decisions had saved lakhs of lives, but the increasing negligence in social and personal behaviour since Unlock-1 is a worrying trend. “Earlier, we were very careful with respect to wearing masks, social distancing and washing of hands for 20 seconds. But today, when we need to be more careful, increasing negligence is a cause of worry,” the PM said.  Modi asked governments, local bodies and citizens to show the same level of alertness as was on display during the lockdown and follow rules strictly. “Especially, we need to focus more on containment zones. Those not following the rules will need to be stopped and cautioned,” he said. India had 5,66,840 confirmed Covid-19 patients as on Tuesday, while 16,893 had succumbed to the infectious disease. According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker the confirmed cases had risen to 5,67,348 and the death toll stood at 16,920 at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-or-village-head-spare-no-one-for-violating-social-distancing-norms-modi-855481.html
30-06-2020||National||TN to identify policemen who need 'behavioural corrections' and provide counselling||Under all-round attack over the death of a father and his son in police custody in Thoothukudi district, the Tamil Nadu Police has begun the process of identifying personnel who need “behavioural correction” and send them for counselling under its “Police Well-being Programme.” Instructions to all police units across the state in this regard have been issued from the office of the Director-General of Police (DGP), top sources in the government told DH. “All unit officers are identifying personnel under heavy mental stress, due to various reasons, to undergo counselling under the police well-being programme,” a senior official told DH. Those identified by the units will be sent for a specially-designed course that will include lessons on behaving with people and on handling stress while at work. “Police Wellbeing Programme” was designed in collaboration with Bengaluru-based NIMHANS in 2018 which imparts lessons on how to stay calm and beat stress while at work. Already, the Tiruchirapalli range has removed 80 police personnel in need of “behavioural correction” and they will be asked to improve their interpersonal skills. “They are taken off the duties involving direct public contact as their track record in that aspect is found wanting. They will be gradually reintegrated into regular duties only after completing a specially designed course with CBT (Cognitive Behavioural Therapy) component to improve the way they deal with the public,” V Balakrishnan, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Trichy Range), wrote on his Facebook page. The move comes after the police department came under attack for the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj (61), and his son Immanuel Bennix (31), who were allegedly tortured for hours together by policemen at the Sathankulam police station in Thoothukudi district. They were taken into custody on June 19 and were transferred to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 20. However, the son died on June 22 and the father the following day succumbing to the injuries inflicted during the custody. The deaths sparked massive outrage across India with political parties, celebrities, and the common people demanding justice for the father-son duo. All policemen from the station were shunted out on Monday, while the Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police (SP) Arun Balagopalan was put on “compulsory wait” on Tuesday (June 30), as a fall out of the incident. The move by the DIG came on the same day the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court questioned whether the Tamil Nadu government was still continuing with the “Police Wellbeing Programme”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-to-identify-policemen-who-need-behavioural-corrections-and-provide-counselling-855491.html
30-06-2020||National||United Kingdom MPs flag China’s ‘bullying behaviour’ with India||British MPs have raised concerns in Parliament over China's "bullying behaviour" in the border dispute with India and the "delayed declaration" of COVID-19 and urged an internal review into the UK's dependence on China with a view to reducing collaboration with the country. Conservative Party MP Ian Duncan Smith raised the issue as part of an urgent question in the House of Commons on Monday evening on the “mistreatment” by the Chinese government of the Uyghur minority in Xinjiang province. “Given the Chinese government’s appalling record on human rights, their attack on freedoms in Hong Kong, their bullying behaviour in border disputes from the South China seas to India, their blatant breaching of the rules-based order governing the free market and their delayed declaration on COVID-19, will the government now initiate an internal review of the UK’s dependence on China, with a view to significantly reducing that dependence,” questioned Smith. UK Minister for Asia Nigel Adams responded to say that the UK government has been regularly raising its concerns with China over various issues. “On a full government review, our approach to China remains clear-eyed and is rooted in our values and interests. It has always been the case that when we have concerns we raise them, and that where we need to intervene we will,” he said. Opposition Labour Party MP Stephen Kinnock also pressed the minister over the “increasingly belligerent” behaviour of China towards its own people and neighbouring countries. “Does the Minister recognise that the CCP’s [Chinese Communist Party] actions in Xinjiang reflect a wider pattern of behaviour of increasingly authoritarian policies at home and aggressive expansionism abroad, including in Hong Kong, Ladakh and the South China sea,” he questioned. Adams responded to say that the UK had been “very active” on these issues and has played a leading role in raising all concerns bilaterally and at the United Nations and also called on UK companies active in the Xinjiang province to carry out due diligence over the treatment of minorities. “All British companies involved in the region must consider carrying out proper due diligence to ensure that human rights violations have not been taking place in their supply chains,” he said. Last week, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had made his first statement related to the India-China border conflict, describing it as “a very serious and worrying situation”. “We are encouraging both parties to engage in dialogue on the issues on the border and sort it out between them,” Johnson told the Commons in response to a question related to the conflict in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/united-kingdom-mps-flag-china-s-bullying-behaviour-with-india-855499.html
30-06-2020||National||Opposition MPs describe App ban symbolic||A section of Opposition leaders on Tuesday (June 30) described the BJP-led government's move to ban 59 Chinese Apps as more "symbolic" than with substance and claimed that the action was "hypocrisy" when Prime Minister Narendra Modi "refuses" to acknowledge Chinese incursions. Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari asked Law and Information Technology Minister Ravishankar Prasad whether the decision to ban was "thought through". "Two questions: 1) What about those accessing banned Apps via VPN (Virtual Private Network)? 2) What about Apps that will still lie dormant on millions of Indian phones? Do they not constitute a “live/ sleeper” threat? Ban symbolic (rather) than substantive," Tewari said in a tweet. "With this ban are you also certifying that other Chinese APP’s are not a security threat?" Tewari asked. He also asked whether the Alibaba Group, which is specialising in e-commerce, retail, Internet, and technology, was let off because of its link with PayTm. "Why is Alibaba not on the ban list?  Is it because of the Paytm connection?" he said adding Paytm had given a full-page advertisement the day after Modi announced demonetisation in November 2016. However, another senior Congress MP Ahmed Patel supported the government move saying, "We welcome the decision to ban Chinese apps. In light of the grave intrusion of our territory and the unprovoked attack on our armed forces by the Chinese army, we expect our  government to take more substantial and effective measures." Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee said only a few days back, the Prime Minister was found mourning the martyrdom of soldiers on the same Chinese App he has now decided to ban. "All in the name of a 'befitting reply' to China, whose incursions he even refuses to acknowledge. Hon'ble PM's hypocrisy is surely laughable!" he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-mps-describe-app-ban-symbolic-855500.html
30-06-2020||National||Collect plasma only after Covid-19 therapy established: Health Ministry||Amid a rush by state governments to set up plasma banks to treat Covid-19 patients, the union health ministry has issued guidelines asking blood banks to collect convalescent plasma only after the efficacy of the treatment is established. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is currently conducting clinical trials for Convalescent Plasma Therapy (CPT) that uses blood plasma from a patient cured of Covid-19 to treat severely ill patients. The Second Interim Guidance to Blood Transfusion Services in India in light of the Covid-19 pandemic states that the donor selection criteria for clinical trials of CPT should be as per the protocol approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). “The use of convalescent plasma for routine treatment of Covid-19 patients is not recommended at present,” said the Guidance issued by the National Blood Transfusion Council, which comes under the aegis of the Union health ministry.  “The necessary guidelines for collection of convalescent plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients for treatment of such cases will be issued as and when the efficacy of this form of treatment is established and approved by competent bodies,” the Guidance document said. It also stated that a person who has recovered from Covid-19 can donate blood only after 28 days of discharge from a treating facility or 28 days after home isolation ends. To maintain safety, the NBTC in its guidelines urged blood banks and camp organisers to exclude donors who are in the risk category. Very mild, mild, pre-symptomatic, moderate and severe Covid-19 cases must be deferred for 28 days from donating blood after discharge from a treating facility or 28 days after the end of home isolation, the NBTC guidance said. The definition of the end of discontinuation of home isolation should be as per the home isolation guidelines issued by the ministry from time to time, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/collect-plasma-only-after-covid-19-therapy-established-health-ministry-855508.html
30-06-2020||National||Army foils infiltration bid along LoC in Jammu & Kashmir||Army foiled an infiltration bid by six to eight militants along the Line of Control (LoC) at Parkian Gali sector in north Kashmir's Kupwara district on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. “On night of 29/30 June 20, suspicious movement of 6-8 persons was observed in two groups in Parkian Gali Sector, Kupwara (J&K) along the LoC. Own troops challenged the infiltrators with fire. Infiltrators ran away taking help of darkness,” army tweeted. Sources said a massive search operation has been launched in the area and is still in progress. There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year with 302 instances reported in June only. Official data reveals there have been over 2,200 ceasefire violations along the LoC this year. A total of 3,168 CFVs were recorded in 2019, and 1,629 in 2018. An official in the security grid said that the ceasefire violations are expected to increase in the coming months as summer is the peak infiltration period from across the LoC in J&K. He said besides helping infiltration, Pakistani troops repeatedly target forward posts and villages along the LoC and the International Border (IB) to create a fear psychosis among the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-foils-infiltration-bid-along-loc-in-jammu-kashmir-855510.html
30-06-2020||National||All apps must adhere to India's data integrity, privacy: Niti Aayog CEO||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Tuesday said all apps released in India must adhere to the country's data integrity, privacy and sovereignty, a day after the government banned 59 apps. Asserting that India has to be a data sovereign country, Kant also said apps must be transparent in terms of origin and final destination of data. The 59 apps, most of which have Chinese links, were banned by the government citing that they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. "All Apps released in India must adhere to India's data integrity, privacy, sovereignty and transparency. "They must be transparent in origin & final destination of data. India has to be a data sovereign country. This is critical. Apps against whom action taken are lifestyle apps," Kant said in a tweet. In a series of tweets, he also said that time is ripe for the best of India technology companies to develop technology solutions for India and the world. Indians will leverage strength of diversity and build for India together, Kant said, adding that transparency, privacy, security and ease of access will be the key principles of our product design. He also pointed out that the AarogyaSetu app, developed for tracking Covid-19 patients, has been a unique example of technology innovation in India, built for India, and used by millions of Indians. "Many more such examples will be created by young Indian innovators," he said. The ban on the 59 apps also came against the backdrop of the current stand-off between India and China along the Line of Actual control in Ladakh. On Monday, the Information Technology Ministry said it has received many complaints from various sources, including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for "stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users' data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India". "The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures," the ministry had said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-apps-must-adhere-to-indias-data-integrity-privacy-niti-aayog-ceo-855515.html
30-06-2020||National||India sees above average monsoon rainfall in June, accelerating crop sowing||India saw 18% more rainfall than average in June as the monsoon covered the entire country nearly two weeks earlier than usual, the state-run weather office said on Tuesday. Monsoons deliver about 70% of India's annual rainfall and are the lifeblood of its $2.9 trillion economy, spurring farm output and boosting rural spending on items ranging from gold to cars, motorcycles and refrigerators. Soybean, pulses and cotton-growing regions in central and western India saw 31% more rainfall in June, while rice, coffee, rubber and tea growing southern India saw 8% higher rainfall, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A good start to the June-September monsoon season has accelerated planting of summer-sown crops, with farmers sowing crops on 31.56 million hectares as of June 26, doubling from 2019, when the monsoon arrived late. Cotton sowing was up 165%, while rice planting rose by 35% during the period. India is the world's biggest exporter of rice and the biggest cotton producer. A rise in rice and cotton production could lead to higher exports of both products. Oilseed plantings have risen 525% from a year ago, which could help the world’s biggest edible oil importer reduce imports. India is likely to see above-average monsoon rainfall even in July, a crucial month for the sowing of summer crops, said an official with IMD, who declined to be named as he was not authorized to speak to media. IMD said last month that India is likely to see above-average monsoon rain for the second straight year in 2020, boosting hopes for higher farm output in an economy reeling under the impact of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-above-average-monsoon-rainfall-in-june-accelerating-crop-sowing-855516.html
30-06-2020||National||Geelani accepted path chosen by him was wrong: J&K police chief||Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh Tuesday said that Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Geelani has finally admitted that the “path chosen by him was wrong and the mission he was pursuing has failed.” “Geelani’s letter to his constituents is an eye-opener. He has admitted that they have miserably failed in their mission and Kashmir issue was used by the people for their personal gains. He has confessed that his path was wrong, and they were propagating negative thinking,” Singh said while talking to reporters on the sidelines of an official function in hilly Rajouri district. The hardline separatist leader also stated that the “Kashmir’s freedom struggle was reduced to mere drug abuse and serving Pakistan’s interests. He had also accused some people in the amalgam of resorting to “financial irregularities and taking decisions on behalf of him (Geelani) without his consent.” The police chief said that in his resignation letter Geelani, is “crying hoarse” how drugs are being traded from across the Line of Control into Jammu and Kashmir. Asked whether there was any deadline set by the security forces to wipe out militancy from Kashmir, Singh said that since Pakistan continues to push in militants, no time frame or deadline can be set. “But our efforts are to clean areas gradually from militancy. Yesterday, a last surviving militant from Doda district was killed.” About the successful anti-militancy operations in Kashmir, he said that this year so far 128 militants have been killed including the one Islamic State of J&K militant, who was involved in the recent attack on security forces in Anantnag in which a CRPF man and a minor boy were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/geelani-accepted-path-chosen-by-him-was-wrong-jk-police-chief-855519.html
30-06-2020||National||Plea filed in SC for monthly disbursal scheme for bar clerks||A plea had been filed in the top court to disburse a sum of Rs 15,000 per month to the Members of the Supreme Court Bar Clerks' Association from the month of June 2020 till normalcy is restored in the functioning of the court. The petition, filed by advocate Deepak Prakash and settled by senior advocate Mohan V Katarki, contended since the announcement of national lockdown on March 25, 2020, to contain Covid-19, the clerks have been facing a severe financial crunch.  The income of clerks, an integral and indispensable part of our legal system, has been linked to filing of cases which has disappeared due to the limited functioning of courts. "Most of the members of the petitioner Association had very little or no savings and, therefore, only after a few days of the lockdown, they started suffering financially. In fact, the advocates themselves lost their earnings and are unable to pay the monthly salary," it said.  Maintaining that their survival must be given utmost importance, the petitioner asked the court to direct the Union government to frame a scheme under the Disaster Management Act to allow ex gratia payments. The petitioner claimed most of the clerks are on the verge of penury having absolutely no money to even look after basic facilities, likely health and education of children, and even arranging food for their family members, in grave violation of the Article 21 of the Constitution. It also pointed out that the Union government had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial aid package in the month of May, which covered small scale industries, migrant workers, and other financially distressed groups of persons, however, no such scheme has been formulated for clerks and similarly placed persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-monthly-disbursal-scheme-for-bar-clerks-855520.html
30-06-2020||National||India’s app ban threatens China’s rise as a global tech power||China over the past decade built an alternate online reality where Google and Facebook barely exist. Now its own largest tech corporations from Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. to Tencent Holdings Ltd. are getting a taste of what a shutout feels like. India’s unprecedented decision to ban 59 of China’s largest apps is a warning to the country’s tech giants, who for years thrived behind a government-imposed Great Firewall that kept out many of America’s best-known internet names. If India finds a way to carry out that threat, it may present a model for other countries from Europe to Southeast Asia that seek to curtail the pervasiveness of apps like ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok while safeguarding their citizens’ enormously valuable data. The surprise moratorium hit Chinese internet companies just as they were beginning to make headway in the world’s fastest-growing mobile arena, en route to going global and challenging American tech industry supremacy. TikTok had signed up 200 million users there, Xiaomi Corp. is the No. 1 smartphone brand, and Alibaba and Tencent have aggressively pushed their services. But India’s policy jeopardizes all those successes, and could have wider geopolitical consequences as the U.S. seeks to rally countries to stop using Huawei Technologies Co. for 5G networks. With China’s tech companies poised to become some of the most dominant in emerging industries like artificial intelligence, India’s actions may spur countries around the world to weigh the extent to which they let China gain user data -- and potentially economic leverage in future disputes. “Techno-nationalism will manifest itself increasingly across all aspects of geopolitics: national security, economic competitiveness, even social values,” said Alex Capri, a Singapore-based research fellow at the Hinrich Foundation. “It will be increasingly difficult to separate Chinese tech firms from the CCP and China’s geopolitical ambitions. They will find themselves increasingly locked out.” Chinese internet firms have struggled to replicate their online services beyond their home turf, even before Washington lawmakers began raising concerns about the wisdom of allowing the Asian country’s corporations -- like ByteDance -- to hoover up valuable personal data. India amplified those concerns by accusing apps including TikTok, Tencent’s WeChat, Alibaba’s UC Web and Baidu Inc.’s map and translation services of threatening its sovereignty and security. India’s prohibition provides further evidence that nations are using tech for to assert themselves geopolitically, following the Trump administration’s worldwide campaign to contain China and national champions like Huawei. That depends in part on how much Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s actions are motivated by domestic interests following the worst military clash between India and China in almost half a century. “Beijing should certainly worry that the impact of the deadly clash could push India toward the U.S.,” said Zhang Baohui, director of the Centre for Asian Pacific Studies at Lingnan University. “But these recent economic measures by India may not by themselves concern Beijing too much as it understands that Modi’s government, facing rising domestic nationalism, has to do something to soothe the public sentiments and retain legitimacy.” It remains unclear how India will enforce its decision, given TikTok -- for one -- has already been downloaded by roughly one in six people. But it follows a series of steps to curb China’s presence in the country, demonstrating the administration’s hardened resolve since long-simmering tensions boiled over after a deadly Himalayan border clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers. The country’s government procurement website has barred purchases of Chinese-made goods. Authorities have asked the largest e-commerce companies, including Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc.’s Flipkart, to start showing “country of origin” on goods sold. And India is said to be dragging its heels on clearing goods imported from China, stranding electronics at ports. “The Indian government thinks about governing the internet in a very similar way to China, which is blanket bans, asserting national boundaries on the internet and essentially carving out what would eventually become a version of the Indian Great Firewall,” said Dev Lewis, a research fellow at Digital Asia Hub in Shanghai. “Everyone’s struggling to deal with governing technology companies and apps, especially ones that cross borders. So when India takes a step like this, it sets a precedent for the things that you can do.” In terms of the immediate business consequences, ByteDance could be hardest-hit. India is its biggest market with more than 200 million TikTok users. During a brief ban last year, the Chinese company estimated it was missing out on half a million dollars a day of revenue. In a statement posted to Twitter, TikTok India head Nikhil Gandhi said the company complies with all data privacy and security requirements under Indian law and has not shared any user information with any foreign government, including Beijing. India’s prohibition could also give American companies a possible edge over Chinese players in a rare global tech market that is both populous and not yet saturated. While WeChat never made it big in India, banning it may help shore up Facebook Inc.’s WhatsApp. Cutting out TikTok immediately gives Alphabet Inc.’s YouTube a boost. On Tuesday, Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Zhao Lijian said China was “strongly concerned” about India’s actions. “The Indian government has a responsibility to uphold the legitimate and legal rights of the international investors including Chinese ones,” he said. But for now, China doesn’t have many great options to retaliate. “While Beijing is highly adept at economic coercion, in this case it has somewhat limited options to act in a reciprocal manner,” analysts for the Eurasia Group wrote in a research note. “Bilateral trade is heavily weighted toward Chinese exports to India. Attempts to hurt India economically could blowback on Chinese companies.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-app-ban-threatens-china-s-rise-as-a-global-tech-power-855528.html
30-06-2020||National||No full-fledged tourism just yet, but Goa bars may reopen by July 1: Minister||With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in Goa and the active cases count passing 700, Goa may have well shelved its plans to open up the state for tourism activity anytime soon.  Goa's Ports Minister Michael Lobo however on Tuesday said, that Chief Minister Pramod Sawant would soon order the opening of bars in the state, which he said, would, in turn, boost the local economy, which has been stricken by the Covid-19 pandemic as well as the ban on iron ore mining in the state.  Lobo, after a meeting with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant in Panaji, said that until the Covid-19 situation improves in major cities like Mumbai and Delhi, which are major source destinations for inbound tourism in Goa, the tourism industry in the state may have to take a backseat.  "For the hotel industry to start, we need guests from Mumbai and Delhi. Mumbai and Delhi already have a huge number of cases and it is increasing on a daily basis," Lobo told reporters outside the Chief Minister's official residence.   "Right now we should go slow, vis a vis attracting tourists from these two states," Lobo said. The tourism industry in Goa, like elsewhere in the world has taken a beating on account of the pandemic.  Lobo however said that a decision to open bars in the state was on cards.  "Bars in Goa should start from July 1. Restaurants have been opened. But no one seems to be visiting restaurants because their attached bars are shut," Lobo said.  "Most people like to have a beer with their food or a peg before going to sleep," he said.  Opening of bars in Goa, a state which has traditionally backed a liberal excise regime that allows for cheap liquor and proliferation of bars across the state, Lobo said would boost local economies. "If you allow bars to function in restaurants there should not be a problem. Local economic activity will begin," the Minister said. ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-full-fledged-tourism-just-yet-but-goa-bars-may-reopen-by-july-1-minister-855531.html
30-06-2020||National||Covid-19: 53 fresh cases in BSF; total tally crosses 1,000-mark||Fifty-three more Border Security Force (BSF) personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the overall infections in the largest border guarding force to over 1,000, officials said on Tuesday. As per latest data, out of the total 1,018 coronavirus cases in the force, 659 personnel have recovered and 354 are under treatment. There have been five deaths from the disease in the force, including the death of a personnel who was killed in a road accident whose Covid-19 positive report came later. In the last 24 hours, 53 fresh cases have been reported in the force apart from four recoveries, the official said. Of the 53, twenty-nine were reported from Odisha.  The about 2.5 lakh personnel strong force is primarily tasked to guard Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh apart from rendering a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country. It is the largest border guarding force of the country with the two others being the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) with a strength of about 90,000 personnel and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) that has a strength of about 80,000 men and women. The ITBP too reported 14 fresh cases and one recovery on Tuesday. It has reported a total of 331 cases out of which 237 have recovered from Covid-19 while 94 are under treatment. There have been two deaths in the ITBP that is mandated to guard the 3,488 kms long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-53-fresh-cases-in-bsf-total-tally-crosses-1000-mark-855533.html
30-06-2020||National||Didn’t promote Covid-19 cure, just shared trial results, claims Patanjali||Replying to a notice sent by the Uttarakhand government, yoga guru Ramdev’s firm claimed that it has not promoted any “kit” to treat Covid-19 but only shared with the media the “successful trial” of a medicine. Patanjali Ayurved last week launched a drug called “Coronil”, claiming that it had cured within a week all Covid-19 patients who took part in a trial conducted at the privately-run National Institute of Medical Sciences in Jaipur. The claim triggered a row with the Union AYUSH ministry telling the herbal products firm not to sell the drug till it has examined the issue. Uttarakhand’s Ayurveda department said the firm had only applied for a licence to manufacture an immunity booster, and not a cure for Covid-19. In its reply on Monday to the department’s notice, the Haridwar-based company appeared to backtrack from its claim of finding a cure against Covid-19. The company said it has not sold any product called “Corona Kit”, nor has it publicised it as a treatment against coronavirus. But it added, "We have only promoted the successful trial of the medicine before the media." The company said it had only packed medicines named Divya Swasari Vati, Divya Coronil tablet and Divya Anu Tel in a carton for “shipping purposes”. It claimed that it has not violated any law and the question of action against it does not arise. Apparently focusing on the term used in the Uttarakhand notice, the firm said it has not produced any medicine called “Corona Kit”. It said the notice it got was the result of “misrepresentation of facts” by the media. The Uttarakhand Ayurvedic department on Tuesday said it is studying the reply sent by Divya Pharmacy, a wing of Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. A drug inspector was sent for physical verification to the Haridwar-based company after the reply was received on Monday and no coronavirus kit was found on the premises, Uttarakhand’s Ayurvedic department licensing officer Y S Rawat told PTI. When asked whether he was satisfied with the reply, Rawat said, "Everyone has seen the yoga guru claiming the product as a cure for corona and the reply needs to be examined further.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/didn-t-promote-covid-19-cure-just-shared-trial-results-claims-patanjali-855549.html
30-06-2020||National||India supports United Nations initiative to stop spread of Covid-19 misinformation, fake news||India is supporting a global initiative by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres that aims to stop the spread of misinformation and fake news related to coronavirus on social media and has also co-authored a cross-regional statement to fight the “infodemic” or the manipulated information relating to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We support @antonioguterres UN Communications Response initiative #VERIFIED and call for global action to fight #infodemic in times of #COVID19," India’s Permanent Mission to the UN tweeted. India, along with Australia, Chile, France, Georgia, Indonesia, Latvia, Lebanon, Mauritius, Mexico, Norway, Senegal and South Africa co-authored a cross-regional statement on infodemic and so far 132 countries have joined the statement that focuses on the need to spread fact-based content to counter misinformation on coronavirus. The UN had launched ‘Verified’, an initiative to combat the growing scourge of Covid-19 misinformation by increasing the volume and reach of trusted, accurate information. Through the initiative, the UN is calling on people around the world to “pause” before sharing content that may be false or have misinformation on social media. The pause campaign is launching Tuesday, coinciding with Social Media Day, and consists of videos, graphics and colourful gifs that stress sharing only trusted and accurate science-based social media content. “Fake news is causing global harm. Misinformation spreading around the world is hampering our ability to make progress on many of the world’s most pressing issues: from fighting the pandemic to the struggle for racial justice and the climate emergency,” the Pause campaign says. As part of the global movement to tackle misinformation on June 30, Verified and the United Nations are asking people around the world to adopt a simple behavioural change when they feel their emotions rising online: “Pause. Take care before you share.” The Pause campaign will be available in Hindi, Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Spanish, Russian and Portuguese. “One of the ways it (misinformation) is spreading is the way people are sharing. The idea of pause is: take care before you share. We hope that ‘take care before you share’, starts to be a social norm that people have in the back of their heads and that will enable a personal behavior change,” Melissa Fleming, who oversees the UN’s global communications effort, said. Through Verified, the UN has recruited so-called “digital first responders” to counter fake news. These responders – of whom there are more than 10,000 signed up for the daily and weekly feeds – range from fact checkers in Colombia, to young journalists in the United Kingdom, and the number signing up is growing at a rate of about 10 per cent per week, according to the UN’s Department for Global Communications. The cross-regional statement, co-authored by the 13 nations, said that in times of the Covid-19 health crisis, “the spread of the ‘infodemic’ can be as dangerous to human health and security as the pandemic itself. Among other negative consequences, Covid-19 has created conditions that enable the spread of disinformation, fake news and doctored videos to foment violence and divide communities.” “It is critical that states counter misinformation as a toxic driver of secondary impacts of the pandemic that can heighten the risk of conflict, violence, human rights violations and mass atrocities,” the cross-regional statement said. The 13 nations called on everybody to immediately cease spreading misinformation and to observe UN recommendations to tackle this issue. “The Covid-19 crisis has demonstrated the crucial need for access to free, reliable, trustworthy, factual, multilingual, targeted, accurate, clear and science-based information, as well as for ensuring dialogue and participation of all stakeholders and affected communities during the preparedness, readiness and response,” they said. The nations said that they along with other many countries and international institutions, such as the WHO and UNESCO, have worked towards increasing societal resilience against disinformation, which has improved overall preparedness to deal with and better comprehend both the “infodemic” and the Covid-19 pandemic. "We are also concerned about the damage caused by the deliberate creation and circulation of false or manipulated information relating to the pandemic. We call on countries to take steps to counter the spread of such disinformation, in an objective manner and with due respect for citizens’ freedom of expression, as well as public order and safety. We reaffirm the importance of ensuring that people are accurately informed from trustworthy sources and are not misled by disinformation about Covid-19,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-supports-united-nations-initiative-to-stop-spread-of-covid-19-misinformation-fake-news-855553.html
30-06-2020||National||Parents move SC for regulating fees during lockdown||A group of parents has approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre and States to ensure all the private and unaided schools do not charge any fees from the students from April 1 till the commencement of physical classes, suspended due to the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioners led by Sushil Sharma sought the issuance of general guidelines on payment of fees by schools for running online classes across the country, because of financial stress faced by them. They also pleaded the top court to direct the Centre to set up a committee with representatives from all states to formulate, regulate and implement fees for primary, secondary and higher secondary schools during the period of countrywide lockdown. The petitioners, hailing from various states, wanted the court to ensure the evolution of national guidelines for the safety of children from the health hazards caused by online classes due to prolonged exposure to mobiles, tablets, and computers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-move-sc-for-regulating-fees-during-lockdown-855560.html
30-06-2020||National||India's AI-enabled 'MyGov Corona Helpdesk' bags two international awards||AI-enabled 'MyGov Corona Helpdesk' - which provides timely updates to help citizens clear their queries on COVID-19 - has bagged two awards at the recently held CogX 2020 in London. The awards were won by the technical partner of MyGov, Jio Haptik Technologies Ltd, a statement said. The awards were given under the 'Best Innovation for Covid-19 – Society' and 'People's Choice Covid-19 Overall Winner' categories, it added. "AI-enabled 'MyGov Corona Helpdesk' bagged two awards...at the recently held CogX 2020, which is a prestigious Global Leadership Summit and Festival of AI and Emerging Technology held annually in London," the statement said. MyGov is the world's largest citizen engagement platform, which facilitates two-way communication between the government and citizens. In the fight against COVID-19, MyGov, Jio Haptik Technologies Limited and WhatsApp team had collaborated to develop an artificial intelligence-enabled 'MyGov Corona Helpdesk' in a record time of five days. CogX is one of the world's largest events on AI, held annually in London with over 15,000 participants in attendance from the world of business, government, industry, and research. After a rigorous evaluation, the Indian chatbot was chosen among hundreds of entries that made a difference to society during the pandemic, the statement said. Following a live digital pitch in front of a worldwide audience and judges, team Jio Haptik was given the award for providing AI-enabled technological solution for 'MyGov Corona Helpdesk' that has helped safeguard lives amid a pandemic, it added. In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, the chatbot has received more than 76 million messages and processed over 41 million conversations. With the active involvement of Government, Jio Haptik and WhatsApp, this chatbot has continued to help over 28 million Indians stay informed while providing a platform to get the latest information on COVID-19, curb rumours and misinformation. "Right communication strategy and leveraging technology is an important strategy to deal with the pandemic. Digital India has made a solid foundation. It has been the endeavour of Digital India and its initiative, MyGov to act as a bridge between citizens and government, and ensure citizen participation and information dissemination on platforms that most citizens use," Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov, said. He added that towards this objective, 'MyGov Corona Helpdesk' has really helped improve outreach and engagement. "The government's support was a key driver in building the 'MyGov Corona Helpdesk' in record time and being recognised at a global technology summit further bolsters our belief that technology is meant to benefit society in the long run. “We would also like to acknowledge our healthcare professionals as the real winners of this honour who are battling this pandemic 24/7," Haptik CEO and co-founder Aakrit Vaish said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-ai-enabled-mygov-corona-helpdesk-bags-two-international-awards-855563.html
30-06-2020||National||Parliament committee meetings resume; panel of welfare of OBCs first to meet||Meetings of parliamentary standing committees have resumed after they were suspended following the adjournment of both Houses of Parliament due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with a panel on the welfare of other backward classes meeting on Monday, sources said. In its meeting, the Committee on Welfare of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) made recommendations to various ministries on implementation of reservation, they said. The meeting assumes significance as it was held with members physically present for it. Previously, chairmen of various parliamentary panels had sought virtual meetings but were denied. This was the first meeting of any parliamentary standing committee after the Parliament's Budget Session was adjourned before its schedule on March 23, in wake of Covid-19. After this, Parliament operations were also suspended during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The Committee on Welfare of Other Backward Classes chaired by BJP MP Ganesh Singh met on Monday and out of its 26 members, 11 members were present in the meeting held at the Parliament's annexe building, sources said. Members from opposition parties, including the Samajwadi Party, were also present in the full-day meeting which started at 11 am and ended at 5 pm. In between, the meeting was briefly adjourned for lunch, but no food was served as a precaution in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Serving of lunch is customary during parliament panel meetings, the sources said. The members, who attended the meeting, took lunch at their residences, they said. Top officials from the health ministry, human resource development ministry and power ministry were called by the panel to discuss the implementation of OBC quota in their respective ministries and related departments and institutions. As per the Lok Sabha website, the next meeting of a parliamentary committee is of the Public Accounts Committee chaired by Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, scheduled for July 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-committee-meetings-resume-panel-of-welfare-of-obcs-first-to-meet-855564.html
30-06-2020||National||Centre deploys helicopter for locust control||India on Tuesday deployed a helicopter to carry out locust control operations as the threat of new swarms of the marauding pests loomed large over the kharif crop. India had faced a severe locust attack after nearly three decades, but crop losses have been minimal so far as the swarms first descended in April after the rabi crop had been harvested. The helicopter-based locust control operations would enable spraying of pesticides over a large area as against the use of tractor or jeep-mounted spray guns. Last month, the government had deployed drones to spray pesticides on locusts settling down on high trees and inaccessible hilly terrain which is beyond the reach of vehicle-mounted spraying guns. While one drone can spray pesticides over 16-17 hectare area in one hour, a helicopter with a pesticide carrying capacity of 250 litres can cover 25 to 50 hectares area in one flight, an agriculture ministry official said. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar flagged off the helicopter for locust control operations from Greater Noida near here. The Bell 206-B3 chopper will be stationed at Uttarlai air base of the Indian Air Force near Barmer just in time when fresh locust swarms are expected in the region for breeding. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, locust swarms that gather in northern Somalia are likely to migrate across the Indian Ocean to summer breeding areas along the India-Pakistan border. The ministry has hired the helicopter from a private firm to begin the locust control operations immediately. It has also placed orders for five aerial spraying machines from a UK-based company which will be used on Indian Air Force choppers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-deploys-helicopter-for-locust-control-855567.html
30-06-2020||National||Maharashtra to set up college for Marathi-speaking people of Karnataka||The Maharashtra government will set up a Marathi medium college in Kolhapur for the Marathi- speaking people residing in the border areas of Karnataka, a minister said on Tuesday. Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, in a statement here, said the decision has been taken with a view to cater to the educational needs of the Marathi-speaking population residing in the neighbouring state. He said the new state-run college will be a sub-centre of the Shivaji University at Kolhapur. The Kolhapur district collector will provide a five- acre plot for the proposed college following which all necessary official permissions will be given, Samant said. The college will start functioning from the next academic year, the release said. Acommittee headed by Shivaji University vice- chancellor Nitin Karmalkarwill work out the modalities for establishing the educational institute, it added. The border areas of Karnataka have a sizeable Marathi- speaking population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-to-set-up-college-for-marathi-speaking-people-of-karnataka-855570.html
30-06-2020||National||Infant mortality rate highest in Madhya Pradesh, lowest in Kerala||Madhya Pradesh has recorded the highest infant mortality rate of 48 for every 1,000 live births while Kerala has registered the lowest -- just seven, according to the latest data of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India. The data showed the infant mortality rate in India has improved, albeit slightly, from 33 in 2017 to 32 in 2018. The infant mortality rate is highest in Madhya Pradesh and stood at 48 per thousand live births in 2018 while Kerala has the lowest with just seven deaths. Bihar has the highest birth rate at 26.2 and Andaman and Nicobar Islands has a birth rate of 11.2. Chhattisgarh has the highest death rate at 8 and Delhi has a death rate of 3.3. These data were released by the Registrar General and Census Commissioner in its Sample Registration System (SRS) bulletin based on information collected for 2018. The rates are calculated per 1,000 of the population. The death rate in India has witnessed a significant decline over the last four decades from 14.9 in 1971 to 6.2 in 2018. The decline has been steeper in rural areas. In the last decade, death rate at an all-India level has declined from 7.3 to 6.2. The corresponding decline in rural areas is 7.8 to 6.7 and in urban areas, 5.8 to 5.1. Birth rate is a crude measure of fertility of a population and a crucial determinant of population growth. India's birth rate has declined drastically over the last four decades from 36.9 in 1971 to 20.0 in 2018. The rural-urban differential has also narrowed.  However, the birth rate has continued to be higher in rural areas compared to urban areas in the last four decades. There has been about 11 per cent decline in birth rate in the last decade, from 22.5 in 2009 to 20.0 in 2018. The corresponding decline in rural areas is 24.1 to 21.6, and in urban areas, it is 18.3 to 16.7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infant-mortality-rate-highest-in-madhya-pradesh-lowest-in-kerala-855572.html
30-06-2020||National||Covid-19: Surat diamond industry grounded as 700 workers get infected||Officials said that although in terms of numbers the situation is "under control" in Surat what is worrying is the increasing number of new cases daily. They said that till mid-June, the number of daily cases were in two digits but from June 20 the number shot up in three digits for the first time and since then it is rising every day.  Till Tuesday evening, Surat's total caseload was 4,735, and the number of casualties stood at 158. The number makes the city second worst affected after Ahmedabad that has over 20,000 caseloads and 1441 deaths.   On June 29, Surat district had recorded its highest 206 cases, its biggest single-day spike. This is the reason after many of the diamond units decided to voluntarily close their operations, the authority has now ordered to shut all of them. The local administration is said to have screened over 18,000 diamond workers.  "All diamond units have been shut for a week in view of the rising cases. So far, the virus has been detected in 702 workers who were working in 89 units," Surat Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani told DH. As a matter of fact, the diamond units resumed work earlier this month after the lockdown was eased with conditions to use less 50% of total staff, which they said, is not viable for most of the units as it makes the business expenses. Meanwhile, the principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi visited the city on Tuesday and reviewed the situation, second time in less than 10 days. She told reporters that the "possibility of rising numbers could be ascertained to diamond units where workers sit closely due to the kind of infrastructure they have." She said that hospitals are being equipped to handle the crisis and 100 ventilators will be dispatched from Ahmedabad.  "This is a really tough time for everyone. We had started limited operation barely few weeks ago and now we are shutting down the business since a lot of our workers are getting infected. Our infrastructure (polishing and cutting rough diamonds) is such that workers sit closely that makes them prone to getting infected with the virus," Babubhai Kathiria, President of Surat Diamond Association. Meanwhile, Gujarat recorded 620 new cases in 24 hours and 20 deaths, taking the total to 32,643 and 1848 respectively. The number of discharged patients stood at 23,670 while total tests conducted until Tuesday were 3,73,663.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-surat-diamond-industry-grounded-as-700-workers-get-infected-855573.html
30-06-2020||National||Amid military stand-off with China, India gets France's assurance of 'steadfast support'||France has assured India of “steadfast support” of its armed forces, as the Defence Minister of the Western European nation, Florence Parly, wrote to her counterpart, Rajnath Singh, condoling death of 20 Indian Army soldiers in the June 15 clash with Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. External Affairs Minister, S Jaishankar, and his counterpart in French Government, Jean-Yves Le Drian, too spoke over the phone on Tuesday and discussed “issues of contemporary security and political importance”. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and his French counterpart François Delattre also had a video-conference on Monday. The back-to-back contacts between New Delhi and Paris came amid continuing military stand-off along the disputed India-China boundary in eastern Ladakh. The more than seven-week-long stand-off took New Delhi’s relations with Beijing to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the violent face-off, public “This was a hard blow against the soldiers, their families and the nation. In these difficult circumstances, I wish to express my steadfast and friendly support, along with that of the French armed forces,” Parly wrote to Singh. “I request you to kindly convey my heartfelt condolences to the entire Indian armed forces as well as to the grieving families.” France is likely to deliver to India the first batch of the Rafale fighter jets by the end of July. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets manufactured by the Dassault Aviation for the Indian Air Force (IAF). Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year joined French President Emmanuel Macron to reaffirm “shared commitment to maintaining freedom of navigation, particularly in the Indo-Pacific zone”, sending out a signal of growing strategic convergence between India and France against the hegemonic aspirations of China. Like India, France too has substantial geopolitical interests in western Indian Ocean and southern Pacific, with a large number of its military personnel deployed in the region. France has territorial control over Réunion and Mayotte islands in the Indian Ocean and New Caledonia and French Polynesia in the Pacific. While over 60 per cent of France’s Exclusive Economic Zone is in the Pacific, over 20 per cent is in the Indian Ocean. Djibouti on the Horn of Africa has a base of French Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-military-stand-off-with-china-india-gets-frances-assurance-of-steadfast-support-855577.html
30-06-2020||National||Govt looking at ways to boost exports, says Union Minister Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said the government is looking at ways to boost India's exports, and a presentation in this regard was made before the Prime Minister earlier this week. Addressing a virtual interactive session, the minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways said a presentation on how to boost outward shipments was made before Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Gadkari also said he is hopeful that a solution will be found in the next 4-6 months to address the issue of delay in payment to micro, small and medium enterprises. He said, "A lot of money owed to MSMEs was stuck with the government of India and its undertakings, state governments and their undertakings and major industries, due to which the units were facing difficulties". Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced on May 13 that MSME receivables from the central government and CPSEs will be released in 45 days to provide much-needed liquidity to millions of units in distress, battling the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Besides, Gadkari also called for systems and processes to be made transparent, corruption free, time bound and result oriented to fast track decision making.  He was addressing the session organised by Domestic Air Cargo Agents Association of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-looking-at-ways-to-boost-exports-says-union-minister-nitin-gadkari-855591.html
30-06-2020||National||India demands restoration of status quo with China||India on Tuesday once again pressed for the restoration of status quo at the border flashpoints in eastern Ladakh and implementation of mutually agreed decisions at yet another meeting between the military commanders of India and China that continued late into the night. In the last month, this is the third meeting between senior military leaders from the two countries that are locked in a tense stand-off at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh. The conflict near the disputed Sino-Indian boundary is the worst one in decades as it led to the killing of 20 Indian soldiers and a significant number of Chinese troopers in brutal hand-to-hand combat at the Galwan valley a fortnight ago. The Corps Commander level meeting at Chushul between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military Region was meant to resolve the ongoing dispute over the Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, Army sources said. Like the previous round of discussion that continued for 11 hours, this meeting is now well past ten hours till the time of filing this report. India pressed for restoration of the status quo with reference to the third week of April when the Chinese violations were noticed. However, even as the two sides discussed disengagement and de-escalation, the situation on the ground is exactly opposite with both countries increasing their troop strength and firepower closer to the LAC as well as in the depth areas. The two countries are also flying their combat aircraft and choppers close to the LAC maintaining the 10 km distance. Also Read |  Previous talks on June 6 and June 22 didn’t lead to any major breakthrough as disengagement plans mutually agreed upon, were not implemented by the People’s Liberation Army. For instance, both sides agreed to maintain a minimum distance from each other but were stuck on further progress on what should be the minimum distance. Satellite images show in the Galwan valley, the PLA troops are firmly within India, going beyond the historic Chinese claim line documented in official records. On the northern banks of 135 km long Pangong lake, the PLA now restricts Indian troops at Finger 4 while traditionally Indian troops used to patrol up to Finger 8. The Chinese also heavily fortified its positions on the shores of the pristine lake, two-third of which is under Chinese control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-demands-restoration-of-status-quo-with-china-855593.html
30-06-2020||National||World Bank enhances support for rejuvenating Ganga, sanctions USD 400 million||The World Bank on Monday said it has enhanced its support for Government of India's program to rejuvenate Ganga river with a USD 400 million (about Rs 3,000 crore) assistance that will help stem pollution in the river. The assistance will help strengthen the management of the river basin which is home to more than 500 million people, the World Bank said in a statement. "The Second National Ganga River Basin Project (SNGRBP), approved by the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors on June 25, will support the government's Namami Gange program and its long-term vision for controlling pollution in the river and restoring its water quality," it said. It further said the bank has been supporting the government's efforts since 2011 through the ongoing National Ganga River Basin Project, which helped set up the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) as the nodal agency to manage the river, and financed sewage treatment infrastructure in several riverside towns and cities. "The first World Bank project helped build critical sewage infrastructure in 20 pollution hotspots along the river, and this project will help scale this up to the tributaries," World Bank Country Director (India) Junaid Ahmad said. "It will also help the government strengthen the institutions needed to manage a river basin as large and complex as the Ganga Basin," he added. The Ganga basin covers a quarter of India's landmass, and is a critical economic and environmental resource for the country. It provides over one-third of India's surface water, includes the country's largest irrigated area and is key to India's water and food security, the statement said. "Over 40 per cent of India's GDP is generated in the densely populated basin. But the Ganga river is today is facing pressures from human and economic activity that impact its water quality and flows," it added. The Second National Ganga River Basin Project comprises a loan in the amount of USD 381 million and a proposed Guarantee in the amount of up to USD 19 million. The variable spread loan has a maturity of 18.5 years including a grace period of 5 years, it said. Meanwhile, the Government of India, the Government of Tamil Nadu and the World Bank on Monday signed legal agreements to help low-income groups in the state get access to affordable housing. The legal agreements were signed for two projects -- USD 200 million First Tamil Nadu Housing Sector Strengthening Programme and USD 50 million Tamil Nadu Housing and Habitat Development Project -- to strengthen the state's housing sector policies, institutions, and regulations, the Finance Ministry said in a separate statement. The loan agreements were signed by Sameer Kumar Khare, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs on behalf of the Government of India and Country Director (India) on behalf of the World Bank. Khare said providing safe and affordable housing is a key priority for the state of Tamil Nadu as identified in its vision document. With the allocation provided under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) and the two projects from the World Bank, a large number of urban poor in the state are expected to get access to better housing and, in the process, improve their living conditions, he added. Nearly half of Tamil Nadu's population is urban, and this is expected to increase to 63 per cent by 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-bank-enhances-support-for-rejuvenating-ganga-sanctions-usd-400-million-855600.html
30-06-2020||National||Advocate moves SC against Congress organising protest amid Covid-19 pandemic||An advocate on Tuesday approached the Supreme Court for a direction to lodge FIR against members of Congress party and its youth wing for launching protest against fuel price hike, in violation of Covid-19 guidelines, including social distancing. Petitioner Supriya Pandita, who hailed from Jammu, contended that the protesters were not even wearing mask. They sent all the other norms to contain coronavirus for a toss, by gathering in large number, and triggering fear of spread of coronavirus. She sought investigation to find out why permission was given to conduct such a protest. The petitioner asked the court to impose heavy penalty on the Congress party and its youth wing for putting life of citizens in danger. "It is pertinent to note that peaceful protest against the action or decision of the ruling party is not wrong but doing it during the pandemic is illegal and there is a high chance of increase of coronavirus due to this irresponsible action," she said. The petitioner claimed that Congress party members purposely conducted the protest at various places during the Covid-19 situation, despite knowing that they can file their representation to the ruling parties for reconsideration of the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advocate-moves-sc-against-congress-organising-protest-amid-covid-19-pandemic-855601.html
30-06-2020||National||Finance Ministry requested to impose Border Adjustment Tax, says Dharmendra Pradhan||Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday said the Finance Ministry has been requested to implement the proposed Border Adjustment Tax (BAT) to provide local manufacturers a level-playing field. The proposed BAT would be imposed on imported goods in addition to customs duty to bring the imported product at par with locally-made products. The Indian industry has been complaining to the government about domestic taxes like electricity duty, duties on fuel, clean energy cess, mandi tax, royalties, biodiversity fees that get charged on domestically produced goods as these duties get embedded into the product. But many imported goods do not get loaded with such levies in their respective country of origin and this gives such products price advantage in the Indian market. As far as support for the domestic steel sector is concerned, the government is already doing that. There is huge installed steel capacity in India and accordingly production is also happening in the country, Pradhan said pointing out the area which has to be looked into is steel consumption. "Today India is the second largest steel producer with huge steel making capacities. India has 150 million tonne (MT) of installed capacity and produces 110 MT of steel. Soon India will attain the level of 150 MT as well. We are also producing special steel as well for various usages including Defence and space projects. We have already requested the Department of Finance to impose the Border Adjustment Tax," he said. Pradhan was speaking at a webinar organised by the Ministry of Steel to discuss a road map to increase the steel consumption in India. However, instead of its huge capacities, per capita steel usage is low, he said. Compared to the global average steel consumption of 225 kg per, India has one-third of it. It has 75 kg per capita steel consumption. India is investing big time in creating infrastructure for future across sectors like railways, roads, civil aviation, energy will further provide impetus to the steel consumption in the country, he said.             Pradhan said to boost the steel consumption, the Ministry of Steel has also held several discussions with the Ministry of Railways, Road, Transport and Highways, Power etc. He further said the Ministry of Steel will also set up a working group which will regularly monitor the steps taken to enhance the steel usage. Minister of State for Steel Faggan Singh Kulaste said "There is a wide scope of increasing the consumption of steel in the country, particularly in the rural areas. The consumption of steel in the rural areas is almost one-quarter of the national average." He said that the increase in steel consumption will give impetus to the economic activities, help in improving the environment, and provide employment opportunities. The ministers also have invited stakeholders of steel, construction, infrastructure sectors, besides academicians, think-tanks to suggest new ideas to boost steel consumption in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-ministry-requested-to-impose-border-adjustment-tax-says-dharmendra-pradhan-855602.html
30-06-2020||National||India, Pakistan pull out 50% of staff in their missions in each other's capitals||India and Pakistan on Tuesday moved ahead to implement decisions on downgrading the diplomatic relations between the two nations, withdrawing half of the officials posted in the High Commissions of the respective countries in each other’s capitals. New Delhi withdrew 50% of the officials, who were posted at the High Commission of India (HCI) in the capital of the neighboring country. Islamabad too pulled out half of its officials posted in the High Commission of Pakistan in the capital of India, as New Delhi had asked it to do so on June 23.   Twenty-eight officials of the HCI in Islamabad crossed over from Pakistan to India through the Wagah-Attari border late on Tuesday. The members of their families too returned with them. Altogether 39 members of the staff of the neighboring country’s High Commission in New Delhi and their families too left India. India on June 23 moved to downgrade its diplomatic relations with Pakistan, asking the government of the neighboring country to withdraw half of the personnel working at its High Commission in New Delhi within the next seven days. New Delhi cited the involvement of the officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in espionage against India as well as their “dealings” with terrorists as reasons for its decision. It also decided to withdraw 50% of its personnel currently posted at the High Commission of India in Islamabad, protesting against the attempt by the security and intelligence agencies of the neighboring country to intimidate its diplomats and consular officials. Islamabad in August 2019 made New Delhi withdraw India’s High Commissioner to Pakistan, Ajay Bisaria, in the wake of the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganize the state into two Union Territories. Pakistan also did not send its newly-appointed High Commissioner to India, Moin-ul-Haq, to New Delhi. The High Commissions of India and Pakistan in each other’s capitals were headed by acting envoys over the past few months. India had in December 2001 last asked Pakistan to withdraw half of the personnel posted at its High Commission in New Delhi. It had also cut down the staff of its High Commission in the capital of Pakistan by 50%. The move had come in the aftermath of the December 13, 2001 attack on Parliament of India in New Delhi by the terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), both based in Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-pull-out-50-of-staff-in-their-missions-in-each-others-capitals-855609.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Received less calls regarding crimes against women during Covid-19 lockdown period: DCW||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) received 34,454 complaints during the coronavirus pandemic on its 181 helpline and "observed a decrease" in the number of calls related to crimes against women. The panel said a majority of the complaints were related to queries regarding the lockdown, which included enquiries regarding food and interstate movement. The commission received more than 20,000 such calls and provided assistance to the complainants, it said. Panel chief Swati Maliwal said, "It was seen that the reporting of cases had decreased manifold in the initial days of the lockdown. The commission and the Delhi government have taken several steps to create awareness and has encouraged women and girls freely report their issues.” The panel said there has been a decrease in the number of complaints regarding crimes and discrimination against women reported to the commission during the period of the pandemic when compared with the similar period in 2019. For instance, domestic violence complaints for the period March to June in 2019 were 8,188, while the number of complaints received by the commission for the same months during 2020 stands at 6,909, it said. The number of domestic violence cases reported in the initial days of the lockdown was significantly low. It has been noted that as we progress towards normalcy post-lockdown, the reporting of domestic violence and other cases has also started increasing, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/received-less-calls-regarding-crimes-against-women-during-covid-19-lockdown-period-dcw-855270.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||UP govt deferring Covid-19 tests, making it difficult to assess current situation: Akhilesh Yadav||The Uttar Pradesh government is avoiding Covid-19 tests, making it difficult to assess the current situation in the state, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav claimed on Tuesday. As a result of this, it is also difficult to assess when the disease will reach its peak in Uttar Pradesh, he said on Twitter. "Uttar Pradesh is suffering from a law and order problem besides coronavirus. As corona tests are being deferred, the exact situation is unknown, and it is difficult to assess when the disease will reach its peak," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. "The government should disclose how it will prepare to fight the disease when it peaks," he added. The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh has reached 672 with 12 more fatalities reported on Monday. The total number of cases in the state stands at 22,828.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-govt-deferring-covid-19-tests-making-it-difficult-to-assess-current-situation-akhilesh-yadav-855344.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||BJP says 'Make in India', but buys from China: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took a swipe at the BJP over the rising imports from China and said the ruling party says 'Make in India', but buys from China. "Facts don't lie. BJP says: Make in India. BJP does: Buy from China," he said in a tweet along with a graph showing comparative volumes of imports from China during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, showing a rise under the current dispensation. Gandhi has been attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over the India-China border standoff in eastern Ladakh, that led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a violent clash between the troops of the two countries. The former Congress president has also been attacking the government on the 'Make in India' initiative, alleging that it has "failed" to yield results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-says-make-in-india-but-buys-from-china-rahul-gandhi-855364.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Why is PM Modi silent on Chinese forces entering Indian area: Digvijaya Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh has questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "silence" on the Chinese forces entering Indian territory in Ladakh. Demanding a clarification from the PM on the issue, Singh said on Monday night that even defence minister and external affairs minister had said that the Chinese forces had entered Indian territory. "Army officials are also confirming that such an incident had occurred. 20 persons (soldiers) were martyred (in Galwan Valley). Ten Army personnel, including officials, were arrested and later released, but the PM is saying nothing had happened. Then who is speaking the truth?" Singh asked while talking to PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-pm-modi-silent-on-chinese-forces-entering-indian-area-digvijaya-singh-855393.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Ban NaMo app as it violates people's privacy: Prithviraj Chavan||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Prithviraj Chavan on Tuesday demanded a ban on NaMo app alleging that it was violating privacy of Indians. The former Maharashtra chief minister also alleged that the NaMo app, the official mobile phone application of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, surreptitiously changes the privacy settings and sends data to third party companies in the US. "Its good that Modi government is protecting privacy of 130 crore Indians by banning 59 Chinese apps. The NaMo app also violates privacy of Indians by accessing 22 data points, surreptitiously changing the privacy settings and sending data to third party companies in the US," Chavan tweeted. India on Monday banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including hugely popular TikTok and UC Browser, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. The move came against the backdrop of the border stand-off with China and recent clash in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ban-namo-app-as-it-violates-peoples-privacy-prithviraj-chavan-855397.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Focus on handling row with China, Covid-19: Shiv Sena to Centre||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said people were fed up of the war of words between the BJP and Congress over the border standoff with China, and the government should focus on handling the row with the neighbouring country and the coronavirus crisis. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said "China has been adamant and will never change", and the need is to forget the past, tackle the fresh crisis and create a new future for the country. The tension between the two sides escalated after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. Referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's comments that the country will win battles against Covid-19 and the border row with China under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, the Sena said, "The government should focus on these two battles and not on the opposition party. There is no need to be rattled by questions raised by the opposition party." It saida Congress MLA from Rajasthan has demanded to stop the mobile caller tune carrying the message on the need to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and not the patient. "Just like that, somebody should start a caller tune in Delhi that we need to fight China and not political opponents of the government," it said. "Just like we are bored of the calling tune on coronavirus, we are fed up of the BJP-Congress fight and feel the caller tune needs to change," the Marathi daily said. It said "China is intruding in the Galwan valley and making unauthorised constructions". But, instead of giving a befitting reply to China, the ruling party is targeting Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party, it said. "The BJP is saying China gave funds to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation and wants to know what is the relation between China and Congress. The Congress has hit back saying Chinese companies have donated to the PM CARES Fund. China is erecting bunkers and tents on the borders and the BJP-Congress war is going on every day," it said. It said the "pro-BJP social media" was saying NCP chief Sharad Pawar's comment, that there should be no politics over China issue, was a barb at the Congress and Rahul Gandhi. The Sena said the barb may also be aimed at the ruling party. "Who is indulging in politics? Rahul Gandhi's questions are not just bubbles in the water. Perhaps, Sharad Pawar also has the same queries. If China hasn't intruded on our land, why were the 20 soldiers martyred," it asked. On the BJP being prepared for a debate on China (from 1962 onwards), the Sena said, "Forget the past. We need to tackle the fresh crisis in the china case and create a new future for our country. Whether Pandit Nehru or Modi, China has been adamant and will never change." "Pandit Nehru may have made a mistake. But why are you still crawling in 1962? This is 2020," the Sena said. "Nehru was influenced by a different kind of idealism and had blind faith in 'Satyamev Jayate', which is an integral part of the national emblem, while Modi says no matter how grave the crisis, he believes in selfless service," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/focus-on-handling-row-with-china-covid-19-shiv-sena-to-centre-855408.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Banning apps not enough, China needs to be given befitting reply: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||A day after the Centre banned 59 Chinese apps, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that just banning some apps will not yield any result. Addressing media persons at the state secretariat after a cabinet meeting, Banerjee said that China has to be given a 'befitting reply' but Centre has to decide how that will be done. “Just banning some apps will not give any result. We want to give China a befitting reply. But how we do it that they (Centre) have to decide. Otherwise people of the country may ask what is the government’s stand,” said Banerjee. She also said that on one hand, India has to be very aggressive and on the other, continue with diplomacy. However, Banerjee declined to make any further comment, saying that it is an issue of external affairs. “The China incident is an external affairs issue. We never interfere in such matters. Our party’s stand on this is very clear. We will totally support the Centre’s stand in this regard. But if Centre takes any stand against China, we want that should be fully implemented,” said Banerjee. The Chief Minister announced that her government is extending free ration to beneficiaries till June 2021 adding that that the Centre should provide free ration to everyone in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/banning-apps-not-enough-china-needs-to-be-given-befitting-reply-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-855473.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Latest changes on postal ballots to favour ruling party: Sitaram Yechury to EC||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury has written to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, objecting to the "unilateral" measures being taken by the Election Commission that alters the electoral procedures that could lead to instances of "manipulation and malpractice" resulting in "potential favour of the ruling party". He said there was no consultation with political parties both in October last year, when people above the age of 80 years were allowed postal vote, and now in June allowing people above 65 years the option of postal ballots. Yechury said the current changes in rules were contrary to the past practice. "From the media reports we are constrained to infer that the tearing hurry that the ECI displays is on account of the impending Bihar Assembly elections scheduled to be held in November, 2020," he said. He was of the view that a consensus among political parties and the Election Commission is necessary for introducing new voting practices which will adversely affect the verifiability of a large number of voters, "thus, transparency and integrity of the process; not to mention, the leverage available to the incumbent administration in organising the postal ballots". "Our electoral system has always treated physical verifiability of the voters as the bedrock of integrity. With the two amendments to the rules, a very large number of voters will be out of the verifiability matrix. This assumes great significance because of instances of manipulation and malpractice even with the comparatively low number of postal ballots used by service personnel on election duty," he said. "With the unresolved question of opaque electoral bonds on poll funding, which remains pending before the Supreme Court, where the ECI has itself agreed with us that this poses a major challenge in monitoring and supervising income/expenditure, this new use of postal ballots will further aggravate the situation in potential favour of  the ruling party," Yechury said in the letter. On June 19, the Ministry of Law and Justice notified fresh change to allow those aged 65 years and above the option of postal ballots. The amended rules also allow “Covid-19 suspect or affected persons” the same option of postal ballots. Yechury reminded the Election Commission that it had always insisted that it would not unilaterally exercise power given to it under Article 324 that allows "control and superintendence" of elections mandated by the Constitution. He said it had created an "extremely healthy precedent" of recognising the political parties, representing the people, as principal stakeholders. He noted that the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), a major electoral reform, was arrived at through the consensus of the entire spectrum of parties. "Even though this is not backed by statutory empowerment, it has never been questioned. This practice has reinforced transparency in the system earning widespread appreciation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/latest-changes-on-postal-ballots-to-favour-ruling-party-sitaram-yechury-to-ec-855478.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Extension of PMGKAY shows sensitivity of PM Modi, says Union Home Minister Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said the extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), a programme to provide free ration for over 80 crore people, shows the sensitivity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the millions of poor and their welfare. Congratulating the prime minister for extending the scheme till November, Shah also thanked farmers and honest taxpayers of the country, saying their hard work and dedication was helping the benefits reach the poor. "The extension of Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana shows the sensitivity of Shri @NarendraModi ji to the millions of poor and his commitment for their welfare. Nobody slept hungry in a large country like India during the Corona period, thanks to Modiji's foresight and successful implementation of the scheme," he tweeted in Hindi. The prime minister on Tuesday announced extension of the PMGKAY by five more months till November end. In a televised address to the nation, the prime minister said over Rs 90,000 crore will be spent on the programme's extension, and if the last three months expenditure on account of the free ration scheme is added then the total budget will be about Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The scheme was rolled out for three months from April soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced to combat the Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/extension-of-pmgkay-shows-sensitivity-of-pm-modi-says-union-home-minister-amit-shah-855501.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana shows PM Modi's commitment to welfare of poor: BJP chief J P Nadda||The extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) shows Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment to the welfare of the poor, BJP president J P Nadda said on Tuesday. In a televised address to the nation, Modi announced the extension of the PMGKAY, a free ration scheme, for 80 crore people across the country till end of November. Under the scheme, five kgs of wheat or rice and one kg of pulses per month will be given free of cost to the poor. The scheme was initially rolled out for three months. Underlining that Modi is leading the country with alertness and sensitivity during the Covid-19 crisis, Nadda, in a series of tweets, said the prime minister should be applauded for saving lives and livelihood amid this pandemic. Describing the extension of PMGKAY as a visionary step, the BJP chief said this shows Modi's commitment to the welfare of the poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/extension-of-pradhan-mantri-garib-kalyan-anna-yojana-shows-pm-modis-commitment-to-welfare-of-poor-bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-855512.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi again shied way from making strong statement against China: Congress||Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of doing headline management, the Congress on Tuesday said his address to the nation was "much ado about nothing" as he belied expectations and skipped any mention of the border standoff with China. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said Modi did not look the "enemy" in the eye, which was expected of him after a bloody standoff with China in Ladakh on June 15. "Our biggest expectation was that the PM will gather the courage and the will to look at China in the eye and reply to the enemy. Take the enemy head-on and make a very strong statement against what China is doing. But the PM once again shied away," she said. The Congress has been demanding the prime minister to name China as "aggressor" and send a strong message to it after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clash with Chinese troops. On Monday, the government banned 59 mobile applications with Chinese links, including TikTok and UC Browser, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. During his 16-minute televised address on Tuesday, Modi cautioned people against laxity in following government guidelines and taking precautions against the coronavirus. He said India was comparatively better positioned vis-a-vis many other countries because of "timely imposition" of a nationwide lockdown and other decisions of his government. He also announced extension of a central government scheme to provide free ration to over 80 crore people, hit by the pandemic, until November. Shrinate said many had hoped the prime minister would talk about substantive steps to contain the pandemic and putting the economy back on track, but he did not. She said the prime minister only talked about the extension of an existing scheme, which could have been done by issuing a simple notification. "Neither did the prime minister talk about job losses and wage cuts," she said, "nor did he announce the much needed relief to migrant labourers and the poor." Urging Modi to ensure a cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to the poor, the Congress spokesperson said he should keep "raj dharma" and national interest in mind in doing so. The prime minister said everything was well but the truth is "far from that" as India is among the top four nations as far as COVID-19 cases are concerned. India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 5,66,840 on Tuesday with nearly 66 per cent cases reported in June alone. For seven days, the country has been reporting more than 15,000 cases and experts say the pandemic has yet to reach its peak. "There was massive euphoria and build up. At the end of it, the prime minister's address was 'much ado about nothing. We had great expectations from the prime minister. once again he belied our expectations," she said at a virtual press conference. The congress leader said it seems the top priority of the PM is the Bihar elections. "The hype and build up was all aimed at headline management," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-again-shied-way-from-making-strong-statement-against-china-congress-855555.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Ram Madhav takes dig at Rahul; says Emergency will never come back||In an apparent dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP general secretary Ram Madhav on Tuesday said leaders whose grandparents were responsible for imposing Emergency are trying to misguide people by saying that a "mini emergency" like situation exists in the country. Addressing a virtual ‘Yuva Jan Samvad’ rally at Delhi BJP office here, Madhav asserted that Emergency will never come back in the country. Many intellectuals and political leaders are commenting that "mini emergency like situation" exists in the country. They are the people whose grandfathers and grandmothers were responsible for imposition of Emergency in the country in 1975, he said. "Your grandmother imposed Emergency. You would not know as you would be 5-6 years old at that time," the BJP leader said without naming anyone. Madhav asserted that the nationalist forces, including RSS and Jan Sangh, strongly opposed former prime minister Indira Gandhi during Emergency even while suffering brutal atrocities. “Emergency was imposed in the country due to Indira Gandhi's greed for power and saw atrocities and repression, including ban on the press and curtailment of fundamental rights,” he said. “There is no threat to democracy till the BJP is there and Emergency will never come back,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ram-madhav-takes-dig-at-rahul-says-emergency-will-never-come-back-855557.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||At least 10 kg ration required per month to prevent hunger deaths: Left parties on PMGKAY extension||The Left parties on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi extending the PMGKAY scheme to provide 5 kg free ration to the needy is not enough as 10 kg per month is required to prevent hunger deaths. They said extension of the scheme's period had been their demand throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. In a televised address this evening, Modi announced extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) by five months till November end. Under the programme over 80 crore people, mostly poor, will be provided 5 kg of wheat or rice and one kg of pulses. The scheme was rolled out for three months from April, soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of COVID-19. "Bowing to people's protests Modi government has extended the provision of 5 kg grains free for 80 crore people for next 5 months. This falls far short of the required 10 kg per month for 6 months to all needy to prevent hunger deaths," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. "After this announcement, extra foodgrains allocation was only 26 (lakh tonnes) in April & 29 lakh tonnes in May... Modi must release money from the thousands of crores of rupees collected in the private trust fund to combat Covid for free provision of 10 kg grains per month for 6 months to all needy," he said. CPI general secretary D Raja asked the government why they were not addressing the issue of universalising the Public Distribution System (PDS), especially when the godowns have stocks far exceeding the buffer stock range. He said it took a long time for the PM to understand the devastating effects of coronavirus in the country. "The PM for the first time has admitted to huge devastation of livelihood of people, growing hunger crisis and mass unemployment. At such a time, the least he could have done is double the quantity of food grains for each household. "He didn't say a word about the cash transfers or even extending the scope of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act," he said. According to Modi, over Rs 90,000 crore will be spent on PMGKAY's extension, and if the last three months' expenditure on account of the scheme is added, the total budget will be about Rs 1.5 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/at-least-10-kg-ration-required-per-month-to-prevent-hunger-deaths-left-parties-on-pmgkay-extension-855612.html
30-06-2020||National Politics||Congress to air Rahul Gandhi's conversation with 4 nurses working on frontline to combat Covid-19||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's conversation with four Indian nurses working in New Zealand, Australia, the UK and India will be aired on Wednesday during which they will share their experience of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. In the latest episode of conversations that the Congress leader has been holding on the coronavirus pandemic, he will speak to the nurses on a range of subjects such as why Indian nurses are highly regarded all over the world, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a statement. Among other things, the impact of working in a Covid-19 environment on family lives of the nurses will also be discussed. The four Indian nurses -- Anu Ragnat (working in New Zealand), Narendra Singh (working in Australia), Sherlymol Puravady (working in the UK), and Vipin Krishnan (working in AIIMS, Delhi) -- will be in conversation with Gandhi. Krishnan had tested Covid-19 positive but has now recovered, the party said. The conversation will be aired at 10 AM on Wednesday on all social media handles of the party. Gandhi's last conversation as part of the series was with former US diplomat Nicholas Burns on how the coronavirus crisis was reshaping world order. It was aired on June 12. As part of his dialogues with various experts, Gandhi has spoken to leading global economists Raghuram Rajan and Abhijit Banerjee; internationally renowned epidemiologist Johann Giesceke; global public health expert Ashish Jha and Indian industrialist Rajiv Bajaj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-air-rahul-gandhis-conversation-with-4-nurses-working-on-frontline-to-combat-covid-19-855615.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir administration orders suspension of panchayat secretary for misappropriation of funds in Doda||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday ordered suspension of a panchayat secretary for alleged misappropriation of funds earmarked for the 14th Finance Commission in Doda district, officials said. The panchayat secretary was placed under suspension here by District Development Commissioner (DDC) Sagar Doifode till pending enquiry for 'misappropriation' of grant earmarked for the 14th FC, they said. The action was taken in view of the complaints filed against the then secretary panchayat of Barath for making payment against the non-approved work under the 14th Finance Commission plan, the officials said.  Moreover, being the second signatory in respect of payments under the 14th FC head, both the current sarpanchs of the concerned panchayats - Barath A and Barath B - have been served show cause notices to explain their positions as to why proper procedures as per the guidelines issued by the government were not followed, they said. They have been asked to submit their replies in the office of the enquiry officer by or before June 30, failing which disciplinary action as warranted under rules and regulations shall be initiated. The Deputy Commissioner (DC) Doda has also directed the Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Doda to enquire the matter on a priority basis, and shall submit a detailed report in the DC office by or before June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-orders-suspension-of-panchayat-secretary-for-misappropriation-of-funds-in-doda-855269.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Two militants killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Waghama in Anantnag district in south Kashmir this morning after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated. Two militants have been killed in the encounter so far, the official said, adding the identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was being ascertained. This is second encounter in Anantnag district in as many days.  Three militants were killed in the gun battle with security forces at Khulchohar area of the district on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-855306.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Flight carrying 144 students stranded in Ukraine arrives in Madhya Pradesh||A special Air India flight carrying 144 Indian students, who were stranded in Ukraine due to coronavirus-related restrictions, landed at the Indore airport in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday morning, an official said. The flight reached the Devi Ahilyabai Holkar International Airport here via Delhi at 5.16 am, airport director Aryama Sanyal said. She said 144 Indian students stranded in Ukraine arrived here. The passengers were screened at the airport and their belongings were sanitised, she added. A health department official said most of these students were from Madhya Pradesh, including 29 from Indore who have been sent to a quarantine centre in the city for seven days. Besides, some of the returnees also hailed from Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra and they have been sent to their native places, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flight-carrying-144-students-stranded-in-ukraine-arrives-in-madhya-pradesh-855328.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC considering contempt proceedings against DU for withholding info on deferment of online exam||The Delhi High Court has asked the Delhi University why contempt proceedings be not initiated against it and its officers for trying to mislead the court by withholding information on deferment of the online open book exams. The exams, which were scheduled to start from July 1, have been deferred by another 10 days. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was furious with the varsity for not informing it on June 26, the last date of hearing of a plea challenging the conduct of online exams, about the decision to defer the examinations. The bench said it came to know about the same on June 27 from news reports while it was in the middle of dictating an order to dispose of the petition on the basis of the DU's statement that it was geared up to commence exams from July 1. The court said that once DU had told it that it was fully geared up for holding the examinations from July 1, any change in schedule ought to have been communicated to the bench. The DU, in its defence, said the decision was taken after it came to know on June 26 at around 2.20 pm that the mother of its Deputy Registrar (secrecy) tested positive for Covid-19 and the entire family had to be quarantined. Declining to accept the defense, the bench said the high court functions till 4.30 pm, and it could have been informed about the development the same day. "If the stand of the respondent No.4/Delhi University is correct that because a family member of Deputy Registrar (Secrecy) had gone down with Covid-19 and the University came to know that the entire family had to be quarantined only after the matter was over then there was enough time for Delhi University to have reverted back to this Court on the same day or at least the next morning and apprise us". However, "this did not happen," the court said. The court said, "In view of the aforesaid conduct, we are prima facie of the opinion that contempt proceedings ought to be initiated against the Delhi University and its officers for withholding material information from the court and trying to mislead the court." It issued notice to the varsity and sought its stand as to why contempt of court proceedings not be initiated against it and listed the matter for hearing on July 6. The petition had also sought that directions be issued to the Centre for setting up an effective mechanism for visually impaired and specially-abled persons so that educational instructions can be transmitted to them properly and teaching material is provided to them through online mode of teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-considering-contempt-proceedings-against-du-for-withholding-info-on-deferment-of-online-exam-855332.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC extends time for giving suggestions to draft Environment Impact Assessment 2020 till August 11||The Delhi High Court has extended the time till August 11 for giving suggestions to draft Environment Impact Assessment notification, 2020, providing post facto approval to various projects while doing away with public consultation. A bench of Chief Justice D N And Prateek Jalan questioned the Union government questioned the "obstinacy" of the Centre to remove the ambiguity with regard to the notification published on April 11. The court said the process for public consultation was not an obstacle and the response from the Union government has been conspicuously silent on the issue. It said no effort has been made to address its query. According to a writ petition filed by Vikrant Tongad, as per the notification, published on April 11, the last date for submission of the objections on the draft Environmental Impact Assessment notification was June 11, 2020. By another notification on May 8, the last date has been extended by further 60 days. However, there was a typographical error in the said notification of May 8, as the last date for filing objections has been mentioned as June 30, which ought to have been August 11, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-extends-time-for-giving-suggestions-to-draft-environment-impact-assessment-2020-till-august-11-855334.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||UP Congress leader held in connection with violence during anti-CAA stir||Uttar Pradesh Congress minority cell chief Shahnawaz Alam has been arrested in connection with violence during a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the state capital last year, police said on Tuesday. "Alam was arrested from Hazratganj area on Monday night in connection with an FIR registered at the Hazratganj police station in connection with the violent protest during an anti-CAA agitation on December 19 last year. Alam's location was found near the violence spot," a senior police official said. Following the arrest, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra and other party workers reached the Hazratganj police station.  When some party workers started shouting slogans, police resorted to lathi charge. A Congress worker, identified as Shivam Tripathi, and others were injured in the police lathi charge. Ajay Lallu said his party will start an agitation to protest Alam's arrest. "If raising voice against undemocratic steps of the government is wrong, we will continue to do this and raise the voice of common man," he added. He said the government was "working to settle political scores and the way in which Alam was picked by police without any notice is condemnable".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-congress-leader-held-in-connection-with-violence-during-anti-caa-stir-855341.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Man kills 17-year-old daughter over affair in Uttar Pradesh, arrested||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly killed by his father in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich district over an affair she was having after her marriage, police said on Tuesday. The accused, Subhash, allegedly slit his daughter's throat as she was unwilling to record statement against her lover, Chhotkau, in a case filed by him on June 20, Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra said. The accused father was arrested on Monday, he said. The girl was married off some days ago but she was living with her father, the SP said, adding she had an affair with Chhotkau, whose uncle Ibrahim is a village head. The SP said a probe has been ordered into the child marriage. Chhotkau was sent to jail on June 23 after a First Information Report (FIR) was registered against him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) based on a complaint lodged by Subhash. The SP said Subhash also registered an FIR against Ibrahim and others for allegedly murdering his daughter. He said Subhash was allegedly upset with her daughter as she "brought a bad name to" his family due to the affair. PTI COR ABN CK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-kills-17-year-old-daughter-over-affair-in-uttar-pradesh-arrested-855353.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||12th coronavirus-linked death in Jammu, J&K toll at 96||An 85-year-old coronavirus positive woman died at Government Medical College (GMC) hospital here on Tuesday, raising the toll related to Covid-19 to 96 in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The death of the octogenarian from the coronavirus is the 12th in Jammu region and the first from Kathua, her home district, they said. The officials said the patient was suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and was on a ventilator in the isolation ward since her admission to the GMC Hospital Jammu on June 25. Hailing from Basohli village, the patient had tested positive for Covid-19 during treatment at a dedicated facility in Kathua town. She was referred to GMC hospital Jammu, where she breathed her last this morning, they said. Of the total coronavirus-related deaths in the UT, 84 are in the Kashmir Valley. Jammu and Kashmir has recorded a total of 7,237 Coronavirus cases – 5,658 in Kashmir and 1,579 in Jammu region -- till Monday evening. While 4,585 people, including 3,449 in Kashmir, have recovered from the infection, there are still 2,557 active cases, including 432 in the Jammu region.  Among the earlier 11 Covid-related deaths in Jammu region, Jammu district saw a maximum of seven fatalities, while one each coronavirus positive person died in Udhampur, Doda, Rajouri and Poonch districts. The Kashmir Valley, on the other hand, had recorded 84 coronavirus deaths. Srinagar accounts for the maximum Covid-19 deaths in Kashmir with 22 fatalities, followed by Baramulla (15), Kulgam (13), Shopian (11), Budgam (seven), Anantnag (six), Kupwara (five), Pulwama (four) and Bandipora (one).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12th-coronavirus-linked-death-in-jammu-jk-toll-at-96-855371.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan records 4 more Covid-19 fatalities, 94 new cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan rose to 409 on Tuesday with four more fatalities being recorded, while 94 fresh cases took the number of infections to 17,754, according to an official report here. All four deaths were reported in Jodhpur. Sikar reported the highest of 33 cases, while Barmer reported 22. Jaipur and Kota reported 12 and seven cases respectively, the report stated. Five cases were reported in Sirohi, three in Dausa, two each in Ajmer, Nagaur and Pali, and one case each was reported from Tonk, Churu and Sriganganagar. Besides these, three patients from outside the state also tested positive for the virus. As many as 13,640 patients have been discharged so far and 3,397 cases are active in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-records-4-more-covid-19-fatalities-94-new-cases-855375.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Earthquake of 4.0 magnitude hits Jammu region||An earthquake of magnitude 4.0 hit the Jammu region in the early hours of Tuesday, officials said. No casualty or damage to property was reported, they said. The earthquake occurred at 8.56 am and its epicenter was in Bhalasa belt of Doda district, according to the officials. The tremors were also felt in Kishtwar, Ramban, Kathua and Udhampur districts, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-of-40-magnitude-hits-jammu-region-855389.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Unlock 2: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath directs officials to study guidelines, make arrangements||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to study the Centre's guidelines for the month-long 'Unlock 2' beginning July 1, and make arrangements accordingly in the state. On Monday, the Centre issued guidelines for the month-long 'Unlock 2' from Wednesday -- the "phased re-opening" of activities that had been barred to contain the spread of Covid-19 -- and said educational institutions, Metro rail services, cinema halls and gyms will continue to remain shut. 'Unlock 1', a graded exit from the national lockdown imposed on March 25, is due to end on Tuesday. "The guidelines of the Centre should be studied and preparations should be made of accordingly for Unlock 2," Adityanath said during a review meeting with senior officers and ministers at his residence here. It is important to take precautions to stop the spread of Covid-19, and people should avoid all unnecessary movement, he said. "To create awareness among the people, campaigns should be run on radio and TV, besides putting up banners and posters, and distributing handbills etc," the chief minister said.  Adityanath reiterated that testing facilities for Covid-19 and beds in hospitals should be increased, and availability of infrared thermometer and pulse oximeter ensured. He said a cleanliness campaign should be run on mission mode for vector-borne diseases and Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unlock-2-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-directs-officials-to-study-guidelines-make-arrangements-855399.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||At 66.03 per cent, Delhi's coronavirus recovery rate higher than national average||The coronavirus recovery rate in the national capital reached 66.03 per cent on June 29 as against the national rate of 58.67 per cent, according to official figures. In June, the national capital added over 64,000 fresh cases to its tally, while over 47,357 patients recovered, were discharged or migrated. Delhi's recovery rate breached the 50 per cent mark on June 20, after hovering below it for almost a month. At a time when Delhi eclipsed Mumbai's Covid-19 tally, the national capital's recovery rate also gradually increased. On June 19, Delhi's recovery rate was 44.37 per cent while it climbed to 55.14 per cent the next day. Since then, the recovery rate has been on an upward spiral even on days when the case tally breached the 3,000-mark. One June 23, when Delhi reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases, the recovery rate was 59.02 per cent. On June 24, the recovery rate witnessed a slight decrease to 58.86 per cent only to climb to 60.67 per cent the next day. Since then, the recovery rate has stayed above 60 per cent. On June 26, the total number of cases recorded was 77,240 while the number of recovered cases was 47,091 with the recovery rate being 60.96 per cent. The next day, the cases breached the 80,000 mark with the recovery rate also witnessing a slight increase to 61.48 per cent and subsequently climbing to 66.03 per cent on June 29. Between June 15 and June 29, total 40,012 patients recovered with 7,725 patients alone recovering on June 20. During this time, Delhi added 44,015 cases to its tally of cases. Delhi's recovery rate increased to 42.69 per cent on June 18, after staying below the 40 per cent-mark for 13 days, according to official figures. This is the first time in two weeks that the recovery rate had crossed the 40 per cent-mark, amid a surge in infections. Amid a surge in the cases, the national capital has ramped up testing and is also in the middle of conducting a serological survey to assess the spread of infection in the population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-6603-per-cent-delhis-coronavirus-recovery-rate-higher-than-national-average-855424.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Two policemen on patrol duty found dead in Haryana's Sonipat district||Two policemen on patrol duty were found murdered in Haryana's Sonipat district on Tuesday, police said. DGP Manoj Yadava said eight police teams have been formed to solve the case. The bodies of the two policemen were found on the Gohana-Jind road near Butana in the district, police said. Special Police Officer (SPO) Kaptan Singh and Constable Ravinder were killed by unknown people early in the morning, police said, adding that they were on patrol duty. The police team, which reached the spot after receiving information, found the bodies lying in a pool of blood with multiple injuries, they said. Some soda and water bottles were recovered from near the crime scene, a police official in Sonipat said. He said it is possible that the policemen were attacked when they came across some people who were roaming during curfew hours and questioned them. A night curfew is in force for the past several weeks in Haryana as part of the COVID-19 lockdown. DGP Yadava, who was responding to queries of mediapersons at the Haryana Police Academy in Karnal’s Madhuban, said, “Eight police teams have been constituted to solve the case and assailants will be nabbed soon.” “Some anti-social elements committed the crime. As per investigations so far, which I reviewed with the Sonipat and the Rohtak Range ADGP, we are seeing whether any criminal conspiracy is involved in this, whether any gang could be behind this. However, as investigations are underway, I would not like to say anything beyond this except that the case is being investigated from all angles.” “I am quite hopeful that our police will solve this case of blind murder very soon,” he said. Asked if the deceased cops had sustained any bullet injury, the DGP said, “Going by the nature of injuries, it appears that these have been inflicted by a knife but we are not ruling out bullet injuries too and for this, we will have to wait for the post-mortem report.” "But one thing is sure that discharging their duties, they had challenged the accused," he said. The DGP assured stringent action against those behind the killing of the policemen. Replying to a question, Yadava said police will accord the status of a martyr to them as they sacrificed their lives in the line of duty. Terming the incident unfortunate, the DGP said the entire police force is working tirelessly to serve humanity in the COVID-19 situation. He also described it as a major loss to the state police force and added that they will provide all kind of facilities under its welfare schemes to the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-policemen-on-patrol-duty-found-dead-in-haryanas-sonipat-district-855431.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||UP govt trying to cover up unemployment through ads: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday accused the UP government of trying to cover up "massive unemployment" through advertisements, and said the ground realities were far different as 1.5 lakh state residents have left for Mumbai in search of employment. "Uttar Pradesh government made several announcements relating to job creation at an event held recently. But the labourers on the ground have a different story to tell. "There is no work in UP, which is why everybody has been forced to return to their previous places of work. According to data, around 1.5 lakh people from UP have already returned to Mumbai," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "The state government through its event tried to cover up massive unemployment on the ground, but how long advertisements hide the truth," Gandhi said. The Congress general secretary in-charge for Uttar Pradesh has been attacking the UP government on the migrants issue, unemployment and law and order issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-trying-to-cover-up-unemployment-through-ads-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-855460.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Services will remain closed for commuters until further notice: Delhi Metro||Delhi Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice, in view of the 'Unlock 2' guidelines issued by the government, officials said on Tuesday. The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the 'Janata Curfew' was observed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Subsequently, the nationwide lockdown was announced which came into effect from March 25. "Delhi Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice, in view of the guidelines issued by the government," a senior official said. The DMRC also tweeted to announce that services will remain closed. During normal operations days, the average daily ridership of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is over 26 lakh. The Centre on Monday night issued guidelines for the month-long 'Unlock 2' — the "phased re-opening" of activities that had been barred to contain the coronavirus spread in the country — and said educational institutions, Metro Rail services, cinema halls and gyms will continue to remain closed.  The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued the detailed guidelines that will be applicable from July 1, after the 'Unlock 1' phase ends on June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/services-will-remain-closed-for-commuters-until-further-notice-delhi-metro-855464.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Services will remain closed for commuters until further notice: Delhi Metro||Delhi Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice, in view of the 'Unlock 2' guidelines issued by the government, officials said on Tuesday. The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the 'Janata Curfew' was observed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Subsequently, the nationwide lockdown was announced which came into effect from March 25. "Delhi Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice, in view of the guidelines issued by the government," a senior official said. The DMRC also tweeted to announce that services will remain closed. During normal operations days, the average daily ridership of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is over 26 lakh. The Centre on Monday night issued guidelines for the month-long 'Unlock 2' — the "phased re-opening" of activities that had been barred to contain the coronavirus spread in the country — and said educational institutions, Metro Rail services, cinema halls and gyms will continue to remain closed.  The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued the detailed guidelines that will be applicable from July 1, after the 'Unlock 1' phase ends on June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/services-will-remain-closed-for-commuters-until-further-notice-delhi-metro-855466.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||ASHA workers played critical role in Covid-19 management in Uttar Pradesh, tracked 30.43 lakh migrant returnees||In a major exercise, 1.6 lakh accredited social health activists have tracked in two phases over 30.43 lakh migrants who returned to Uttar Pradesh during the Covid-19 lockdown and assisted the state government in contact tracing and community surveillance, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The ASHAs tracked 11.24 lakh migrant returnees in the first phase and 19.19 lakh in the second, the ministry said, adding that they not only identified 7,965 persons with symptoms but also regularly followed up on their health status. "With the surge in the cases of Covid-19 in the country and the influx of migrant population from hotspot areas, one of the major challenges in Uttar Pradesh was to cater to the healthcare needs of returnees and arrest the spread in its rural population.  "ASHAs have played a critical role in supporting the state's Covid-19 management during this crisis," the ministry said. Uttar Pradesh has reported 672 deaths and 22,828 cases so far, according to the Union Health ministry data updated at 8 AM.  The ministry presented a case study of a 20-year-old native of Bahraich district (Huzorpur Block, Nibuhi Kala village), who worked at a juice shop in Mumbai and returned home along with other migrant workers in a truck in early May after travelling for five days.  As soon as Suresh reached home, the local ASHA -- Chandra Prabha -- met him and recorded his details. She informed the Rapid Response Team (RRT) of the district, which advised Suresh to quarantine himself at home, the ministry said. Chandra Prabha also counselled the family members and explained in detail the steps to be taken during home quarantine. She undertook regular follow up visits and kept in touch with the family.  Her alertness, motivational skills and support ensured that as soon as Suresh began experiencing symptoms, he was sent to the Community Health Centre in Chitaura, which is also a designated COVID Care facility. Chandra Prabha also ensured that Suresh's family members and his fellow migrant workers were referred for COVID testing, the ministry said. According to the Union Health ministry's statement, ASHA's have facilitated sample collection from 2,232 returnees of which 203 were found to be positive and were referred to COVID health care services. 'Nigrani Samitis' (Vigilance Committee) have been formed in all the villages under the 'Gram Pradhan'.  The 'samiti' members and volunteer community patrols keep in touch with the ASHAs and provide details of the migrants in a village, who in turn help with the follow up.  "ASHAs have played a critical role in sensitising the communities about the preventive measures to be adopted such as regular hand washing with soap and water, importance of wearing masks when out in public spaces, and maintaining adequate physical distancing," the ministry said. As a result of their efforts, there has been enhanced awareness about essential and non-essential healthcare services and how to access these. The ASHAs are provided basic protective gear like masks, soaps and sanitizers as they go about their duties, it said. ASHAs have assisted the Panchayati Raj Department in development of the community quarantine centers, in buildings like Anganwadi centres and primary schools. They have ensured adoption of Aarogya Setu app at the community level through awareness generation and supporting in its installation, the ministry said. The contribution of ASHAs in non-Covid essential services has been exemplary. At the Ayushman Bharat - Health and Wellness Centres, ASHAs are contributing in conducting line listing of all individuals, risk assessment and mobilization for screening for chronic illness like hypertension, diabetes, three cancers (oral, breast and cervical cancers), TB and leprosy.  They have also been instrumental in providing Reproductive Maternal Neonatal and Child Health (RMNCH) services which were directly affected by the lockdown measures and the necessity of maintaining physical distancing, the ministry said.  They (ASHAs) have created awareness about the availability of these services and helped people to access them, it added. The National Health Mission supports nearly 10 lakh ASHAs in rural and urban areas of most parts of the country. Nearly 1/6 th (1.67 lakh) are from Uttar Pradesh, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asha-workers-played-critical-role-in-covid-19-management-in-uttar-pradesh-tracked-3043-lakh-migrant-returnees-855472.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 25 new Covid-19 deaths, 664 new cases||Uttar Pradesh reported 25 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking their number to 697 as 664 new cases of the infection pushed the state's tally to 23,492. Briefing reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said, "So far, 697 COVID-19 patients have died in the state. The count of active COVID-19 cases stands at 6,711." As many as 16,084 COVID-19 patients have recovered from the disease and have been discharged, he added. "The recovery percentage in the state has increased to 68.46," Prasad said. With this, the number of confirmed cases in Uttar Pradesh climbs to 23,492. It was 22,828 on Monday. Prasad said a new would be launched in the state in which house-to-house surveillance would be undertaken. "A special surveillance drive will be started in the state. The drive will be started in Meerut division on July 2, and it will continue till July 12. In rest of the divisions of the state, it will be held from July 5 to July 15. Under this drive (which will be held on the lines of pulse polio immunisation), house-to-house surveillance will be done, and co-morbidity of the occupants of a house will be recorded," he said. Prasad said houses would be marked with an "S" after completion of surveillance and the date would also be mentioned.  A sticker with information on how to prevent the coronavirus infection will also be pasted on the house. Contact numbers of control rooms of the respective district and the state will be mentioned on it, he said. Prasad also informed that COVID hospitals in the state have more than 1.5 lakh beds. He said a campaign would be launched on prevention of diseases that spread during the monsoon season. "During rainy season, communicable diseases like dengue, malaria, chikungunya and encephalitis spread. A month-long campaign will be started in the state from July 1 to prevent such diseases. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will start the campaign in Lucknow," the official added.  He said various departments like Urban Development, Panchayati Raj and Education among others will work in this campaign. Prasad also informed that ASHA workers will go from door to door from July 16 to July 31, under 'DASTAK' campaign, to spread awareness among people. 'DASTAK' campaign is part of a comprehensive social and behaviour change communication strategy embraced by the state government to contain encephalitis. As part of the campaign, the entire state machinery, with help of UNICEF, goes to districts affected by Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome to spread awareness about the disease through mass media communication, provide clean drinking water, initiate sanitation drives and ensure vaccination and early treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-25-new-covid-19-deaths-664-new-cases-855482.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Groom dies two days after wedding, 101 others test Covid-19 positive||A wedding ceremony in Bihar has set off the biggest coronavirus infection chain in the State where 101 persons, who attended the function, have tested Covid-19 positive.  The groom, who travelled from Gurugram (in Haryana) to Paliganj (in rural Patna) by car, died two days after his wedding. His family members cremated him in a huff without getting the Covid-19 test done or informing the authorities. The health department officials went into a tizzy after getting the news. Altogether 369 persons, including the cook, vegetable vendors, decorators, drivers, helpers, labourers (engaged in the erection of wedding stage) and other guests, were asked for sample tests. Of this, 101 were found to be afflicted with Covid-19. “Initially, 15 of the relatives of the groom tested positive. The groom, who was a software engineer in Haryana, was running with high fever even during his wedding day (June 15). He was reportedly reluctant to marry owing to his poor health condition. However, his father, a school teacher at Paliganj, asked him to take paracetamol and complete the wedding rituals,” said a health department official, wishing not to be identified.  “On June 17, the groom’s condition deteriorated. While being rushed to AIIMS-Patna, he died,” said Dr. Abha Kumari, in-charge of the government hospital in Paliganj. A special camp was eventually organised on June 25-26 in the village where the marriage function took place. “Samples of over 350 persons were collected, out of which 86 tested positive. This excludes the 15 relatives of the groom,” said the source. Patna is one of the worst-affected districts in Bihar with 699 Covid-19 cases and five deaths. The State, which has so far reported 9618 cases, saw the biggest spike on Monday with 394 fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/groom-dies-two-days-after-wedding-101-others-test-covid-19-positive-855489.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi has ensured no one sleeps hungry in country: Prakash Javadekar on extension of Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured no one sleeps hungry in the country, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday, hailing the extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). In a televised address to the nation, Modi announced extension of the PMGKAY, a free ration scheme, for 80 crore people across the country till end of November. Under the scheme, five kgs of wheat or rice and one kg of pulses per month will be given free of cost to the poor. The scheme was initially rolled out for three months. "Eighty crore people which means 16 crore families will get 25 kgs food grains free in next five months, five kgs chana dal free in five months," Javadekar said. "No other country in the world has such a food security scheme. This will take care of food for everybody," he said. This will ensure no one sleeps hungry in the country, the Union minister said and added that the prime minister should be congratulated for this. On the extension of the PMGKAY, Modi said it will cost the government Rs 90,000 crore more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-has-ensured-no-one-sleeps-hungry-in-country-prakash-javadekar-on-extension-of-garib-kalyan-anna-yojana-855498.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||MP Governor Lalji Tandon’s condition serious but under control, Uttarakhand Guv pays visit||Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya on Tuesday visited the Medanta Hospital here to enquire about the health of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon, a senior doctor said. "The condition of Governor of Madhya Pradesh Lalji Tandon is stable. He is still on critical care ventilator support through tracheostomy. A team of medical experts is working for best medical treatment," Medanta Hospital's Medical Director Rakesh Kapoor said in the medical bulletin issued here. "Today (on Tuesday), Governor of Uttarakhand Baby Rani Maurya visited Medanta, Lucknow to know the well-being of Lalji Tandon," he added. Tracheostomy is a medical procedure that involves creating an opening in the neck to insert a tube into the windpipe. Tandon (85), was admitted to the hospital on June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-governor-lalji-tandon-s-condition-serious-but-under-control-uttarakhand-guv-pays-visit-855518.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Four deaths, 338 fresh coronavirus cases in Haryana||Haryana health authorities on Tuesday reported four more coronavirus deaths as the number of infections in the state rose to 14,548 with 338 fresh cases. The worst-hit Faridabad and Gurgaon reported two and one deaths, respectively. One person died from the infection in Palwal, according to the state health department's daily bulletin. The state has so far reported 236 deaths. Gurgaon and Faridabad till now have reported 91 and 77 coronavirus-related fatalities, respectively. Both districts account for over 9,000 infections in the state. The bulletin said currently there are 4,340 active cases in the state. As many as 9,972 people have been discharged from hospitals after treatment. The state's recovery rate on Tuesday was 68.55 percent.  Among the districts which reported fresh cases on Tuesday were Faridabad with 143 infections, Gurgaon 87, Rohtak 28, Karnal 20 and Kaithal 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-deaths-338-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-haryana-855529.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Unlock-2: Rajasthan govt retains most restrictions||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday released guidelines for 'Unlock-2' which will remain in force from July 1 to July 31, retaining most of the restrictions imposed earlier. It said the movement of people for all non-essential services will remain prohibited from 10 pm to 5 am and city bus and metro rail services will remain suspended. "No relaxation of any kind is applicable in containment zones of hotspots and curfew areas except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supplies of essential goods and services," said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeeva Swarup. Under the guidelines, lockdown in containment zones and prohibitions of certain activities in areas outside the containment zones have been extended till July 31. All cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, auditoriums, assembly halls, theatres, bars (except other than in hotels, restaurants and clubs) will remain closed. All religious places in urban and rural areas where more than 50 people visit on a daily basis will remain closed. International travel, schools, colleges, coaching institutes will also remain shut. For marriage ceremonies, permission from sub-divisional magistrate will be required. Not more than 50 guests are allowed, the guidelines stated. The government said in the guidelines that there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unlock-2-rajasthan-govt-retains-most-restrictions-855534.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Despite Covid-19 outbreak, IIT Delhi breaks record of its previous years' campus placements||The Indian Institute of Technology Delhi has broken its previous years' record of campus placements despite economic slowdown triggered by the Covid-19 outbreak and several companies pulling back their job offers, IIT officials said. According to the officials, over 1,100 offers, including multiple pre-placement ones, were made to the institute's graduating students from various national and international organisations. "IIT Delhi has broken all previous year records of job placements. This year, it was observed that the number of placement offers increased by 4 per cent. Approximately, 85.6 pc undergraduate and postgraduate students who availed placement services of the institute got placed," said S Dharmaraja, Head, Office of Career Services (OCS) "The remaining students explored for other options like higher studies, research, civil services examination, start-ups or have got jobs through their own contacts and efforts," he added. Earlier, IIT-Delhi had to re-conduct the second phase of its placement drive as several companies rescinded their offers. During the pandemic, the second phase of placements continued in an online mode, through which around 100 students bagged job offers. "Over 430 organisations had registered for the placement season in the academic year 2019-2020 offering more than 600 job profiles. During the pandemic, the second phase of placements continued in an online mode and around 100 students bagged job offers during this online phase as well," Dharmaja added. Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' had in April asked all the directors of IIT to conduct special placement drive for students affected by the cancelled job offers in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-covid-19-outbreak-iit-delhi-breaks-record-of-its-previous-years-campus-placements-855544.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi government sets ball rolling for setting up 'plasma bank'||The Delhi government has set the ball rolling to establish the first-of-its-kind ''plasma bank'' for treatment of COVID-19 at a facility here and its modalities are being worked out, sources said on Tuesday. The bank is being set up at the Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and doctors or hospitals will have to approach it if plasma is required for treatment of a COVID-19 patient. Addressing an online media briefing on Monday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the bank will be operational in the next two days. The move comes as convalescent plasma therapy has shown "encouraging" results in city hospitals, he had said. Sources said the facility where the plasma will be drawn from one person to donate to a COVID-19 patient, is being set up on the serving floor of the ILBS. The plasma itself can be stored in the blood bank facility in a separate pack, a source said. According to experts, plasma needs cryogenic storage at minus 80 degrees Celsius or less. "Delhi heath department is making all the arrangements, some equipment needed for the procedure, might also be coming for the bank," the source said. Each donor, a person who has recently recovered from COVID-19, develops antibodies, which is transferred to the recipient through plasma. "Each person can donate 250-500 ml of plasma. We give first dosage of 250 ml to the recipient, and if needed second dosage of 250 ml after 24 hours," a senior doctor at a Delhi government hospital said. If a donor had given only 250 ml of plasma once, he or she can donate another 250 ml of it after a few days, the doctor said. Asked what are the pre-conditions for a donor to be considered fit for plasma donation, he said, the donor should not have any co-morbidities, and should not be suffering from HIV, hepatitis or renal problems. Plasma is separated from the blood of donor using a plasmapheresis machine. "This machine separates plasma and RBC, and the plasma is then stored in a blood bank and then donated to patients as per the need," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-government-sets-ball-rolling-for-setting-up-plasma-bank-855596.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Health experts teams to do regular, surprise inspections of Covid-19 facilities in Delhi||The three teams of medical experts constituted by the Union health ministry will conduct regular and surprise inspections at various COVID hospitals in the national capital, officials said. Each of the three teams will have domain experts from the AIIMS, Directorate General of Health Services in the Union health ministry, Delhi government and civic bodies. "The teams will conduct inspections and submit their report for the preceding week to the Secretary, health ministry and Chief Secretary of Delhi every week by 5 pm on next Tuesday," according to an order issued by the Delhi health department on June 29. It said, the Union health ministry on June 14 had constituted the three teams of domain knowledge experts comprising doctors from the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences, Delhi, DGHS (Health Ministry) and the Delhi government, assisted by officers from municipal bodies. The aim is rapid assessment of the existing capacity, patient care amenities and associated aspects of the COVID care facilities under the supervision of the Delhi government in order to have efficient and timely decision-making, the order said. The teams shall perform the work as per the orders of the Supreme Court on June 19, officials said. The order said it is directed that the teams will inspect each of the dedicated COVID hospitals in Delhi, as per the plan, on a weekly basis and also conduct surprise visits, and suggest specific measures for betterment of facilities and patient care services. "The doctors from AIIMS and DGHS are empowered to co-opt other doctors from their institutes or organisation to assist them in this endeavour," it said. First team will inspect nine hospitals, including LNJP Hospital, Max Hospital, Shalimar Bagh and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, the order said. Second team will visit facilities, including GTB Hospital and Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital. The third team of experts will inspect hospitals, including Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Okhla and Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/health-experts-teams-to-do-regular-surprise-inspections-of-covid-19-facilities-in-delhi-855605.html
30-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir L-G Murmu allays apprehensions over new domicile law||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Girish Chander Murmu on Tuesday sought to allay apprehensions that outsiders will occupy land under the new domicile law and said it is aimed at bringing economic prosperity to the new union territory. Incidents of violence have gone down in Jammu and Kashmir after the imposition of President's rule, Murmu told PTI in an interview. Had any Gujarati become a “problem” by setting up an industrial unit in Mumbai, he asked while explaining his position on the change in the domicile law. "There can be more than lakhs of crores (of rupees) of investment. Earlier, there was a big barrier, whether we (investors) have to go to J-K or not.... If some Gujarati set up an industrial unit in Mumbai, has any Gujarati become a problem. They (people of Jammu and Kashmir) have been fed (this fear) psychologically,” he said. Noting that propaganda by certain quarters has created apprehension in the minds of the people, the Lieutenant Governor said, "Please see our intention. What we are going to do. People should not fall for anybody's propaganda. Our one-point agenda is the development and creating (job) opportunity for the youth. Our target is a prosperous Jammu and Kashmir." "Law and order situation has largely improved after the imposition of President's rule. We can say there is largely peace prevailing (in Jammu and Kashmir)," Murmu said. "There have been no untoward incidents reported, in which there is public participation. People have been tolerant. No one has created any law and order situation. All have cooperated. Everything is moving smoothly," he said. The Lieutenant Governor said that as far as terrorism is concerned, it is also under control to a large extent. "The armed forces and police have got major successes in anti-terrorism operations. In some areas, terrorist cadres have been eliminated," he added. Requesting the people not to "mix facts with fiction" and to consider his administration's "intention" of ensuring a developed and prosperous Jammu and Kashmir, Murmu said the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that accorded special status to the erstwhile state would help attract industries and investment and create jobs. After the abrogation of Article 370 provisions, there is “a new ray of hope” among people across the country, who now think that they can come here and set up their units too, do business and ensure economic prosperity, he told PTI in an interview at the Raj Bhavan here. People should understand that those who come from outside Jammu and Kashmir, do not come here to occupy land, he said and sought participation of the people in the development journey of the newly created Union Territory. “We appeal to the people for ensuring public participation. We have to do a lot. Please do not mix facts with fiction. Please see the facts,” he said. Murmu was responding to a question about the apprehension of the people of Jammu and Kashmir that a large number of the people will come from outside and settle here following the abrogation of Article 370 and framing of new domicile rules. There has been social media propaganda by several sections of people in Jammu and Kashmir that people from outside will come in large numbers and settle in the Union Territory, leading to a demographic change. Some people used social media to also give a call for defying and opposing the grant of domicile. Provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution were abrogated in August last year and the state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Subsequently, the Jammu and Kashmir administration framed new domicile rules. As per the new domicile law, non-permanent residents who have residency proof of at least 15 years in J-K are entitled to get domicile certificates. Prior to the nullification of Article 370 and Article 35A, only state subjects were allowed to buy land and apply for government jobs in Jammu and Kashmir. Asking people to take part in the process of industrialisation of Jammu and Kashmir, the L-G said that they themselves should set up factories. “Who have refused you. On one hand, they will not do (it) themselves and on the other, they will not help those from the other side to do so. How is it possible?” Murmu asked. “For a strong and empowered Bharat, there is a need for strong J-K and empowered people. Development in one corner of India cannot be called the development of the entire region... Let us empower ourselves,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-murmu-allays-apprehensions-over-new-domicile-law-855618.html
30-06-2020||Opinion||Will 2020 turn out to be PM Narendra Modi’s 1962 moment?||In the latest episode of his radio talk show ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi drew attention to what he described an “endless topic of discussion among people”: “When will this year go by?" He elaborated on this lament and correctly observed that barely "six-seven months ago, little did we know about the catastrophe that corona is, nor had one expected the fight to go on this long!"  And if this was not enough, there were other reasons to be overburdened – administratively and psychologically too, at both governmental and at the people's levels.  There have been two cyclones – Amphan in the east and Nisarga in the west – swarming locusts, intermittent low-intensity earthquakes creating fears of a major rupture on a fault surface somewhere.  And the last dimension of the problems dogging India, which is in no manner least in making citizens wonder when will it be time again to flip the page on the calendar, is certainly not the least: "Amidst all these, the country has had to deal with the designs of some of our neighbours," the PM remarked. Modi’s toughest test In this season of an epidemic of adversities, the sternest test in Modi's prime ministerial innings beginning 2014, is undeniably the confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh. The prime minister and his advisers certainly failed to anticipate that Beijing would use the cover of the pandemic induced lockdown to press the accelerator on its expansionist desire in sections of the LAC where India is militarily disadvantaged. With the initiative out of its hand, New Delhi has little option but to choose a settlement on China's terms or opt for a path of conflict that would have enormous collateral cost.  Over the last three months, since he ordered complete lockdown on March 24, Modi has reiterated on multiple occasions that "challenges are opportunities." Despite the bravado on display and the articulation of hope that India will ‘attain newer goals, reach newer heights with all new wings,’ Modi has yet to find either way out of the labyrinthian crisis, undoubtedly the most challenging in his political career, or display that he is fully in grip of the situation with a coherent strategy in place to tackle each of the crises he listed.  The COVID-19 conundrum  A few words about the Modi narrative on Covid-19. The prime minister had held that India has 'done better' than many other nations, by 'timely' lockdown and that the government has 'sufficiently' provided all-round assistance to migrants returning home besides already initiating 'adequate' steps to kick start business at all levels. But, contrary to claims, unanimity prevails among independent experts and ordinary people alike, that the 'worst' is yet to come. Epidemiologists have warned that the number of new Covid-19 cases is likely to rise significantly higher than the current figure of almost 20,000 a day. Likewise, the number of fatalities is also set to rise appreciably from the present mark of approximately 16,500.  Added to this is suspicion that the number of active cases is much higher because of inadequate testing and opaque information network. The Covid-19 pandemic has been an instance of a squandered opportunity of securing people's faith in official figures. The same is the case in regard to figures doled out by the government, senior ministers and even Modi regarding the extent and nature of aid and assistance provided to migrant labourers and steps being taken to restart the economy. Still the people’s favourite, but for how long? There is no evidence yet of erosion in people's faith in Modi's ability to extricate the people from the misery of decimated savings and joblessness leading to hunger amid fear of the dreaded coronavirus. But, belief in the ability of the system to provide relief is running low as the middle classes continue to receive termination letters or information of massive salary cuts by mail, keep being asked by their bosses in the office about what 'more' they can do besides their designated tasks while those in the unorganised sector, especially daily wage earners receive 'no work' slips. The biggest worry for Modi is the damage to his image of a far-sighted administrator. From the time of the pandemic's outbreak, the prime minister has failed to match up to his image. There is no knowing when this becomes a factor in political and electoral choices of masses. Insofar as the state of affairs with China is concerned, Modi faces a tougher task in warding off the possibility of 2020 shaping up into what 1962 was to Nehru. True, the prime minister has an advantage over his predecessor, whose memory has been at receiving end of Modi's barbs incessantly, of the Chinese not occupying large tracts of land as in 1962. But the disadvantage is the no-nonsense Maximum Leader image he created for he is unable to live up to it. People perpetually expect him to 'talk tough', given how the ghar mein ghus kar mara (entered their territory to strike at them) idea that's been peddled consistently since the so-named ‘Surgical Strikes’. The hitch, however, is that jingoism isn't the Indian regime's monopoly. In the Xi Jinping era, the Chinese political leadership has been equally consistent in pursuing hyper nationalistic tactics. A situation of his own making Post-2014, the notion of 'victory' has been essential to the construction of the idea of muscular nationalism led by a State that is anything but 'soft'. But sadly, unless the script changes dramatically, Bollywood will not find an opportunity to make a film titled ‘Galwan!’ Since Modi was voted back to the office in May 2019, the government flexed muscles over Pakistan Occupied Kashmir and Aksai Chin. The decision to continue dialogue with Beijing amidst opacity over Chinese intrusion and Indian control or access to territories previously perceived on the Indian side of the LAC would strike at the root of the perception of Modi being a decisive and courageous leader.  But, in an attempt to give sense to people that the government has 'struck', the effort will be branch into other fronts – for instance, the 'ban Chinese products' campaign endorsed by Modi in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and subsequently embarked on officially by the ban on 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok, ShareIt, UC Browser. There is a distinct possibility of Modi being tempted to embark on several 'sideshows' like the ban to give a sense of 'victory' while he accepts a Chinese deal over Ladakh.  Clearly boxed, or in a Catch-22 situation, the prime minister is aware that not just his supporters, but even the global community is watching his next move. The next steps of Modi will have bearing on multiple issues ranging from his international stature to retaining the 'aura' of an unyielding nationalistic leader, especially where territorial matters are at stake, besides of course deciding if 2020 will shape out to be the year he would like to forget. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-2020-turn-out-to-be-pm-narendra-modi-s-1962-moment-855359.html
30-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu transfers custodial deaths case to CBI; court summons policemen||Tamil Nadu government on Monday night transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) the case relating to the alleged custodial deaths of a father and his son in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district. An order signed by S K Prabhakar, an additional chief secretary to the Tamil Nadu government, said the Director-General of Police (DGP) has requested the state government to transfer the case from the Kovilpatti police station to the CBI in order to “facilitate a free and fair investigation.” The order also noted the observations made by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which took suo moto cognizance of the case, that it will have no say in the government’s decision to transfer the case to CBI as it is a policy decision. The notification by the government comes hours after the Madurai Bench, initiated contempt proceedings against two police officers and a constable from Thoothukudi district for preventing a Judicial Magistrate appointed by it from conducting an enquiry into the alleged custodial deaths. The contempt proceedings came after the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate (JM), M S Bharathidasan, submitted a report to the high court bench narrating the events at the Sathankulam Police station, where the duo were allegedly tortured, on Sunday evening when he went to conduct the enquiry. In the report, the JM said a police constable, Maharajan, made a “very disparaging remark” against him in the presence of D Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, and C Prathapan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, even as policemen at the station recorded videos of the proceedings. “You cannot pluck anything,” the constable told the Judicial Magistrate, according to the suo-motu contempt petition, a copy of which was accessed by DH. Taking a serious view of the report by the JM, the division bench of P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi ordered the aforementioned policemen to appear before it at 10.30 am on Tuesday (June 30).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-transfers-custodial-deaths-case-to-cbi-court-summons-policemen-855245.html
30-06-2020||South||UDF expels Kerala Congress faction led by Jose K Mani||Kerala Congress (M) party’s faction led by founder leader K M Mani’s son and Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani was expelled from the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) accusing it of not following an understanding to share a panchayat president post with the faction led by veteran leader P J Joseph. Kerala Congress (M) founded by K M Mani was a key constituent of the UDF over the last 38 years, except for brief exists in between. The party was enjoying considerable support in Kottayam and Idukki districts. However, the party suffered a major embarrassment after in lost the Pala seat held by K M Mani for 54 years until his death last year. Of the five MLAs of Kerala Congress (M) party, Jose K Mani enjoyed the support of two. With in hours of the Mani faction's expulsion from UDF,  BJP sent a welcome gesture with BJP state president K Surendran said that any party's that accepts Narendra Modi's policies can join hands with BJP. The CPM-led left front might also explore the options of wooing the faction. The present row is over Kottayam district panchayat post. As per an understanding made last year, the panchayat president post was shared between the Mani and Joseph factions and Sebastian Kulathungal of the Mani faction was made the president for eight months. But now the Mani faction reportedly refused to leave the post to the Joseph faction, despite directive of UDF leaders. UDF convenor and Congress leader Benny Behanan said that Jose K Mani had not followed the instruction of the UDF leadership and hence they have no right to continue in the front. Jose K Mani termed the decision as an political injustice towards. It was indeed K M Mani, who stood with the UDF over the last 38 years and played key role in building up the front that was being expelled. The party steering committee meeting on Tuesday would take a decision of further course of action. Within hours of the Mani faction’s expulsion from UDF, the BJP sent a welcome gesture with BJP state president K Surendran saying that any parties that accept Narendra Modi’s policies can join hands with BJP. The CPM-led Left front might also explore the options of wooing the faction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/udf-expels-kerala-congress-faction-led-by-jose-k-mani-855247.html
30-06-2020||South||Custodial deaths haunt Tamil Nadu police station||Footage recorded in a CCTV camera near the shop of Emmanuel Bennix and his father P Jeyaraj, who were killed allegedly in police custody, clearly contradicts the First Information Report (FIR) filed by the Sathankulam Police which said that the duo “rolled on the road” and entered into an argument with them before their arrest. The CCTV footage bust all the “lies” mentioned in the FIR – there was neither a crowd nor Jeyaraj and Bennix argued with the police. Also, the footage shows Jeyaraj engaging with the police and getting into the police vehicle smashing the claim in the FIR that they squatted on the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/custodial-deaths-haunt-tamil-nadu-police-station-855271.html
30-06-2020||South||Custodial deaths case: Hours before hearing, Tamil Nadu govt places 2 officers under wait list, suspends constable ||Hours before they were to appear before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in connection with the custodial deaths of a father and his son, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday put two police officers and a constable from Thoothukudi district on wait list and under suspension, respectively.  While D Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, and C Prathapan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, were placed on the waiting list, constable Maharajan was suspended.  The action came hours before they were to appear before a division bench of P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi. The bench had ordered the aforementioned policemen to appear before it at 10.30 am on Tuesday (June 30) after the Kovilpatti Magistrate, who is probing into the custodial deaths, accused them of non-cooperation.  In a detailed report to the judges, the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate (JM), M S Bharathidasan narrated the events at the Sathankulam Police station, where the duo was allegedly tortured on Sunday evening when he went to conduct the enquiry. In the report, the JM said a police constable, Maharajan, made a “very disparaging remark” against him in the presence of D Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, and C Prathapan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, even as policemen at the station recorded videos of the proceedings. “You cannot pluck anything,” the constable told the Judicial Magistrate, according to the suo motu contempt petition, a copy of which was accessed by DH.  Hours after the contempt proceedings were initiated, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday night transferred the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).  An order signed by S K Prabhakar, additional chief secretary to the Tamil Nadu government, said the Director General of Police (DGP) has requested the state government to transfer the case from the Kovilpatti police station to the CBI in order to “facilitate a free and fair investigation.” The order also noted the observations made by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which took suo moto cognizance of the case, that it will have no say in the government’s decision to transfer the case to CBI as it is a policy decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/custodial-deaths-case-hours-before-hearing-tamil-nadu-govt-places-2-officers-under-wait-list-suspends-constable-855304.html
30-06-2020||South||2 dead, 4 others affected in another gas leak in Vizag||Two Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited employees were killed and four others were affected due to another gas leak in Vizag on Tuesday morning. The benzimidazole leak at Sainor Life Sciences was located in the pharma city at Parawada in Visakhapatnam. The incident appeared to have taken place around midnight when the chemical was being loaded into a reactor and was discovered on Tuesday morning. The deceased have been identified as shift in-charge Raavi Narendra (33) and chemist Gowri Shankar (26). They died while they were being transported to the hospital. Their bodies were shifted to the government King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam for post-mortem. The four others who also inhaled gas were shifted to a private hospital in Gajuwaka and are undergoing treatment. One of the four is on a ventilator while the remaining three are out of danger, officials told the chief minister. District Collector Vinay Chand and Commissioner of Police RK Meena visited the site of the mishap. They posed questions about the management of the unit and what could have led to the gas leak. The collector has ordered an inquiry and Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy is reviewing the situation from Amaravati. The leak has been contained and there is no need to panic, said CP Meena, adding that an FIR has been registered against the company. A reactor blast at the same unit killed two workers three years ago, according to police. The May 7 styrene gas leak from LG Polymers plant at Gopalapatnam near Vizag had spread for several kilometres, killing 12 villagers and hospitalising more than 500 people. None of the people inside the unit was affected in the LG case. The latest incident has frightened locals especially in Parawada where several pharma companies are located since it has occurred within two months of the LG plant styrene gas leak. Expressing shock over the mishap, TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu demanded that the YSRCP government immediately provide the best medical treatment possible to those injured, while providing the necessary support and assistance to the kin of the deceased. The former chief minister called it an alarming situation that people of the port city recovering from the shock of the LG Polymers tragedy are now facing another poisonous gas leak. A pipeline blast and ammonia leakage caused the death of a senior manager at SPY Agros, a private distillery, near Nandyala in Kurnool district on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-dead-4-others-affected-in-another-gas-leak-in-vizag-855305.html
30-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt employee assaults female colleague for asking him to wear mask||In a shocking incident, a manager of Andhra Pradesh tourism department office in Nellore brutally attacked a woman employee at her desk with a wooden stump and an iron object, for she told him to wear a mask while in office and interacting with colleagues. The incident took place on June 27 but came to light on Tuesday morning through the shocking CCTV visuals of the attack. In the footage, the accused C Bhaskar, deputy manager in the AP tourism’s local office, is seen rushing towards the lady, yanked her down to the floor pulling her tresses and thrashed her brutally, even as other colleagues tried to stop him. According to police inspector M Nageswaramma, Usha Rani is a senior assistant in the tourism office. “There was an altercation between the two over him not wearing a mask. A case was registered on the same day. The culprit is in our custody and being sent for remand now.” Bhaskar is booked under IPC sections 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 355 (assault with intent to dishonor a person) based on a complaint by the aggrieved woman. Pravin Kumar, MD of AP Tourism Development Corporation said that Bhaskar has been suspended with immediate effect after receiving the complaint from the woman employee. Disciplinary proceedings are contemplated with an enquiry committee formed, the official said. While appreciating swift action from the Nellore police, AP DGP Gautam Sawang asked Nellore SP Bhaskar Bhushan to ensure that Disha police station takes up investigation and chargesheet is filed in the case in a week. “Crime against women is unacceptable,” Sawang said. Disha police stations were set up by the Jaganmohan Reddy government for women protection, following the rape and murder of a young veterinarian in Hyderabad in November last year. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh stood at 14,595, with 704 new cases reported on Tuesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-employee-assaults-female-colleague-for-asking-him-to-wear-mask-855417.html
30-06-2020||South||SHRC issues notice to top cop over beating up of minor boy in Tamil Nadu||Taking note of a video purportedly showing a minor boy being beaten up by police here, the Tamil Nadu State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has issued notice to the city Police Commissioner seeking a detailed report within two weeks. The boy was beaten up over alleged lockdown violations by his parents who run an eatery in the city. The SHRC action comes amid the public outrage over the death of a father-son duo in Tuticorin district due to alleged police torture. The Commission issued the notice to Coimbatore police commissioner Sumit Saran seeking a report on the incident within two weeks, police sources said. The video of the incident that took place in Rathinapuri here on June 17 has gone viral. In the clip, the sub-inspector is seen asking an elderly couple to shut their eatery as it was open beyond the restricted lockdown hours following which an argument ensues between them, which was captured by the couple's 16-year-old son on his mobile phone. It was alleged that the boy removed the SI's motorcycle key after the police snatched his phone. The SI then allegedly beat the boy up and threatened to lodge him in jail. Though the boy was taken to a police station, he was later let off since he was a minor studying in class nine, the sources said. The video surfaced after the Tuticorin incident sparked an outcry in the country and brought into focus alleged police excesses||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shrc-issues-notice-to-top-cop-over-beating-up-of-minor-boy-in-tamil-nadu-855477.html
30-06-2020||South||98.82% passed Kerala SSLC exams conducted amid Covid-19||Kerala SSLC examination results were announced on Tuesday with 98.82 percent of students becoming eligible for higher studies. The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala has more reasons to cheer as the exams were conducted in two phases amid the pandemic. As many as 4,22,092 students wrote the exam in 2,945 centres spread across Kerala, Lakshadweep, and Gulf countries. The pass percent during last year was 98.11 percent. A total of 41,906 percent of students secured A+ in all subjects. As many as 1,837 schools secured 100 percent pass. Kerala government's decision to conduct the pending SSLC examinations at the end of May, despite the Covid-19 cases witnessing a hike, had triggered strong criticism from the opposition parties. A section of parents and students also shared concerns about Covid-19 spread. However, the government took adequate safety measures and managed to avoid a Covid-19 spread during the examinations. While the first phase of the exams was held from March 10 to 19, the second phase was held from May 26 to 28. The results are available on the following websites. keralapareekshabhavan.in, sslcexam.kerala.gov.in, results.kerala.nic.in, prd.kerala.gov.in andsietkerala.gov.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/9882-passed-kerala-sslc-exams-conducted-amid-covid-19-855484.html
30-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 704 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 14,595||A total of 704 Covid-19 cases were added in Andhra Pradesh, taking the overall tally in the state to 14,595 on Tuesday. The toll rose to 187 with seven fresh casualties, according to the latest health department bulletin. Since June 1, when Unlock 1.0 began, the state has witnessed a rapid surge in coronavirus infections as a staggering 10,919 cases were added this month, the government data showed. From March 12, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state, to May 31, the total number of cases in the state stood at 3,676. Of the total 14,595 cases, health officials point out, 12,202 were local people while 1,997 were returnees from other states and 396 from other countries. But the surge in the local cases has also been not insignificant as 8,526 were added in the last 30 days. A total of 3,118 local cases were registered in the state from March 12 to May 31. Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas (Nani), however, denied the containment measures failed to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state. "We have been strictly implementing all guidelines stipulated by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Central Government. Accordingly, we have been taking containment measures," Nani said. He said people should be cautious and take all steps to prevent contamination. There is no other way, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-704-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-14595-855494.html
30-06-2020||South||Pre-school students in Kerala to have online learning programme from tomorrow||After commencing online classes for over 40 lakh students from Class 1 to 12, the Kerala government is now launching an online programme targeting 13.6 lakh pre-school children in three to six age group. A 30-minute programme titled 'Kilikonjal' will be aired on the government-run Victers education channel from July 1. Activities for the overall development of children will be included in the programme .  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 13,68,553 students in the three to six age group in the state were confined to their homes over the last few months owing to the lockdown. Extensive viewing of cartoon programs and mobile phone use as well as lack of interaction with other children would affect the development of children. Considering these, the government initiated the online programme for children.  Language development, developing creative skills, imparting knowledge, social development, and development of senses are the aims of the programme to be aired from 8 am to 8.30 am. The contents were developed by various government agencies working in the fields of child development and education. Meanwhile, the state government is distributing food kits comprising rice and provision items to 26.26 lakh students from pre-primary to the eighth standard under the noon meal scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pre-school-students-in-kerala-to-have-online-learning-programme-from-tomorrow-855506.html
30-06-2020||South||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu's coronavirus tally crosses 90,000||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 tally crossed the 90,000 mark with nearly 4,000 fresh cases for the third consecutive day on Tuesday and with 60 more deaths, the toll touched 1,201, the government said. Chennai recorded the highest single day increase of 2,393 cases and the remainder was spread across the state, a health department bulletin said. While the State capital's cumulative share of virus cases till date was 58,327, Tamil Nadu's tally stood at 90,167.  Today is the third consecutive day of nearly 4,000 cases. Sunday and Monday witnessed 3,940 and 3,949 fresh cases respectively in the state. While 2,325 patients were discharged, in total, 50,074 people have recovered and active cases stood at 38,889. Sixty people died in various hospitals, among whom 57 had co-morbidities, while the toll stood at 1,201. The deceased include two women, a 95-year-old and a 35- year old and both had co-morbidities. A total of 30,242 samples were tested today and cumulatively 11,70,683 specimens have been examined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadus-coronavirus-tally-crosses-90000-855522.html
30-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Minister tests positive for coronavirus||Tamil Nadu Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan has tested positive for coronavirus, a hospital said here on Tuesday. The Minister initially showed no symptoms and his CT scan was normal, but as a precautionary measure he was kept under observation, MIOT International said in a statement. "Subsequently, his second sample tested positive for Covid-19. He developed mild cough yesterday (June 29) and is being treated for the same," the hospital said, adding that the Minister is "at present very stable and all vital parameters are normal." The Minister, holding the portfolios of higher education including technical education, electronics, science and technology, has been undergoing treatment at the hospital for about a week, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-855527.html
30-06-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 704 Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 14,595||A total of 704 Covid-19 cases were added in Andhra Pradesh, taking the overall tally to 14,595 on Tuesday. The toll rose to 187 with seven fresh deaths, according to the latest health department bulletin. Since June 1, when Unlock 1.0 began, the state has witnessed a rapid surge in coronavirus infections as a staggering 10,919 cases were added this month, the government data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-704-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-14595-855538.html
30-06-2020||South||23 more CISF personnel in Kannur test Covid-19 positive||As many as 23 more CISF personnel of Kannur district were among the 131 more fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Kerala on Tuesday, while one more Covid-19 death was reported in the state, taking the total deaths to 24. Health department sources have raised doubts that improper quarantine could be leading to the high number of CISF personnel being tested COVID positive. So far over 40 CISF personnel in Kannur were tested Covid-19 positive. All were under quarantine in their camp after returning from native places in other states. There were serious concerns over their quarantine facility as all were kept in a hall and using common toilets, said an official. CISF officials were not available for comments. Though the CISF officials were attached to the Kannur airport security wing, no one tested positive so far had turned up for duty recently as they were quarantined. Hence the risk of the infection spreading to air passengers from them could be ruled out. A 76-year old Thiruvananthapuram native who recently returned from Delhi and died on June 27 was now tested Covid-19 positive. As many as 75 persons recovered from Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of infected to 2,112.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/23-more-cisf-personnel-in-kannur-test-covid-19-positive-855556.html
30-06-2020||South||High Court transfers custodial deaths case to CB-CID||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday transferred the investigation into the custodial deaths of a father and his son to the CB-CID as it expressed the fear that crucial evidence could get dissipated by the time the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took over the probe. The court also said the “anti-mortem” injuries found on the bodies of P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix, who were killed allegedly in police custody, and the statement by a woman head constable of the Sathankulam police station that the duo was “beaten through the night” was “prima facie enough” to charge the policemen involved in the incident for murder. Even as the hearing in the court was underway, the Tamil Nadu government shunted out Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police (SP) Arun Balagopalan and replaced him with Villupuram SP S Jeyakumar. It also appointed S Murugan as the IG, South, Madurai Range in place of K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran who retired on Tuesday. Balagopalan is placed on the compulsory waitlist. However, the fresh appointments also triggered controversy due to allegations against the two officers. While Murugan is accused of sexually harassing a woman police officer, Jeyakumar was questioned by the CBI in connection with the multi-crore gutkha scam. A case against Murugan is pending before the Madras High Court. The government also placed D Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, and C Prathapan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi on the “compulsory wait list” and suspended constable Maharajan. However, the two officers were given postings within hours. They appeared before the court on Tuesday after they were summoned following JM’s complaint that the constable used disparaging remarks against him in the presence of the two officers. A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi appointed Anil Kumar, the Deputy Superintendent of Police, CB-CID, Tirunelveli, as the Investigating Officer (IO) of the case and asked him to proceed further without waiting for any formal order from the DGP. The government had on Monday night issued a formal order transferring the case of the custodial deaths of the father-son duo to the CBI. The division bench also told the Tamil Nadu government that it was open for it to “revisit the idea” of entrusting the matter to the CBI, if it is satisfied that the probe by the IO is proceeding on the right lines. Taking strong note of the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate M S Bharathidasan’s report in which, he has explained how he was intimidated by policemen inside the Sathankulam police station on June 28 during the inquiry, the division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi said they are being constrained to step in to ensure precious evidence does not get dissipated. The court also noted that a woman head constable from the Sathankulam police station has testified before the JM that policemen mercilessly beat Jeyaraj and Bennix through the night after they were arrested on July 19. “In our opinion, the ante-mortem injuries found on the bodies of the deceased, coupled with the averments in the report of the learned Judicial Magistrate No.1, Kovilpatti, especially the statement of Revathy, Head Constable, would be prima facie enough to alter the case to one under Section 302 IPC against the Sathankulam policemen who were actively involved in the investigation of the case,” the court said. After taking Jeyaraj and Bennix into custody during which they were alleged to have been tortured, the police shifted them to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 21. However, the son died on June 22 and the father on June 23 due to injuries sustained during the custody. While asking the Thoothukudi district collector to ensure the safety of the policewoman and her family members, the bench also suggested that she may even be granted leave from duty as “we fear that there will be an attempt to intimidate her and make her resile from her version” given to the JM. In the report, JM complained that the Sathankulam police did not cooperate with him during the enquiry and made things quite difficult for him and his team. The JM noted that the woman head constable, who testified before him, was anxious while recording her statement and was in constant fear. “The constable testified that Jeyaraj and Bennix were beaten by policemen inside a room through the night after their arrest on June 19 and she told us that it was necessary to seize lathi and table which have bloodstains," the JM said in his report. Noting that the police was scared that people (policemen) standing outside the room in which she was testifying would hear her statements, the JM said an uneasy atmosphere was created which hindered the job of recording the statements as part of the inquiry. "The witness (police woman) was scared that she would be threatened if she told the truth. Since she (policewoman) was anxious while testifying, she was given enough time to cool down," the JM said in his report. He also said the policemen handed over their lathis only after much insistence from the probe team. While hearing the suo motu criminal contempt petition filed against Kumar, Prathapan and Maharajan, the Additional Advocate General K Chellapandian said the trio regretted their act of not cooperating with the JM and using disparaging remarks against him due to “immense stress.”  He also informed the court about the action taken against them by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/high-court-transfers-custodial-deaths-case-to-cb-cid-855559.html
30-06-2020||South||131 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala,tally now 4,442 Covid||Kerala's Covid-19 tally touched 4,442 with 131 people, including nine CISF personnel from Kannur, testing positive on Tuesday, as the Indian Medical Association (IMA) sounded that there were indications of community spread. The death toll in the state has climbed to 24 with the samples of a 76-year-old man, who died on June27 after reaching here from Mumbai, testing positive today. Of the fresh positive cases, 65 had come from abroad and 46 from other states, Health minister K K Shailaja said in a press release. Ten have been infected through contact. According to the release, 2,112 people have recovered from the infection, including 75 who were discharged today, while at least 2,304 are presently under treatment. In Malappuram, where triple lockdown is in force, over 31,000 people are under observation, and 32 cases were reported today. Today Kannur reported 26 cases, Palakkad 17, Kollam 12, Ernakulam 10, Alappuzha nine, Kasaragod eight, Thiruvananthapuram five, Thrissur and Kozhikode four each, Kottayam three and Pathnamthitta one. At least 1,84,6576 people are under observation, of whom 1,81,876 are in home/institutional quarantine and 2,781 in hospitals, including 330 who were hospitalised today. In the last 24 hours, 6076 samples have been tested. According to the release, samples of 2,31,570 people have been tested so far and results of 3872 are awaited. The total hotspots as of today touched 127. Palakkad has the highest number of total cases-- 277, Malappuram 244, Kannur 204, Kollam 193. In Kannur, 22,664 people are under observation while in Thiruvananthapuram it is 21,424. The Indian Medical Association, Kerala chapter, has written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, stating that there are indications of community spread as positive cases have been reported from asymptomatic persons who arrived from other states. Besides, Covid positivity in health care workers who have not treated the infected have also been found, IMA said. "Presently, the majority of the tests are being conducted in symptomatic individuals who come from outside the state. So the tests done in our community though are limited, a significant number are positive and cannot be traced to any contacts," IMA said. Hence the number of tests and testing in the community should be increased to 100/Lakh per week and Hotspot and containment zones should be screened with door to door testing, it added. The increasing instances of doctors and other health care workers, including those in the non-covid healthcare facility, getting infected indicates the necessity for widespread tests in the community, especially doctors and health care workers since they may be asymptomatic carriers, the IMA stated. With the Covid cases increasing in the state, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has decided not to allow devotees to offer prayers at the shrines under its control until further orders. The board had earlier decided not to allow devotees into the temples till June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/131-new-covid-19-cases-in-keralatally-now-4442-covid-855566.html
30-06-2020||State||Cong's Pratigna Dina to rope in 1 cr people||In a massive outreach effort, the Congress has planned to touch at least one crore people when its newly-appointed president D K Shivakumar takes formal charge on July 2.  The party’s social media wing is exploring all options to ensure Shivakumar’s coronation - Pratigna Dina (Day of Oath) - is streamed live on as many platforms as possible.  Shivakumar’s swearing-in, which will be streamed live across 7,831 locations in the state, will be shown on the personal social media accounts of some top 30 Congress leaders, according to sources.  In the run-up to the big event, the party already has a missed call campaign. Over one lakh missed calls have been received and another two lakh are expected. All of them will get a link to view the event via SMS. Also, the event’s link will be sent via WhatsApp to some two lakh numbers, sources said.  While Shivakumar will take charge as the party president in the party’s Bengaluru headquarters, party workers across the state will join him simultaneously in lighting a lamp, singing Vande Mataram and reading the Constitution’s preamble.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congs-pratigna-dina-to-rope-in-1-cr-people-855580.html
30-06-2020||State||BS Yediyurappa condemns Ballari burial incident||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday condemned the “inhuman” manner in which Covid-19 patients were buried in Ballari, saying the incident was “extremely painful.”  In a shocking video that went viral on social media, masked men covered in bodysuits were seen bringing the dead in bags from a hearse van and throwing three of them into a pit.“ I request all those, involved in handling the Covid-19 pandemic, to treat patients with humanity and conduct the last rites with respect,” the CM tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bs-yediyurappa-condemns-ballari-burial-incident-855582.html
30-06-2020||State||All universities told to shift to digital communication||From July 15, communications of all state-run universities will go digital. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has instructed all university heads to shift their communication to e-office. During the inauguration of Affiliation portal designed by state Higher Education department, in association with the National Informatics Centre (NIC), in Bengaluru on Tuesday, Ashwath Narayan instructed the heads of the varsities that even the communications to the government should be of digital/online mode from July 15. “All universities should convert to e-office and even the files to the government should be forwarded through digital mode,” the minister said. “Switching to e-office will put an end to holding of files at various levels for no reasons and there will not be any delay in clearance of files,” he said.  From the 2020-21 academic year, the affiliation process will completely go into a digital mode and universities should submit all details to the government via online mode. “This will avoid unnecessary delay in the affiliation process and there will be more transparency,” Ashwath Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-universities-told-to-shift-to-digital-communication-855583.html
30-06-2020||State||Covid-19: Jindal campus to be sealed till July 30||Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul ordered on Tuesday that the seal down on the premises of Jindal Steel Works will continue till July 30, in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 there. The campus was under seal down from June 18 to 30. All the entrance gates of the campus have remained closed. All employees based out of the campus have been advised to stay where they are and not come out. Also, no one from outside is allowed to enter the campus.   Members of the public are of the opinion that the cases are on the rise as the seal down has not been implemented completely on the Jindal campus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-jindal-campus-to-be-sealed-till-july-30-855590.html
30-06-2020||State||Karnataka: Zoo to be open on Tuesdays, closed on Sundays||As the government has taken a decision for Sunday lockdown across the state from July 5 to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens and Karanji Lake Nature Park in the city will be closed for public viewing on Sundays, until further notice. However, it will be open on Tuesdays. As this is being done in the interest of public health and safety, visitors are requested to cooperate, a press release from the zoo authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-zoo-to-be-open-on-tuesdays-closed-on-sundays-855592.html
30-06-2020||State||Covid effect: HC cancels physical hearing at principal bench||The physical hearing at the High Court’s Principal Bench in Bengaluru has been cancelled in view of the increasing Covid-19 positive cases in the city. A notice issued by the Registrar-General of the High Court by order of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka stated that the number of slots for physical filing and for rectification of objections will be reduced in the next week. Earlier, the functioning of the principal bench of the High Court in Bengaluru was suspended on Tuesday for the sanitisation of the court complex. The notification issued late on Monday night stated that the judicial/non judicial and administrative function of the Principal Bench of the High Court has been suspended for one day. Later in the day, a detailed notice was issued by the Registrar-General of the High Court. “During last few days, the number of cases tested positive for Covid-19 in the city of Bengaluru are multiplying. Considering the safety of members of the Bar and the Court staff, till further orders, physical hearing of the cases at the Principal Bench of High Court at Bengaluru shall stand cancelled and only those Benches which are already notified for hearing of urgent matters through Video Conferencing will function. The Benches at Dharwad and Kalaburagi shall function normally as per notified schedule,’’ the notice stated. The notice stated that the cause list of urgent matters notified for Tuesday (June 30) will be taken up on July 1, 2020 for video conference hearing. The urgent cases which are fixed for July 1 will be listed on July 2 and July 3 for video conferencing hearing. Similarly, those who have been given appointments for physical filing of cases and for rectification of objections on June 30, can visit the court on July 3 as per slots already given on June 30. The notice requested the advocates to send requisitions for listing of only those cases which are really extremely urgent. “It is noticed that large number of requests are being forwarded by e-mail for listing of matters which are not really urgent. If this continues and the members of the Bar do not cooperate, it will become very difficult for the Court to function. This may result in stopping of Court functioning. Therefore, the co-operation of the members of the Bar is solicited. The requests for listing forwarded by e-mail will require 72 hours for processing instead of 48 hours as mentioned in the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP),’’ the notice stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-effect-hc-cancels-physical-hearing-at-principal-bench-855595.html
30-06-2020||State||Procurement scam: PAC sets Monday deadline for report||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) set a deadline till next Monday (July 6) for the Health and Family Welfare Department to submit a report on alleged irregularities in procuring equipment to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. An FIR is also expected to be registered by the department against an official allegedly involved in the same. Following complaints, the PAC had directed the department on May 19 to submit a report in a week. However, due to the delay in submitting the report, officials from the department - including Additional Chief Secretary Jawaid Akhtar, Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Additional Director of Karnataka State Drug Logistics and Warehousing Society (KSDLWS) N Manjushree and others, were summoned on Tuesday. Sources told DH that though officials sought another 15 days, PAC chairman H K Patil insisted that the report be submitted by Monday. BJP members also expressed concerns over the alleged irregularities. The PAC was informed that notices were issued to four officials in KSDLWS, and an FIR will also be filed shortly against an official. Patil also pulled up Akthar asking, "You tell us that there are 80 labs in the state. Why aren't the results of 40,000 tests out yet?".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/procurement-scam-pac-sets-monday-deadline-for-report-855597.html
30-06-2020||State||Samples from sheep, goats sent for Covid-19 tests after shepherd tests +ve||A day after a shepherd tested positive for Covid-19 at Chikkanayakanahalli in Tumakuru district, the Animal Husbandry department Tuesday took swab samples of a few goats in his flock and sent them for testing.  While half of the samples were sent to the Institute of Veterinary Health and Biologicals in Bengaluru, the others were sent to a virology institute in Bhopal. Even though veterinarians believe that Covid-19 cannot be transmitted to animals, officials took this measure in an effort to rule out all freak possibilities and to allay fears among the farming community.    Speaking to DH, K G Nandeesh, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, Tumakuru, said the shepherd owned 45 goats, of which respiratory symptoms (cough and cold) were seen in one or two goats.  "Normally, in this season, the sheep and goats are vulnerable to mycoplasma infection. We collected five random samples among the goats and another five from a flock of sheep bred in the neighboring house. Till now, we have no reason to believe that livestock get infected by Covid-19. However, we are taking this up to be thorough and to allay any anxiety among farmers," the official said. The department has also relocated the flock of sheep to another place to ensure that the infection if any, does not spread.   Meanwhile, officials in the animal husbandry department told DH that they were in the process of preparing directives on managing livestock in this season and to create awareness about the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/samples-from-sheep-goats-sent-for-covid-19-tests-after-shepherd-tests-ve-855598.html
30-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sunday lockdown in Karnataka till August 2; marriages will be allowed: Govt||Five Sundays starting July 5 till August 2 will be a “complete lockdown” in Karnataka, the state government said in its Unlock 2.0 order.  Marriages already fixed on Sundays will be allowed as per guidelines, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said in the order. The guidelines say that the number of guests should not exceed 50 in marriage-related gatherings.  During the Sunday lockdown and the 8 pm-5 am curfew, only essential activities will be allowed, including “operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highway/major district roads, loading and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes,” the order stated.  The government has also notified the closure of all government offices, boards and corporations except those operating and maintaining essential services on all Saturdays till the second week of August. This will be in addition to the existing holidays on 2nd and 4th Saturdays. As prescribed by the Centre, the government has reiterated that educational institutions will be closed till July 31, but state-run training institutes will be allowed to function from July 15.  Also, metro rail, international air travel (except those permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs), theatres, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls, social/political/sports/entertainment and other such functions or congregations remain prohibited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sunday-lockdown-in-karnataka-till-august-2-marriages-will-be-allowed-govt-855496.html
30-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ashoka did well in my absence: Minister Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday played down the confusion on who was in charge of Covid-19 affairs in Bengaluru, a task that Revenue Minister R Ashoka had been given in his stead.  Ashoka handled the Covid-19 situation “well in my absence,” Sudhakar said, repeatedly stressing that there were no differences or confusion.  The minister made the remarks after returning from home quarantine. Sudhakar had to undergo quarantine after his father, wife and daughter tested positive for Covid-19. To a question on who will handle the Covid-19 affairs in Bengaluru, Sudhakar said, “My portfolio is very clear. It has been notified. In my absence, senior leader and Revenue Minister (R Ashoka) looked after the Bengaluru affairs, which he did effectively.” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s decision to hand over the charge of Bengaluru’s Covid-19 affairs to Ashoka (in the absence of Sudhakar) had displeased some of his Cabinet colleagues. The issue also brought the power tussle between ministers during the pandemic to the fore. “This is not about who the leader is. There is collective leadership to fight Covid-19 and there is no politics during such pandemic,” Sudhakar said, asking reporters not to delve into this.   Sudhakar hinted that he will take charge of Bengaluru’s Covid affairs as the CM had allotted him the Medical Education portfolio. “The question of who is Bengaluru incharge does not arise,” he said, adding that there was no confusion over the issue with either him, Ashoka or the CM. When told that there can’t be too many captains in one team, Sudhakar said, “We have only one captain and that’s B S Yediyurappa.”  Lack of coordination between Sudhakar and Health & Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu in the early days of the pandemic had forced Yediyurappa to step in and appoint Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar as the Covid-19 spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ashoka-did-well-in-my-absence-minister-sudhakar-855585.html
30-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No question of total lockdown, says Minister Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka clarified that there will not be a 100% lockdown in the state. However, strict measures would be taken to check the Covid-19 pandemic, which is spreading at an alarming rate, after July 7. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, he said, effective planning is required to bring the coronavirus under control as experts say that it will stay for the next six months. “There is no question of implementing a statewide lockdown. If it is not possible to control the spread in the next two months, the Health and the Police Department should be prepared to tackle the situation,” he said. Commenting on voluntary lockdown, Ashoka said self-lockdown is possible in rural areas. However, if the state and national highways have to be closed, permission from DC and SP is mandatory.  Around 20% of people are capable of storing commodities for the next two months. The remaining 80%, including farmers and labourers, do not have that capacity, he said.  He said the number of Covid-19 positive cases is on the rise in Hassan district. The virus, which spread from people coming from other states and districts initially, is now spreading locally, creating fear. Orders have been issued to close all resorts and homestays in the district. The DC is directed to take necessary steps to ensure that the order is followed, he said. The government is disbursing Rs 7,000 crore as a pension under various schemes. While 80% is being disbursed through banks, 20% is via post offices, which is causing a delay. Hence, it is instructed to disburse pension through banks, he said. To a question on crop compensation, Ashoka said the government would disburse compensation for drought and flood damages after the respective DCs submit reports. The Centre has already released Rs 1,000 crore for crop loss, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-question-of-total-lockdown-says-minister-ashoka-855589.html
30-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ICU patient data shows 22 missing Covid-19 cases||Shortly after Unlock 1.0, as the number of Covid-19 cases started to increase, health officials stopped disclosing details about critically ill patients in ICUs across the state. Now, an analysis has revealed that the fate of 22 ICU patients is unknown. Since the beginning of the pandemic in Karnataka on March 9 to June 15, there have been a total of 110 Covid-19 patients in the ICU. That number had increased to 271 as of Tuesday, although the patient details of those in ICU are no longer being disclosed. The last public disclosure of ICU patients was on June 15. Of the known cases, 20 (or 18.1%) have died and 68 have been discharged. For the remaining 22, however, no information has been provided. Among these are nine from Bengaluru Urban, five from Kalaburagi, three from Ballari and one each from Udupi, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, Vijayapura and Ramanagara.  Most of the cases are from early June, but one harks back to April. This is Patient 349, a 64-year-old man from Sudhamanagar, Bengaluru, who had symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), and was identified as Covid-positive on April 17, over 11 weeks ago. There is no information of him having been discharged or having died since. Officers at RGICD and Victoria Hospital could not shed light on the matter. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, director of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) Covid War Room attributed some incomplete cases to some patient data not being reconciled since the start of the pandemic. “We are working hard to get all the data sorted out,” she said. However, according to the state’s first update of its discharge policy on May 26, making patients eligible for discharge after 10 days of hospitalisation, a swathe of ICU patients have been discharged after spending an average of 12.4 days in hospital. In contrast, all the members of the “missing” group have already spent over 15 days in ICU care, as of Tuesday. Those in the group are: Patients 349, 5333, 5784, 6023, 6035, 6036, 6128, 6162 and 6365 from Bengaluru; Patient 5452 from Udupi; Patients 5498, 5520, 6181, 6740 and 6805 from Kalaburagi; Patients 5955, 6432 and 7102 from Ballari; Patient 6252 from Dharwad; Patient 6283 from Dakshina Kannada, Patient 6587 from Vijayapura and Patient 6855 from Ramanagaras. Fourteen are males. Within both sexes the largest concentration (13) are in the vulnerable group, aged 50 and above. However, the group also contains a 20-year-old woman from Kalaburagi (Patient 6181), two children (aged nine and four) who also hail from Kalaburagi, and five people in their thirties from Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Ballari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-icu-patient-data-shows-22-missing-covid-19-cases-855620.html
30-06-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Parents carry unwell child in their hands in absence of stretcher at Belagavi District Hospital; video goes viral||Shortage of stretcher in the Belagavi District Hospital forced parents to carry their child suffering from fever to the children's ward with drip being injected. Video of the parents carrying the child went viral on the social media on Tuesday. The child suffering from fever was brought to the emergency ward of the hospital. After primary treatment, the child was administered drip and had to be shifted to the children's ward about 500 meters away. As a stretcher was not available, parents were forced to carry the child themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/parents-carry-unwell-child-in-their-hands-in-absence-of-stretcher-at-belagavi-district-hospital-video-goes-viral-855418.html
30-06-2020||West||Mumbai-based group trains workers how to handle Covid-19 victims' bodies||The Juma Masjid Trust Bombay has trained workers and volunteers in 180 to 200 cemeteries in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The seven-member trust comprises president Shoaib Khatib, a former journalist Iqbal Mamdani, a builder-developer Sabir Nirban and four advocates Irfan Shaikh, Sohail Saz, Salim Parekh and Rafiq Soratia.  They have so far helped in the burial of 400 to 450 plus bodies of Muslim Covid-19 victims and cremation of 250 bodies of Hindus. "There are a lot of apprehensions, risks. We have to tell them the dos and don'ts," Mamdani told DH. In the financial capital of Mumbai, in seven burial grounds, bodies of Covid-19 patients are laid to rest. According to him, cremation of Muslim bodies first involves digging the pit. "While in normal circumstances the pit is around 4 to 4.5 feet, in case of Covid-19 bodies it is 10 feet," he said. "The next important thing is how to lower the bodies, how ropes are to be used," he said, adding that they also tell the workers and volunteers how to sanitise themselves. As regards training, first all the 62 cemeteries in Mumbai were covered. As of now, cremation of Covid-19 bodies is in seven of them - the biggest being the Bada Kabrastan at Marine Lines. The group later trained workers and volunteers in Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-based-group-trains-workers-how-to-handle-covid-19-victims-bodies-855310.html
30-06-2020||West||Senior citizen undergoes rare heart surgery in Mumbai||A 70-year-old physiotherapist from Mumbai successfully underwent an extremely rare Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) surgery at Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital last week. Dr Lekha Pathak, India’s first woman interventional cardiologist, performed the procedure along with renowned cardiologist, Dr A B Gopalamurugan, who flew in from Chennai along with his team. “We performed the procedure under local anaesthesia. The diseased aortic valve of the patient was replaced percutaneously, with the help of a large catheter which was entered through the patient's groin. Very next morning, the patient was happily walking in our corridors and ready to go home,” said Dr Pathak. “She was immunocompromised, diabetic, hypertensive and detected with hypothyroid. Opting for an open heart surgery could have increased the risk and considering her weakening heart, we couldn’t wait for the pandemic to end. I am happy we took the decision to perform the surgery immediately,” said the patient's husband, a renowned physician from Andheri who has requested anonymity. The patient’s heart condition had escalated quickly from February this year to June. “We had visited the magnificent Statue of Unity in Gujarat just four months ago. I was feeling extremely well then, but recently, I started feeling fatigued, breathless and uneasy even after minor home chores. Now after the procedure, I am feeling renewed and energetic. I thank all my wonderful doctors for this new lease of life,” said the patient through a statement issued by Nanavati Hospital. “Performing such a complex, lifesaving cardiac procedure on a critically ill senior citizen amidst the pandemic is a dynamic learning experience for cardiologists across the world. Due to a state-of-the-art catheterization laboratory, stringent infection control protocols such as mandatory use of PPEs, thorough fumigation and sanitisation and a clear demarcation between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 facilities within the hospital, we successfully discharged the patient very next day,” said Manpreet Sohal, Director and Chief Operating Officer, Nanavati Hospital, wishing a speedy recovery to the patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/senior-citizen-undergoes-rare-heart-surgery-in-mumbai-855339.html
30-06-2020||West||Security outside Taj hotel in Mumbai beefed up||Two hotels of the Taj group in Mumbai received threat calls on Tuesday, emanating from Pakistan sending the security forces on high alert. The Mumbai police has increased security outside the Taj Mahal Palace in Colaba and Taj Lands End at Bandra. According to reports, the caller purportedly identified himself as a Lashkar-e-Taiba operative from Pakistan. The number from which the call was made is being investigated. The Mumbai police refused to comment. The iconic Taj hotel in Colaba of the Gateway of India area was among the targets of LeT fidayeens during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. The call that comes in right after the attack on Karachi Stock Exchange is being viewed seriously. “We are proud to be a part of the fabric of this nation and the safety of our guests and associates is of paramount importance to us. We immediately alerted the authorities on receiving these calls and are providing full support and cooperation to the investigating agencies," the IHCL, that owns the Taj properties, said in a statement. "Our safety and security teams have ensured that all our protocols and guidelines are being followed towards safeguarding lives and assets," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-outside-taj-hotel-in-mumbai-beefed-up-855343.html
30-06-2020||West||Over a crore benefitted from Shiv Bhojan scheme: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Shiv Bhojan Thali, the flagship meal scheme of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, has crossed the one crore-mark. "From January 26, till date 1,00,00,870 thalis have been distributed," Thackeray said. Under the scheme, 79,918 thalis were served in January, 4,67,869 in February, 5,78,031 in March, 24,99,257 in April, 33,84,040 in May and 29,91,755 thalis were served inJune, he said. The thali comprising two chapatis, one vegetable, rice and dal was initially priced at Rs 10 but when the lockdown started it was reduced to Rs 5. The scheme was launched with 50 outlets but now there is a whopping 848 outlets spread across the state. During the lockdown, it came to the help of several people including the walking migrants. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all centres are observing all protocols like cleanliness, sanitisation of the premises and surroundings, all centres' staffers wash hands regularly, wear masks, etc, he added. State's food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal is implementing the scheme. The centres have been opened at convenient locations like big hospitals, government offices, markets, near bus or railway stations, and other public places in urban, semi-urban and rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-a-crore-benefitted-from-shiv-bhojan-scheme-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-855345.html
30-06-2020||West||Aaditya seeks coordination with Centre on Vande Bharat flights||Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray has said the Civil Aviation Ministry should coordinate with state governments on the repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat Missionfor effectively reaching out to Indians stranded around the world. In a letter, dated June 29, to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Thackeray said most evacuees are in touch with their respective state governments. Thackeray said in his earlier communication to the Ministry of External Affairs and the managing director of Air India, he had requested flights for the Middle East, Australia, Russia along with other routes. "Although some flights were organised, we need many more for the same," the minister said in his letter. The Vande Bharat Mission-4 schedule has been handed over to the state. "There is not a single flight from the Middle East to Maharashtra, despite repeated requests from the state and the people stuck in the Middle East," he said. All the 21 flights under the fourth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission from seven cities of six countries are hopping flights, which means not many passengers would be from Maharashtra. "We would like you to address this issue and injustice meted out to Maharashtra. Every state should have its people repatriated, but it should be in equal measure and in a fair way," the minister said.  He said the feedback from those who have already come back is about unaffordable airfares for repatriation and the poor in-flight facilities provided against it, like the food quality, delays and absence of food services at hop-overs. "This causes more stress to the ones being repatriated from various countries after a stressful extended stay abroad," he said. The central government started the Vande Bharat Mission on May 6 to help stranded people reach their destinations using special repatriation flights. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aaditya-seeks-coordination-with-centre-on-vande-bharat-flights-855362.html
30-06-2020||West||Coordination among departments may be key hurdle to Mumbai’s clean air plan||Cross-departmental coordination could be a key hurdle in implementing Mumbai’s clean air action plan, according to a new independent analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) and Urban Emissions. Mumbai’s clean air plan currently lists 58 measures across 16 different agencies. About 60 of actions fall under multiple agencies, and this could fragment the accountability. Similarly, an analysis of all city clean air plans in Maharashtra reveals that the state pollution control board is in charge of only 20% of the mitigation activities, while 41% comes under the ambit of municipal corporations and urban local bodies (ULBs) and 22% under the department of transport. The analysis also highlights that the clean air plans of all cities in Maharashtra lack a legal mandate for implementation. India’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) directed 102 cities, including 17 in Maharashtra, to create city-specific clean air plans as a primary mitigation measure for reducing particulate concentration by 20% to 30% by 2024. According to CEEW-Urban Emissions analysis, only six of Maharashtra’s 17 approved city-specific clean air plans, including Mumbai’s, have a budget outlined for the execution of all the proposed air pollution mitigation activities. Besides, over 70 per cent of the plans do not contain crucial information on emission from different polluting sources. Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Associate at CEEW, said, “The clampdown on all non-essential activities because of the pandemic led to a significant decline in air pollution levels across Maharashtra’s cities. To ensure that blue skies become permanent, cities should be certain of their short, medium, and long-term air pollution reduction goals. State and municipal budgets also need to reflect planned expenditure on air pollution mitigation.” Sarath Guttikunda, the founder of Urban Emissions and one of the authors of the study said, “To meet the rising democratic demand for clean air in Maharashtra, Maharashtra state pollution control board and city authorities should collectively scale up air pollution monitors, delineate specific tasks for each action point among participating agencies, fix sectoral emission reduction targets, and create a standard protocol for air pollution reporting progress on actions across sectors.” With 18 cities failing to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, Maharashtra tops the list of states with most non-attainment cities. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has published the plans of all non-attainment cities in the state except Thane. Despite a large number of non-attainment cities in Maharashtra, the 17 clean air plans in the state are distinct, unlike many other Indian states. Kurinji Selvaraj, a Research Analyst at CEEW, said, “Mumbai’s action plan is among the few plans that contain information on sources and lists financial requirements for implementations. However, the plan fails to highlight any measures to ensure regional coordination even though independent estimates suggest that close to a third of Mumbai’s air pollution originates outside city limits. Besides, Mumbai is the city which gets the highest allocation of funds out of the INR 4400 crore for clean air initiatives announced by the Finance Minister in Budget 2020. However, the allocation of INR 488 crore that Mumbai would receive is equivalent to the amount budgeted for just two action points - regular checking of vehicles and promoting bicycle infrastructure - in the plan.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coordination-among-departments-may-be-key-hurdle-to-mumbai-s-clean-air-plan-855369.html
30-06-2020||West||Bombay High Court suspends two FIRs against Arnab Goswami||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday suspended two FIRs lodged against Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami for his alleged provocative and inflammatory comments on the Palghar mob lynching and gathering of migrant workers outside Bandra railway station amid lockdown. In an interim order, a division bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla noted that prima facie, no offence was disclosed against Goswami and he had not intended to cause public disharmony or incite violence. The court, while admitting the petition filed by Goswami, directed the police to not take any coercive action until final hearing and disposal of the plea. Goswamihad sought quashing of the two FIRs lodged against him one in Nagpur and the second at Pydhonie police in Mumbai. The Nagpur case pertains to a show aired on the news channel whereGoswami allegedly made communal remarks on the Palghar lynching case, where two seers were killed by a mob. The case in Mumbai was lodged after another show aired on the channel, in whichGoswamimade allegedly provocative comments about a community after the gathering of migrant workers outside the Bandra railway station. Goswamis counsel Harish Salve argued that the Congress party orchestrated multiple FIRs against Goswami across the country and told the court that such cases require balancing of free speech and criminal law. Senior counsel Kapil Sibal and Raja Thakare, appearing for the Maharashtra government, had opposed the petition and said a journalist has the right to freedom of expression, but does not have the right to declare that a person was killed only because he was of a particular religion. Sibal and Thakare had read out transcripts of the two news shows and said there was a clear attempt to incite communal violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-suspends-two-firs-against-arnab-goswami-855386.html
30-06-2020||West||9,000 foreigners left in 43 flights from Goa during lockdown||As many as 43 special flights carrying nearly 9,000 foreigners have so far left from Goa to various international destinations during the coronavirus- induced lockdown, officials said on Tuesday. The latest flight, of the Russian airliner Rossiya, carrying 318 adults and eight children, left from the Goa International Airport on Tuesday, airport director Gagan Malik said. "So far, 43 flights carrying nearly 9,000 foreigners have left from Goa to various international destinations," he said. All protocols for Covid-19 were meticulously followed at the airport, he added. Besides, nearly 1,000 foreigners, mostly from Britain and Russia, are still in the state, including those stranded due to coronavirus-induced restrictions and the ones vacationing here, Superintendent of Police (FRRO) Bosco George said. "There are some who are waiting for a special flight to carry them to their country, while others are staying back, he said. There are many Russians whose visas have expired and they are waiting to complete the formalities to go back to their country, said Vikram Varma, legal counsel of the Russian Consulate in Mumbai.  "They were supposed to travel back in March, but there were no flights and their visa period has expired. They have already applied for the renewal of visa so that they can go back, he said. Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), an umbrella body of the hotel and travel industry stakeholders, said foreigners were still holidaying in some of the beach villages of the state. There are some foreigners who are waiting for the resumption of regular international flights to travel while some would like to stay back as Goa is a financially affordable destination for them, TTAG's executive member Savio Messias said. He said foreigners were seen on the beaches of Agonda (in South Goa district) and Keri (North Goa district).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/9000-foreigners-left-in-43-flights-from-goa-during-lockdown-855398.html
30-06-2020||West||Sushant case: Actor Sanjana Sanghi goes to police station to record statement||Actor Sanjana Sanghi went to the Bandra police station here on Tuesday morning to record her statement in connection with the suicide of fellow actor Sushant Singh Rajput, an official said. Sanghi is set to make her Bollywood debut with Mukesh Chhabra-directed movie 'Dil Bechara', the last film of Rajput. She reached the Bandra police station in the morning to record her statement, a police official said. The police were trying to understand reasons behind Rajput's suicide and were also probing whether professional rivalry, if any, was responsible for the actor's depression. So far, the police have recorded statements of 28 people, including his family members, actor-friend Rhea Chakraborty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra and Yash Raj Films' casting director Shanoo Sharma. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his Bandra apartment on June 14, police said. His last screen appearance was "Chhichhore", directed by Nitesh Tiwari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-case-actor-sanjana-sanghi-goes-to-police-station-to-record-statement-855453.html
30-06-2020||West||Covid-19: 10-day total lockdown in Thane city, Mira Bhayander||Thane city will observe a total lockdown between July 2-12 to contain the coronavirus outbreak, municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma said on Tuesday. Non-essential services will not operate during this period, and nor would movement of vehicles for proposes other than medical and essential travel be allowed, the order said. Movement of all essential goods as well as perishable items will be allowed during this period, the order said. In neighbouring Mira Bhayander, also part of Thane district, civic authorities re-imposed total lockdown, including closing of shops dealing in essential items, between July 1-10 to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak.  The order of Mira Bhayander Municipal Commissioner Vijay Rathod said shops selling essential items, including bakery products and those dealing in food grains, will remain closed during this period. Home delivery of food grains, vegetables, fish, meat, bakery items will be allowed between 9am to 11pm while milk and dairy items will be delivered at doorsteps between 5am and 10am, the order informed. Medical shops and flour mills are allowed to operate as earlier, and so would banking services like ATMs. As on Monday night, Thane city has 8,506 Covid-19 cases, which includes 311 deaths, while the number in Mira Bhayandar municipal limits is 3,175, with 142 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-10-day-total-lockdown-in-thane-city-mira-bhayander-855488.html
30-06-2020||West||Address electricity bill issues, Maharashtra CM tells authorities||With several celebrities joining commoners to flag the issue of exorbitant electricity bills, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stepped in on Tuesday and asked power utilities to address the issue as guided by the regulator. The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC),  the state regulator, has said that the bill generated is as per rules but asked not to disconnect supplies and hear out the  complaints of consumers. "Taking stock of the rising number of consumer complaints related to exorbitant electricity bills, MERC has directed power companies to show transparency in its billing procedures and redress the consumer complaints immediately," Thackeray said. Bollywood actors like Tapasee Pannu, Huma Qureshi and Renuka Sahane, comedian Vir Das were among those who had raised the issue. The power supply companies - MahaVitaran, Tata Power, Adani Power, BEST - had informed the MERC that during lockdown, bills were raised on the average consumption of three months prior to March 2020, which were winter months when consumption was low, and so the average bills reflected the same. The present bills were raised on actual meter readings during the summer months where the consumption is normally high and the bills are always of higher amounts. Hence, the balance amount payable after adjusting the average bill amounts for each of the three months March, April and May have led to higher bills that were issued in June. The MERC has asked these companies to permit certain consumers to pay the bills in 3 monthly instalments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/address-electricity-bill-issues-maharashtra-cm-tells-authorities-855504.html
30-06-2020||West||Gujarat's Covid-19 cases rise by 620 to 32,446; 20 more die||Gujarat on Tuesday reported 620 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall count to 32,446 in the state, Health department said. With 20 more people succumbing to the infection, the toll has risen to 1,848, it said. A total of 422 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of the recovered cases to 23,670. Gujarat now has 6,928 active cases while 71 patients are on ventilator in a critical condition, the department said. 3,73,663 samples have been tested so far in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-cases-rise-by-620-to-32446-20-more-die-855610.html
