01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records nearly 800 cases||Chandigarh recorded 799 fresh infections on Saturday, taking the tally to 43,446.Eleven more people succumbed to the infection, bringing the toll to 489 in the city, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases stands at 7,222, it said.The number of recoveries rose to 35,735 with 472 more patients getting discharged after recovering from COVID-19.A total of 4,08,487 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far and 3,63,939 of them tested negative while reports of 153 are awaited, according to the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-nearly-800-cases-246853
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration limits sale, procurement of Remdesivir to itself as demand surges||Chandigarh Administration banned the sale of Remdesivir through private enterprises and restricted the rights to its sale procurement and sale of the drug to its own health department.The administration said in an order that private distributors and chemists could no longer procure Remdesivir injections. Only Chandigarh Administration’s health department could now procure it from the open market or from the central government. This would then be distributed to government and private hospitals and nursing homes treating COVID patient on “cost-to-cost” basis, the order said. Private hospitals and nursing homes could charge patients the rate at which the injections were procured.The order comes supplies of Remdesivir dwindled in several parts of the country amid an alarming surge in cases.Although several experts have questioned the efficacy of the anti-viral drug in treating COVID-19 cases, it remains a popular line of treatment in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-limits-sale-procurement-of-remdesivir-to-itself-as-demand-surges-246829
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Holiday in Chandigarh today on account of Guru Teg Bahadur birth anniversary||Water supplyChandigarh: The MC has asked the public to store adequate water on Saturday morning as there will be no supply in the afternoon due to repair work. The supply will be normal from 4 am to 9 am and 6 pm to 9 pm. TNS16 curfew violators heldChandigarh: The UT police arrested 16 persons from different parts of the city for curfew violations. The police said these people were found roaming during curfew hours without any permission. All were booked under Section 188 of the IPC at different police stations. They were arrested and later released on bail. TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: Two bike-borne miscreants snatched a mobile phone from a person at the Industrial Area, Phase I. According to the police, the complainant, Vikram of Ram Darbar, said the miscreants snatched his phone from near the Roadways workshop on April 29. A case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSTheft at school in Sector 23Chandigarh: Documents, a computer and other electronic items were stolen from the record room of Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 23. According to the school principal, Rajeev, who is the complainant in the case, the theft took place on the intervening night of April 10 and 11. A case has been registered at the Sector 17 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNS22 test positive at textile unitDera Bassi: As many as 22 cases of Covid-19 have surfaced at a textile mill, Usha Yarn, after which the administration has made the area a containment zone. Similarly, 11 cases surfaced in Skynet Enclave, Zirakpur. The Civil Surgeon would periodically check the affected persons in these areas and take action as per the advisory issued by the Health Department. The Executive Officer, Municipal Council, will ensure fogging in the area. TNSMan held with 5.15-gm opiumMohali: The police arrested a truck driver, Jasbir Singh (45), with 5.15 gm of opium on the Landran-Kharar road, Khooni Majra T-point, on April 29. A case under Section 18, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Section 188 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect at the Sadar Kharar police station. Jassa was remanded in police custody on Friday. The police said the suspect, a resident of Badali village in Kharar, was carrying opium to be supplied to his customers in Mohali, Kharar and Ropar areas. TNSYP Vohra dies due to CovidPanchkula: YP Vohra, founder secretary general of the Chandigarh Olympic Association and former general secretary of Hockey Chandigarh succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday morning here. Vohra, who also served as the general secretary of the Rock Rovers Hockey Club, is survived by his wife and two sons. Vohra was a former national-level hockey player. He was also a first class hockey umpire. Vohra was amongst the probables for Indian hockey team for the 1956 Olympics. He was a contemporary of Balbir Singh Sr, Dharam Singh and Bakshish Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/holiday-in-chandigarh-today-on-account-of-guru-teg-bahadur-birth-anniversary-246620
01-05-2021||Zirakpur||Youth booked for sexually assaulting minor girl in Zirakpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl-in-zirakpur-246619
01-05-2021||Mohali||Cops assaulted at naka in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-assaulted-at-naka-in-mohali-246618
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||CBI files chargesheet  against ASI in graft case||The CBI has filed a chargesheet against Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of the Chandigarh Police Harbhajan Singh, who was arrested on charges of taking bribe from an Indian Air Force employee on February 16.The complainant, Dharampal, a resident of Lalru, had alleged that Harbhajan Singh demanded Rs 10,000 bribe from him and threatened to implicate him in a false case if he failed to do so.Dharampal had told the Central investigating agency that in May 2018 he took a loan of Rs 3,20,000 from a finance company in Sector 32, Chandigarh, for the marriage of his son.Dharampal said he paid regular installments to the company till October 2020, but since they did not provide him any receipt for the payments he stopped paying future installments.On receiving the complaint from the company, the ASI called Dharampal to meet him and allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 10,000 for not registering a case against him.Based on Dharampal’s complaint, CBI sleuths laid a trap and caught the ASI while taking the bribe from Dharampal near Nirman Cinema in Sector 32.The CBI then registered a case Harbhajan Singh under different Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. However, he was later given bail by the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-asi-in-graft-case-246612
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||PU Senate poll postponed||Panjab University Senate elections scheduled for May 3 have been postponed after the Punjab Government advised the university authorities to reschedule the poll in view of the existing Covid-19 situation.Keeping in view the recent surge in Covid cases and in the interest of safety and health of people, PU is postponing the election, read a PU statement.With regard to the PU Senate elections scheduled for May 3, the university had sought permission from the Punjab Government to allow gathering of more than 10 people at the polling booths. In response, the office of the Chief Secretary, Government of Punjab, advised to postpone the date of elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-senate-poll-postponed-246607
01-05-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board receives 105 bids against 36 dwelling units||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has received 105 bids against 36 dwelling units for e-auction of its properties.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 109 built-up dwelling units on a freehold basis. The units were available in Sectors 38 (West), 49, 51 and 63. April 30 was the last date to submit e-bids.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said all technical e-bids were opened as per the schedule at 3 pm today. All e-bids had been declared technically qualified.“This time, the response is very good. Last year, no bid was received for these units. We have reduced the reserve prices of these units by about 10 per cent,” said Garg.Considering the curfew-related issues due to the Covid pandemic, financial bids would be opened from 10 am onwards on Monday, he said. The details of successful highest bidders for each dwelling unit would be uploaded on the Chandigarh Housing Board website www.chbonline.in after opening all financial e-bids.“Considering that a total of 105 e-bids have been received, it is expected that opening of financial bids may take some time and the result of the e-tender may be uploaded on the website by afternoon of May 3,” he said.He, however, clarified that the highest bidder had been allowed to deposit the 25 per cent of the bid amount (after adjusting EMD) within five working days. The period of five working days would start after the opening of financial bids.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-receives-105-bids-against-36-dwelling-units-246603
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration imposes curbs in 15 more zones||To prevent further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration today declared 15 more micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated that the issue of Covid-19 outbreak was further studied and examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as micro-containment zones.He, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.As many as 33 micro-containment zones were declared in the city on April 29.The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are part of Sectors 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 23, 25, Sarangpur, Khuda Lahora, and Dhanas villages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-imposes-curbs-in-15-more-zones-246589
01-05-2021||Panchkula||Lockdown in Panchkula till 5 am on Monday||Amid the rising Covid-19 cases, the Haryana Government imposed a weekend lockdown in the district from 10 pm tonight till 5 am on Monday. Only essential services will be allowed during the lockdown.Restaurants and food joints will be allowed to operate only for home delivery. Passengers going to or returning from the airport, bus stand and the railway station will be exempted.“All marriage functions, for which prior permission has been taken from the District Magistrate concerned or authorised officers, shall be allowed subject to the limit of a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 30 persons in indoor spaces and 50 in open spaces,” the order states.Industrial units/entrepreneurs will have to apply on the Saral Haryana portal by providing the necessary details to generate passes for employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-in-panchkula-till-5-am-on-monday-246588
01-05-2021||---||2 firms come forward to set up mini-Covid care centre in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 30On the appeal of UT Adviser Manoj Parida to set up mini-Covid care centres in the city, two organisations have come forward to set up such centres.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for mini-Covid care centre, stated that the permission had been granted to Sri Guru Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society to set up and operate a mini-Covid care centre at Working Women Hostel, Bal Bhawan, Sector 23-B, initially for a period of one month. Similarly, the permission has been granted to Competent Foundation to set up and operate a mini-Covid care centre at the Community Centre, Sector 19.Garg said the UT Administration greatly appreciates the noble gesture of the organisations for contributing toward the management of the Covid pandemic.The UT Administration has given a clarion call for setting up mini-Covid care centres in the city voluntarily by interested organisations or associations.Any individual, association, voluntary organisation, NGO, religious organisation, corporate, firm or trust may come forward for setting up a care centre for asymptomatic Covid patients.Preferably, patients of the nearby areas may be catered and discharged after 10 days (from the date of positive test report) with an undertaking to remain in home isolation for further 7 days. In case the health of a patient deteriorates, he/she can be shifted to an appropriate hospital by the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-firms-come-forward-to-set-up-mini-covid-care-centre-in-chandigarh-246587
01-05-2021||---||Bodies of Covid-19 patients can now be cremated at Sec 28 facility in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 30At least 14 people who had died of Covid-19 were cremated at the Sector 28 crematorium here even as the LPG chamber at the Sector 20 crematorium started operations today.The cremation of those dying of Covid was held for the first time at the Sector 28 facility. This was done to ease the burden of the Sector 20 crematorium, which has witnessed a significant increase in daily cremations.Forty cremations can now be held at the Sector 28 crematorium with the horticulture wing of the Municipal Corporation clearing the wild growth from the cremation platforms which were not in use earlier. These platforms, however, are in the open and without sheds.Currently there are four sheds at the Sector 28 crematorium, each having space for cremating four bodies at a time. However, one of the sheds will be reserved for keeping wood and other material.LPG chamber begins operationsThe LPG chamber at the Sector 20 crematorium started operations on Friday and one Covid-infected body was consigned to the flames at the chamber.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bodies-of-covid-19-patients-can-now-be-cremated-at-sec-28-facility-in-panchkula-246586
01-05-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: 30 at multinational wholesale store Covid +ve||Thirty persons working in a multinational owned and operated wholesale store on the Chandigarh-Ambala road in Zirakpur were found Covid positive today. The wholesale store though remained operational.The Health Department and the district administration are yet to take a decision on turning the store into a containment zone. In all, 40 persons were found positive in the cluster.Health Department officials said the decision has been scheduled for tomorrow as “it is a big store”. Moreover, “no body resides there”, they said.The grocery store owners in the Zirakpur area have been complaining repeatedly about the restrictions being imposed on them by the administration and letting warehouses and wholesale stores to work normally.Meanwhile, health officials said cases were frequently being reported from Saini Vihar, Govind Vihar, Anand Vihar and other colonies in the Baltana area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-30-at-multinational-wholesale-store-covid-ve-246585
01-05-2021||Amit Bathla||April worst month  for Panchkula since pandemic broke out||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 30The month of April saw 8,014 cases and 53 deaths in the district, making it the worst Covid month in terms of the number of infections since the pandemic outbreak.Of 190 bodies cremated at the Sector 20 crematorium this month, a majority was of Covid victims. Officials claimed that a certain number of bodies cremated at the district cremation grounds were from outside the district, including adjoining Mohali. “That is why the data received from the cremation grounds and that of the Health Department don’t match,” they said.Earlier, the month of August had recorded 3,762 cases and 66 deaths during the first Covid wave.The major challenge that the district faced throughout the month of April was availability of oxygen and ventilator/BiPAP beds due to a rise in the number of serious patients requiring hospitalisation. Of roughly 400 oxygen beds across the district, one won’t find many available. According to health officials, the beds get filled in no time of their addition. They, however, contend that a majority of patients at various hospitals, including the Civil Hospital, were not local citizens.Positivity rate a concernEvery fifth person undergoing testing is turning out to be positive as positivity rate hovers near 20 per cent, said Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur.Tracing still a problemAccording to senior health officials, tracking and tracing remains a major challenge for them as patients either give wrong address while undergoing testing or switch off their mobile phones after being tested. “On an average, the whereabouts of 30 per cent of those testing positive remain unknown,” a senior doctor said.‘26K infections by May 13’Health officials have projected the overall tally to touch the 26,000 mark by May 13 if daily infection count rises at the prevailing rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/april-worst-month-for-panchkula-since-pandemic-broke-out-246584
01-05-2021||---||Don’t loiter around, Mohali admn warns people||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 30In the absence of desired results from the weekend lockdown, the district administration today warned people not to loiter around in the district and said any violation of the the weekend lockdown orders would have serious repercussion.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said weekend lockdown was imposed in the district to curb the rapid spread of coronavirus.Despite several appeals, desired outcome had not been observed. Police and civil officers had to be out in the field and were forced to challan people loitering around despite weekend lockdown.Issuing a warning to people saying “abide by the weekend lockdown, don’t invite complete lockdown”, the Deputy Commissioner said: “Any lockdown violation, henceforth, will have serious repercussions. We will not just challan violators, but will also be forced to inch towards complete lockdown”.He said the Centre had already made it clear in its latest guidelines that ‘districts where positivity is more than 10 per cent or more in a week or where bed occupancy is more than 60 per cent, intensive and local containment measures should be taken with either indicator’.He said: “Both indicators (positivity rate and bed occupancy) in case of Mohali district are higher than the suggested limit. So, we are heading towards a lockdown, if we fail to contain our movement”.Making an appeal to the public, Dayalan said: “Don’t defeat the efforts of thousands of healthcare workers working relentlessly. Stay home, stay safe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-loiter-around-mohali-admn-warns-people-246583
01-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali district sees infection count jump 176% in April||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 30The district witnessed more than 176 per cent increase in Covid cases during the past 30 days as the tally stood at 46,570 today against 26,429 on March 30.The district also witnessed more than 139 per cent increase in the number of deaths as 595 deaths had been reported till today against 428 reported in March. There was 277 per cent increase in active cases with the figure being 9,031 today against 3,252 on March 30.The recovery rate in the district has declined from 86.11 per cent to 79.33 per cent in the same period, compounding the problem. The number of recoveries has gone up from 22,756 to 36,944 till today.In March, the district had witnessed more than 27 per cent increase as 25,880 cases were reported till March 28 against 20,315 reported on February 28.It is pertinent to mention here that a large number of cases came from Dhakoli, Dera Bassi and Kharar areas during the past one month. The administration had to declare Dhakoli and certain pockets in Dera Bassi and Kharar as containment zones.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the sudden spurt in Covid cases in the district was due to enhanced testing. She said a new trend was seen this time as a large number youngsters were also getting infected. She said people aged above 45 should come forward to get themselves vaccinated, adding that vaccination for people above 18 years of age would be started in a couple of days after getting the vaccine stock.Hotel owner bookedDera Bassi: The police have booked the owner of Hotel Paras in Dera Bassi for flouting curfew norms. The police said a party was being organised at the hotel in the afternoon in which around 100 persons were in attendance. The hotel owner was arrested and an FIR under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against him, they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-sees-infection-count-jump-176-in-april-246582
01-05-2021||Supply of Covid drugs through private distributors||After High Court rap, Chandigarh Administration to withdraw order||Saurabh MalikTribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30Rapped by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Chandigarh Administration today undertook to withdraw a controversial order on supplying essential Covid management drugs through private distributors/chemists.As the Covid management case came up for hearing, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh questioned UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain as to why third party had to come in between.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta asserted: “Anybody will raise eyebrows after seeing this and you as Union Territory are doing this.”Jain, in response, submitted that 5,000 injections were allocated by the Government of India, while 4,000 were received. Just 450 injections were given to be supplied to the private hospitals by making sure it was against prescription.Jain added: “A policy decision has been taken to supply the essential drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab directly to the government and private hospitals and not through the private distributors/chemists.”The order issued by the UT had stated that three stockists would be supplied remdesivir in a phased manner as per the requirement for ensuring its availability to Covid-19 patients admitted to private hospitals in Chandigarh. The stockists include Kumar & Company, Guru Nanak Medicos Pvt Ltd and Gupta Agencies.Referring to the healthcare facilities in the city, Justice Gupta asserted that beds meant for critical patients had been occupied by non-critical patients.Suggesting segregation of the patients on the basis of their conditions, Justice Gupta said the critical patients could be admitted to the PGI while “moderate cases” could be taken care of by the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. The mild cases could be handled by Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16.Justice Gupta also made it clear that the Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generators were required to be installed by other states as well on the UT pattern.On the issue of hoarding, Justice Gupta made it clear to Additional Solicitor General Satya Pal Jain that punitive action was required to be taken in case of truth in the allegations. “You have agencies. Use your jurisdiction to find out what was happening.”“As regards the issue of hoarding of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and essential medicines such as remdesivir and tocilizumab, needless to observe that the respective investigating agencies of all three statesin their own jurisdiction, even Central agencies, are at liberty to take cognisance and initiate action,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-high-court-rap-chandigarh-administration-to-withdraw-order-246581
01-05-2021||---||Will begin vaccinating 18+ persons in couple of days, says Mohali DC||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 30As the district administration has not received the stock of the Covid vaccine, the administration of jabs to people aged above 18 has been delayed by a couple of days.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the administration of the vaccine to people aged 18 to 44, which was scheduled to begin on May 1, would begin in a couple of days while their registration was on.Dayalan said the paid stock of the Covid vaccine meant for the 18-44 age group had not been received at the state level. Their vaccination would commence only after the receipt of the stock but they could continue with their registration on the portal.In the meantime, the free vaccination of people above the age of 45 was underway, he said.Fortis to vaccinate all adults from todayFortis Hospital has announced that it would administer the Covid vaccine to those above the age of 18 at its centre in Mohali from May 1. A Fortis spokesman said the hospital centres in other cities would commence vaccination as soon as supplies were made available by the authorities.2 private hospitals in Mohali given 8 ventilatorsMohali: The district administration has handed over four ventilators each to Max Hospital and Fortis Hospital for Covid patients. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the ventilators were received under the PM CARES but were not brought into operation due to technical issues and had remained unutilised. He said these ventilators were to be used in the Mohali Medical College. However, as the process of recruitment and infrastructure creation was on, these machines were handed over to private hospitals for the time being to meet the challenge posed by a surge in the pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-begin-vaccinating-18-persons-in-couple-of-days-says-mohali-dc-246566
01-05-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula defers rollout of Covid vaccination for 18+ to May 3||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 30The district authorities have deferred the rollout of the next phase of vaccination for all adults to May 3 citing a short supply of vaccines against coronavirus. Earlier, those above the age of 18 were to get the vaccine from May 1.The Health Department has also announced suspension of the vaccination programme for 45-plus on Saturday and Sunday in view of the weekend lockdown imposed in the district.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said, “We are in a regular touch with state government officials regarding the issue. The stock for 18-plus will arrive by tomorrow evening. The driver will begin by May 3.”Virus transmission worry at vax centresThe district is already struggling to meet the current demand of the vaccine for beneficiaries above the age of 45 due to its inadequate supply.Citizens have expressed their worry over a chaos being witnessed at vaccination centres every day due to a “limited stock of vaccine”. They said huge crowds at vaccination centres could lead to the transmission of the virus.SK Nayar, president of a residents’ body, said his son went to the Sector 12-A community centre to get his second shot but was turned away. “The stock had got over within 15 minutes of the distribution of tokens. He then visited the Sector 4 MDC dispensary where the scene was scary. At least 200 people had gathered there for the vaccine. Crowded vaccination centres can become super-spreaders. There should be an end to the misery,’’ he said.KK Jindal, president of the Sector 20 RWA, has requested the Health Department to restart vaccination at the Sector 20 dispensary. The vaccination at the dispensary and other centres across urban Panchkula is not being held for the past many days due to “limited” supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-defers-rollout-of-covid-vaccination-for-18-to-may-3-246552
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid vaccination for 18+ in tricity today||With limited stock at its disposal, the UT Administration has decided against the start of vaccination programme for the 18 to 45 age group from May 1.“The existing stock of nearly 1 lakh vaccines will be used to provide first or second dose to people above 45 years of age. For the above 18 beneficiaries, vaccination will start only after we receive adequate supplies,” said UT Advisor Manoj Parida. “So vaccination for above 18 age group in Chandigarh will not start on May 1.”The UT had earlier sought permission from the Centre to allow them to administer the available doses of vaccine to the new age group. However, they are still waiting for the confirmation.Meanwhile, the private hospitals in Chandigarh are also not sure about the supply of vaccines for the 18 to 45 age group.A few private hospitals tried to purchase the vaccine directly from the Serum Institute of India, but they were told to access the vaccine when it becomes available in the private market or approach the government for the supplies.Wait for 5 monthsThe Serum Institute informed the private hospitals that due to their current obligation of meeting the Centre’s existing requirement and also to meet the additional demand emanating from state governments, it was challenging to meet independently the requirement from large private hospitals.“We urge you to access vaccine when it becomes available in private market supply chain channels, which will take about 5-6 months,” read a Serum Institute mail to a private hospital in Chandigarh.Chandigarh has so far received 2,90,930 doses of vaccines, out of which 2,03,082 (including 3.46 per cent wastage) have been used, leaving the city with 87,000 unutilised doses.According to CoWIN portal, 2,01,806 doses have been administered to beneficiaries in Chandigarh – 1,55,589 have received first dose and 46,217 have got both doses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-covid-vaccination-for-18-in-tricity-today-246551
01-05-2021||Naina Mishra||April sees 99 Covid deaths against 27 in March in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30With over 15,000 cases of Covid-19, April accounted for the maximum caseload ever since the pandemic started. This is double the cases reported during the earlier peak in September last year.Deaths this month saw a phenomenal increase from that of last month. Against 27 fatalities last month, 99 deaths were recorded in April. The pressure on hospitals has also increased as active cases have increased to 6,906 from 2,951 at the start of this month, leaving ICU beds exhausted. Even though Chandigarh conducted the maximum 92,710 tests, the positivity rate this month was high at 16.85 per cent. The weekly positivity rate has increased to 20 per cent.In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2 per cent every day. For every 100 confirmed cases, 16 are currently infected, while 83 have recovered from the virus.Dr KK Talwar, Health Adviser to Punjab and Chandigarh, said, “There is a need to increase the Covid bed capacity in hospitals to cater to patients. We also need adequate oxygen as we increase ICU beds. We should expand our capacities by roping in medical students so that we do not come on the line of Delhi.”“The peak is expected to continue till the first week of May. Some restrictions are needed to stabilise the situation. The evening curfew is a step towards containing the spread and it should be ensured that people do not step out after 5 pm. Our religious organisations should join the fight and tell people to avoid coming to such places. People do not even wear masks properly, and such careless behaviour will add to more problems. The tricity should have a common programme to contain the spread,” said Dr Talwar.50 beds more at GMCHTo meet the shortage of ICU beds in Chandigarh, the GMCH will set up additional 20 beds of L3 level on its campus. Additional 30 beds will be set up on the first floor of the Sector 48 hospital to provide the L2-level facility. Necessary pipeline for oxygen supply will be laid at the earliest.Students of final-year MBBS will be engaged to assist the existing doctors in corona-related work. Students of final year in the nursing college will also be engaged to assist the nursing staff in the battle against the virus.The basic faculty staff available at the GMCH will be also be utilised for Covid-related work. Doctors who have been sent on mobile duty outside would be replaced by final-year medical students so that those doctors can attend to serious patients in the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/april-sees-99-covid-deaths-against-27-in-march-in-chandigarh-246550
01-05-2021||---||To battle virus surge, tricity under weekend lockdown||Chandigarh, April 30To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, a complete weekend lockdown will be observed in the tricity. Now, all non-essential movement of people and vehicles will be prohibited in Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh during this weekend.The Punjab Government had already announced a weekend curfew in Mohali, whereas the Haryana Government declared it in Panchkula today as did the UT Administration in Chandigarh.In view of the Covid situation in Chandigarh, a decision was taken at a meeting, chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, to impose a weekend curfew from 5 am on Saturday till 5 am on Monday.The UT Administration has already imposed a curfew from 6 pm to 5 am on all days as a measure of isolation and social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19 due to a lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles.During the weekend curfew, shops dealing in the supply of essential goods such as milk, dairy products, vegetables and fruits will be allowed to remain open for home delivery up to 2 pm. The manufacturing industry will also be allowed to remain open and all vehicles or persons in bona fide transit inter-state will be allowed to pass. Passengers going to or returning from the airport, railway station or the ISBT will be exempted.What you need to knowMarriage with prior permission with attendance of up to 50 persons will be allowed. Funeral or last rites with attendance of up to 20 persons are allowed.During the weekend curfew, those going for appearing in examination and those on examination duties will be allowed movement on production of admit or identity cards. All vaccination centres, testing centres, dispensaries and medical facilities will remain open.The kitchens of restaurants or eating places, hotels, including food joints/courts in various malls, can remain open for home delivery only up to 9 pm. Their staff will be allowed to move on the production of a valid ID card issued to them by their respective establishments.13 fall prey to virus in Chandigarh, 724 found positiveChandigarh: The city saw 724 cases on Friday, taking the active case tally to 6,906. With 13 more deaths, the toll reached 478. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 42,647. A total of 457 more patients were cured. TNSPanchkula reports 6 deaths, 324 casesPanchkula: The district on Friday reported 324 fresh virus cases and six deaths. While the overall case tally has reached 21,043, the death toll stands at 207. The active caseload is 2,655. Over 18,000 people have recovered so far. TNSEight deaths, 857 more infected in MohaliMohali: Eight deaths were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 595. As many as 857 fresh cases surfaced, while 683 patients were cured of the disease. The district has so far recorded 46,570 cases, while 36,944 patients have been cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-battle-virus-surge-tricity-under-weekend-lockdown-246547
