02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Our emergency wards are blocked with Covid patients: PGI Director||“Our emergencies are blocked with Covid patients and we are at war,” said Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI.“In the past, we used to see non-Covid patients coming to the emergency ward. Now, the ward is blocked by Covid patients and many of them are coming from the nearby states. Around 20-25 per cent non-Covid patients reporting to the emergency ward are testing positive. We have set up a triage for Covid-19 patients in the emergency area. Covid patients are referred from other states as well and we cannot refuse medical attention to such patients. At this moment, 71 Covid patients are lined up in the emergency ward to be shifted to the Covid-19 hospital,” he added.In an exclusive interaction with The Tribune correspondent Naina Mishra, Prof Jagat Ram talked about challenges and preparation to deal with the second wave of Covid-19.How will you ensure that there is no shortage of ventilators and beds?We have more than 340 Covid-19 patients admitted to our hospital. In addition to the Covid block, we are in the process of adding up to 60 beds and enhancing the capacity of Covid-19 beds to 400.Since we are admitting only severely critical patients, many patients who require oxygen end up taking ICU-bed support. We are procuring 20 ventilators from the Government of India and five more will be purchased from the MPLADS funds provided by MP Kirron Kher. Besides, the institute has initiated the process of procuring five more ventilators. At present, 72 ICU beds with 81 ventilators, including nine in standby, are being used for the treatment of Covid patients.How is the PGI prepared to meet the shortage of manpower as it increases ventilators and Covid beds?We can keep on enhancing Covid-19 beds but the ICU will not treat patients, it is doctors who treat them. At present, there is a massive problem of manpower because 250-300 doctors will appear for the MD, MS examinations till May 15. We have to put junior and senior residents, consultants from another departments on Covid duty. We have deferred vacations and leaves of all healthcare workers. We have requested the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to sanction 1,500 nurses for the institute.‘Don’t come to hospitals if oxygen saturation is above 95 per cent’The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, has appealed to patients not to report to hospitals if their oxygen saturation is above 95 per cent. They should only come if saturation is less than 95 per cent. He said 90 per cent patients could avoid crowding hospitals as only 5-10 per cent require hospitalisation.The Centre suggests lockdown in areas with over 10% positivity rate and 60% bed occupancy. Is lockdown a solution in the UT?The most important thing is discipline and Covid appropriate behaviour. The Chandigarh Administration has already imposed weekend lockdown and evening restrictions. If people continue to violate norms, then the authorities are left with no solution but to impose a strict lockdown. Vaccination is a big weapon at hand to break the transmission and people should take it seriously.‘Need for 1,500 more nurses’To meet the shortage of manpower and handle Covid-19 emergency, the PGI has requested for 1,500 additional nurses from the Centre in addition to 272 junior residents and 211 senior residents.How is the institute dealing with the shortage of remdesivir and tocilizumab?Remdesivir is supplied by the UT Health Department and there should be no issue with this drug if a quota is given. As far as tocilizumab is concerned, we have received a few doses from the Centre. There was a collective quota of 200 doses of tocilizumab for Punjab and Chandigarh, of which we have received only 12 doses. We have raised the issue with the Centre and asked for a separate quota for Chandigarh and the PGI.When is the second wave graph expected to flatten?We are expecting some relief in the Covid graph in mid-May. It will take a whole year for the population to get vaccinated. If there is a decline in May, it will take three or four months to come down. But, the third wave is expected if people do not take adequate precautions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/our-emergency-wards-are-blocked-with-covid-patients-pgi-director-246895
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kin stay with patients at GMSH Covid ward||You will find it shocking, but it’s true that several non-Covid persons and positive patients are staying, eating and sleeping together in none other than UT Administration-run Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. They have not been provided with PPE kits and a mask is their only safety.Staying with father in ward since April 17A resident of Sector 33, who is staying in the ward as attendant for his father, said: “My father tested positive on April 17 and three-four days later, he got admitted to the GMSH. I have been with him in the Covid ward since then. I sleep near the bed of my father. The others are also doing the same.”In the absence of hospital attendants, many positive patients are putting up with one of their family members as attendant in the Covid ward of the GMSH-16, increasing the risk of transmission and putting a question mark over the functioning of the authorities.‘Not possible to have attendants for all’Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “We already have 225 positive patients. Of them, 75 are critical. It is not possible to have attendants for each patient due to the caseload. The situation will improve as we are hiring more doctors and nurses.”At night, these attendants even sleep on the floor beside the patient’s bed. A few of them were seen without mask in the company of corona patients.Some family members who do not want to stay in the ward with their patients are being approached by private attendants offering their services on a daily payment basis. A resident of Sector 33, who is staying in the ward as attendant for his father, told Chandigarh Tribune: “My father tested positive on April 17 and three-four days later, he got admitted to the GMSH. I have been with him in the Covid ward since then. I sleep near the bed of my father. The others are also doing the same.” The daughter of another patient said: “My father had remained in the GMSH for three-four days and now he has been discharged. We had a private room but there were attendants available for hire.”A government servant, who also stayed in the Covid ward to take care of his mother in April, said: “I was shocked to see non-Covid persons eating and sleeping in the ward as there were no hospital attendants to take care of the patients. I myself slept on the floor at night adjoining to my mom’s bed. What was alarming that these attendants (patients’ kin) used to roam outside during the day and return to the ward later.”“Nurses/hospital staff gave us medicines and food outside the ward. The hospital must have their own staff,” he added.Meanwhile, the GMSH authorities said they were facing a shortage of staff and were already overstretched due to a large number of admission of corona patients.Dr Devinder, in charge of Covid Management, GMSH, claimed: “We are not forcing people to stay as attendants. Some insist they must take care of their family members. We only ask them to send one attendant in case the patient is very old. When the old patients have to go to washroom, they have to be carried in a wheelchair with oxygen. Along with our one staff member, one family member is also required.”Showing helplessness, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “We already have 225 positive patients. Of them, 75 are critical. It is not possible to have attendants for each patient due to the caseload. The situation will improve as we are hiring more doctors and nurses.”“The attendants cannot wear PPE kits for more than half an hour due to sweating. However, we provide them masks, gloves and caps,” added Dr Devinder. However, many attendants in the ward were seen without masks, gloves and caps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-stay-with-patients-at-gmsh-covid-ward-246896
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sri Guru Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society and Competent Foundation evince interest to start mini-Covid care centres||Two more organisations have come forward to set up mini-Covid care centre in the city.To reduce pressure on the government infrastructure, the UT Administration had requested social organisations and associations to set up small Covid care centres under the supervision of health care workers.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for mini Covid care centre, said they had received two more applications for setting up mini centres, but locations were yet to be finalised.Yesterday, permissions were granted to Sri Guru Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society and Competent Foundation to set up and operate a mini Covid care centre each at the Working Women Hostel, Bal Bhawan, Sector 23-B, and the Community Centre, Sector 19, respectively.Meanwhile, UT Adviser Manoj Parida appealed to Rotarians and Lions Club to set up such centres.Under the UT plan, any individual, association, voluntary organisation, NGO, religious bodies, corporate, firm or Trust may come forward for setting up a mini Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients.Preferably, patients of nearby areas may be catered to and discharged after 10 days (from the date of the positive test report) with an undertaking to remain in home isolation for further seven days. In case of deterioration of health, the patient can be shifted to a hospital by the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sri-guru-guru-granth-sahib-sewa-society-and-competent-foundation-evince-interest-to-start-mini-covid-care-centres-246897
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh imposes curbs in 32 more areas||To prevent further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration today declared 32 more micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated that the issue of the Covid outbreak was examined by a committee and a view emerged that the affected areas be declared as micro-containment zones. He said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Residents of the places where curbs were imposed had been advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.As many as 15 micro-containment zones were declared in the city yesterday.The new micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 18, 21, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37-B, 40-B, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 49, Daria village, Hallo Majra, Indira Colony, Modern Housing Complex, Pipli Wala Town, Samadhi Gate and NAC in Mani Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-imposes-curbs-in-32-more-areas-246898
02-05-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula to roll out vaccine for 18+ with lone session today||The district today received only 14,000 doses of Covishield to start vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group from tomorrow. However, only one session at Government Polyclinic in Sector 26 will be conducted on the first day of the rollout.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said they would start vaccination for the 18-plus tomorrow. “We will begin with only one session at Government Polyclinic, Sector 26. Only those with online appointment will be vaccinated,” she added.The original plan was to rollout the vaccination of 18-plus from May 1. The Health Department had earlier decided to defer the rollout to May 3 and had suspended the vaccination during weekend lockdown.After state Health Minister Anil Vij this evening announced the rollout in all districts from tomorrow, the local Health Department changed its decision and decided to start vaccination by tomorrow itself.Vaccine aspirants turn up at centresAlthough the Health Department had announced that no vaccination would be carried out during the weekend lockdown and deferred the next phase of vaccine rollout to May 3, many people in the 18-45 age group turned up at vaccination centres in the hope of getting their first jab amid the rising coronavirus cases. They, however, had to return disappointed.At the centres, the Health Department had put up posters to inform the public about the suspension of vaccination on Saturday and Sunday in view of the lockdown.Abhishek (36), who visited the dispensary in Sector 12-A around 1 pm to receive his first dose, said he didn’t know about the deferment of the vaccine rollout to May 3.“Young people who have to step out of their houses for work have more chances of contracting the virus. They can subsequently infect elderly persons close to them. Hence, I shall suggest people to take vaccine to ensure the safety of not only themselves, but also their loved ones,” he said.Another person in his 30s, who visited the same centre, was told to come again on Monday by a security official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-to-roll-out-vaccine-for-18-with-lone-session-today-246899
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||MC gears up for complete waste clearance at Dadu Majra||Residents can hope for complete garbage clearance at the Dadu Majra dumping ground as the Municipal Corporation is gearing up to allot the work for disposal of the remaining waste at the site.The biomining of one part of the garbage dump at Dadu Majra was on, but the remaining part had been left. The civic body has now decided to initiate the work on other part by utilising funds under the Swachh Bharat Mission or the AMRUT.“We will soon float a tender to clear the remaining about 4.50 lakh metric tonne waste lying at the ground. We will consider plasma technology. The whole waste can be cleared in about four months. We will use funds from the AMRUT or Swachh Bharat Mission,” Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma told Chandigarh Tribune.Sharma inspected the ongoing work at the site on Thursday. “They have cleared a major part of the garbage from the dumping ground. I have directed them to complete the work by December,” he said.It was earlier found that the biomining work, which was allotted to a private firm for Rs33 crore in 2019, was only for half of the garbage dump at the site. The company was assigned the task to biomine 5 lakh metric tonne of waste and about 4.50 lakh tonne of waste was left behind. However, the authorities had created an impression that the entire waste would be lifted from the ground.The MC had taken over the waste processing plant from Jaypee Group last year. It is only processing about 70 metric tonne of waste daily, while the city generates nearly 450 metric tonne of garbage each day. The fresh waste, which is being dumped at the ground, could thus pose a major challenge to the corporation in clearing the ground.The officials though are hoping to upgrade the processing machinery at the plant to ensure that the fresh waste does not go the ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-gears-up-for-complete-waste-clearance-at-dadu-majra-246900
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Health Dept regulates remdesivir distribution||To ensure availability of remdesivir injection to Covid-19 patients, the UT Health Department will procure it from the open market or allocation by the Government of India and distribute among all government and private hospitals treating infected persons.The sale of remdesivir through private distributor or chemists has been banned in the UT. The Health Department will distribute the injection to government or private hospitals on cost-to-cost basis. Private hospitals can charge the same rate from the patient. Hospitals can apply for remdesivir injection by writing to the Director, Health and Family Welfare, Chandigarh, via email at dhs_ut@yahoo.co.in.The provision of the injections will be subject to the justification of the demand along with all the relevant medical records. The supply of the remdesivir injection to hospitals will be based on the availability of stock. The hospitals receiving the jab will have to submit a daily report on patients to whom it was administered.Rohit Seth, an advocate in Chandigarh, said, “How can only one officer and one email id receive applications and medical reports of patients to sanction remdesivir injection. Thousand of coronavirus patients are under treatment and if the injection will be provided to them subject to availability and supply by the Government of India, then it is better that all chemists should sell it, at least some patients will get it in time. Patients are battling against life. How can their family members await the outcome of emails and be at mercy of the authorities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-dept-regulates-remdesivir-distribution-246902
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||8 without mask challaned in Chandigarh||Eight persons were challaned for not wearing a mask at a public place during the lockdown on Saturday. Further, 78 challans were issued for not maintaining social distancing and 23 persons were penalised for spitting at a public place. A fine of Rs58,500 was collected from the violators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-without-mask-challaned-in-chandigarh-246904
02-05-2021||Mohali||No curbs for poultry, meat shops in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-curbs-for-poultry-meat-shops-in-mohali-246910
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||11 die, 799 test positive in Chandigarh||6 deaths, 446 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported six Covid deaths and 446 fresh cases. Three of the victims had no known comorbidities. While the toll reached 213, the active caseload stands at 2,637. Of the 21,489 cases reported so far, 18,639 patients have defeated the virus. TNS8 die, 936 +ve in MohaliMohali: Eight Covid-induced deaths surfaced in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 603. Meanwhile, 936 persons were diagnosed with Covid till Saturday evening and 813 patients got better of the disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-die-799-test-positive-in-chandigarh-246915
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University postpones Senate elections for all constituencies||Panjab University has announced postponement of the Senate elections for all constituencies.The new schedule would be issued after taking into account the Covid guidelines for all states concerned, said the spokesperson.Previous decisionEarlier, the PU had postponed the voting for six ordinary fellows from two constituencies scheduled to be held on May 3, as was advised by the Punjab Government. Now, all elections scheduled till May 16 have been postponed.According to the announced schedule, voting for choosing six ordinary fellows from two constituencies was scheduled to be held on May 3. There were 52 voters for the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges, while 783 voters were registered for the election of the staff of technical and professional colleges.A total of 28 booths were to be set up for the elections across different districts of Punjab. The permission was sought from Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Muktsar, Moga and Nawanshahr administrations.“The office has sought permission from the district administrations to permit a gathering of more than 10 persons and facilitating the movement of polling parties from Chandigarh to respective polling station on May 2 and return journey to Chandigarh on May 3, on the basis of the duty order issued by the undersigned. The permission of the same was also sought from the Chief Secretary, Government of Punjab on April 30. In response to the request of the university, the office of the Chief Secretary has advised postponing the elections,” stated a circular issued by Panjab University.It further stated: “Himachal Pradesh vide its letter dated April 23 had withdrawn its permission for conducting elections of registered graduate constituency, which were scheduled to be held on May 16. Haryana vide its notification on April 29 has ordered the closure of all educational institutions till May 31.”A spokesperson further added: “Now, considering all aspects, it becomes infeasible to hold the Senate elections on the dates already notified. Hence, the competent authority has decided to postpone the dates of the Senate elections of all constituencies for the time being. The new schedule will be issued separately after taking into account the latest Covid guidelines of all states concerned.”Earlier, Panjab University had rescheduled the date for the elections for the six posts of ordinary fellow from various faculties from April 26 to May 19. According to the information, there were 53 voters listed in law faculties, 112 in arts, 94 in languages, 137 science, 87 social science and 272 combined. The elections for principals of technical and professional colleges were schedule for May 3.The voting for professors of the university teaching departments and associate professors/assistant professors of the university teaching departments was schedule for May 10, heads of affiliated arts colleges, associate professor/assistant professor of affiliated arts colleges and registered graduates on May 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-postpones-senate-elections-for-all-constituencies-246930
02-05-2021||Surinder BhardwajFatehgarh Sahib||Truck driver’s murder solved||The district police claim to have solved the mystery of the blind murder of a truck driver in 48 hours with the arrest of the truck cleaner.The half-burnt body was found amid bushes on the GT Road near Sirhind a few days ago. The cleaner, along with the loaded truck, was missing. The police also recovered the truck loaded with iron goods from Nirmal Dhaba, four kms away from the crime spot.Addressing the media, SSP Amneet Kondal said two days ago, the Sirhind police have recovered the half-burnt body and it was very difficult to identify the victim. She said a SIT, led by SP(Investigation) JS Jallah, Fatehgarh Sahib DSP Manjit Singh and Sirhind SHO GS Sikand was constituted. They succeeded in identifying the deceased as a truck driver, Om Pal, who was a resident of Chandpur village in Roorkee and working with DS Transport Company of Ludhiana. She said the SIT solved the murder in 48 hours and arrested the cleaner of the truck, identified as Rohit Sharma of Amritsar.Jallah said the truck was found from a dhaba and after identifying its owner, the police came to know that truck driver was accompanied by the cleaner. He said the police arrested the cleaner and during investigation, he revealed that at 12.30 pm, they had a quarrel over a cell phone following which he had hit the driver with an iron road and he died on the spot. He wrapped his body in a blanket and set it on fire. He took the truck and parked it at Nirmal Dhabha and fled away. He said the cleaner would be presented in a court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truck-drivers-murder-solved-246937
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||High Court imposes Rs 50K costs on Punjab, others||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has imposed Rs50,000 costs on the state of Punjab and other appellants in a 12-year-old matter. The amount was directed to be deposited with the Dera Bassi Forest Department for ensuring tree plantation drive.The direction by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came after an adjournment was sought by the respondents. The Bench added the plantation drive would be certified by the District Forest Officer, Mohali.“Again a request has come about from the side of the appellants’ counsel seeking adjournment when it was explicitly clear from previous order dated March 4 that no further adjournment shall be granted,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted.The Bench added the matter was already pending for than 12 years. It impelled the court to not only grant a last opportunity for making submissions by the parties, but also impose costs of Rs50,000, which would be equally borne by all appellants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-imposes-rs-50k-costs-on-punjab-others-246947
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Education Department advises testing for staff, hostellers||All heads of educational institutions in Chandigarh have been advised to arrange for Covid-19 testing of staff and students occupying the hostels to ensure their safety.Panjab University was advised to coordinate with the Director, Health Services, UT, through the Director Higher Education (DHE) for the same.Various suggestions, including the testing of staff and hostellers, were floated during a recent meeting chaired by the UT Education Secretary and attended by the DHE, Additional Secretary-cum-Director Technical Education, principals of Government College of Arts, PGGCG-11, CCA and Government Home Science College, Registrar and Dean Student Welfare (DSW), Panjab University, and Deputy Director, Punjab Engineering College (PEC).It was also recommended that students may be advised to vacate the hostels and stay with their families/parents during the Covid spike. “However, students who have cogent reasons to stay at hostels may be allowed to stay. The head of the institution will take appropriate decision with respect to each such student who is allowed to stay at hostels,” said one of the sources.Other recommendations included maintain of record of all hostellers by respective institute.The details of students (who are allowed to stay beyond May 30) should be supplied before May 4 to the DHE or Additional Secretary Technical Education. Meeting participants also suggested ensuring compliance with Covid norms, testing and other instructions issued from time to time.718 hostellers at Panjab UniversitySources said the Education Secretary insisted that youngsters were at an equal risk during the pandemic and there was need to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy.“The DSW, PU, confirmed that 718 students are presently occupying the hostels and out of these, 650 students are Research Scholars. The university has around 20 hostels with the total capacity of 8,000 students and presently, only 10 per cent capacity is being utilised. Deputy Director, PEC, said around 300 students are occupying the hostels. The DHE also apprised that nearly 300 students are occupying hostels in various colleges. However, he informed that many of these college students are in the process of shifting to their hometowns,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-department-advises-testing-for-staff-hostellers-246959
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Grant  for Chitkara varsity||In a major boost to the Chitkara School of Pharmacy’s global initiative to create a safer and healthier world, the Society of Toxicology (SOT) has sanctioned a grant of $4,000 under the SOT Global Initiative Funding 2021.The grant will help students of Chitkara School of Pharmacy to carry experiment activities with the Society’s global priorities.The SOT serves the needs of the scientific discipline to enhance human, animal, and environmental health, life-long learning and intellectual scientific stimulation.Dr Nitin Verma, Principal, Chitkara School of Pharmacy, said the grant would be utilised to conduct the conference on ‘The Science of PFAS: Chemistry, Public Health, Multimedia Measurements & Environment’ in August 2021 as one of the priorities under the Sustainable Development Goals: Clean Water and Sanitation and Climate action.Experts from the USA, Canada, Australia and other parts of the world will participate in the conference, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/grant-for-chitkara-varsity-246960
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fire hydrants checked at Sector 48 hospital||Considering the incidents of fire at some of the hospitals in other parts of the country, especially due to a sudden increase in the consumption of oxygen, all fire hydrants at the Sector 48 Covid hospital here were tested and a fire-sensing mock drill was also carried out.“All fire extinguishers have been checked, refilled and re-validated,” said Yashpal Garg, Covid management in-charge at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH-32).In the past week, all fire hydrants at the GMCH-32 were tested and all fire extinguishers were checked, refilled and re-validated.Garg said all medical and para-medical staff had also been sensitised to ensure that all the fire exits should remain clear all the time and should not be blocked by stretchers/trolleys and all oxygen points to be checked by a technician to ensure there was no leakage.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the hospital authorities to be extra careful about the fire issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-hydrants-checked-at-sector-48-hospital-246961
02-05-2021||Mohali||447 sans mask fined in Mohali||As many as 447 challans have been issued to persons found not wearing a mask in a public place in the past 24 hours.Twelve FIRs have been registered for the violation of Covid guidelines, including one each against a hotel and an IELTS centre in Dera Bassi. Amit Bindal, the owner of Hotel Paras where approximately 160 persons attended a function, was booked. Maninder and Vikrant, co-owners of IQ Education Hub, were booked after more than eight students were found attending classes and were not wearing a mask.Cases under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC have been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/447-sans-mask-fined-in-mohali-246962
02-05-2021||Panchkula||30 nakas set up to enforce lockdown in Panchkula||To ensure enforcement of the weekend lockdown, the Panchkula police have set up 30 nakas across the district.While 11 nakas have been established in internal areas, 19 are at district border points. Eight cops have been deployed at each naka for round-the-clock surveillance.Every vehicle passing through the nakas are being checked to ensure there is no unnecessary travelling and vehicle movement. Offenders were being dealt with strictly, the police said.Shop manager arrestedThe police arrested the manager of a shop in Sector 9 after it was found open during the lockdown. A case was registered against the shop manager, Ravi Kumar of Chandikotla, at the Sector 5 police station.155 liquor bottles seizedThe police also seized a total of 155 bottles of English and country-made liquor from Rajiv Colony in Sector 17. The bottles were recovered from a colony resident, identified as Mukesh Kumar. On a tip-off, the police conducted a raid and found him selling liquor outside his house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-nakas-set-up-to-enforce-lockdown-in-panchkula-246963
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Four new labour codes deprive workers of rights’||The SFS today celebrated International Workers’ Day to commemorate the struggles and gains made by workers and the labour movement.“The four new labour codes explicitly deprive the workers of their basic and fundamental rights of eight working hours a day and even minimum social security to workers and snatch their democratic right to form unions and bargain with managements,” said the student party.They further said the labour codes and parasitic farms laws were being introduced by the country at the behest of imperialist institutions such as the IMF, World Bank and WTO.“The Indian state hoodwinks are telling the masses that these exploitative laws are in the “national interest”. We must equivocally engage with our hard working people that this “national interest” is actually the interests of Tata, Birla, Ambani, POSCO, Vendita like big corporate sharks,” they said.They added: “The pandemic has once again exposed this exploitative system that capitalism can never fulfill the needs of working people, it can just exploit and oppress them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-new-labour-codes-deprive-workers-of-rights-246965
02-05-2021||Panchkula||8 Covid mgmt panels formed in Panchkula||District Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has constituted eight committees for supervising and managing Covid activities in the district.The committees have been formed to review containment zones, management of beds and enhancing the critical care facilities, managing the existing and creation of new Covid care facilities, managing wards, ensuring regular supply of oxygen and monitoring the bills raised by private hospitals.The meetings of these committees will be held on a daily basis at 6 pm through virtual mode. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-covid-mgmt-panels-formed-in-panchkula-246966
02-05-2021||Mohali||Mohali seeks requisition of all oxygen cylinders from industry||The district administration on Saturday ordered the requisition of all oxygen cylinders available with the industry/industrial units in the district for medical purpose.The orders have been issued to assist, protect and provide relief to the community and put in place measures for ensuring the availability of oxygen for proper medical care of Covid-19 patients in the district in view of the emergent nature and potential magnitude of the pandemic.Pvt cylinders not to be filled by air separation unitsThe order also states that in order to prevent the disruption of uninterrupted supply of oxygen for the management of patients suffering from Covid-19/non-Covid critical patients in various hospitals, oxygen cylinders owned by private individuals or firms should not be filled by air separation units (ASUs)/oxygen suppliers unless authorised to do so by the District Nodal Officer/Civil Surgeon.Girish Dayalan, District Magistrate-cum-Chairperson, District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), said cylinders should be collected from such units after issuing a receipt and would be allocated to hospitals as per their need by the District Nodal Officer for oxygen /Civil Surgeon.He said the cylinders taken in possession would be returned to the respective industrial units when the orders cease to be in operation, i.e., as and when the use of these cylinders are no longer required.The order also states that in order to prevent the disruption in uninterrupted supply of oxygen for the management of patients suffering from Covid-19/non-Covid critical patients in various hospitals, oxygen cylinders owned by private individuals or firms should not be filled by air separation units (ASUs)/oxygen suppliers unless authorised to do so by the District Nodal Officer/Civil Surgeon. The management/owners of the ASUs and oxygen suppliers would be personally responsible to ensure the same.Any violation will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in the district and in light of a huge influx of patients from other states to Punjab and the occupancy of beds reaching 90 per cent, availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen was an important prerequisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-seeks-requisition-of-all-oxygen-cylinders-from-industry-246977
02-05-2021||Mohali||Changes in functioning of Sewa Kendras amid surge||Keeping in view the sudden spurt in Covid cases, the district administration made changes in Sewa Kendras’ operations from today.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said certain changes had been made in the functioning of Sewa Kendras as they witness heavy footfall on a daily basis. Staff members were involved in public dealing which makes them more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection, he said.To operate from 9 am to 4 pmTo ensure complete safety of the staff and the visitors, changes have been made in Sewa Kendras’ operations from May 1. The changes would remain in force till May 31, said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, adding that the Sewa Kendras would operate from 9 am to 4 pm.To ensure complete safety of the staff and the visitors, changes had been made in Sewa Kendras’ operations from May 1. The changes will remain in force till May 31, said Dayalan, adding that the Sewa Kendras would operate from 9 am to 4 pm.Encourage payments through digital modesGirish Dayalan said all payments and transactions at Sewa Kendras should be encouraged through POS machines and other digital modes to avoid cash handling.Dayalan said all payments and transactions at Sewa Kendras should be encouraged through POS machines and other digital modes to avoid cash handling.He said Covid vaccination certificate was made mandatory for Sewa Kendra staff to attend the office.Dayalan said the staff members without the vaccination certificate would be inoculated before being allowed to resume duties.No staff member should be allowed if they don’t have the vaccination certificate, he asserted. The DC said the applicants would need to take prior appointment for any work at the Sewa Kendras.He said no applicant would be entertained without having valid appointment. The appointment could be made through mobile app M-Sewa or COVA or through website https://darpa.punjab.gov.in/sewakendras.People could also call at 8968593812-13 for appointments, he informed.Reiterating that the use of masks is mandatory in Sewa Kendras, Dayalan said limited number of applicants, i.e., equal to the number of serving counters at the Sewa Kendra concerned would be allowed inside while the remaining people might be asked to wait outside the centre.Dayalan also said output document delivery to applicants through courier mode shall be encouraged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/changes-in-functioning-of-sewa-kendras-amid-surge-246993
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Prohibition of Child Marriage Act does not differentiate on basis of religion: High Court||The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, does not differentiate on the basis of religion, the Punjab and Haryana High Court asserted while hearing a protection plea filed by a runaway couple.“It is to be noticed that even though as per the Muslim personal law a valid marriage can be contracted between the parties upon attaining the age of puberty, it is to be further noticed that the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, does not differentiate on the basis of religion, as regards the commission of any offences punishable under the provisions of that Act,” said Justice Amol Rattan Singh.The petitioners were seeking protection of life and liberty after marrying on April 18 against the wishes of the respondent- relatives.Responding to a specific query, counsel for the petitioners stated that the petitioners were neither in a prohibited relationship, nor has any of them been married earlier.Justice Amol Rattan Singh observed the girl, as per her matriculation certificate’s copy, was shown to be just above 18. The boy was admittedly below the legally marriageable age in terms of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.Justice Singh added as per a Supreme Court judgment, if a girl/woman was above marriageable age of 18, no offence punishable under the provisions of the Act would be made out. Consequently, the life and liberty of the petitioners would be duly protected in accordance with law.But if the girl’s age was found to be actually below 18 years upon verification of certificate, the High Court order would not prohibit proceedings under the provisions of the Act.“Further, it is made clear that if any of the averments made in the petition is found to be incorrect, specifically with regard to either the petitioners being in any prohibited relationship to each other, or as regards their previous marital status, this order shall not be construed to be a bar on proceedings initiated as per law,” the Bench added.Disposing of the petition, the Bench made it clear that the life of the petitioners would be protected under all circumstances as it was a basic fundamental right enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prohibition-of-child-marriage-act-does-not-differentiate-on-basis-of-religion-high-court-246995
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cap on gatherings, Chandigarh residents in a fix over community centre bookings||People who booked community centres for marriages or holding other events in advance are in a fix after the UT Administration capped the number of visitors.Many of them want to cancel the bookings, but they are getting only 25 to 50 per cent refund.People had booked community centres when there was no restriction on the number of people attending the event. But with restrictions in place now, the community centres are not feasible for them.As per the Municipal Corporation, 50 per cent booking amount is refunded for cancellation request 15 days prior to the event, and 25 per cent between 7 to 14 days of the function.“I had booked a community centre in Sector 50 for my son’s wedding next month. We had planned for about 250 persons, but the administration later on restricted the number of visitors to 50. I want to cancel the booking and want full refund, but officials are saying there is no guideline in this regard at present,” said Anil Gautam, a local resident.Another resident, who had booked the community centre, said, “We are in a dilemma whether to cancel the booking or not… we won’t be getting the entire amount back due to the no full refund norm. We now want to keep it (function) a close affair at home.”As per the recent guideline of the UT Administration, the gatherings have been limited to 50 persons only.Last year, when curbs were imposed on community centres in view of the Covid situation, the Municipal Corporation had refunded the entire booking amount for April and May months. About Rs 80 lakh were returned to 493 applicants.The booking amount for a community centre ranges between Rs 29,000 to 50,000 depending upon the category and area of the centre. There are total 42 community centres in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cap-on-gatherings-chandigarh-residents-in-a-fix-over-community-centre-bookings-246998
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh seeks 3-month extension for Home Secy, MC Commissioner||Amid Covid surge, the UT Administration has sought three-month extension for Home Secretary Arun Gupta and Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav. The three-year tenure of both the officers ends this month.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has urged the Ministry of Home Affairs to grant extension in services to Arun Gupta, a Haryana cadre IAS officer of 1992 batch, and KK Yadav, a Punjab cadre IAS officer of 2003 batch.The Haryana Government had earlier sent a panel of three IAS officers to succeed Gupta. The panel included the names of Nitin Kumar Yadav (2000 batch), Ravi Pankaj Agarwal (2000 batch) and Vinay Singh (2003 batch).Apart from being the Secretary of 21 departments of the UT Administration, including Home and Finance, Gupta is also holding the charges of CITCO Chairman, Chief Electoral Officer and the Chief Administrator.Meanwhile, the Punjab Government had sent a panel of three IAS officers – Anindita Mitra, Amit Kumar and Rajiv Prashar to succeed Yadav as MC Commissioner.Yadav is also holding the charge of Secretary, Rural Development & Panchayats, Secretary Sports, Nodal Officer (Smart City) and Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Smart City Limited.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said extension in service had been sought for both the officers as it would not be the right decision to replace them amid existing Covid circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-seeks-3-month-extension-for-home-secy-mc-commissioner-246999
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Professional players in tight spot||After the UT Sports Department announced to close all local sports complexes due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, professional players have once again found themselves in a tight spot.On Friday, the UT Director Sports ordered to shut all sports complexes of Chandigarh with immediate effect following directions of the State Disaster Management Authority.During the lockdown period last year, sportspersons faced a lot of difficulties in maintaining their form. However, after the lockdown restrictions were lifted, players moved to complexes to master their respective sport.Local sportspersons were practising on a regular basis for the past few months to prepare for the upcoming championships.“Covid-19 protocols were already followed at all complexes. Professional or competitive players should be allowed to practise on alternative days, if not on daily. We have recovered well in the past few months. However, new restriction will surely damage our future plans,” said Arvind, a local trainee.“Exercising is an important shield in fighting Covid-19 complications. Instead of closure, the department could have limited the number of players at one time. Even the Government of India has said that complete lockdown should be the last option. Players of international level are practising taking all precautions, so were local players,” said another player.Though orders to close sports complexes were issued for containment zones, considering the number of daily cases it was decided to close the complexes in Chandigarh.“Players’ safety is our major concern. The complexes have been closed till further orders. Let’s see how long this goes,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports.Earlier this year, the department had opened training centres of all disciplines, including swimming, badminton, judo, football and cricket. The pandemic has already hit the department and as well as local players. Plans to reopen state-run football, hockey and cricket academies, conducting annual championships, summer camps and diet camps were already dropped in the last session. Several players had trouble in participating in various championships amid near-to-no practice during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/professional-players-in-tight-spot-247001
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary shut||Snatcher held with 12 phonesMohali: The police nabbed a Mauli Baidwan resident with 12 stolen phones and a two-wheeler. The suspect, identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Pappu, confessed that he used to steal bikes and phones of labourers from under-construction buildings. TNSLight rain likely tomorrowChandigarh: The Met Department has predicted light rain on Monday. The city is expected to see a clear sky on Sunday. On Monday, it is likely to be generally cloudy with light rain. TNSNo ‘timely care’, mishap victim diesMohali: The kin of a 20-year-old accident victim alleged that he died for want of timely treatment. Badala resident Shiv Naresh met with a mishap on the Kharar highway on Saturday afternoon and was rushed to the Kharar Civil Hospital where he was not given treatment, his kin alleged. It was alleged that the victim was then taken to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, which is now a designated Covid hospital. Thereafter, the youth was taken to the ESI Hospital, Phase 8, where he wasdeclared brought dead. The kin said the youth’s life could have been saved had he got treatment in time. TNSProgramme on gender identityChandigarh: The Equal Opportunity Cell and HIV/AIDS Awareness Committee of MCM DAV College for Women organised an online programme on ‘Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation’ as per the instructions of the Department of Higher Education, Chandigarh. Over 700 students and faculty members participated in the programme. The resource person for the programme was Amrita Sarkar, Advisor, Transgender Wellbeing and Advocacy, India HIV/AIDS Alliance. TNSSession on COVID-19Chandigarh: An interactive session on ‘COVID-19 - Health and Safety Challenges’ was organised for the students of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Santan Dharma College, Sector 32. The session began with a stay safe message from Principal Dr Balraj Thapar. The session was delivered by Dr Amit Khanna, a US-based senior scientist of Indian origin. TNSWebinar on career in IAFChandigarh: Desh Bhagat University (DBU) organised a webinar on career opportunities in Indian Air Force in association with the IEEE Student Branch, Photonic Chapter and Faculty of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Squadron Leader Shubhasree Deb delivered a talk on ‘A Spectrum of Opportunities in Indian Air Force’. TNSWoman arrested with illicit liquorChandigarh: The police arrested a 45-year-old Maloya woman and recovered 32 quarters of country-made liquor from her possession on April 30. A case has been registered. TNSBikers flee with mobile phoneChandigarh: Deepak Kumar, a resident of Mauli Jagran, reported that two unknown motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched his mobile phone near the railway bridge, Vikas Nagar, on April 21. A case has been registered. TNSAbetment to suicide: 1 bookedChandigarh: The police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against Mukesh Rana, alias Bunty, a Bilaspur (HP) native, for harassing a 22-year-old woman who took the extreme step at her residence on April 19. On a complaint of the woman’s brother, Shiv Karan, a resident of Chandigarh, a case has been registered. TNS3 theft incidents reported in cityChandigarh: A Jind resident, Mandeep, reported that an unknown person stole his jewellery, including one pair of earrings and a gold bracelet, and Rs3,000 from his car in the parking of Elante Mall on April 30. In another incident, an Industrial Area resident, Bintu, reported that his brother-in-law Krishanpal stole four gold rings, a gold earring, one ‘tikka’, one pair of earring and one silver bracelet from his residence on April 30. A Dhanas resident, Bharat, reported that an unknown person stole his e-rickshaw parked near his house on the night of April 19. Cases have been registered in all incidents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-wildlife-sanctuary-shut-247002
