03-05-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur businessmen protest opening of multinational wholesale store amid COVID lockdowns||Shopkeepers and local businessmen on Monday held a protest outside a multinational wholesale store on the Chandigarh-Ambala road in Zirakpur for running its operations while their "right of livelihood was being denied to them by the administration".Shopkeepers alleged that their shops are being closed down and challans imposed on them but several wholesale stores are being allowed to run their operations.Thirty persons working at a multinational wholesale store in Zirakpur were found Covid positive on April 30. The store was closed for two days with only home delivery available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-businessmen-protest-opening-of-multinational-wholesale-store-amid-covid-lockdowns-247679
03-05-2021||---||Mohali administration ropes in NGO||Mohali, May 2In view of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the district administration today roped in an NGO – StepOne – that will support it in contacting and monitoring Covid patients in home isolation via IVR calls.Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in order to keep tabs on the health status of Covid patients, the District Administration had augmented the existing system of making manual calls with IVR calls in the district. He said earlier a team of telecallers, under the supervision of the district Covid patient tracking officer (CPTO), used to contact each coronavirus patient in home isolation and call them daily to take an update on their health status.Dayalan said with over 9,000 active cases coupled with daily surge in the number of positive cases, keeping tabs on patients manually had become challenging.“We have roped in an NGO - StepOne - that will support the administration in contacting and monitoring Covid patients in home isolation via IVR calls,” he said.Dayalan said the system would automatically fetch the data of Covid patients in home isolation and call each number. The patient would have to reply to questions and update their status assessed by themselves. Based on their replies, the system would flag those needing immediate attention as red and they would subsequently be contacted by a team of doctors for further treatment.He said it had been observed that generally people either do not respond to automated call or disconnect it without answering appropriately. The system-generated IVR calls were multi-lingual. A person could choose the desired language and respond accordingly.Making an appeal to Covid-19 patients in Home Isolation, he said timely follow-up was in the interest of patients. So, they should respond to the call and update their health status as and when asked.Ravjot Kaur, SP (Rural)-cum-Covid Patient Tracking Officer for the district, said monitoring of home isolation cases of Covid-19 patients was required to be done efficiently and diligently in order to ensure they had proper information and were able to escalate any health-related problem that they might face during the home isolation period.About the systemDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the system would automatically fetch the data of Covid patients in home isolation and call each number. The patient would have to reply to questions and update their status assessed by themselves. Based on their replies, the system would flag those needing immediate attention as red and they would subsequently be contacted by a team of doctors for further treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-administration-ropes-in-ngo-247444
03-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Demand for oxygen concentrators leads to shortage, black marketing||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 2Fearing the shortage of medical oxygen cylinders, people are now purchasing oxygen concentrators on their own to keep these on standby in case of an emergency. This has resulted in an increase in its demand, leading to shortage and black marketing.Surinder Singh, a resident of Phase 3B1, said he had old-age parents in his house. He decided to purchase an oxygen concentrator so that it could be used in case of an emergency. The surge in Covid cases could also cause shortage of medical oxygen cylinders in the market.He contacted several dealers to purchase an oxygen concentrator, but the latter expressed inability to deliver the machine as it was not in the stock and would take more than two weeks for the fresh stock to arrive.Avtar Singh, a resident of Phase 4, said: “An oxygen concentrator costing around Rs55,000 is now being sold in black market between Rs75,000 and Rs80,000. I wanted to purchase it for my mother, who is suffering from acute asthma, but cannot purchase it due to its high cost”.An official of Sun Medics, distributor of oxygen concentrators, while confirming the shortage of the machine, said demand by individuals had increased. People wanted to keep the machine at home for any emergency and were booking it in advance. They don’t know as to when the new stock would arrive from abroad.It may be mentioned here that portable medical oxygen concentrators are used in hospitals or at home to produce oxygen for patients. The ambient air we breathe contains about 78 per cent nitrogen, 21 per oxygen and one per cent of other gases. The concentrator has the job of taking as much of the nitrogen out of the air as is possible while leaving the oxygen.Yogesh Sagar, president of the Mohali Industries Association, said there was a shortage of oxygen concentrators. He had received requests from some people as they wanted to purchase the machine. Local dealers here have expressed their inability to provide the same as there was no supply from manufacturers. He said Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had also assured to provide cooperation if industrialists show their interest in setting up manufacturing units in the state.About the machinePortable medical oxygen concentrators are used in hospitals or at home to produce oxygen for patients. The ambient air we breathe contains about 78 per cent nitrogen, 21 per oxygen and one per cent of other gases. The concentrator has the job of taking as much of the nitrogen out of the air as is possible while leaving the oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/demand-for-oxygen-concentrators-leads-to-shortage-black-marketing-247445
03-05-2021||---||Tribunal asks firm to pay Rs26L to parents of road accident victim||Chandigarh, May 2The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has directed an insurance company to release Rs26 lakh compensation to parents of a youth who died in a road accident in 2018.The claimants had sought compensation from the driver and owner of the vehicle which was allegedly involved in the accident and the insurance company on account of death of Ravi Kumar.Kumar had died in a road accident on November 6, 2018. The petition was filed by Kumar’s mother Chitrawati, father Jhandu Lal and his sisters Neetu and Jyoti.The tribunal while disposing of the petition said the insurance company was ready to settle the present claim petition for the sum of Rs26 lakh as full and final settlement.The counsel for the claimants testified the settlement and said the claimants were ready to accept the compensation amount offered by the insurance Company.In view of the settlement, the tribunal ordered to give the compensation to the parents as they are the only first class legal heirs of the deceased, Ravi Kumar, who was unmarried.The tribunal further said the compensation amount should be paid to claimants in equal shares.The insurance company shall pay up the amount within 45 days failing which the claimants shall be entitled to recover the amount, along with interest at 6 per cent per annum, from the date of institution of the present petition till realisation of the amount, the tribunal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tribunal-asks-firm-to-pay-rs26l-to-parents-of-road-accident-victim-247446
03-05-2021||---||Panchkula to shift stepdown patients from pvt hospitals||Panchkula, May 2The Health Department has set up 60 Covid beds with oxygen facility at Kisan Bhawan in Sector 14 where stepdown patients from private hospitals will be shifted.It will allow health officials to save critical beds amid shortage due to more people getting sick and requiring hospitalisation.At least 50 more beds at the PNB training centre in Sector 6 have also been requisitioned and are being prepared. Once these are available, the overall oxygen bed capacity in the district will reach around 500.“We will also shift OPDs and the Maternal and Child Health (MCH) wing from the Civil Hospital to accommodate more Covid patients,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur.District Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today notified Kare Partners Super Speciality Hospital (Mother and Child) in Sector 2 as a dedicated Covid hospital. The hospital has 13 beds, including two BiPAP machines and two ventilators.Ahuja also directed officials to ensure smooth functioning of day-to-day operations such as sewerage, water, electricity and proper care of Covid patients at the hospital.Availability of life-saving devices such as ventilators and BiPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) machines remains a major challenge for the district.The Health Department had recently announced to requisite BiPAP machines and ventilators, which are lying spare at private hospitals to meet the expected shortfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-to-shift-stepdown-patients-from-pvt-hospitals-247447
03-05-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bar Council seeks Rs100-crore relief||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, May 2The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has sought Rs100 crore financial aid from the Government of Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh Administration, claiming that over 100 advocates from the region have died due to Covid so far.The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, in a meeting held today, decided to write to Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in this regard.Minderjeet Yadav, chairman of the council, said it was also resolved to apprise the higher-ups of the trauma being faced by advocates and their families. A request will be made to the Chief Justice to take appropriate steps to ensure safety of all advocates and their families.Yadav said the state governments of Punjab and Haryana should release Rs50 crore each to the Bar Council as has been done in Delhi and Karnataka. It was also resolved that the council would start a 24X7 helpline to provide ready coordination and logistics support to all advocates and their families who require any assistance due to Covid-19.The council will also contemplate the possibility of converting the Law Bhawan Office at Chandigarh to a tertiary medical care centre with primary centres connected with each district and sub-divisions (with ambulance facilities) exclusively for advocates and their families.The council also resolved to start an awareness campaign under ‘Advocates - Break the Chain’ as the tagline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-council-seeks-rs100-crore-relief-247448
03-05-2021||---||Behind the bars for long time no ground for bail, says court||Chandigarh, May 2An accused is not entitled to discretionary relief of bail, merely on the ground that he has been behind the bars since July 24 last year, a local court here observed while dismissing the bail application of Hallo Majra resident Surdeep, who has been accused of attacking a person with knives and sticks.In view of the serious allegations against the applicant, the court is of the opinion that at this stage, the applicant is not entitled to the concession of bail, said Additional Sessions Judge Dr Rajneesh.Surdeep was arrested by the police on July 24, 2020 following an FIR under Section 147, 148, 149, 323, 324, 341 and 326 of IPC at Sector 31 police station here.The FIR was based on the complaint of Pawan Kumar.The complainant had alleged that he and his friend Mandeep, aka Guli, were attacked when they were roaming in Hallo Majra about 6 pm on June 7, 2020.Kumar alleged that Viru, aka Kancha, Monu and Dalip, along with three other boys, armed with knives and sticks attacked them and when the people in the neighborhood started gathering at the site, they fled from the spot.During the course of investigation, accused Dalip, Viru and Vishal, aka Vikshi, were arrested on June 10, 2020. Monu and Surdeep, aka Rokra, were held on July 24, 2020.After completing the investigation, a challan was presented in the court on July 29, 2020.Opposing the bail, the public prosecutor said medical record revealed both the victims suffered injuries and accused Surdeep was also a member of the group armed with deadly weapons.The prosecution said if Surdeep was given the bail there was a possibility that he might hamper the process of trial by influencing or threatening the witnesses.Surdeep’s counsel, meanwhile, said his client had been behind the bars since July 24, 2020.He has been falsely implicated in the present case. Neither his name is mentioned in the FIR nor has any recovery been made from him, the counsel added.After hearing the arguments, the court said no doubt, challan was presented in the court and trial was pending, but the accused was not entitled to discretionary relief of bail.Rather, the possibility of his hampering the process of trial by influences or threatening the witnesses and also indulging into such like other offences may not be ruled out if allowed the bail, the court observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/behind-the-bars-for-long-time-no-ground-for-bail-says-court-247449
03-05-2021||---||BSNL employees awarded||Ropar, May 2  The BSNL general manager, MC Singh, awarded employees of the Ropar operational area for achieving first rank in operational parameters in mobile services on pan India basis in January and nearly 13 per cent increase in revenue in 2020-21. Those awarded include DGM Talwinder Singh, AGMs Gurnaib Singh, KP Mishra, Pawan Sharma and Balbir Singh, and SDOs Gurmeet Singh, Satnam Singh, Vikas Sehgal, Raj Kumar Sharma, Kulwinder Singh and Prithvi Raj Dhiman. Other officials, who received the award include, Varinder Pal Singh, Devinderjit Singh, Harman Banga, Mohinder Mohan, Prmod Kaushal, Anil Yadav, Sudesh Kumar, Ashish Jha, Jaspreet Singh and Vikramjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsnl-employees-awarded-247450
03-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda
||Garbage outside Sector 38 (West) Sports Complex  irks visitors||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 2 The open area around Sector 38 (West) Sports Complex is gradually turning into a dump yard as private contractors and garbage collectors have been disposing of waste on the site. The waste not only emanates foul smell, but also creates unhygienic conditions in the surroundings of the Sports Complex.  The road leading to Sector 38-39 has also turned into waste dumping ground. Notably, the area has no office and all waste is thrown by construction workers and garbage collectors.  “Initially, we were ignoring dumping of construction debris and garbage. Things are getting worse. With the rise in temperature dumped waste is emanating more foul smell and has become a breeding ground of mosquitoes. We have tried to convince people not to throw waste here, but to no avail. Sometimes, even Municipal Corporation workers throw waste here,” said Anirudh, who often visits Sports Complex.  “The area needs to be beatified. People throw various types of waste here. After some days wild grass will overgrow and the waste will be hidden in the vegetation. They don’t think that stink will remain here for months. Not only sports complex users, but regular walkers too are inconvenienced by the garbage. We have complained about this many times, but no action has been taken so far,” said Parshant R Kumar, a passerby.  “The Sports Complex has been built over more than 2.86 acres at an estimated cost of Rs8 crore. Such scenes of scattered garbage give a worst impression to visitor at the Sports Complex and the general public,” he added.  Though Chandigarh Municipal Corporation officials were unavailable to comment on the issue, sources said the department had been neglecting the area for a while now.  “Due to lack of residential population, the area is ignored all the time. The cleanliness drive is undertaken here once in a month or two. The area near Sports Complex should be cleaned considering the number of young and old people coming here. The situation outside the recently inaugurated Shram Bureau Bhawan (Labour Bureau), located near the Sports Complex, is no different,” the sources in the department added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-outside-sector-38-west-sports-complex-irks-visitors-247451
03-05-2021||---||At 1,045, biggest surge in Mohali||Mohali, May 2The district on Sunday recorded the biggest single-day spike since the Covid pandemic broke out. As many as 1,045 persons tested positive while seven succumbed to the disease and 975 got better of it.Among the new cases, 355 were reported from Mohali (urban), seven from Lalru, 15 from Kurali, 25 from Boothgarh, 26 from Banur, 69 from Gharuan, 147 from Dera Bassi, 177 from Kharar and 224 from the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur.So far, 48,551 persons have tested positive in the district and 38,708 of them have been recovered. There are 9,233 active cases with 610 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-1-045-biggest-surge-in-mohali-247452
03-05-2021||---||Chandigarh call on lockdown, more curbs today||Chandigarh, May 2The Chadnigarh Administration will take a call on imposing a longer lockdown and more restrictions in the city tomorrow.Punjab and Haryana today imposed new restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19. Punjab imposed restrictions on the movement of people and opening of commercial establishments, whereas Haryana imposed a lockdown for a week from May 3.Also read: Shops selling non-essential items to remain closed in Chandigarh for a week from TuesdayThe UT is in favour of a uniform policy for the tricity for better Covid management. On these lines, it had earlier followed suit by extending the night curfew timings and imposing a weekend lockdown as was the case in Mohali and Panchkula. “We will hold a meeting in this regard tomorrow,” said a senior UT official.Estate, RLA offices closed till May 8Chandigarh: The estate and RLA offices will remain closed for another week in the city. These will remain closed till May 8. An official of the Administration said the Sampark centres would remain open, but the next course would be decided on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-call-on-lockdown-more-curbs-today-247453
03-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||70 yrs on, villagers deprived of metalled roads, street lights||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2It was in 1951 that villagers were allotted land in Jhungiya Bela, Kaimbwala, paving the way for turning their area into Sector 23. Seventy years down the line, they are deprived of basic amenities like metalled road, sewerage and street lights.Jhungiya Bela is perhaps the only area in the UT bereft of these basic facilities. Even after Kaimbwala village was merged into the Municipal Corporation more than two years ago, not a thing has moved there in terms of development.“We had our village at the place where Sector 23 exists today. We were given land in Jhungiyan Bela in 1951 so that the Sector could be developed there. We later constructed houses here. There is a kuchha road, which leads to our ‘abadi’. Can you imagine, our area is also a part of the UT?” commented Ram Karan, a resident.“We have met the officers in the UT Administration several times but nothing has been done. We are only given assurances. They refer the matter to one or the other department. After much persistence, a mast light was installed, but it illuminates only side of the road. Other side remains dark,” he added. Residents here said the authorities gave us land, but no facility. During summer, the pressure of water supply is also very low. Around 10 families are residing in this area at present.Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Kaimbwala, lamented, “It is a sorry state of affairs in Jhungiyan. Whether it was under the Administration or now the MC, the residents’ fortune did not change. In other parts of Kaimbwala, there is a dire need of replacement of the old sewerage system. We have to bear with stinking smell daily, as it gets blocked.”Balwant Singh of Kaimbwala added, “Several residents here have fallen sick due to mixing of sewage in drinking water. These days even OPDs are shut. Where would we go? We have taken bottles filled with dirty water to the UT and MC officials as a proof, but to no avail.”(Concluded)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-yrs-on-villagers-deprived-of-metalled-roads-street-lights-247454
03-05-2021||---||Jab for 18+ at 5 Panchkula sites today||Panchkula, May 2After the rollout with a lone session, the Health Department today decided to expand vaccination for people in the 18-44 age group to five sites across the district from tomorrow.Tomorrow, the vaccination for 18-plus will be held at the government dispensary, Sector 25; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Ayush Dispensary, Sector 9, Primary Health Centre, Pinjore; and Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani.For those above 45 years, the vaccination will take place at 11 sites. However, only the second dose will be administered at these sites due to limited availability. These sites are the MDC, Sector 4; Government Polyclinic, Sector 26; Government Dispensary, Sector 12-A; the PHC, Nanakpur; Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kalka; the PHC, Surajpur; the PHC, Old Panchkula; the PHC, Kot; the PHC, Barwala; the PHC, Hangola and MLA Hostel Dispensary.89 vaccinated on Day 1A total of 89 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 took the vaccine on the rollout day at Government Polyclinic, Sector 26.Only one session for 100 beneficiaries was organised today in the district due to the weekend lockdown.Ishan (24), a resident of Sector 9, said he had a smooth experience with no hiccups.“The vaccine gives us and people around us protection against the coronavirus. Sooner or later, everyone will have to get the vaccine,” he said, urging people to take the vaccine.“I am feeling okay. The experience was fine,” said another beneficiary after taking the vaccine.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, reiterated there would be no walk-in for people in the 18-44 age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jab-for-18-at-5-panchkula-sites-today-247475
03-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||Attendant can stay with Covid patient at GMSH, but can’t go out||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2The Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, authorities today brought in strict regulations in its Covid ward following a report published in Chandigarh Tribune highlighting the issue.The hospital staff and attendants of Covid patients have been directed that no attendant will move out of the Covid ward. They also instructed that the family attendant will not change during the time his/her patient is admitted.Earlier, in the day the attendants were asked to stay outside the Covid ward. However, some attendants requested they wanted to remain with their kin following which they were allowed. They were directed to strictly adhere to the Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing a mask and gloves.The GMSH authorities reasoned since they were short-staffed, they could not have enough hospital attendants and kin would have to stay along, at least for old patients.A government bank official, whose father is admitted at the hospital, said, “In the morning, we were asked to stay out of the Covid ward. But we requested them to let us stay inside the ward with our kin. At least one attendant per patient must be allowed.Only things like nobody goes out should be monitored. Otherwise treatment is very good here.”Another attendant said, “So many non-Covid persons staying, eating and sleeping with the patients will have a big risk of virus transmission. The hospital should have more attendants to manage things as they wear PPE kits and take better medical care. Till yesterday, many inside the ward were without mask and going outside too.”Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, had already said they were short of staff and in the process of hiring more doctors and nurses.The hospital has about 225 patients, including 75 critical.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/attendant-can-stay-with-covid-patient-at-gmsh-but-cant-go-out-247476
03-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Healthcare system on the edge, no ICU beds vacant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2The healthcare system in Chandigarh is on the edge with hospitals unable to handle the relentless inflow of patients and running out of ICU beds.Not even a single ICU bed was vacant in Chandigarh today at the three government hospitals. Doctors treating Covid patients say the fatalities have increased in the city due to exhaustion of hospitals beds.Prof GD Puri, who is heading Covid-19 management at the PGI, said, “Except for oxygen availability, our situation is in tandem with Delhi. Our emergency wards are full with Covid patients. There is a waiting list of patients who require ICU beds. The fatalities are a result of overburdened hospital capacities.”“We are trying our best to handle Covid patients and prioritise those who are more severe and require ICU bed. We also try to step down serious patients from ICU beds to vacate the beds, but only after ensuring that they are stabilised,” said Professor Puri.“Not even a single ICU bed is vacant in the tricity today. I feel helpless and frustrated for not having been able to help patients. My hands are tied up,” said Prateek Rishi, who runs NGO Raine Foundation and has been helping Covid-19 patients in looking for ICU beds.“Our patient couldn’t take the transfer hiccups from Apollo to the GMCH-32. He crashed shortly after relocation and died. The culprit is shortage of ICU beds,” said Ajay Rana, an attendant of the patient.RS Bedi from the Indian Medical Association, Chandigarh, said, “Limited resources in hospitals have already been exhausted, though the full impact of this wave is yet to be seen. I was able to arrange beds for patients a week ago. However, for two days, I have not been able to arrange a single bed because the situation is that we have no beds to cater to the patient load.”Bedi said, “We need to impose a lockdown for at least 10 days and restrict the entry of people to Chandigarh without a negative RT-PCR test on the lines of Punjab. We need to augment resources as per the population and rate of infection.”Chandigarh sees 860 cases, 7 deathsChandigarh: The city recorded 860 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 7,592. With seven more deaths, the toll has reached 496. A total of 483 patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS4 deaths, 198 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported four Covid deaths and 198 fresh cases. Among the deceased, one had no known comorbidities. The death toll now is 217. While the overall tally has reached 21,687, the cumulative recoveries stand at 19,087. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/healthcare-system-on-the-edge-no-icu-beds-vacant-247477
03-05-2021||Patiala||98 per cent patients in home isolation recover||Amid the grim Covid situation, there is a good news. Of 26,510 positive patients placed under home isolation in the district, 22,647 patients have recovered from the infection.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said around 26, 510 patients had been advised to be under home isolation, of whom 98 per cent had recovered with the help of medical advice given to them from dedicated health experts over the phone.The patients under home isolation were monitored by our medical teams to win the fight against the pandemic. The teams kept a regular check on the vital signs of the patients, said Dr Satinder Singh.“The patients with mild symptoms need not to be admitted to hospitals and such patients can opt for home isolation even at the time of testing,” he said.The Civil Surgeon said rapid response teams had been constituted in every block covering all towns and villages for the care of patients under home isolation. He said if the condition of a patient deteriorated and severe symptoms appeared, then he or she would immediately be shifted to health centres. A 24x7 helpline (104) has been specifically set up to provide help regarding symptoms, testing or admission of Covid-19 patients to the nearest health facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/98-per-cent-patients-in-home-isolation-recover-247478
03-05-2021||With shortage of ICU beds||Boost hospital infra & ramp up vaccination drive||Provide beds in dispensariesThe number of Covid patients is swelling fast. The Administration should provide more beds in Sector 22-D, Sector 19 and Sector 11-C dispensaries and at other private hospitals in the city. If need arises, more beds can be provided in Punjab University hostels and colleges. More medical staff will also be required to treat positive patients. This demand can be met by seeking assistance of private practitioners on payment basis. With the closure of OPD facilities at the PGI, more beds should be arranged for Covid patients. Also, the Administration can request the Centre for adequate supplies of oxygen and drugs.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhTrack purchase of oxygen, drugsTo prevent hoarding and black marketing the Administration needs to track every purchase of emergency drug and oxygen and admission to hospitals in the city. An appeal can be made to the people to not to panic and focus on rational behaviour by being safe rather than cursing the Administration and throwing all caution to the winds. Let us work for common good. Always wear face mask and stop partying.Dr Suneeta Patnayak, ChandigarhEnforce safety norms strictlyStrict enforcement of Covid precautions, wearing face masks and maintaining social distance can help in dealing with rising Covid patients in the city. Patients must be provided best available facilities at their home. Stadiums, schools and hotels can be turned into temporary hospitals. As media reports that there is no oxygen or medicine, people are psychologically hit.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliSend violators of norms to lock-upThe City Beautiful is battling the same war again, which is worse and deadlier than the earlier strain of the virus. Many people are not taking the pandemic seriously. In most internal streets and roads, hooligans with no face masks can be seen triple riding on their two-wheelers. Such people pose a risk to others. They must be taken into police custody, sent for the RT PCR test and isolated for 15 days. Stricter measures are required to check people moving around without any valid reasons. Such people must be heavily fined and sent to the lock-up. Also, their vehicles be impounded.Manish Banerjee, ChandigarhPriority must be to save residents’ livesUniform guidelines are must in Chandigarh to curb the virus infection. To strengthen the city’s stressed health infrastructure the Administration should facilitate amalgamation of nursing homes. Private doctors and nursing homes can share patients. If need be 14-day lockdown may be imposed to break the transmission chain. Weekend lockdown have no scientific basis. Currently, the focus should be on having adequate health facilities and beds in hospitals. Those with mild symptoms should be isolated at home with regular tele-consultation. The ‘chalta hai’ Indian attitude must go. Most infection spreaders are young people. Extensive random testing of people in all congested areas is must.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhCreate temporary isolation facilitiesSudden surge of coronavirus patients has almost made hospitals in the city almost inaccessible. All positive patients with milder symptoms should be sent to home isolation. Those, who don’t have enough space at their homes can be quarantined in railway coaches and other public places, which can be easily converted into makeshift isolation facilities/hospitals. In this ambit fall Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Bhawans and various clubs in the city.SC Luthra, ChandigarhDonate oxygen cylindersKeeping in view the prevailing Covid-19 surge in the UT the Administration should immediately convert government schools and colleges into hospitals for ICU patients. Volunteers should donate oxygen concentrators and cylinders for ICU patients. Simultaneously, a vaccination drive on the doorstep must be initiated. More paramedical staff should be recruited to deal with the present crisis. Vaccination of people from all age groups should be completed till mid of this year.Nitin Sud, PanchkulaTurn community centres into hospitalsWith increasing Covid cases, the UT Administration is struggling to tackle the heavy inflow of patients in hospitals. Community Centres, which are available 24×7 and have ample space, can be used as makeshift hospitals. The Administration should ensure adequate availability of manpower, drugs and oxygen at hospitals in the city.Ryan Sood, PanchkulaStop hoarding of drugs, oxygenThe Chandigarh Administration should turn government buildings, schools and dharamshalas into hospitals with adequate facilities for Covid patients. Hoarding of Remedesivir drug should not be allowed. Strict action should be taken against hoarders and black marketeers of life-saving drugs. Final-year medicine students should help doctors in the treatment of Covid patients.|Adish Sood, AmlohEngage general physiciansSector-wise community centers should be converted into Covid care centres with active participation of the area councillor and RWA. Each bed in hospital should have an oxygen cylinder. General physicians can be engaged and paid by RWAs to treat coronavirus patients in their areas. Government dispensary paramedical staff and specialist doctors should regularly visit community centre in their area and monitor Covid patients.Sharanjit Singh Kallah, MohlaliOnly 50% follow safety normsEvery government school building in each sector/village should be converted into Covid hospital to take care of ever increasing demand of beds. Simultaneously, the UT Administration should enforce Covid guidelines strictly to contain further spread of the virus. Despite such hue and cry, not more than 50 per cent of the population is following safety norms as there is no one to penalise them.KC Rana, ChandigarhGenerate more life-saving gasMarriage palaces, resorts, inns and community centres should be used as make-shift hospitals to treat Covid patients. Medicines/injections used to treat Covid patients should be sold on prescription only. In order to combat shortage of medical staff, interns or retired employees can be deployed in the present crisis. More plants can be set up in the wake of surge in demand for oxygen.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliSocial organisations must come forwardWe all have to admit that the situation is truly grim and in such circumstances we all need to be together. The Administration is doing its level best to prevent the spread of virus, but it’s easier said than done. Social organisations must come forward in this hour of need. Schools, banquet halls and public libraries can be converted into temporary hospitals for Covid patients. All should find solution to common problems.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, Chandigarhit’s payback time for industrialistsIn today’s scenario queues of Covid patients are getting longer outside hospitals while they wait to get medical attention. We badly need Samaritans, who can help the needy. Although, everyone should extend the helping hand to the needy, industrial houses, celebrities, including film stars and sportspersons, along with other rich class, must assist the government in tackling this deadly pandemic. They can create additional medical infrastructure by providing oxygen, ventilators, ICU beds, lifesaving medicines, ambulances and shelters for attendants of patients outside hospitals with necessary amenities. Industry is running only because of hard work of the labour class. It’s time for industrialists to pay back to their workers. Film stars and sports personalities have to repay their fans with financial supportSanjay Chopra, MohaliDespite warning, admn failed to actShortage of ICU beds, medicines and oxygen has complicated problems of hospitals in the region. The Administration must campaign to exhort public to follow Covid guidelines. The Administration must procure generators to produce lifesaving gas from environment instead of liquid oxygen. This should have been done much earlier as report submitted by an expert committee had already warned the government about requirement of oxygen during the second peak. The government must give emergency licence and clearance to produce Covid related drugs like Remdesivir. Vaccination drive must be ramped up to save people from serious infection. Also, stern action must be taken against people hoarding critical medicines and oxygen. Help can also be taken from armed forces for setting up of medical facilities within shorter period.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliShows lackadaisical attitude of authoritiesThe recent surge in critical Covid cases in Chandigarh and adjoining areas has raised demand for ICU beds in hospitals. The situation is precarious as oxygen and drugs for the treatment of Covid patients are in short supply. The Administration was never prepared for this eventuality. The current state of affairs has turned our attention to the lackadaisical attitude of all stakeholders in the government and administration towards saving precious lives of citizens. The collapsing health infrastructure has totally exposed our system. There is an urgent need for bigger hospitals, more doctors and support staff to prevent this type of health catastrophe in future.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhUse infra of all hospitalsHealthcare system is under immense pressure. The situation is same across all hospitals in the tricity. The Palsora hospital with 50 beds can be converted into Covid care centre. Infrastructure of other small government and private hospitals can also be used for taking care of coronavirus patients in the UT. Services of retired doctors and paramedics can be utilised during the present crisis. Industrialists, NGOs and social organisations can set up makeshift healthcare centres to treat Covid patients. Residents should take all safety measures.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaTrace, isolate, treatAmidst raging coronavirus cases and severe oxygen shortage the collapse of the healthcare system cannot be averted. More than year has passed fighting the deadly virus, but the authorities did not ramp up the health infrastructure or facilities to fight the second Covid wave. The sudden surge in infected cases within a couple of weeks has led to panic as existing hospitals have not been able to deal with patients. At this stage, isolation, tracing and treatment are needed to contain the spread of the virus.Anureet Dhami, ZirakpurConsider severity of disease for treatmentThe Covid situation is already out of hand and utterly chaotic to say the least. Gatherings, including political, social and religious, should be banned. All movement except absolutely necessary should be curbed. Safety protocol like wearing face masks, distancing and isolation should be followed strictly and violators punished. Medical care should be given on the basis of the severity of disease and not status or rank. All parties should forget political differences and pool their funds, resources and manpower to fight the deadly pandemic. People should do their duty, follow rules, don’t panic and stand united firmly. Correct information and systematic vaccination drive will also contain the pandemic.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhPanel can check hospital functioningThe Chandigarh Administration is not serious when it comes to checking the spread of the coronavirus. Lockdown or curfew is not a solution to pandemic. The Administration must frame a sub-committee to supervise the working of all hospitals (both government and private). ICU beds, drugs and oxygen must be provided to Covid-19 patients on priority. All must be treated equally irrespective of his/her status.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliStrict restrictions only solutionNo doubt, the Covid situation in the city is alarming and demands additional health centres to provide medical aid to patients suffering from the disease. As schools are closed, the authorities can utilise such buildings and convert them into makeshift Covid care centres. As per prevailing crisis, services of all doctors doing private practice in the city can be sought. Residents should also realise their responsibility and take safety measures seriously. The Administration has to deal with violators of safety norms strictly.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliPrevention is better than cureThe authorities must replenish medical supplies and provide more infrastructure like ICU beds in hospitals at the earliest. They must focus on the people, who are still unaffected by the virus, as prevention is better than cure. They must ensure that maximum people are vaccinated, SOPs are followed in public places, all parks are closed and those, who have recovered from the coronavirus, donate their plasma. Strict lockdown must be imposed in the city. People must be urged not to venture out of homes unnecessarily to break the chain of the virus transmission.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhDon’t panic, fight virusThe pandemic is in a menacing form and creating fear among individuals. This is a time to fight and not to panic from the virus. Logistics must be strengthened in order to provide oxygen and other medical supplies to Covid patients. A method should be devised to control the black marketing of essential medicines and equipment. We should not be complacent towards dreaded pandemic. Only genuine work at the ground level can contain the virus.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhA challenge for the UT AdministrationThe rising number of Covid cases in Chandigarh pose a challenge to the UT Administration when it comes to providing proper medical aid to patients. Besides, increasing ICU beds and ensuring adequate supply of drugs and oxygen at hospitals in the city there is a dire need to create necessary additional Covid care infrastructure in identified schools, colleges and institutions to cope up with the present crisis.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhProvide consultancy on the phoneTo deal with increasing coronavirus cases in the tricity the authorities have to resort to non-conventional ways and means as facilities like ICU beds, drugs and oxygen in hospitals are awfully saturated. People have to be sensitised towards compliance with the Covid-appropriate behaviour, boosting immunity with ‘desi’ concoctions and exercising regularly. Majority of patients do not require hospitalisation. Those with mild/moderate infection should be provided 24X7 telephonic consultancy for isolation and recovery at home. Doctors can also volunteer for providing aid during the pandemic. Telephone numbers of consultant doctors should be widely publicised.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaCheck sale of drugs on the black marketIt was joint responsibility of the Centre and the UT Administration to make advance arrangements for medical facilities, but both failed to do so. Black marketing or hoarding of oxygen cylinders should be a punishable offence. Reduce price of oxygen cylinders and lifesaving drugs to help common man. Ashrams, healthcare units and hostels can be converted into makeshift special Covid care units with ICU beds, oxygen and medical staff.Charu Malhotra, MohaliTake corrective measuresIn the city around 800 infected cases are reported every day. This has proved that we have not learnt any lesson from the first Covid wave and the failure of the Administration. The pandemic surges ahead with no signs of tapering off. Firstly, take corrective steps as there is already talk of the third and fourth Covid waves. ‘Apni Mandis’ have to be closed at once. Crippling shortage of oxygen cylinders needs to be removed. Hoarding of oxygen cylinders and black marketing of medicines has to be checked. Sanitise the entire city. Check violation of SOPs sternly. Bureaucracy should inspect the affected areas regularly.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONHas the UT Administraion done enough to control the second wave of coronavirus in Chandigarh?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boost-hospital-infra-ramp-up-vaccination-drive-247525
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cop manhandled, resident arrested||Cash snatched, case registeredChandigarh: Two unidentified persons allegedly snatched Rs1,100 from Shiv Mangal near the Kalibari light point on May 1. A case was registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNSEx-cop among three bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked retired Inspector Gurnam Singh and two others for allegedly thrashing a hotel manager. The complainant, Parampal Singh, manager, Hotel Altius, Industrial Area, Phase I, alleged that Gurnam Singh and others thrashed him at the hotel on April 25 over a payment issue. The hotel was booked for a function. A case under Sections 323, 341, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNS24Seven store manager heldPanchkula: The police have arrested a manager of a 24Seven store in Sector 11 for violating the weekend lockdown orders. The manager has been identified as Naresh Kumar, a resident of Baltana in Zirakpur. According to the police, he was found running the store during the weekend lockdown. On Saturday, the police had arrested a manager of a KFC outlet in Sector 9 for violating the weekend lockdown. tns3 booked for jumping nakaMohali: Three SUV-borne persons, including a woman, have been booked for reckless driving and not stopping at a naka on Saturday night. On the complaint of Sub-Inspector Shyam Sunder, a case under Sections 186, 188, 269, 270, 279, 336 and 51 of the Disaster Management Act was registered at the Mataur police station on May 1. The trio, without face mask, hit the roadside railing and sped away. TNSEx-PU professor breathes his lastChandigarh: Prof SB Bhatia (91), former Professor Emeritus, Department of Geology, Panjab University (PU), breathed his last on Sunday morning. He was a Fellow of Indian National Science Academy and a scientist and teacher. He retired as Professor Emeritus from the PU in 1994. He contributed in the field of geology and wrote over 250 research papers and proceedings. TNSRoller Basketball League in septChandigarh: The Federation International Roller Basketball will conduct National Roller Basketball League for 10 teams from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Mumbai, Tamil Nadu, Kerela, Karnataka, Rajasthan and West Bengal in September and Asian Roller Basketball Championship in December. A book on anti-doping rules was also released on the occasion. TNSBody found on railway tracksDera Bassi: An unidentified youth was found dead on railway tracks near the Ghaggar railway station on Saturday night. The youth, in his 20s, was wearing blue-green striped t-shirt and grey shorts. The police have taken the body into their possession and kept it in the mortuary of the Dera Bassi hospital for 72 hours for identification. TNSTwo arrested with heroinLalru: The police arrested two suspects with 12,000 drug capsules and 103 grams of heroin on April 29. The suspects have been identified as Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Hallo Majra, and Deepak Kumar, a resident of Kalka. A case under Sections 21, 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered at the Lalru police station on April 29. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-manhandled-resident-arrested-247526
