04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sri Guru Granth Sahib Society to set up Covid Care Centre at Infosys Sarai: Parida||Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida on Tuesday said that Infosys Sarai was being allotted to Sri Guru Granth Sahib Society to urgently set up a 100 bed Covid Care Centre with an oxygen facility.Parida said the decision was made "in view of excellent work" done by the society in Bal Bhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sri-guru-granth-sahib-society-to-set-up-covid-care-centre-at-infosys-sarai-parida-248104
04-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Vaccine free for all beneficiaries in Chandigarh: Administrator||Chandigarh Administrator V.P. Singh Badnore on Tuesday announced that vaccination will be free for all beneficiaries, including those between the age of 18 and 45, in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-free-for-all-beneficiaries-in-chandigarh-administrator-248098
04-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh COVID curbs: Here's what is allowed and what is not||The Chandigarh Administration on Tuesday issued detailed guidelines for weekday restrictions that will be implemented alongside the night curfew (6 PM to 5 AM) and weekend lockdown.The weekday restrictions will come into place at 5 pm today and will continue till 5 am next Tuesday.What is allowed:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-curbs-heres-what-is-allowed-and-what-is-not-248090
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||CRRID founder Rashpal Malhotra dies of Covid||Founder of the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) and noted scholar Rashpal Malhotra, 84, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, died at a private hospital in Punjab's Mohali on Tuesday, the chief minister's office said in a statement.Malhotra passed away after battling COVID-19 for over a week, it said.He is survived by his wife, son and daughter.Malhotra was admitted to the Fortis Hospital in Mohali and breathed his last early this morning, hospital sources said.He was the executive chairman of CRRID and a member of the Board of Governors of Pushpa Gujral Science City and several other such prestigious institutions. He was also a senate member of Punjabi University, Patiala, and Panjab University, Chandigarh.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled Malhotra's demise, as did former union minister Jairam Ramesh.In his condolence message, the chief minister described Malhotra as a distinguished academician, able administrator, and a fine human being who played a pivotal role in bringing socio-economic development to the northern region.The outstanding services rendered by Malhotra in the rural and industrial development of Punjab would be ever remembered by one and all, Singh said.According to the CRRID website, veteran diplomat PN Haskar and former prime minister Manmohan Singh also served as chairmen of the governing body of the research institute in the past. — PTIRashpal Malhotra, a low-profile troubleshooter for Indira Gandhi and confidante of Pranab Mukherjee, Dr. Manmohan Singh and PN Haksar has just passed away as a result of COVID-19. He built up Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development in Chandigarh. A wonderful man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crrid-founder-rashpal-malhotra-dies-of-covid-248079
04-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation’s financial crisis deepens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Chandigarh Municipal Corporation employees, including frontline workers, have not yet received the salary for April.The MC’s financial crisis has deepened to an extent that the corporation now has to use its FDRs and other dedicated funds. A senior MC official said till now, they did not use FDRs as they would not have received enough interest.Anil Garg, Additional Commissioner ‘Will use FDRs’We have made arrangements for salaries from FDRs. There was some issue on Monday. The salaries will be credited on Tuesday.The MC’s grant-in-aid for the 2021-22 fiscal has not yet been cleared by the UT Administration. It was in February that the MC had approved Rs1,641 Budget, but till now, it did not get even a single penny.“We get salary on the last day of each month. If there is a holiday on that day, we get it one day in advance. But this time, we have not received the salary. I got to know that the MC has zero balance to pay us. We have our own family expenses to pay and there is no information when we will get the salary,” said one of the regular employees.“Since they knew they have no grant, they should have made FDR-related arrangements a week ago,” added another employee.Additional Commissioner Anil Garg, who heads the accounts wing, said: “We have made arrangements for salaries from FDRs. There was some issue today. The salaries will be credited on Tuesday.”The corporation spends about Rs50 crore on salaries and other unavoidable expenses per month. There are around total 9200 employees. About 3500 are regulars others are contractual and outsourced employees. Of them, about 6000 were frontline workers last year when the first wave of the pandemic hit the city in March.This year also, some of them are working as frontline workers contract tracing and quarantine and sanitation departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporations-financial-crisis-deepens-247829
04-05-2021||Zirakpur||Probe panel finds discrepancies in usage of oxygen cylinders: SDM||Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa today said a probe panel had only found discrepancies in usage of oxygen cylinders at Blessings Hospital where residents alleged that Covid patients were being given treatment in a residential area.“The probe is still on. I will submit the report in a day or two,” said Bawa.On April 28, a team of the Health Department visited the hospital and found six patients on oxygen support with negative Covid reports.Treatment and medicines being given to the patients were identical to that of Covid patients. Remdesivir and ventilator support were also available in the facility, said officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probe-panel-finds-discrepancies-in-usage-of-oxygen-cylinders-sdm-247833
04-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Relief for sportspersons preparing for contests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3In a major relief to local sportspersons preparing for various national/international competitions, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has allowed to open sports complexes in a phased manner during the ongoing partial lockdown.The complexes will be open after taking a special permission from the UT Secretary Sports. However, the approval and allotment of timings will be subject to the need of the players.KK Yadav, Secretary Sports (UT)Those sportspersons, preparing for Olympics or any other international or national events, have to submit a request. We will assess their request and on the basis of the nature of tournaments, they (sportspersons) will be given permission to use specific complexes under specific timings.The decision came a day after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted the issue faced by local sportspersons. The UT Sports Department had announced to close all local sports complexes due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, following the directions of the State Disaster Management Authority.“The complexes will not be open for everyone. Those sportspersons, preparing for Olympics or any other international or national events, have to submit a request. We will assess their request and on the basis of the nature of tournaments, they (sportspersons) will be given permission to use specific complexes under specific timings,” said KK Yadav, Secretary Sports (UT).He said: “We have a number of sports complexes in Chandigarh to adjust a specific number of players. For instance, if 10 swimmers or shuttlers or paddlers request us to allow them training for any of their upcoming events, we will allot them different centres to practice. But their request should be genuine and correct. I want to make it clear that the facility will be only open for needy sportspersons...not for all, not for amateur players and not for leisure activities”.On April 30, the UT Sports Department had announced to close all local sports complexes. It came as a shocker for hundreds of sportspersons, who were practising on a regular basis for the past few months to prepare for the upcoming championships.“It (allowing limited sportspersons) is a welcome step by the Administrator. The city has an ample number of complexes to accommodate players, who wish to continue their practice ahead of championships. Even players of the nearby areas can avail of the facility. However, the process to take permission should be made easy,” said Payal, a player.“Coaches of such disciplines should also be informed before allowing permission to players. They should be present during the practise hours to guide players. Due to the restrictions in the evening, the complexes should be open for longer durations during the morning hours,” said Prabhdeep, another player.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relief-for-sportspersons-preparing-for-contests-247835
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four accused directed to appear in court on May 7||A local court has issued non-bailable warrants against four absconding accused in an alleged property grab case in Sector 37, Chandigarh.The non-bailable warrants have been issued against accused Arvind Singla, Khalendra Singh Kadyan, Gurpreet Singh and Saurabh Gupta on an application filed by the police. The UT police had already announced a cash reward of Rs50,000 for information leading to the arrest of the four accused.Meanwhile, the court has also issued notice of appearance to other four accused for May 7 on a chargesheet filed by the police in the alleged property grab case.The chargesheet was filed against Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, suspended inspector Rajdeep Singh and Satpal Dagar. With supporting documents and related audio and video recordings, the police have given detail of the alleged fraud committed with the owner of the house, Rahul Mehta.The police had booked nine persons in the alleged fraud case. Running into more than 18,000 pages, the chargesheet listed 78 witnesses.It has been alleged in the chargesheet that some of the accused entered a two-storey house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 and took possession of the first floor in March 2017. The accused had allegedly taken signatures of Mehta on papers after torturing him. Rahul Mehta was later abandoned in Gujarat.The police said an imposter of Rahul Mehta was produced before the office of sub-registrar at the time of execution of sale deed of the house. Soon after the registration of the FIR, the police arrested two accused - Sanjeev Mahajan and Manish Gupta - on March 2. The other two accused - Satpal Dagar and inspector Rajdeep - were later arrested.Vishal Garg Narwana, counsel of one of the accused Satpal Dagar, said the police had filed the chargesheet in a hurry. They would challenge the chargesheet before the court once they get its copy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-accused-directed-to-appear-in-court-on-may-7-247830
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Communication skills session held at Panjab University||At the 21st session of the 7th International Self-Development Programme (SDP), being held at Panjab University, Manjula, a heartfulness meditation trainer from Amritsar and science teacher by profession, delivered a lecture on effective communication skills using heart as a true guide or master.In her inimitable musical voice, filled with an extraordinary wave of love and affection, she transmitted not only the valuable knowledge about this sought-after subject but made young participating aspirants experience and feel the uniqueness of the vibrations coming from the heart.The session began with the meditative relaxation by a young volunteer, Tanya Gupta of PU zoology department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/communication-skills-session-held-at-panjab-university-247837
04-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to Chandigarh on plea alleging change in eligibility conditions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3If allegations in a petition filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court are to be believed, the eligibility criteria was modified to make a partnership concern eligible for running a health club in hotel Shivalik View, Chandigarh.In its petition placed before the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma, petitioner M/S United House, through its counsel Sumeet Goel, submitted the modification in the criteria was illegal, arbitrary, unlawful and against the well-established procedure of law. It was done to grant undue favour to the respondent firm which otherwise was ineligible as per the original terms and conditions of the tender document.Taking up the petition, the Bench issued notice of motion to the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents. The Bench also posted the matter for consideration in July last week. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Goel added the amendments made to the criteria was done to ensure a maximum profit to an individual, who happened to have positive relationship with some officials in the department concerned. But all this was done at the cost of public safety.The administration could not be expected to allow a person who only has some experience in running a private spa to run a gymnasium. An inexperienced gymnasium owner could in the process compromise public safety resulting in serious bodily injuries.Goel added in the petitioner’s behalf that a specific affidavit in this regard from the respondents would lift the veil and expose the entire fraud which had been played with the other contestants.Going into the details, the petitioner claimed that a perusal of the original tender documents would reveal that there was a specific condition that the bidder was required to have a minimum three years of experience in managing/ running/operating at least one gym, spa and pool in a four star or a five star hotel property.Interestingly, in the present case the eligibility was changed of having a minimum three-year experience of managing/operating/running at least one gym, spa or pool in any hotel without any reason. It has now been further modified.“Had the terms and conditions of the original tender document been applicable upon the respondent, he would not have been remotely eligible and it is only to give undue benefit to him that the said orchestration has been done,” Goel added.Petitioner’s concernThe administration cannot be expected to allow a person who only has some experience in running a private spa to run a gymnasium. An inexperienced gymnasium owner could in the process compromise public safety, resulting in serious bodily injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-chandigarh-on-plea-alleging-change-in-eligibility-conditions-247838
04-05-2021||---||PUTA demands letters of appointment under CAS||Chandigarh, May 3The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has written to the Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, for not issuing letters of appointment under CAS promotions. The association has alleged that its representatives have been misled by the authorities on various occasions.The letter reads: “Even after three months, the teachers concerned have not been issued the letters of appointment under CAS promotions. PUTA has made several requests, however, it has repeatedly been misled.”The president of PUTA claimed that during a telephonic conversation, the Vice-Chancellor was apprised of the issue. “We were asked to contact the Secretary to Vice-Chancellor, who passed on the buck to the Registrar. However, the file is still pending with the Secretary,” said Mritunjay Kumar, president of PUTA. The association has threatened that its executive will meet on the issue on May 7 and will take further decision depending on the response received from the office of Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-demands-letters-of-appointment-under-cas-247849
04-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University Governance Reforms: Panel likely to submit suggestions this week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3An 11-member high-level committee formed by the Vice-President of India and Chancellor, Panjab University, to suggest governance reforms in the university is likely to submit its report this week. The committee was asked to submit its report within two months after its formation on February 8. However, the Punjab Government, one of the stakeholders in the committee, had asked for more time for filing their suggestions. The delay was said to be due to the ongoing Covid pandemic and the government was expected to file its suggestions by April 26. However, the committee has not got any reply to date.Now, it has been expected that the committee will wait for a few more days before filing its final report to the Chancellor’s office for taking further decision. “The committee has discussed various issues and will submit its final report in the coming days. The Punjab Government is also likely to submit its take on the suggestions soon,” said a source.It was directed that the committee will elicit views of different stakeholders, study the recommendations made by different committees in the past and examine the best practices adopted within the state and the country as far as governance is concerned under the new education policy.The committee includes Prof RP Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda; Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, (IIM) Amritsar; Prof VS Chauhan, Chairman, Executive Committee, National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC]- Nominee of Chairman, UGC Member; Prof PK Raina, Director, lIT, Ropar; Prof KN Pathak, former Vice-Chancellor, PU; Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU; Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar- Nominee of the Chief Minister, Punjab; Paramjit Singh, DPI (Colleges), Government of Punjab; Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director (Higher Education), Chandigarh Administration; Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor-General of India - Nominee of the Chancellor, Panjab University, and Vikram Nayyar, Registrar, PU, Member Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-governance-reforms-panel-likely-to-submit-suggestions-this-week-247834
04-05-2021||Mohali||Mining officer among 3 held for taking bribe||The Vigilance Bureau arrested Ropar mining officer Simarpreet Kaur Dhillon, mining guard Pal Singh and clerk Aman while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 25,000 from the owner of a crusher at Anandpur Sahib today.The trio was caught while taking the bribe at Dhillon’s office in Phase 7 this afternoon. Dhillon holds the additional charge of crushers in Mohali. A case has been registered at the Vigilance Bureau police station in Mohali. Sources said the Vigilance Bureau also visited the house of Dhillon in Sector 51.Mohali Vigilance Bureau DSP Ajay Kumar said: “We had information that the suspects used to take bribes from illegal crusher owners at Anandpur Sahib on a monthly basis. On a complaint of Baljinder Singh, a crusher owner at Agampur village in Anandpur Sahib, a raid was conducted and the suspects were caught red-handed.”The police said the mining officer, with the help of two employees, used to charge Rs25,000 to Rs50,000 from small and big crusher owners for letting them operate. The trio will be produced in a Mohali court on Tuesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mining-officer-among-3-held-for-taking-bribe-247839
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Light rain on Thursday: Chandigarh Meteorological Department||ABVP submits memorandumChandigarh: The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad of Panjab University has submitted a memorandum to the Dean, Student Welfare (DSW), for rescheduling examinations. "According to the Panjab University calendar, students' examinations are starting from June 28 while the entrance exam for fresh admissions is scheduled to be held from June 12 to 13. We demand that the entrance exams be scheduled after June 28," states in a press note of the ABVP. TNSDBU organises webinarChandigarh: Placebo Club, Faculty of Pharmacy, Desh Bhagat University, in collaboration with Legal Aid Club and Women Grievance Cell, organised an expert talk on the topic, "Gender Equality and Women's Rights". Dr Arun Kumar (Vatsa), Chairman of Digitally Restoration & Grievance Settlement Association, an NGO with the Delhi Government, was the special guest. Madhubala and Preeti Pandya were the eminent speakers. Dr Shalini Gupta, Vice-Chancellor, acknowledged and appreciated the effort. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/light-rain-on-thursday-chandigarh-meteorological-department-247841
04-05-2021||---||Beopar Mandal hits out at Chandigarh administration||Chandigarh, May 3The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has criticised the decision of the UT Administration to close all shops dealing in non-essential items from tomorrow evening.Charanjiv Singh, president of the CBM, said the Administration only ordered to close non-essential shops, keeping banks and offices to work with 50 per cent capacity. Hence, shopkeepers felt themselves to be a neglected lot. Shop owners had already assured the government to follow all Covid guidelines strictly, even allowing limited customers inside shops.“So, shops should also be allowed to work with half the capacity of staff,” he demanded.Most of the shopkeepers are already keeping sanitiser stands at the entrance and not allowing customers without mask. He demanded that the shops should be allowed to open unless clamping complete curfew.Singh said they would take up the issue with the UT Administration, Ministry of Home Affairs and the president of the ruling party to immediate announce some concessions and relief measures for the shopkeepers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beopar-mandal-hits-out-at-chandigarh-administration-247843
04-05-2021||---||Chandigarh administration imposes curbs in 29 more zones||Chandigarh, May 3To prevent further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration today declared 29 more micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated that the issue of Covid-19 outbreak was further studied and examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as micro-containment zones.He, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation would be conducted. Residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear face masks and follow hand hygiene.As many as 32 micro-containment zones were declared in the city on May 1.The areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sectors 7, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 47, Daria village, Indira Colony, New Indira Colony, Ram Darbar, Phase 1 and 2, Modern Housing Complex, Pipli Wala Town, Samadhi Gate in Mani Majra, Vikash Nagar in Mauli Jagran and Mauli Jagran Complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-imposes-curbs-in-29-more-zones-247840
04-05-2021||---||3BHK flat in Sector 63 goes for Rs 1.05 crore||Chandigarh, May 3The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has received an overwhelming response to an e-auction of vacant dwelling units on a freehold basis.The CHB received the highest bid of Rs1.05 crore for a three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 against the reserve price of Rs86 lakh. Similarly, two more three-bedroom flats in Sector 63 went for over Rs1 crore against the reserve price of Rs86 lakh.Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHBFor many of the dwelling units, though a single bid was received, it was considerably higher than the reserve price. The e-tender resulted in better revenue for the CHB. This is the first time that such a good response has been received.The board had invited e-tenders for the sale of 109 built-up dwelling units on a freehold basis. The units were available in Sector 38 (West), Sector 49, Sector 51 and Sector 63. The CHB received 105 financial e-bids for 36 dwelling units.“For many of the dwelling units, though a single bid was received, it was considerably higher than the reserve price. The e-tender resulted in better revenue for the CHB. This is the first time that such a good response has been received,” said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.Due to the high cost of flats, in December 2019, the CHB had failed to evince interest in buyers for its 212 properties. To attract buyers, the CHB had to reduce the reserve price of the flats by about 10 per cent.The board earned a total revenue of Rs29.41 crore against the total reserve price of Rs26.58 crore of the 36 dwelling units. The CHB received an average of over 10 per cent above the reserve price of these units. Garg said many units got a single bid, but still the highest bid was Rs8 lakh to Rs11 lakh higher than the reserve price.Many units got the highest bid of Rs12 lakh to Rs15 lakh higher than the reserve price and the maximum difference between the reserve price and the highest bid was Rs18,88,991 for a three-bedroom flat in Sector 63. The minimum difference between the reserve price and the highest bid was Rs74,160 for a two-bedroom flat in Sector 51.A single bid each was received for 12 dwelling units, two bids each for eight units, three bids each for seven units, four bids each for four dwelling units, six bids each for two dwelling units, eight bids each for two dwelling units and 12 bids for one dwelling unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3bhk-flat-in-sector-63-goes-for-rs-1-05-crore-247846
04-05-2021||---||Shopkeepers, traders protest in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, May 3Shopkeepers and local businessmen today held a protest outside several multinational wholesale stores on the Chandigarh-Ambala Highway here for running their operations.The shopkeepers alleged that their shops were being closed and they were issued challans. However, several wholesale stores were being allowed to run their operations.The protesters did not maintain social distancing and most of them were not wearing face masks properly.Thirty persons working in a multinational owned and operated wholesale store in Zirakpur were found Covid positive on April 30.The issueThe shopkeepers alleged that their shops were being closed and they were issued challans. However, several wholesale stores were being allowed to run their operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeepers-traders-protest-in-zirakpur-247842
04-05-2021||---||People throng shops amid lockdown fears||Chandigarh, May 3Amid fears of a complete lockdown, residents thronged grocery and liquor shops, and fruit and vegetable market in Sector 26.Speculation over the implementation of a total lockdown by the UT Administration after the Haryana Government yesterday announced a weeklong lockdown and the Punjab Government imposed stricter restrictions amid the increasing Covid-19 cases, residents rushed to the markets to stock household goods.People failed to show the Covid appropriate behavior during shopping.Meanwhile, the UT Administration gave a day’s time to the residents to prepare for the week-long restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-throng-shops-amid-lockdown-fears-247844
04-05-2021||Panchkula||Lockdown: Cops set up nakas in Panchkula||The first day of the week-long lockdown imposed by the state government to check the spread of Covid-19 evoked a mixed response in the district.A large number of private vehicles, including two-wheelers, were seen plying on roads and parked in the sector markets, including that of Sector 11.The police had put up nakas across the district and questioned every vehicle if they were out only for a valid reason.The SHO (Traffic), Sukhdev Singh, said private vehicles plied in large numbers as if there was no lockdown. ‘’Many openly threw lockdown norms to the wind. When we try to stop commuters, they misbehave with us,’’ he said.Liquor shops closed, but sale onThough shutters of liquor shops were down, the “secret” sale was on at a few vends, including that in Sector 11, despite the lockdown restrictions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-cops-set-up-nakas-in-panchkula-247845
04-05-2021||Naina Mishra||No referrals amid shortage of ventilator beds in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Even as the city hospitals are increasing the number of Covid beds, a shortage of ventilator beds is what keeping Covid patients from availing the last leg of treatment.Deepak, whose 64-year-old mother was admitted to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, has been on the lookout for a ventilator bed since morning. While he was waiting for a referral to the GMCH-32 and the PGI, as per the protocol, he was informed by doctors to arrange a ventilator bed himself.DeepakAttendant asked to arrange for ventilatorI was told that my mother had only 30-minute life and I should arrange a ventilator bed myself.“I have been told that my mother has only 30-minute life and that I arrange a ventilator bed myself,” said Deepak. When asked the reasons for his patients not being transferred to other hospitals, he said no ICU bed had been vacant at other hospitals. His mother died today.Yashika, granddaughter of a 74-year-old patient at the GMSH-16, died this morning in the absence of a vacant ICU bed. “We kept asking the doctors to shift her to an ICU bed in other hospitals. Her oxygen had dropped to 50 yesterday. We were told that there were no beds in other hospitals and there was nothing that could have been done to save our patient.”The Administrator had directed that the bed capacity in medical institutions should be enhanced to accommodate the increasing number of Covid patients.Considering a shortage of beds, it has been discussed to review the patients to see the possibility of shifting some of them from the ICU to oxygen beds and from oxygen beds to Sood Dharmshala/Dhanwantry college.Dr Palta and Dr Dcruze said this was a dynamic process and that they were doing the same as per the set protocol.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, said they had 200 beds and with the addition of 48 more beds, the capacity will increase to 248.A 50-bed Covid care centre is coming up at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23, and a similar centre is also being set up at Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24. Besides, a 100-bed hospital at International Students’ Hostel of Panjab University will become functional by Wednesday.Hospitals try to increase ICU bedsDr Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, said there were 155 beds in the GMCH-32 which included 32 ICU beds. The hospital is working to convert 22 beds into ICU beds. There will be 198 beds, including 52 ICU beds, at the GMCH. At present, there are a total of 100 beds at the Sector 48 hospital. The hospital is trying to have 21 more beds to increase the capacity to 121 beds, including 17 ICU ones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-referrals-amid-shortage-of-ventilator-beds-in-chandigarh-247847
04-05-2021||Mohali||Covid-19: New cases down to 534, but 12 deaths in Mohali||In a major relief to the health authorities, the district witnessed almost a 50 per cent decline in fresh cases as only 534 persons were diagnosed with the disease, while 1,042 more patients were cured. Of the 49,085 cases reported so far, 39,750 patients have been cured. There are 8,713 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-new-cases-down-to-534-but-12-deaths-in-mohali-247848
04-05-2021||Mohali||Mohali district hospital to get 5 ventilators soon||The district administration has ordered to install five ventilators at the District Hospital, Mohali, and make available at least 15 ventilators for the upcoming 104-bed makeshift Covid hospital in Mohali.Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 12 other ventilators would be installed at another 100-bed facility being created in the district with the support of the Army. The facility would be made operational in around 20 days.Girish Dayalan, Deputy CommissionerTwelve other ventilators will be installed at another 100-bed facility being created in the district with the support of the Army. The facility will be made operational in around 20 days.Pertinently, the Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali, had received 32 ventilators under the PM-CARES fund. These ventilators are yet to be installed due to the unavailability of oxygen generation plant and lack of technical manpower. The ventilators also need software upgrade for which technicians from the BHEL have been contacted.Dr Bhavneet Bharti, Director-Principal of the upcoming Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, said: “We are working on a war-footing basis. Appointment letters have been issued to the faculty to ensure human resources in place. Arrangements are being made to set up oxygen generation plant to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to the institute. We are well aware that the health facilities in the district are overwhelming by a sudden surge in Covid cases. So, we are trying our best to meet the manpower requirement and the equipment challenge. We will hopefully get a go-ahead as soon as a team of the National Medical Council conducts the inspection of the facility”.Meanwhile, in order to further ramp up the existing health infrastructure and create more hospital beds for critical patients battling the devastating second Covid wave, the state government has in-principle approved setting up of a makeshift hospital in Mohali, equipped with ICU facilities, exclusively for Covid patients. The Medical Education and Research Department has been directed to make the new hospital functional by the end of this month to ensure the best possible healthcare to Covid patients as per the mandate of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-hospital-to-get-5-ventilators-soon-247836
04-05-2021||---||300 beneficiaries above 18 get jab at Mohali hospital||Mohali, May 3Around 300 beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 44 were among 380 persons who were administered the Covid vaccine at Fortis Hospital here today. The remaining were those aged above 45.Dr Anita Sharma, Additional Director, Department of Lab Medicine, and Dr Parvinder Chawla, Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine, said: “Fortis Mohali started the third phase of Covid vaccination today. With this, the circle of vaccination has been increased to all adults over 18 years of age.”DoctorsPeople planning for vaccination should not have Covid symptoms or be in home quarantine. Anyone who has recovered from the virus and wants to get the vaccine must ensure a gap of four weeks after the recovery.They said it was mandatory for people to register themselves on CoWIN site and book their appointment for vaccination at Fortis Hospital on their desired/available day. The remaining process for verification, billing and vaccination was done on site. Fortis Hospital was administering Covaxin.The doctors said: “At present, the hospital can cater to about 400 people. Owing to a huge demand for vaccine, there may be a dearth of slots. However, it’s the endeavour of the hospital to ensure the regular availability of vaccine so that maximum people can avail of this opportunity. People planning for vaccination should not have Covid symptoms or be in home quarantine. Anyone, who has recovered from the virus and wants to get the vaccine, must ensure a gap of four weeks after the recovery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/300-beneficiaries-above-18-get-jab-at-mohali-hospital-247831
04-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Show –ve Covid report not older than 72 hrs before boarding flight||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 3In view of the emergent nature and potential magnitude of the pandemic, the district administration has directed that all air passengers at the Chandigarh International Airport shall produce negative Covid report not older than 72 hours before boarding the flight.Girish Dayalan, District Magistrate-cum-Chairperson, District Disaster Management Authority, said air passengers could produce a vaccination certificate (at least one dose) of over two weeks old and the airlines should be responsible for ensuring the same. The step had been taken as per the instructions received from the Punjab Government to prevent the spread of the disease and enable effective surveillance, tracing and tracking the movement of passengers.Dayalan said all incoming passengers belonging to Punjab/whose destination is Punjab should install COVA app on their smart phones before exiting the airport. The passengers should also necessarily turn on Bluetooth and GPS. The airlines should publicise this extensively to ensure that this information was made available to all passengers boarding the flights well before their departure.The District Magistrate said station managers of the respective airlines should be responsible to implement the orders and any violation would invite penal action as per law. The CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, should monitor this and ensure compliance of these directions and report deviations, if any.He said similar directions had also been issued for people entering the state via district. Five inter-state border checkpoints had been set up on highways namely Siswan-Baddi Road; near Sekhon Banquet Hall, Zirakpur; Panchkula Highway; Ambala to Naraingarh Highway; Nagal Morh; Bhora Khera Morh; and Ambala to Chandigarh Highway, Jharmari (Lalru). Such checkpoints had also been set up on six link roads - Peer Muchalla; T-Point, Antala; Barwala road, Behra Morh; Ramgarh-Mubarakpur Road; Daffarpur; and Harmilap Nagar, Baltana.He said police personnel should ensure 24X7 manning at these points for strict implementation of guidelines. However, there would not be any embargo on goods carrier vehicles coming to the district.COVA app mandatory for incoming passengersGirish Dayalan, District Magistrate-cum-Chairperson, District Disaster Management Authority, said all incoming passengers belonging to Punjab/whose destination is Punjab should install COVA app on their smart phones before exiting the airport. The passengers should also necessarily turn on Bluetooth and GPS. The airlines should publicise this extensively to ensure that this information is made available to all passengers boarding the flights well before their departure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/show-%E2%80%93ve-covid-report-not-older-than-72-hrs-before-boarding-flight-247832
04-05-2021||---||Covid patient flees from Sector 22 centre, booked||Chandigarh, May 3A Covid-19 patient, who was admitted to a care centre at Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22, has been booked by the police for allegedly fleeing from the centre.According to the police, Dr Sanya Sharma, who was on duty at the care centre in Sector 22, reported that a 30-year-old patient, a resident of Hallo Majra, was admitted to the centre on May 1. However, the next day, the patient was found missing. His mobile phone was also switched off.The police was informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC was registered against the accused at the Sector 17 police station.Is from Hallo MajraThe 30-year-old patient is a resident of Hallo Majra. He was admitted to the centre on May 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-flees-from-sector-22-centre-booked-247812
04-05-2021||---||To battle raging virus, Chandigarh goes for more curbs||Chandigarh, May 3To check the spread of the coronavirus, the UT Administration has decided to impose stricter restrictions in the city on the pattern of Punjab. However, a day’s time has been given to residents before the restrictions come into force.Now, all shops selling non-essential items will remain closed for seven days from 5 pm on Tuesday till 5 am on May 11. While there will be no restriction on inter-state movement, yet those entering Chandigarh without a negative Covid report or vaccine certificates will be subject to random testing.The decisions were taken at a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, who urged residents to strictly follow the Covid protocol such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distance to contain the infection.There was a detailed discussion at the meeting regarding the steps taken by the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, including lockdown measures, to prevent the spread of the virus. It was felt that Chandigarh being the common capital of Punjab and Haryana, total sealing of the borders will not be possible.It was also felt that a total lockdown for a long period will adversely affect the economy and may also lead to migration of labourers from the city, causing massive disruption.Hence, it was decided to have limited restrictive measures in the city. However, the night curfew will continue from 6 pm to 5 am every day and a total weekend curfew on Saturday and Sunday will also continue.UT journalists get frontline tag Keeping in view the natureof work being done by mediapersons, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has decided that all accredited journalists will be included in the official list of frontline workers in ChandigarhUT sees 890 fresh cases, 11 deathsChandigarh: The city recorded 890 Covid cases on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 7,943. With 11 more deaths, the toll stands at 507. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 45,196. TNSNo dine-in at hotelsRestaurants, including hotels, cafés, coffee shops and eating places, will be allowed to function only for takeaway. No seating arrangements will be allowed inside their premises. Home delivery can be done up to 9 pm.From Tuesday 5 pm till 5 am on May 11||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-battle-raging-virus-chandigarh-goes-for-more-curbs-247813
04-05-2021||---||356 in 18-44 age group vaccinated on Day 2 in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 3As many as 356 people in the 18-44 age group got vaccinated at five centres on the second day of the third phase of the vaccination drive here today.Overall, 1,409 people were vaccinated.The drive for 18-plus had begun yesterday at a centre and only 89 were vaccinated.Tomorrow, the vaccination for the age group will take place at six centres — Government Ayurvedic Dispensary, Sector 9; Government Dispensary, Sector 25; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Primary Health Centre (PHC), Pinjore; Primary Health Centre, Kot; and Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani.For those above 45 years, the Health Department has announced different time slots as per the age group to ensure a smooth administration of vaccine at four urban sites — Sector 26 Polyclinic, MDC Sector 4 dispensary, Sector 12-A dispensary, Sector 21 dispensary.The sites had been witnessing chaos from the past few days due to a limited availability of vaccines.Beneficiaries above 70 years will now be vaccinated between 9 am and 11 am while the vaccination of people between 50 and 70 years will be conducted between 11 am and 12.30 pm.The vaccination for 45-50 years will take place between 12.30 pm and 2 pm.Time slotsAbove 70 years9 am to 11 am50-70 years11 am to 12.30 pm45-50 years12.30 pm to 2 pm4 deaths, 250 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Monday reported 250 fresh coronavirus cases and four Covid deaths. All deceased had comorbidities. While the death toll has reached 221, the active caseload stands at 2,021. Of the 21,937 cases reported so far, 19,695 patients have recovered. TNSToday’s scheduleOn Tuesday, the vaccination for the 18-44 age group will take place at six centres — Ayurvedic Dispensary, Sector 9; Sec 25 Government Dispensary; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; PHC, Pinjore; PHC, Kot; and Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/356-in-18-44-age-group-vaccinated-on-day-2-in-panchkula-247814
04-05-2021||Amit Bathla||Covid-19: 40% deceased had no comorbidities||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 3The second Covid wave has come as a shocker for the district as almost 40 per cent of those who died had no comorbidities.Of the 63 deaths reported between April 1 and May 2, 25 victims were without any comorbid conditions. Not only are people without comorbidities dying, the disease is taking a toll on young people too.Going by the data of the Health Department, 11 persons who died due to Covid were aged 45 or below. Some of them, whose condition deteriorated very quickly, were as young as 25-35 years, said the department.Experts and doctors say young persons and those without comorbidities tend to remain complacent about the dangers of the deadly virus. This attitude made them more vulnerable to the infectious disease, they said.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “There is a burden of undiagnosed illness among the elderly population. Many patients had comorbid conditions, which they were unaware of.”She said the new variants of the virus were more aggressive, making people severely sick for a prolonged time.“Even after their discharge from hospitals, oxygen levels of patients dip to dangerously low levels,” she added.Terming it a cause for concern, the Health Department had recently attributed the rise in deaths to not seeking timely medical help. It had also advised Covid patients in home isolation to keep a check over their oxygen level to avoid medical emergencies. Experts: Complacent attitude to blameExperts say young persons and those without comorbidities tend to remain complacent. This attitude has made them more vulnerable to the infectious disease, the experts add.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-40-deceased-had-no-comorbidities-247817
04-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shops selling non-essential items to remain closed in Chandigarh from 5 pm Tuesday for a week||The Chandigarh Administration on Monday ordered that shops selling non-essential items will remain closed for a week in the city from 5 pm on Tuesday (4.5.2021).Also readVaccine free for all beneficiaries in Chandigarh: AdministratorChandigarh COVID curbs: Here's what is allowed and what is notNo referrals amid shortage of ventilator beds in ChandigarhWhile there will be no restriction on inter-state movement, yet those entering Chandigarh without negative COVID-19 reports or vaccine certificates will be subject to random testing.The night curfew will continue from 6 pm to 5 am every day.There will be day time restrictions from 5 pm on Tuesday (4.5.2021) till 5 am next Tuesday (11.5.2021).  During these seven days, all shops selling non-essential items will remain closed.All government offices and banks will work with 50 per cent capacity. As far as possible, all private offices will ensure that their staff work from home.Public transport will run with 50 per cent capacity.The ban on cinema halls, gyms, spas, bars, swimming pools, coaching centres will continue.Sports complexes will remain closed. Special permission can be given by Secretary (Sports) for athletes preparing for Olympics etc.Restaurants including hotels, cafes, coffee shops, eating places will be allowed to function only for take away. No seating arrangements will be allowed inside their premises. Home delivery can be done up to 9 pm.There shall be a complete ban on all social, cultural, sports and political gatherings.Recruitment exams will be postponed except those like UPSC etc., especially permitted by Chandigarh Administration.All hospitals, nursing homes and health related facilities like testing laboratories etc. will function normally.Visitors entering government offices may be required to produce vaccination certificates or negative Covid reports.The gathering for the occasions like marriages will be restricted to 50 and for cremation/funeral, it will be 20 persons.Crowded places such as Sukhna Lake, museums, libraries, Rock Garden etc. will remain closed.Schools, colleges, coaching centres will remain closed.  However, teaching staff will be required to come as per detailed instructions to be issued by Education Department.While movement of vehicles has been allowed during day time, the residents are requested to stay at home and avoid unnecessary travel.The shops selling essential items like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, meat, and mobile repair shops will remain open.It is clarified that total weekend curfew on Saturday and Sunday will continue.The Administrator appealed to the residents to strictly follow the Covid protocol like wearing of masks and maintain social distance, so that the infection could be contained.Keeping in view the nature of work being done by the mediamen, the Administrator decided that all accredited journalists will be included in the official list of frontline workers in UT, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-selling-non-essential-items-to-remain-closed-in-chandigarh-from-5-pm-tuesday-for-a-week-247700
