05-05-2021||Panchkula||Six succumb in Panchkula, 584 infected||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-succumb-in-panchkula-584-infected-248202
05-05-2021||Mohali||12 fatalities, 847 cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-fatalities-847-cases-in-mohali-248229
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||11 die, 780 test positive in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-die-780-test-positive-in-chandigarh-248230
05-05-2021||---||Vacation from May 10||Chandigarh, May 4Keeping in view the present circumstances due to Covid, the Education Department has decided that the summer vacation in government schools of Chandigarh will be observed from May 10 to June 8.May 7 will be the last working day before summer vacations. Further, principals of the schools and teachers looking after the work of admissions, result preparation for class 10 will attend the school as per requirements.Teachers who are deputed on the Covid duty by the competent authority will perform their duties as per the orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vacation-from-may-10-248231
05-05-2021||Mohali||Illicit liquor seized, 4 held||UP Man hangs self to deathZirakpur: Parmatma Singh (65), a resident of Ambedkar Colony, Dhakoli, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his home on Tuesday. The victim, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was under mental stress for the past sometime. The police said the victim was shifted to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The body has been kept in the mortuary at the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, they said. The police have recorded the statement of the victim’s son, Sushil Singh, under Section 174 of the CrPc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-seized-4-held-248361
05-05-2021||Panchkula||Now, e-pass must to move in Panchkula||Expect light rain for 3 days: METChandigarh: People can expect light rain for three days in the city. According to the forecast, generally cloudy conditions with light showers are expected from Wednesday to Friday. The city experienced drizzle on Tuesday evening. The Met Department recorded 0.2 mm of rainfall. TNSPU VC offers condolencesChandigarh: The Panjab University VC offered condolences on the death of Dr Rashpal Malhotra, CRRID founder. “He was a devoted and dedicated officer. He was also a Senate member of the university and brought many laurels during his tenures. The university has lost a precious and distinguished asset. I am confident that the inspiration of his faith, optimism and perseverance will live on in our hearts,” said Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU. TNSAvtar singh rememberedMohali: Faculty and staff of Sri Sukhmani Group of Institutions, Dera Bassi, paid tributes to Prof Avtar Singh, founder chairman of the SSGI and a renowned educationist, who breathed his last on Monday. Chief administrator Prof Rashpal Singh, Principal (SSIET) Dr GN Verma, Principal (SSP) Prof Pradeep Sharma, and Principal (SSIHM) Prof Kulwinder Singh paid tributes to Avtar Singh. He will be remembered as an extremely creative and thoughtful educationist, they said. TNSMining officer, 2 others get remandMohali: A local court on Tuesday remanded Ropar mining officer Simarpreet Kaur Dhillon, mining guard Pal Singh and clerk Aman in three-day police custody. The Vigilance Bureau had arrested them while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs25,000 from the owner of a crusher at Anandpur Sahib. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-e-pass-must-to-move-in-panchkula-248357
05-05-2021||---||Badnore announces free vaccine||Chandigarh, May 4The UT Administrator on Tuesday announced that the Covid vaccine will be free for all beneficiaries, including those above 18 years of age. However, there is no clarity as to when the vaccine doses for the new group will be sent by the Central Government.Adding to the UT disappointment, the Centre has approved 30,000 doses against an order of 1,00,000. The doses were expected to arrive in late May, said a senior official of the UT Administration.The city has administered 2,18,017 doses so far, including 1,26,889 first doses given to beneficiaries aged 45 and above. Around 70 per cent of the registered frontline workers have been administered the vaccine, while the achievement rate for healthcare workers is 62 per cent.Meanwhile, the private hospitals in the city have no stock of the vaccine available at the moment. The Serum Institute of India has informed private hospitals that it will take five-six months for the vaccine to be made available in the private market supply chain.Dr Neeraj from Chaitanya Hospital said, “There is no stock available in private hospitals at the moment as the government hospitals have stopped supplying vaccines to us. Those who took the first jab at private hospitals can take their second dose at the government hospitals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-announces-free-vaccine-248201
05-05-2021||---||Chandigarh opens parks for morning walkers||Chandigarh, May 4Providing further relaxation in restrictions, the UT Administration has decided to keep parks open for morning walkers from 5 am to 9 am in the city.Amid a surge in the coronavirus cases, the UT Administration has imposed fresh restrictions, which came into force from 5 pm today, for a period of seven days.Asked about the idea behind opening of the parks for residents, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “Many health-conscious people want to develop immunity by doing morning exercise. We have helped the city by giving them an opportunity. It is better to make it legal instead of people doing it illegally till they follow the Covid protocol.” However, Sukhna Lake would not be opened for morning walkers as tourists could gather there in large number and violate the Covid guidelines, he said.To prevent further spread of the virus, the UT Administration had decided to have limited restrictive measures in the city. However, the night curfew will continue from 6 pm to 5 am every day and the total weekend curfew on Saturday and Sunday will also continue.The Administration has also decided to close all Sampark centres in the city till May 11, while the Estate Office the and Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will remain closed till Saturday.Daytime curbs till 5 am on May 11What’s closedWhat’s open||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-opens-parks-for-morning-walkers-248203
05-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Consider home delivery of oxygen cylinders, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked Chandigarh, along with the states of Punjab and Haryana, to consider home delivery of oxygen cylinders, while granting Sub-Divisional Magistrates in the city the liberty to seek police help for proceeding against hoarders.“Needless to observe that this court expects that the necessary steps are taken at the earliest to ensure that there is no further loss of life due to paucity of oxygen. In case of crisis, however, the state is at liberty to draw from the ‘buffer stock’ of oxygen created under orders of the Supreme Court…,” the Bench asserted.In its detailed order, the Bench observed that the police, after being sounded by the SDM concerned on hoarding, would swing into action immediately and proceed as the circumstances warrant. “In case of any report on disobedience of orders, punitive action will be considered,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.Taking up the Covid management and control case, the Bench added that availability of proper supply to patients on oxygen support at home would reduce the pressure on the Administration, along with government and private hospitals. Advisories had also been issued by the Health Department to he patients to stay at home, if their condition was mild to moderate.“In such circumstances, even home delivery of oxygen cylinders can be considered by the state, preferably by the municipal authorities, as health personnel are already overburdened. Apart from providing succour to the inflicted public, it shall prevent hoarding of oxygen cylinders,” the Bench observed.The Bench also took on record an assurance by UT Senior Standing Counsel Pankaj Jain that the SDM of the zone concerned in every sector would be asked to intervene in case of problem regarding availability of oxygen for helping the patients on support at home.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta also directed the allocation of a dedicated zone-wise phone line. “It will be widely publicised by way of broadcast on radio, television and assistance of the telephone companies,” Justice Gupta asserted.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, senior advocate Anupam Gupta pointed at an order dated April 29 passed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Among other things, it said a web portal be created by every state/UT to ensure availability of ready information on availability of oxygen, drugs, vaccine, vacant beds in government/private hospitals, and vaccination centres.He added that there was nothing to show implementation of these directions in letter and spirit by the Chandigarh Administration. “A copy of the application is available with Pankaj Jain. He submits that he shall seek instructions in this regard and apprise the court on the next date of hearing,” Justice Gupta observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consider-home-delivery-of-oxygen-cylinders-says-high-court-248204
05-05-2021||---||Two officials to ensure oxygen supply to Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 4 For smooth and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen, the UT Administration has deputed two officials at the oxygen generation plant in Himachal Pradesh. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has fixed the daily quota of 20 MT of medical oxygen for the UT from M/s INOX at Barotiwala in Solan district. The medical oxygen is being utilised at government facilities — Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32,  and Covid Hospital, Sector 48. Further, private healthcare institutions in the city also require medical oxygen and they are mostly dependent upon cylinders. After meeting the daily requirement of the GMCH, GMSH and Sector 48 Covid hospital, the remaining medical oxygen is being provided to three approved private vendors for refilling the medical oxygen cylinders for other government and private healthcare institutions in the city. “To ensure that the 20MT quota of oxygen is being regularly supplied by M/s INOX to three government hospitals and also to each of the three private refilling vendors, the UT Administration has decided to station YP Batra, SDE (PH), and Ashok Singla, AE (PH), Chandigarh Housing Board, at Barotiwala (Baddi), HP, for better coordination with M/s INOX,” said Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for managing the oxygen supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-officials-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-to-chandigarh-248205
05-05-2021||---||Congress starts free ambulance service||Chandigarh, May 4 In the times of Covid, the city Congress unit today started a free ambulance service equipped with all emergency equipment. Pawan Kumar Bansal, former union minister, dedicated the same to the residents of Chandigarh at a small ceremony at the Rajiv Gandhi Congress Bhawan, Sector 35. City Congress chief Subhash Chawla and senior leaders of the party were also present. Bansal said it was a small effort by the Congress in these difficult times. He expressed concern over the rising cases of Covid in the city. People were suffering and not getting beds, oxygen, life saving medicines and hospital admission, he added. He urged the administration to speed up its efforts in this regard.  According to HS Lucky, chief spokesperson, two mobile numbers — 9815533888 and 7589065075 — have been provided for the ambulance services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-starts-free-ambulance-service-248206
05-05-2021||---||Traders write to Prime Minister, seek relief package||Chandigarh, May 4 With the UT Administration deciding to close down all shops dealing in non-essential items for a week, the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, today sought a relief package from the government. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi stated that they strictly followed Covid norms and rendered the best cooperation to the Administration during these hard days.  He said there had been a complete lockdown for months last year and they had suffered huge financial losses. “Since business is already at an all-time low, the government must immediately provide some relief measures for the traders, otherwise there will be total collapse of the city’s economic fiber,” said Panchhi.  He requested the PM to direct the Administration to allow rebate in property tax, waiver of fixed and miscellaneous charges in electricity bills, discount in school fee, waiver of EMI, bank interest and loans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-write-to-prime-minister-seek-relief-package-248208
05-05-2021||Surinder Bhardwaj
||Bizmen against closure of shops||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 4 Traders and shopkeepers dealing in non-essential items and industrialists have strongly resented the decision of the state government to impose a “mini-lockdown” in the state.  The traders, under the banner of the District Beopar Mandal, today protested and raised slogans against the government and demanded that either complete lockdown should be imposed or all shopkeepers should be allowed to open as the present scenario has created panic and increased the inflow of traffic and crowds in bazaars.  Addressing the media, Varinder Rattan, Beopar Mandal district president, said the present lockdown had created a chaos in almost all towns of the district as people are thronging grocery, chemists, mobile shops and vendors selling fruits and vegetables roadside. “Long queues are witnessed outside these shops resulting in the increase in positive cases in the district from average 40 to 100 daily,” he said.   He said the traffic flow had increased many fold and no social distancing was being maintained. He said earlier, the flow of traffic was smooth and people came out of their houses only to shop for necessity items, but now they were rushing to shops to stock the ration and medicines.  He said the government should waive the electricity bills of traders and industry and give compensation in GST as the traders have to pay rent, loan instalments and meet other expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bizmen-against-closure-of-shops-248209
05-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||98 fresh cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 4 As many as 98 new cases and two deaths were reported from the district here today. Yesterday, 111 positive cases and two deaths were reported. Civil Surgeon Mohinder Singh said the increase in the positive cases was a matter of concern and people must get themselves vaccinated and strictly follow the Covid guidelines. He said till today, 1,41,152 samples had been collected of which 5,452 tested positive. He said the positivity rate of the district was 3.86 per cent and the recovery rate is 85.78 per cent. He laid stress on testing and wearing masks. Meanwhile, there was an acute shortage of vaccines as people were thronging the civil hospital and camps being organised by NGOs for vaccination, said Dr Kuldeep Singh, SMO, Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/98-fresh-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-248210
05-05-2021||---||Soon, 100-bed centre at Infosys Serai||Chandigarh, May 4After setting up a 50-bed Covid care centre at Bal Bhawan in Sector 23, the UT Administration has allotted Infosys Serai to Sri Guru Granth Sahib Society to set up a 100-bed Covid care centre with oxygen facility.However, if the Covid cases continue to increase in the city, the UT Administration may convert three CICTO-run hotels into Covid hospitals.“If crisis deepens, all three UT Administration hotels run by CITCO will be converted into Covid hospitals,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.In view of the increasing number of Covid cases in the city, the UT Administration has given a clarion call for setting up mini-Covid care centres voluntarily by interested organisations and associations.The UT Administration today gave its approval to the proposal mooted by three good Samaritans for opening Covid care centers as part of their commitment to mankind reeling under the Covid-19 crisis.The Administration gave an approval to Sartaj Lamba, Founder CEO, Be Sure Buddy Pvt Ltd, for opening a mini centre at Aurobindo School, Sector 27-A, HS Sabharwal, authorised authority, Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society, Chandigarh, Tera Hi Tera Mission Hospital (Surgical Wing), Sector 26, for opening a care centre at the Infosys Foundation Red Cross Serai, Sector 12, besides Amar Vivek Aggrawal, trustee, Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, Sai Sadan, Sector 8-B, for opening such a centre at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Sector 8-B.The Sri Guru Granth Sahib Society has already set up a 50-bed Covid centre at the Bal Bhawan with oxygen supply on 40 beds, nutritious and healthy food for patients, round-the-care doctors and nursing staff, PPE kits, masks, sanitiser and gloves, required medicines, television with cable connection in each of the dormitory, ambulance with ventilator and welcome kits with toiletries.Appreciating the society for creating such a good facility in a short period of two days, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said: “In view of the excellent work done at the Bal Bhawan, the Infosys Serai is allotted to the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Society to set up a 100-bed care centre with oxygen facility.”Meanwhile, Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for mini-Covid care centre, they had added another condition for setting up a Covid care centre. “Now, at least 80 per cent beds will be oxygenated. However, we will tie up them up for refilling oxygen cylinders from approved vendor on the same rate being charged from the GMCH,” Garg said.On funds for Covid management, Parida said: “I am receiving many calls offering funds for covid management. My request to donors is to instead donate items such as oxygen cylinders and concentrated ventilators that can be used in our Covid care centres.”Meanwhile, Parida appointed Rakesh Popli, PCS, as the nodal officer for certifing and authorising free distribution of Covid aid coming from abroad for Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-100-bed-centre-at-infosys-serai-248212
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||SIM card at home||Amid strict curbs, BSNL has offered free home delivery of SIM cards to the customers in the tricity and adjoining areas of Zirakpur, Derabassi and Ropar.  The telecom service provider will deliver the SIM cards at the desired location of the customer after getting his/her valid ID and residence proof. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sim-card-at-home-248213
05-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University to work with 50 per cent staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Panjab University is unlikely to open its campus for offline classes in the coming months.The university, in view of the latest guidelines issued by the UT Administration, has decided to function with 50 per cent staff.In a new circular, the university stated: “The offices of university will function with 50 per cent staff strength till May 31 or till such time the same is reviewed/extended by Advisor-Chairperson, State Disaster Management Authority, Chandigarh.”“All heads of the office/departments shall prepare roster in such a manner that the routine day-to-day work as well as work pertaining to examination and other time-bound assignments may not get delayed. The officers of the level of office superintendent and above shall attend office on daily basis with scattered timing,” read the notice.“As far as working of university regional centres, rural centres and consistent colleges, located in the state of Punjab is concerned, they should follow the instructions/guidelines as ordered by the Department of Home Affairs and Justice, Government of Punjab,” it added.Online classesSources claimed that the online classes would continue as of now. In the recent past, many student groups had demanded to open the campus.“The online classes and examinations are likely to be continued amid surge in Covid-19 cases. We all have to be extra cautious and even students are aware of it,” said a source. “Those residing in hostels have already been told to take extra precautions,” the source added.Army officers visit hostelOfficers from the Western Command, Chandi Mandir, visited Panjab University hostel No. 10 and international hostel today.The Army, on the request of the UT Administration, is setting up a 100-beded Covid care centre at the international hostel. The Army has already started moving in the equipment and the facility is expected to be fully functional from tomorrow.“Officers have already created a set-up at the international hostel and doctors are likely to stay at hostel No. 10. The set-up is likely to be complete by tomorrow and it will be functional soon after. The equipment has already arrived at the international hostel and the team is is also ready,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-work-with-50-per-cent-staff-248214
05-05-2021||Sandeep Rana
||Teens come together to help society||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 4 Five concerned teenagers have come together to help people during the crises triggered by the second wave of Covid-19. Four students of Class XII and one from Class XI have formed a team of 50 volunteers to help people with oxygen cylinders, medicines and ambulances. They are also assisting people with mental issues through the social media and their website. The young guns are working under the ‘Humanity has Hope’ (HHH) organisation, which was formed by Aanya Malik, a Class XII student, about two months ago. “I have been associated with social work in other fields for sometime. But, seeing the current Covid crises and plight of people, who are not getting right information and help, I founded this foundation,” says Aanya. Other members of the organization are Vaanya Gilhotra, head of research, Tara Khanna, head of marketing, Sanya Singal, head of design and Delhi resident Ishan Sindhwani, head of IT. They have added about 50 student volunteers, who are operating in different parts of the country.  They are all balancing between their school classes and helping the distress people. “We have our school as well as tuition classes online. We find 20-20 minutes break between different periods. At that time, we focus on helping people,” said Vaanya. “A patient or attendant often does not have time to call up different numbers to find an authentic source. So, we call up people and share verified contacts with those in need,” she says further. The students say they have their helpline pages on Twitter, Instagram and website by the name of HHH. “We get about 100 messages, DMs or calls for help. We also have several helpline numbers on our online platforms,” they add.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teens-come-together-to-help-society-248215
05-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Don’t refuse admissions, Mohali pvt hospitals told||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 4The Mohali administration today asked private hospitals not to refuse admission to critically ill and try and accommodate patients in a lower facility till vacancy is created at the higher level.“Declining admission and sending a critical patient back home will be distressing and may even prove fatal. However, admission to a lower facility and being under medical supervision may render a patient some opportunity to recover,” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.The DC though pointed out that such admissions should be done with the approval of patients’ attendant.Taking an opportunity to thank the philanthropists for offering their support, Daylan divulged that the district administration had been receiving numerous offers from the residents and they were willing to set up four or five, even 10-bedded facility for Covid patients requiring L2 care.“We appreciate your magnanimity and your earnest desire to support your brethren. Hat’s off to the Punjabi spirit of sharing and caring. However, I would like to inform that an isolation centre with a capacity less than 50 beds would be difficult to sustain given the paucity of medical/paramedical staff,” said Dayalan.“Any support for a 50-bed or above facility with adherence to Covid guidelines is most welcome. Contact Civil Surgeon to get the certification for the site,” he added.The DC today held a meeting with the SDMs and the doctors posted at sub-divisional level to address the issues faced in combating Covid.He also approved mortuary fridges at sub-divisional hospitals for Covid deaths occurring late at night.Daylan also authorised hiring of three funeral vans, one each for Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi sub-divisions, to prevent trauma to the families waiting for dead bodies to be taken to cremation ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-refuse-admissions-mohali-pvt-hospitals-told-248216
05-05-2021||---||Vax shortage hits inoculation drive in Mohali||Mohali, May 4Inoculation drive at some of the government as well as private hospitals was affected due to the shortage of vaccine in various parts of the district today.Even some of the NGOs, including Lions Club, Mohali, had to postpone vaccination camps to be held today. Lions Club will now hold the camp on Wednesday.The health authorities could be heard asking people to come the next day as vaccine stock ran out of stock. Officials said the fresh vaccine stock was likely to arrive by this evening and the jabs would be administered at all 50 government and 40 private hospitals in the district.Rajeev Kumar, a resident of Baltana, said he, along with his wife, visited the Community Health Centre, Dhakoli, to get the vaccine. The officials told them to come the next day for vaccination. He said a large number of people returned from the health centre without getting the vaccine.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “There was a shortage of vaccine today. We hope to get 12,000 vaccine doses by this evening and the vaccination drive will be carried out at all vaccinations centres in the district. Vaccine for people in the age group of 18-44 years has not arrived. We will start vaccination for this age group as soon as we get the stock”.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said 524 persons aged between 45 and 59 years got the first dose, while 111 persons received the second jab on Tuesday. Similarly, a total of 235 persons aged 60 and above received the first dose, while 134 got the second dose. As many as 23 healthcare workers got the first dose, while 14 received the second jab. Similarly, 541 frontline workers got the first dose and 29 received the second jab.Vaccination drive for 18+ people will start at Max Hospital tomorrow. Disclosing this, the hospital spokesperson said a total of 400 persons aged above 18 had registered at the hospital’s portal to get the vaccine. Slots were filled within 25 minutes of the opening of the registration. 18+ to get jab at Max Hospital from todayVaccination drive for 18+ age group will start at Max Hospital in Mohali on Wednesday. Disclosing this, a hospital spokesperson said a total of 400 persons aged above 18 had registered on the hospital portal to get the vaccine. Slots were filled within 25 minutes of the opening of the registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vax-shortage-hits-inoculation-drive-in-mohali-248218
05-05-2021||---||Jan Aushadhi store at Mohali Civil Hospital to function 24X7||Mohali, May 4Keeping in view the demand of the general public, the district administration has decided to keep Jan Aushadhi store at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, open 24X7 to provide quality medicines to the poor and needy patients at nominal rates.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the main objective behind opening the Jan Aushadhi store was to provide quality medicines to the poor and needy patients at nominal rates as per the government policy. Jan Aushadhi store was being run at the Mohali Civil Hospital at “no profit, no loss” basis by the District Red Cross Society.He said another Jan Aushadhi store had been opened at the Civil Hospital, Kharar, to provide generic medicines at reasonable rates. The District Red Cross Society also had a proposal to open a Jan Aushadhi store at the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, soon so that maximum needy patients could avail of the benefits of this facility.The Jan Aushadhi store is being run by the District Red Cross Branch at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here, since 2012. The society is also running various welfare schemes and activities in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jan-aushadhi-store-at-mohali-civil-hospital-to-function-24x7-248219
05-05-2021||---||High Court rejects Hawara’s bail plea||Chandigarh, May 4 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to grant bail to the then Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh’s assassin Jagtar Singh Hawara in a case registered by the Chandigarh Police. Among other things, his counsel contended that Hawara was in custody for the past more than 15 years and the trial was yet to commence with regard to him. The other co-accused in the FIR had already been acquitted vide judgment dated May 27, 2010. Taking up the matter, Justice Alka Sarin observed Hawara was seeking regular bail in the FIR registered on July 11, 2005, for waging or attempting to wage war against the Government of India and other offences under Sections 121, 121-A, 122, 153 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, besides provisions of the Arms Act and the Explosive Substances Act registered at the Sector 17 police station. Dismissing the petition, Justice Sarin asserted the undisputed facts were that multiple cases were registered against the petitioner. One of the cases he has been convicted related to the assassination of the then Chief Minister Beant Singh. He was sentenced to undergo life imprisonment with a specific direction that he should not be released from prison for the rest of his life. In the present case, there were serious allegations against the petitioner of waging war against the Government of India and indulging in revival of terrorism and formation of Khalistan. “I do not find this to be a fit case for grant of regular bail to the petitioner. The petition is hence dismissed,” Justice Sarin asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-rejects-hawaras-bail-plea-248220
05-05-2021||---||Jaipur-Daulatpur train now triweekly||Chandigarh, May 4 The North-Western Railway today issued a notification on reducing the frequency of some special trains. The decision will also impact Daulatpur Chowk - Jaipur Intercity Express, which halts at the Chandigarh railway station. Instead of making a daily halt, the train will now stop in the city only thrice in a week on Tuesday, Friday and Sunday. “The train was anyway running on low occupancy. About 150 sleeper-class seats of the train, while coming from Jaipur, were vacant. The same was the case with non-AC seats too,” said JP Singh, superintendent, Chandigarh railway station. The train arrives in Chandigarh from Jaipur at 7:30 am and halts for 15 minutes. From Daulatpur Chowk, it arrives in Chandigarh at 6:50 pm and stops for 20 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jaipur-daulatpur-train-now-triweekly-248221
05-05-2021||Panchkula||Cured Covid patients should donate plasma: Haryana Speaker||People recovered from Covid-19 should come forward and donate plasma to save precious lives of other critically ill coronavirus patients.Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta stated this today after launching a helpline at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here, to facilitate and assist Covid patients. The helpline will be run by the Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha.Addressing the gathering, Gian Chand Gupta said he had launched a helpline number, 90413-44828, and any needy person could call the helpline. On receiving the call, volunteers of the BJP Yuva Morcha would rush to provide all possible assistance to the needy person at the earliest.He also distributed masks and sanitisers among people at the hospital. He said use of masks could save people from getting infected from coronavirus.Gupta said a state-level control room had also been set up by the BJP in Panchkula. Through this helpline, all necessary activities were being carried out at all 22 district headquarters to help those infected from coronavirus. Volunteers from the BJP contact such patients and help them.Gupta appealed to residents of the district to wear face mask. He said: “It is necessary to wear a face mask to protect against the new strain of Covid-19. By wearing masks, we can not only protect ourselves but also others from getting infected”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cured-covid-patients-should-donate-plasma-haryana-speaker-248222
05-05-2021||---||With summer setting in, water crisis hits Zirakpur||Zirakpur, May 4 With the onset of summers, residents of various housing societies and colonies here complained that they were not getting regular water supply for the past many days.  Residents of Shiva Enclave, Sunny Enclave, Baltana and other areas said they were facing many problems in the absence of water supply for the last three days. Residents alleged that the Municipal Council failed to provide water supply and officials were not even listening to their concerns. Shiva Enclave resident Gautam said, “It has been three days our water supply has been interrupted. We have requested officials in the Municipal Council physically and also registered online complaints but to no avail.” Sunny Enclave resident SP Sharma said, “Residents of Sunny Enclave are not getting proper water supply from the tubewell. Currently, we are getting supply from Preet Colony. Whenever there is a power cut, the problem becomes acute.”  “We have requested the civic body’s executive officer to provide a generator for the tubewell so that water supply is not affected due to power cuts but nothing has been done so far,” said Sharma. Most of the residents alleged that even the directions from the CMO to the civic body did not bear any result. There are close to 80 tubewells in the city which cater to the water needs of the residents. As many as 25 new tubewells have been sanctioned by the local bodies department in the last two-three years, but only four have become operational till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-summer-setting-in-water-crisis-hits-zirakpur-248223
05-05-2021||Panchkula||Restart vaccination at Sec 20 dispensary: RWA||Expressing resentment over stopping vaccination at the Sector 20 dispensary for the past few days, the Residents Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 20, today urged the administration to restart the vaccination drive at the dispensary. Association president KK Jindal said: “People in the age group of 70 to 75 years live in various housing societies in Sector 20. These people have received the first dose of the Covid vaccine. Their second dose is due, but the drive has been stopped at the dispensary for the past five days”. Jindal and other office-bearers, including senior vice-president Yoginder Kawatra, said over 30,000 people, mostly senior citizens, were living in various societies in the sector. A majority of the senior citizens have received the first jab and they were now waiting for the second dose. They appealed to the district administration and the health authorities to issue orders for restarting the vaccination drive at the Sector 20 dispensary at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restart-vaccination-at-sec-20-dispensary-rwa-248224
05-05-2021||---||Chandigarh Forest Dept to conduct wildlife census from today||Chandigarh, May 4 The UT Forest Department has decided to carry out the second wildlife census in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary from tomorrow. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forest and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said it would take five days to prepare an inventory of wild animals in the sanctuary. The Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) had agreed to provide technical support to the department in this regard. The first wildlife census was carried out in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, spread over an area of 26 sq km in the catchment area of the Sukhna Lake, in 2010. As per the first census report prepared by the WII, the population of sambar in the sanctuary was between 1,000 and 1,200 and peafowl population was between 900 and 1,100. However, leopards were not spotted directly, but their foot marks were found. The main animals spotted in the sanctuary include sambar, chital, pangolin (anteater), wild boar, jackal, small Indian civet, jungle cat, porcupine, Hanuman langur, rhesus monkey, Indian hare, common mongoose and three- striped palm squirrel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-forest-dept-to-conduct-wildlife-census-from-today-248225
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 54 more Chandigarh areas||To prevent further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration today declared 54 more micro-containment zones in the city. District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. As many as 29 micro-containment zones were declared yesterday. The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sectors 8, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 29, 30, 32, 33, 36, 38 (West), 42, 45, 46, Ram Darbar village, Phase 2, Hallo Majra, Behlana, Khuda Lahora and Dhanas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-54-more-chandigarh-areas-248228
05-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Consider home delivery of oxygen cylinders: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday asked Chandigarh, along with the states of Punjab and Haryana, to consider home delivery of oxygen cylinders, while granting Sub Divisional Magistrates in the city the liberty to seek police help for proceeding against the hoarders.“Needless to observe that this court expects that the necessary steps are taken at the earliest to ensure that there is no further loss of life due to paucity of oxygen. In case of crisis, however, State is at liberty to draw from the ‘buffer stock’ of oxygen created under orders of the Supreme Court…,” the Bench asserted. In its detailed order, the Bench observed the police, after being sounded by the SDM concerned on hoarding, would swing into action immediately and proceed as the circumstances warrant. In case of any report on disobedience of orders, punitive action would be considered,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.Taking up the Covid management and control case, the Bench added availability of proper supply to patients on oxygen support at home would reduce the pressure on the administration, along with government and private hospitals. Advisories had also been issued by the health departments to the patients to stay at home, if their condition was mild to moderate.“In such circumstances even home delivery of oxygen cylinders can be considered by the State preferably by municipal authorities as health personnel are already overburdened. Apart from providing succour to the inflicted public, it shall prevent hoarding of oxygen cylinders,” the Bench observed.The Bench also took on record assurance by UT Senior Standing Counsel Pankaj Jain that the SDM of the zone concerned in every Sector would be asked to intervene in case of problem regarding availability of oxygen for helping the patients on support at home.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta also directed the allocation of a dedicated zone-wise phone line. “It will be widely publicized by way of broadcast on radio, television and assistance of the telephone companies,” Justice Gupta asserted.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, senior advocate Anupam Gupta pointed at order dated April 29 passed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Among other things, it said a web portal be created by every State/UT to ensure availability of ready information on availability of oxygen, drugs, vaccine, vacant beds in government/private hospitals, and vaccination centers.He added there was nothing to show implementation of these directions in letter and spirit by the Chandigarh Administration. “A copy of the application is available with Pankaj Jain. He submits that he shall seek instructions in this regard and apprise the court on the next date of hearing,” Justice Gupta observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consider-home-delivery-of-oxygen-cylinders-punjab-and-haryana-hc-248166
