06-05-2021||---||Haryana firm among two to manufacture oxygen concentrators developed by CSIR||Chandigarh, May 6A private firm in Haryana is among two companies that will manufacture oxygen concentrators developed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for use in the medical field.CSIR’s Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) transferred the oxygen concentrator technology to firms located in Gurgaon and Kota today, according to an official statement.Prof Harish Hirani, Director, CMERI, said that the institute is trying to boost the MSMEs so that they can manufacture the product for its reach to the masses. CMERI’s aim is to help bring innovation to the common people for which the cooperation of MSMEs that have capabilities of low-cost manufacturing is required.The Gurgaon-based firm, SA Corporation, is working on the development of the prototypes and targeting production of 5,000 units per month, which may further be scaled up. The initial cost for developing the prototype is around Rs 40,000-45,000 due to the sudden surge in the cost of raw material, but is expected to come down on production at mass scale.The firm in Kota, C and I Calibrations Private Limited, is focusing on 5-litre capacity concentrators and at the moment is planning to manufacture 3,000 to 4,000 units of concentrators per month. The company, which has laboratories accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories, is conducting tests on more than 700 gadgets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-firm-among-two-to-manufacture-oxygen-concentrators-developed-by-csir-248954
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, info on vacant beds on Chandigarh website||Now, patients need not run here and there in search of hospital beds in the city as the UT Administration has decided to upload the daily data on the availability of beds on its website.The decision was taken following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. “As directed by the High Court, data on availability of hospital beds will be uploaded daily on the UT Administration website,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.During the hearing on a plea on Covid-19 management yesterday, senior advocate Anupam Gupta, while pointing at an order dated April 29, had said there was nothing to show on implementation of the directions passed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs in letter and spirit by the Chandigarh Administration. As per the order of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, among other things, a web portal be created by every state/UT to ensure availability of ready information on availability of oxygen, drugs, vaccine, vacant beds in government/private hospitals, and vaccination centers.Keeping in view the increasing number of Covid cases in the city, the UT Administration has given a clarion call for setting up mini Covid care centres voluntarily by various social organisations and associations.On offering of funds for Covid management, Parida requested the donors to instead donate items like oxygen cylinders, ventilators, etc., which can be used in Covid care centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-info-on-vacant-beds-on-chandigarh-website-248689
06-05-2021||Mohali||38 Covid deaths set alarm bells ringing||As many as 38 persons succumbed to Covid-19 in the UT and Mohali and Panchkula districts today, setting alarm bells ringing with cases continuing to mount even as the health authorities are already overstretched to accommodate new patients.Mohali district today registered 17 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest since the start of the pandemic. The number of new positive cases (1,056) is also the highest so far. As many as 1,002 patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours.UT sees 817 fresh cases Chandigarh: The city recorded 817 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 8,363. With 14 more deaths, the toll has reached 532. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 46,793. A total of 610  patients were cured of the disease. TNSAmong the new cases, 362 were reported from Mohali (urban), 270 from Dhakoli, 128 from Dera Bassi, 125 from Kharar, 84 from Gharuan, 36 from Boothgarh, 26 from Kurali, 17 from Banur and eight from Lalru. So far, the district has reported 50,988 cases and 41,636 recoveries. The active cases in the district are 8,701. With 17 deaths today, the toll has reached 651in the district.At 654, Panchkula sees new highPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported 654 fresh cases of coronavirus, the highest in a single day since the pandemic broke out. The district also witnessed seven deaths due to Covid. Two of the deceased had no comorbidities. While the active caseload has reached 2,597, the toll now stands at 234. Of the 23,175 cases reported so far, 20,344 patients have recovered from the infectious disease. TNSFree taxi service for senior citizensThe traffic police has arranged free taxi service for senior citizens going for vaccination. They will be taken their home to the vaccination site and dropped back home. The service can be availed from 10 am to 2 pm (Monday to Friday) by booking a slot on the helpline number 9115516010.32 containment zonesThe district administration has made 32 containment/micro-containment zones in the four blocks — Boothgarh, Gharuan, Mohali and Dera Bassi — of the district. As many as 36 fresh cases of Covid were reported from Skynet Enclave, Zirakpur, today. The total number of cases from the housing society increased to 47 following which it was declared a containment zone. The Civil Surgeon would periodically check the affected persons in the area and act as per the advisory issued by the Health Department.Liquor vends, hardware shops exemptedRetail and wholesale liquor vends, but not taverns, and shops selling industrial materials, hardware items, tools, motors and pipes are also allowed to open till 5 pm, except during the weekend curfew (from 6 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday). The administration order stated that movement of persons on foot/bicycle for the permissible purposes shall be allowed. In case of motorised traffic, valid identity cards may be used or e-pass be taken in advance (https://pass.pais.net.in) and displayed on the vehicle.Free isolation centre in ZirakpurDera Bassi MLA NK Sharma today inaugurated a 100-bed free isolation centre at ‘Sharma Farm’ in Zirakpur today. It would provide free ration, medicines and medical treatment to the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/38-covid-deaths-set-alarm-bells-ringing-248690
06-05-2021||Panchkula||Why showing personal interest, ‘defence counsel’ asks Judge||A Judge of a Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court in Panchkula has said he does not appreciate the “uncalled for personal remarks” by a defence lawyer in the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) case regarding “why he was showing personal interest for an expedited decision in the matter”.The remarks of the Judge, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, came during a virtual hearing in the case on May 3. As the court began its proceedings, Sumanjit Kaur, advocate for RS Cheema, interacted with the Judge.The court conveyed to Kaur its intention to fix the case for the last week of May for “consideration on the charge”.After this, Kaur sought some time to have an interaction with Cheema and stated she would revert shortly. Then, Kaur made a WhatsApp call to the “ahlmad” of the court and informed him that Cheema wanted to talk to the Judge.Thereafter, a call was received on the mobile number of Davinder Singh, who was acting as reader during the leave period of the regular reader, from Cheema. The acting reader then handed over the phone to the Judge.The Judge, in the order, said, “The caller on the other side identified himself as RS Cheema. He pleaded that the matter should be adjourned to July in view of the sudden surge in Covid cases and his elderly age.”“Then suddenly the learned senior counsel started making uncalled for personal remarks and stated, : “Aap is matter me itna personal interest kyun dikha rahe ho by fixing such a short date in May itself,” the order stated.Citing directions of the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court that proceedings of all criminal cases and complaints against former and sitting MPs/MLAs were required to be taken up on an urgent basis, the court had contended that the case, in which former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is an accused, fell in the priority category. Hence, it should be decided expeditiously.“He didn’t stop here. He started agitating that in the order on the charge passed by this court in another matter (AJL case in the CBI court) against the same accused, his contention was not mentioned that he didn’t plead qua the point of applicability of Section 13(1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act due to a contrary stance earlier taken by him in another matter and that the legal submissions in this regard shall be made by PK Sandhir, senior counsel for the defence. He further contended that in the said case, they were engaged in the arguments on the discharge application till 4.30 pm and later one of the accused, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, tested positive for the coronavirus due to which he had also remained in quarantine for a week,”’ the order added.The Judge further conveyed to the caller that he held him in high esteem and such type of aspersions were not expected of a counsel of his stature.“Such type of attempts to overawe the judicial process on his part are not appreciable and in case he feels aggrieved by any order or directions issued by the court, he can have recourse to the legal remedies provided by law,” the court said.“The court highly values the peaceful and cordial relations between the Bench and the Bar. There is no intent to belittle the effort of any party or the learned counsel representing them, but at the same time, the law casts a duty upon the presiding officer to uphold the majesty of law to further the cause of justice on which our Constitution lays so much emphasis,” it added.The same Judge for the CBI court in Panchkula last month had framed charges against Hooda in the AJL case. The court fixed the next hearing in the matter for July 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/why-showing-personal-interest-defence-counsel-asks-judge-248691
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, 88 pc Chandigarh MC staff wear smart watches||With the local Municipal Corporation making it mandatory for its about 4,000 employees to wear smart watches from May 1, about 88 per cent of them have started wearing them.It is a big jump from about 55-60 per cent employees who were wearing watches before May 1. However, at present, only attendance is being monitored, not working hours. The watches track the live location of employees and field staff.More and more employees started wearing these watches after Commissioner KK Yadav wrote to different wings to ensure that all employees wear watches as their salary will be credited based on their location status. It was earlier approved in MC House.“The others who are not wearing these watches are either absent or on Covid duty at some other place. Now, almost all are wearing these watches,” said a senior MC officer.The Municipal Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, said: “The Commissioner had passed the orders for the implementation of the smart watch system. Now, our functioning in the sanitation department has improved. People will feel the change soon in terms of work.”The sanitation wing had earlier opposed the watches alleging “faulty location”.However, newly elected president of Safai Karamchari Union Sham Lal Ghavari said: “We have no issue in wearing the watches. We only want that there should be two work shifts: 6am-2pm and 2pm-10 pm. It will give us time to have lunch and dinner and we need not go back home for having food.”Two-three deadlines were set earlier but the MC had failed to implement the system. In February last year, the civic body started distributing 4,000 watches to its employees to track their location. A three-year contract was signed with a private company to supply these watches.The civic body has been paying about Rs18 lakh per month as rent of watches. The system was introduced after it was found there were many ghost employees in the MC field staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-88-pc-chandigarh-mc-staff-wear-smart-watches-248692
06-05-2021||Mohali||20% under home isolation not attending IVR calls in Mohali||The Mohali Administration has started contacting patients placed in home isolation through automated interactive voice response (IVR) calls wherein the latter are asked to update their health status. However, 20% patients do not respond to the calls either due to ignorance or because of doubts about the credibility of the call.Making it clear to the public that the IVR calls on behalf of the District Administration are being made to Covid patients from telephone number 01726132106, the Mohali DC asked the people not to mark the number as spam because that may lead others to doubt the authenticity of the calls.614 challans, 35 FIRs in Mohali distMohali: The police have issued 614 challans to persons who were caught not wearing masks in public places in Mohali district in the past 24 hours. As many as 129 vehicles have been impounded for movement during the lockdown without a valid reason. Thirtyfive FIRs have been registered against the owners of 25 shops and one wine shop, and nine persons for Covid violations. TNSBesides, it is a one-way call only. There is no facility to call back to this number. The patients can call to the Covid Control Room, if need be. The IVR calls are made to a patients around 5pm but if the patient fails to attend it, then he/she is called again at 6 pm. In case he/she doesn’t respond to the second call as well then a third attempt is made at 7pm. The calls are made daily for 14 days of home isolation period and if the patient updates his status as that requiring medical help, then the system flags it red which thereafter is attended by a team of doctors.CII delegation bats for shopkeepersA delegation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CII), led by its president Vineet Verma called on DSP (City 1) Gursher Singh and informed him of the difficulties faced by shopkeepers. A memorandum was also submitted to the DSP that states the shopkeepers were against the “half-baked and unreasonable” lockdown imposed by the government and considered these orders against the traders. The letter demanded that either a complete lockdown be imposed or all their grievances be resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-under-home-isolation-not-attending-ivr-calls-in-mohali-248693
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University tells wardens to motivate students to leave hostels||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Panjab University authorities are in a fix over the research scholars’ stay in hostels.In a meeting held here today, hostel wardens raised concern over students staying in hostels, claimed sources. The authorities though told them (wardens) to “motivate” students to leave the campus and move to their respective homes at the right time.“The students are mature enough to understand the situation. The number of cases is not only increasing in Chandigarh but also in our campus. Those, who can leave for their respective homes, should move at the right time. Otherwise, like last year, the situation will once again get complicated both for the authorities and the students,” said a PU official who was a part of the meeting.In a recent meeting with the UT Education Department, PU had confirmed that 718 students were presently occupying the hostels and out of these, 650 were research scholars.The university has around 20 hostels with a total capacity of 8,000 students. At present, only 10 per cent capacity is being utilised.Sources also claimed that the authorities were in talks with the students to form a consensus.“We have to face the situation. Many institutions are vacating their hostels and it’s a simple matter of understanding. The second wave is more effective than the previous one and everyone has to act accordingly. The parents should also come forward,” said another official.“We can only guide them in current scenario. One cannot be taken care of if he or she gets infected. There have been cases and even authorities are aware about it,” said the official wishing anonymity.“The students got some hint today, and they started approaching the authorities with one reason or another,” the official added.Meanwhile, students said they were here to carry out research related works.“We are here to get access to various journals which are beneficial for our research work. We just cannot leave the campus or research midway. There have been no clear instructions and the university is only trying to build pressure,” said Amlok, a student.Former Panjab University VC Arun Grover suggested that a mechanism should be devised to keep research labs working to full capacity.“Many research institutions and national research labs are taking steps to ask their research scholars to return to their respective homes,” said Grover.“More waves are likely to hit us in near future, We must thus prepare for a long haul,” said Grover.“The researchers (teachers, students and post docs) and support staff must be counted amongst frontline workers. The vaccine doses must be given to all of them on priority. The country needs more research today than ever before,” he said.“The heads and senior scientists of the Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster institutions must work out a strategy with the officials from the UT, Punjab and Haryana to keep the research labs working to full capacity as the online classes continue for first/second/third year undergraduate students,” Grover asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-tells-wardens-to-motivate-students-to-leave-hostels-248694
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||University holds finale of funding fest||India Innovation Challenge (IIC), which aims to promote novel and practical innovations, witnessed record participation by teams from across the nation and abroad.The grand finale of the India Innovation Challenge - 2021 – one of the largest funding fest and university driven platforms for upcoming start-ups – was conducted by Chitkara University.The championship was open to innovators, entrepreneurs, designers, thinkers, students, engineers, scientists, coders, trainers and academicians from any background.The India Innovation Challenge – 2021 was launched in October 2020 and received a record 460 applications from progressive sectors, ranging from fin-tech, agri-tech, edu-tech, waste management solutions to the health sector.Twenty-three start-ups qualified for the screening and were allowed to ‘pitch and present’ their ideas to a 10-member panel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/university-holds-finale-of-funding-fest-248695
06-05-2021||---||Not repairing damaged mobile costs company dear||Not repairing a damaged mobile phone within validity of the offered scheme has cost company dear.Terming the act as a deficiency of service, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, directed M/s One Assist Consumer Solutions Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, to get the mobile phone of the complainant repaired free of cost.The commission also directed the firm to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation to the consumer for mental agony and harassment, and Rs 5,500 as cost of litigation.Shobha Bharti, a resident of Zirakpur, had approached the commission after the company refused to entertain her complaint.Shobha said she had purchased a Samsung A-30 mobile phone from a shop in Mohali on March 23, 2019 for Rs 16,990 by taking loan from M/s Home Credit India Finance Pvt Ltd.The phone was insured with M/s One Assist Consumer Solutions Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, against theft, physical damage, burglary and liquid damage for the period from March 23, 2019 to March 21, 2020, she said.Shobha said her mobile phone was damaged on December 7, 2019 following which she approached Assist Consumer Solutions Private Ltd to get it repaired. However, the company rejected the claim without assigning any reason, she said.In its reply, M/s One Assist Consumer Solutions Pvt Ltd stated that it was not liable to pay any claim and it was only required to facilitate the registering and processing the claim with the insurance company. It is the insurance company which was to settle the claim, said the Mumbai-based firm.The company stated that the mobile phone was insured with HDFC Ergo and it had provided the service to the complainant by processing the claim.The company also alleged that the phone was damaged due to the negligence of the complainant so it was not covered in the scheme.After hearing the arguments, the commission said the phone of the consumer was damaged within the validity of the Mobile Device Protection Membership Program offered by the company.Not repairing the phone is deficiency of service and unfair trade practice, the commission observed and directed the company to get the mobile phone repaired and pay compensation and litigation cost to the consumer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-repairing-damaged-mobile-costs-company-dear-248696
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of mishap victim get compensation||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chandigarh, has directed an insurance Company to release Rs 8.30 lakh compensation to the wife and three children of a person who died in an accident in 2018.The claimants had sought compensation from the driver and the owner of a vehicle which was allegedly involved in the accident and the insurance company on account of death of Mam Chand on March 3, 2018.The petition was filed by Harbhajan Kaur, wife of Mam Chand, and his three children.The Tribunal while disposing of the petition said the insurance company was ready to settle the present claim petition for Rs 8.30 lakh as full and final settlement which was accepted by the claimants.In view of the settlement, the Tribunal ordered that 40 per cent compensation amount was required to be paid to the wife while 20 per cent each of the total compensation amount to the other claimants, children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-of-mishap-victim-get-compensation-248697
06-05-2021||Mohali||Mohali gets 20K Covishield doses||The Mohali Health Department today received 20,000 doses of Covishield to continue the vaccination drive across 50 centres in the district.The inoculation drive at some government as well as private hospitals was affected due to a shortage of the vaccine in various parts of the district for the past two days.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, ‘’We have received ample doses and the vaccination is being done at various centres today.’’Don't be choosy, doctors on vaxOfficials countered the perception that one make of vaccine was better than the other saying that it was better to have a vaccine than wait for one of a particular make. Doctors said some people were waiting for a particular vaccine, which was not right.As many as 5,034 persons across all categories were inoculated with the first or second dose of Covishield today. “The actual number of vaccinations is much higher than 5,034. This is just the number which has been updated on the portal till this evening,” said Kaur.In the 60-plus age category, 511 availed of the first dose, while 414 got the second dose. In the 45 to 60 age category, 889 got the first dose, while 229 got the second dose. As many as 2,991 doses, first and second, were given in the frontline and healthcare category today.Not a single dose of Covaxin was administered in the government facilities in the district today. “Covaxin is out of stock. We do not know when it will come. Fortis Hospital has procured it from the manufacturer on its own and they are charging Rs1,200 per dose. Those who want this particular dose can avail of it there,” she said.Dhakoli subdivisional hospital incharge Harleen Kaur and Dera Bassi Civil Hospital SMO Sangeeta Jain said the vaccination drive began this morning after the vaccine arrived.On a day when Covid deaths and positive cases touched a new high, officials of the Health Department said close to 4,500 Covid tests were conducted in the district. A long queue was seen at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, for the Covid test today.Officials countered the perception that one make of vaccine was better than the other saying that some people were waiting for a particular vaccine. Doctors said it was better to have a vaccine than waiting for one of a particular make.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-gets-20k-covishield-doses-248698
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of +ve patients  can’t enter ward, says GMCH||Relatives of patients have been prohibited from entering the Covid ward at Government Medical and College Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.Yashpal Garg, who is heading Covid management at the hospital, today issued orders in this regard as several visitors were pestering the hospital staff for letting them enter the ward.All doctors were of a view that it would not be advisable to allow the relatives inside the Covid ward because it would be difficult to regulate them and even with precautions, the possibility of infection cannot be ruled out.It has been decided that in exceptional cases (like in a case where a patient was blind), the Director or MS may give a written permission and in such an eventuality, all required precautions to be taken.“Since, we are not allowing relatives/personal attendants in the Covid ward, there is need to properly brief our attendants about their duties and sensitise them to take good care of the patients,” read the official orders.Presently, Covid patients are not allowed mobile phones inside the ward because previously, many of them tried to click photographs/videos and circulated the same against the wishes of the medical staff/other patients.It has now been decided that no mobile phone will be allowed inside the ICU and the hospital will ensure interaction of patients with their family through specially procured tablets. Basic phones that are not smart may be allowed inside the ward with the condition that in case the patient creates nuisance with the mobile phone, the facility may be withdrawn. An extra attendant or safai karamchari will be provided in wards from 9 am to 5 pm to take care of the workload. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-of-ve-patients-cant-enter-ward-says-gmch-248699
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Allow non-essential shops to open with 50% staff: Traders||A delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) today called on UT Adviser Manoj Parida and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon and submitted a memorandum regarding the opening of shops of non-essential goods on the pattern of banks and offices with 50 per cent staff. They demand relief for the trading community that has been incurring loss during the lockdown.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said non-essential traders should be allowed to open their shops with 50 per cent staff. “The lockdown will be a big blow to the revival of businesses after huge losses due to the slow economy and adverse impact of the lockdown last year,” he said.Won't open liquor vends: UT admnChandigarh: The UT Administration on Wednesday turned down the request regarding opening liquor vends and hardware retail shops in the city on the pattern of Punjab. Meanwhile, members of the Vyapar Sadan, Chandigarh, suggested that all essential sector trades should be allowed to operate from 6 am to 12 noon and all non-essential sector trades should be allowed to operate strictly from 1 pm to 6 pm.Anil Vohra, patron, CBM, said instead of closing non-essential shops, all shops should be allowed to open on an odd-even basis so that essential and non-essential shopkeepers get an equal opportunity to work during the partial lockdown.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, general secretary, CBM, appealed to the Adviser to compensate the traders by reducing electricity, water and property tax bills proportionately.The Adviser assured the traders to take up the matter in the upcoming war room meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-non-essential-shops-to-open-with-50-staff-traders-248700
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets two Covid care centres with 50 beds each||The Competent Foundation and Bharat Vikas Parishad, an NGO, established a 50-bed Mini-Covid Care Centre, which became operational at Indira Holiday Home in Sector 24 here today.The centre was inaugurated by UT Adviser Manoj Parida and National BJP Vice-President Saudan Singh in the presence of city chief Sanjay Tandon and his wife Priya Tandon, Parishad’s National General Secretary and nominated Councilor Ajay Dutta and Parishad’s Trustee Anoop Gupta.Parida said the efforts would be effective in taking the city out of crisis. He called for the beds to be given to critical patients in need of oxygen and medical care. He instructed his team to give referrals to the centre in a planned manner to the patients arriving at the Sector 16 hospital.Tandon said the technology had been used in the centre in a convincing manner.He said the centre’s operations are fully computerised that ensure daily reports of patients’ families via email and WhatsApp. In addition to well-qualified doctors, the centre has six nurses and three cleaners deployed round the clock. The Infosys team will provide three-time meals at the centre.A mini-Covid care centre with 50-bed capacity has also been made operational at Working Women Hostel, Bal Bhawan, Sector 23-B, informed nodal officer Yashpal Garg.He said the Covid centres at Indira Holiday Home and Working Women Hostel had been attached with Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, for the regulation of admission of patients, list of medicines required to be kept at the centre, periodic visit by doctors for guidance and arrangements of ambulance to shift the patients to appropriate hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-two-covid-care-centres-with-50-beds-each-248701
06-05-2021||Panchkula||BJP protests in Panchkula against West Bengal violence||The local unit of the BJP today held a protest at Bella Vista roundabout here against the post-poll violence in West Bengal allegedly perpetrated by Trinamool Congress (TMC).Accusing TMC chief Mamata Banerjee of unleashing violence on BJP workers, Rattan Lal Kataria, the Minister of State for Jal Shakti in the Modi government, drew a parallel between the post-poll violence and the bloodshed during India’s partition.While speaking to media persons, Kataria said 16 BJP workers were killed and many were injured in the violence.“The violence suggests there was no law and order in the state,” he said, adding that he had never seen such intolerance.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, district president Ajay Sharma, former BJP state unit vice-president Banto Kataria and former district president Deepak Sharma also participated in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-protests-in-panchkula-against-west-bengal-violence-248702
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Mamata displayed petty mentality’||The local unit of the BJP today held a virtual protest against the post-poll violence against its party workers in West Bengal.BJP national vice-president and regional in-charge Saudan Singh, organisation general secretary Dinesh Kumar, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, former MP Satya Pal Jain and senior leader Sanjay Tandon were part of the protest.BJP members strongly condemned the attack on party workers in West Bengal and expressed regret over the state government’s failure to stop the violence. They demanded that TMC chief and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee should stop the riots immediately.The participants also displayed placards against the violence.BJP city unit president Arun Sood said, “Within 24 hours of the election results in West Bengal, many BJP workers were killed. Many are seriously injured and houses and shops of many activists have been burnt.”“All these incidents are happening at the behest of Trinamool Congress and Mamata Banerjee. The orgy of violence is so terrible that fear is building among BJP workers and many of them are being forced to flee,” claimed Sood.Sood thanked BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda and national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who visited Bengal today to stand with the workers and boost their morale.“She (Mamata) should have taken the responsibility of protecting everyone as the Chief Minister of entire West Bengal. On the contrary, she has demonstrated her petty mentality by attacking the BJP workers who had given her competition in the elections. Her actions are a threat to democracy,” Sood added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mamata-displayed-petty-mentality-248703
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Waste all around Sports Complex  in Sector 38||Officials of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation have remained mute spectators as the Sector 38 (West) Sports Complex is being continuously littered with debris and waste.The matter has been highlighted earlier too, but no action has been taken by officials.“Private contractors and garbage collectors continue to throw waste in and around the arena. It’s not only bringing a bad face to the complex, but also leading to problems related to hygiene,” said an official. The open area around the complex is turning into a dump yard, along with road leading to Sector 38-39. “During the recent rain, the area was reeling under stink. We have approached the authorities, but they failed to act,” said Suresh, a resident.However, MC officials were unavailable for comments. One of the drivers of a garbage collection vehicles said they did not have a place to dump the garbage for free.“Security guard of the Sector 38 Sports Complex stops us from doing so. Otherwise, the area is open to all. If we ask for a permission to throw waste, we have to register and pay fee,” said Raju, a driver.“Carts from the Mohali urban area also dump the waste here. The area councillor should take care of the situation,” said Sushil, a regular walker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-all-around-sports-complex-in-sector-38-248704
06-05-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Patients urged to avail of free advice from home||Covid patients in isolation at their homes must take advantage of e-Sanjivani OPD for taking advice of specialist doctors and get well soon. “The e-Sanjivani OPD has been initiated by the Health Department for Covid patients,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Mahinder Singh.“Through online OPD, patients from different places can get their treatment at home by telling doctors about their problems. Complete information on medicines to treat the disease, balanced diet and precautions is provided in the OPD,” he added.“OPD services can be availed by downloading e-Sanjivani app on mobile phone. The time for consultation through this OPD is from 8 am to 2 pm from Monday to Saturday,” he said.The District Health Officer, Dr Navjot Kaur, said the OPD service was proving useful for giving proper advice to people suffering from various other ailments.“To avail this service, one has to log in to the e-Sanjivani app, go to the registration option and register his/her name and phone number. Medical advice will be provided to the patient according to the token number received by him/her,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patients-urged-to-avail-of-free-advice-from-home-248705
06-05-2021||Panchkula||Vaccination at 20 Panchkula sites today||UTCA opens player registrationChandigarh: The UT Cricket Association (UTCA) has started the process for fresh registration of players, both men and women, who will be eligible to participate in the selection trials for 2021-2022 season. The players can register themselves at www.chandigarhcricket.in before June 15. TNS357 in 18+ group vaccinated at MaxMohali: As many as 357 persons in the 18-44 age group were vaccinated at Max MedCenter, Sector-56, here on Wednesday. The slots were filled within 25 minutes of opening registration on Tuesday. Registration and booking on CoWIN portal, www.cowin.gov.in, is mandatory before coming for vaccination. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-at-20-panchkula-sites-today-248706
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||No liquor shops, hardware stores during lockdown, says Chandigarh administration||Chandigarh administration has refused to allow liquor shops and hardware stores to remain open in the union territory—a decision that comes a day after Punjab government eased its restrictions a little to liquor vends, grocery stores and hardware shops to keep open during lockdown hours on weekdays.“As directed by Hon'ble High Court, data on availability of hospital beds will be uploaded daily on Chandigarh Administration website. A special oxygen helpline set up too," says UT advisor Manoj Parida said on Wednesday.Chandigarh administration enforced a near total lockdown from 5 pm May 5 to 5 am on May 11. Non-essential shops have been ordered strictly to remain closed during these hours. Government offices must function at 50 per cent capacity while private offices must ensure remote working during this period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-liquor-shops-hardware-stores-during-lockdown-says-chandigarh-administration-248534
