07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools, institutes to remain shut till May 31||The Union Territory administration on Friday announced that all educational institutions will remain closed till May 31. The government schools will remain close for summer vacations from May 10 to June 8. Apart from this, public libraries and coaching institutions will also remain shut. However, online coaching can continue. Issued notification:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-institutes-to-remain-shut-till-may-31-249475
07-05-2021||---||Elderly woman gets different doses of Covid vaccine, DC orders probe||Mohali, May 6 The district administration here has ordered an inquiry into the administering of different doses of Covid vaccine to an elderly woman.     “Such negligence will not be tolerated at all,” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan as he directed Extra Assistant Commissioner (UT) Deepankar Garg to look into the matter. Dayalan instructed the medical staff and the authorities concerned to ensure that the person receiving the first dose of the vaccine gets the second dose of the same vaccine.  He further instructed the staff to inform the person being inoculated about the vaccine. The DC also appealed to the people that they should try to get information from the staff about which vaccine they are being administered. And when they visit the vaccination centre for the second dose, they should get the same vaccine which was given to them earlier, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-woman-gets-different-doses-of-covid-vaccine-dc-orders-probe-249142
07-05-2021||---||Miraculous escape for Nayagaon family||Mohali, May 6A family in the Janta Colony area of Nayagaon had a miraculous escape after an LPG regulator caught fire but the cylinder did not explode here on Wednesday.However, all household items, including a refrigerator, a television, doors, windows and items kept in the kitchen and the adjoining room, worth Rs4 lakh were gutted. Luckily, the cylinder did not explode. A fire brigade, which reached the spot after two hours, had to face problems in dousing the flames due to narrow lanes.House owner Deepak Chauhan said the incident took place on Wednesday when one of his family members was preparing breakfast. The gas regulator caught fire all of a sudden. The family had purchased the regulator from a gas agency on April 30 and it was installed two days ago.He said the family member preparing breakfast raised an alarm. He immediately rushed to the kitchen and tried to douse the flames with the help of a bucket of water. However, it further aggravated the problem. Had the cylinder burst, it could have not only caused damage to his newly constructed house, but also damaged the adjoining building.Deepak said: “We rang up the fire brigade and the gas agency twice. The fire brigade took around two hours to reach the house. As the fire tender could not enter the narrow lanes, officials faced difficulty in reaching our house. Some persons from the gas agency reached the house after around two hours and gave a verbal assurance on compensation”.Rajveer Singh, Councillor from Ward No 15, said the government should provide small fire tenders which could enter narrow lanes of Janata Colony and other areas. It should also provide fire extinguishers that could help in preventing the fire from spreading in the entire house.All household items guttedAll household items, including a refrigerator, a television, doors, windows and items kept in the kitchen and the adjoining room worth Rs4 lakh were gutted. Luckily, the cylinder did not burst. A fire brigade, which reached the spot after two hours, had to face problems in dousing the flames due to narrow lanes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/miraculous-escape-for-nayagaon-family-249143
07-05-2021||---||Over 1,500 get jab in 17 days at Sector 47 camp||Chandigarh, May 6 Over 1500 people have been vaccinated during a special camp at the Sector 47 dispensary here in the past 17 days. “The vaccination camp has been held every day for the past 17 days and 1,505 people have been inoculated. Even today, 80 people were vaccinated and Covid test was conducted on 55 people,” said councillor and former Mayor Davesh Moudgil. Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor General of India and former BJP MP, also visited the facility and hailed the organisers for their efforts. “Vaccination is the most appropriate weapon to defeat Covid today. All those who are mobilising people for this purpose deserve all compliments,” said Jain. “Wearing mask, physical distancing and vaccination at the appropriate time should become a part of life if we wish to defeat the Covid,” he added. Moudgil said he and his colleagues were consistently working on carrying out sanitization activities, Covid tests and vaccination in the area. “We are persuading people to come forward for vaccination and all possible steps are being taken to stop the spread of Covid infection in the area,” Moudgil added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-1-500-get-jab-in-17-days-at-sector-47-camp-249144
07-05-2021||Mohali||168 got legal aid in first quarter, says Judge||A total of 168 persons were provided legal aid during the first three months of this year and awareness was being created among the general public to take free legal aid. Lok Adalat to be held on July 10 would probably be set up as an e-Lok Adalat keeping in view the situation arising out of the pandemic.Additional District and Sessions Judge Sandeep Kumar Singla stated this during the quarterly meeting of the district legal services authority held today.He said the Lok Adalat to be held on July 10 would probably be set up as an e-Lok Adalat keeping in view the situation arising out of the pandemic. He said a link to each court in this regard would be provided one day in advance.Singla directed the authorities concerned to organise special webinars to make investigating officers aware of the Victim Compensation Scheme so that they could further make the public aware of this scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/168-got-legal-aid-in-first-quarter-says-judge-249145
07-05-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Hike oxygen quota to 35 MT: Chandigarh Administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6To meet the shortage of medical oxygen, the UT Administration has requested the Centre to enhance its quota by 15 MT.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has fixed the daily quota of 20 MT of medical oxygen for the UT from M/s INOX at Barotiwala in Solan district. In view of a surge in Covid cases, the UT Administration has written to the Central Government to enhance the UT quota of medical oxygen from 20 MT to 35 MT.The medical oxygen is being utilised for Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH-16), the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH-32) and the Covid Hospital, Sector 48. Further, the private health care institutions also require medical oxygen and are mostly depended on medical oxygen in cylinders. After meeting the daily requirement of the three hospitals, the remaining medical oxygen, out of the 20 MT quota, is being provided to three approved private vendors for refilling medical oxygen cylinders to cater to the need of the government as well as private health care institutions in the city.As more patients were getting critical, the daily requirement of medical oxygen in the city increased to nearly 40 MT, said an official.He said they were getting nearly 12 MT from three oxygen plants recently set up in the government hospitals. Moreover, NGOs and other organisations setting up mini Covid care centres also need medical oxygen.To ensure that the 20MT quota of oxygen is regularly supplied by M/s INOX to the three government hospitals and also to each of the three private refilling vendors, the UT Administration has stationed YP Batra, SDE (PH), and Ashok Singla, AE (PH), Chandigarh Housing Board, at Barotiwala (Baddi), HP, for better coordination with the supplier.Meanwhile, on the request of the UT Health Department, the Chandigarh Director General of Police (DGP) has provided police escort facility to tankers carrying liquid medical oxygen from the INOX Barotiwala (Baddi) plant to the city. The Chandigarh Police have deployed DSP Dalip Ratan as nodal officer for the purpose.Yesterday, the UT Health Department had written to UT DGP, stating that the nodal officer for oxygen supplies in UT, Yashpal Garg, has highlighted the need to provide police escort to tankers carrying liquid medical oxygen from Baddi plant to various destinations in Chandigarh to reduce the travel time and avoid untoward incidents.Meanwhile, Jagjit Singh, Controller, Printing and Stationery, UT, has been assigned the charge of coordinating with all private hospitals located in the city regarding their availability of beds and supply of oxygen to Covid patients.Garg said to facilitate proper coordination in refilling medical oxygen cylinders of the health care institutions, both government and private, nodal persons/officers for each hospital had been deputed.“The Administration will welcome if the Army authorities give some manpower to help us in government hospitals as they have done for Patiala,” said Manoj Parida, UT Adviser.Backup planAs a preventive measure, Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for managing medical oxygen supply in the UT, has asked Sorabh Kumar Arora, PCS officer, with the assistance of Dr Manjit Singh, medical officer, to prepare a backup plan to get some supply of medical oxygen from Punjab and Haryana to handle any crisis at the eleventh hour. The authorities of other states may be assured that in such a situation, the oxygen provided by them will be replenished from the next supply of medical oxygen under the UT quota.Chandigarh sees 9 deaths, 759 casesChandigarh: The UT on Thursday reported 759 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the active caseload to 8,420. The UT also witnessed nine deaths due to Covid. The city toll now stands at 541. A total of 693 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hike-oxygen-quota-to-35-mt-chandigarh-administration-249146
07-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Mid-term exams worry Covid positive students||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6As colleges decide to conduct mid-term exams online this month, students facing Covid-19 complications want the UT Administration to reconsider the decision.The students claim that some colleges have even decided to conduct two examinations in a single day, putting more pressure on them.Some colleges have decided to conduct examinations from the next week, while others are conducting it later this month. “In a recent meeting, the Director Higher Education (DHE) has allowed the colleges to take online examinations. We are yet to receive further instructions from the DHE regarding exams for students suffering from Covid-19. We have to abide by the rules and directions,” said a college coordinator.Meanwhile, the students claimed that the sudden announcement of exams amid such circumstances was worrisome.“I am recovering from Covid-19 and can barely walk. The college issued a notice that we have to appear for two examinations in a single day and have to upload the answer sheets within 20 minutes. How can the authorities expect us to take so much pressure? I am already under mental stress,” said a student, studying in a Sector 32-based college.Another student said: “Students should either be promoted to next semester or the exams be delayed. My mother is suffering from Covid-19 and we live in a 2BHK. She is isolated in one room and in another, rest of the family members are living. Under such circumstances, I just cannot concentrate on studying or peacefully appear for exams.”Meanwhile, colleges say the semesters cannot be delayed. “The semester examinations cannot be just delayed. The session is already suffering due to the pandemic. We just have one option — to follow the instructions. And this is what we are doing,” said a college official.She added: “There has been a tremendous effect of the pandemic on everyone’s life, but we have to survive. At the most, the higher authorities may allow students suffering from Covid-19 to give exams later, along with their next exams.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mid-term-exams-worry-covid-positive-students-249147
07-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Ambulance driver killed in collision||An ambulance driver died when the vehicle, which was coming from Jalandhar after dropping a Delhi-based Covid patient, met with an accident near Mandi Gobindgarh. The deceased was identified as Kishor Chand (45). He was working with JK Ambulance Service Delhi. Sources said the ambulance was coming from the Jalandhar side when it collided with a water tanker on the GT Road near Mandi Gobindgarh. As hospitals in Delhi are overflowing with patients, the affluent among them are making a beeline for beds at Punjab hospitals. The regular flow of ambulances bringing patients from other states can be seen on the GT Road. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambulance-driver-killed-in-collision-249148
07-05-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay 
||Ensure equal opportunity for Prof, CAT directs GMCH||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, May 6  The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh, has directed the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, to consider and forward the name of Dr Sushumna Sood, Professor, Department of Biochemistry, for appointment as an internal examiner in all future examinations to be conducted by Panjab University, as per the existing guidelines on the rotation of examiners. The CAT said she should be offered equal opportunities for teaching and examiner duty in all future examinations, in compliance with the advisory issued by the Medical Council of India.  Dr Sood had challenged the decision of the GMCH, through counsel DR Sharma, for not considering her name for the appointment of an internal examiner despite fulfilling all criteria. Sharma pleaded that she fulfilled all qualifications for being appointed as an examiner on a rotation basis, but she was denied the opportunities by the GMCH and her juniors were appointed as internal examiner. The applicant alleged bias with mala fide intention on the grounds of her being a non-medico teacher.  The counsels of the respondents contested her claims. After hearings the arguments, CAT said after utilising her services as teacher for many years, there was no basis to now claim that she was not qualified to teach students. The Tribunal said the applicant had a PhD from the PGI, which was a medical college.  The Tribunal said there could be no reason as to why she could not be considered to be appointed as an internal examiner at the medical college affiliated with the PU. In any case, the decision to appoint her as an internal examiner rests with the PU and not with Government Medical College. The respondents are directed to consider and forward her name for appointment as an internal examiner for exams being conducted by the PU. She shall be offered equal opportunities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-equal-opportunity-for-prof-cat-directs-gmch-249149
07-05-2021||Our Correspondent||134 new cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 6A record surge in Covid cases was witnessed in the district with 134 new infections and three deaths reported today.Yesterday, 111 positive cases and two deaths were reported. The tally of active cases in the district has now reached 718 and the toll stands at 156.Civil Surgeon Mohinder Singh said an increase in positive cases was a matter of concern and people must get themselves vaccinated and follow the Covid guidelines.He said that till today, 1,44,154 had been collected of which 5,671 tested positive. He said the positivity rate of the district had increased to 3.9 per cent and the recovery rate was 84.6 per cent. He laid stress on testing and wearing masks.“The district is seeing an acute shortage of vaccine as people are thronging the Civil Hospital, but are returning without getting jabbed,” said Civil Hospital SMO Kuldeep Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/134-new-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-249150
07-05-2021||---||Experts dwell on Guru’s teachings, 550 take part||Mohali, May 6 An international webinar on ‘Human Rights and Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur: Travels and Teachings’ was organised at Shaheed Major Harminder Pal Singh Government College here today to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of the 9th Sikh Guru. Delivering the inaugural address, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Dr Jagbir Singh said: “The bani of Guru Sahib immensely inspires the people entangled in seeking worldly desires to live a life of spiritual bliss.”  He said it was imperative for us in the contemporary times to derive inspiration from the Sikh philosophy. Connecting with the audiences from the USA, Dr Dalvir Singh Pannu quoting from the Assamese and Persian inscriptions and other historical sources provided valuable information on the supreme sacrifice made by Guru Tegh Bahadur. Pannu also underlined the importance of gathering historical evidences besides undertaking research at global level on the Sikh history to ensure that the same was taught world over. Dr Upinderjit Kaur Takhar, Director, Centre for Punjabi and Sikh Studies, University of Wolverhampton, in her keynote address said it was the need of the hour to ensure adequate availability of reading material regarding the Sikh history at international level.  She also exhorted the people to understand the philosophy of Guru Tegh Bahadur and follow the principles enshrined therein to practice an ideal life. As many as 550 delegates from India and abroad took part in the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-dwell-on-gurus-teachings-550-take-part-249151
07-05-2021||---||No order on vacating PU  hostels yet||Chandigarh, May 6Even after asking its wardens to motivate hostellers to move to their respective homes amid surge in Covid cases, Panjab University has not issued any official order in this regard yet.Sources said a meeting was scheduled to find out a solution, but no update was provided at the end of the day.“The Panjab University authorities are in a fix. Everyone is concerned about resources and rise in number of cases,” said a PU official.On Wednesday, wardens had raised concern over students staying in hostels and the authorities told them to “motivate” students to leave the campus and move to their respective homes at the right time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-order-on-vacating-pu-hostels-yet-249152
07-05-2021||Our Correspondent||2 withdraw Rs 39L from panchayat’s account, booked||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 6The police have registered an FIR against Navreet Singh, former sarpanch, Kotla Bhai Ka village, and Bahadur Singh, panchayat secretary for allegedly committing a fraud by withdrawing Rs 39.80 lakh from the village panchayat accounts by forging signatures of the BDPO on 31 cheques of different banks.As per the FIR the then Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Khera-cum-Badali Ala Singh, Jasvir Singh Minhas, had lodged a complaint with the SSP that Navreet, the then sarpanch of Kotla Bhai Ka village (native place of former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh), in connivance with Bahadur Singh, panchayat secretary, embezzled gram panchyat funds by forging his signatures on cheques.The SSP marked an enquiry to the Bassi Pathana DSP. In his report to the SSP, the DSP stated that the former sarpanch and panchayat secretary joined the probe and it was established that they in connivance passed fake resolutions on resolution register with forged signatures of panchayat members. Later, they presented 31 cheques with forged signatures of the then BDPO and withdrew Rs39.80 lakh from the accounts of the Kotla Bhai Ka gram panchyat in Co-operative Bank, Sado Majra, and the HDFC Bank, Bassi Pathana, the DSP added.The SSP sent the file to the DA (Legal) for advice and after his recommendation a case was registered against the suspects under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120B, IPC, and the PC Act 13(2) for allegedly committing fraud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-withdraw-rs-39l-from-panchayats-account-booked-249153
07-05-2021||Mohali||Mohali CIA nabs gangster Dilpreet’s aide||A close aide of gangster Dilpreet Singh Dahan, alias Baba, has been arrested by the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) of Mohali in a case of extortion. The suspect has been identified as Makhan Singh, a resident of Samlah village in Anandpur Sahib. A .32 bore pistol and four live cartridges have also been recovered from him. Makhan was produced in a court today, which remanded him in three-day police custody. SSP Satinder Singh said a CIA team received information about Makhan following which he was arrested at the Khanpur T-point in Kharar.  During a preliminary interrogation, the suspect revealed that he had extorted Rs12.50 lakh from Sarwan Singh, sarpanch of Maur village in Anandpur Sahib tehsil. A case was registered at the Kiratpur Sahib police station. The SSP said Jatinder Singh, a resident of Puranpur in Pilibhit district in Uttar Pradesh (UP), who owned a private school, Millennium World School, in his complaint to the police had alleged that the suspect had also demanded an extortion of Rs1 crore from him. A case was registered at the Puranpur police station on April 28 this year.  The SSP said a case under Section 384 of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act had been registered against Makhan Singh at the Kharar (City) police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cia-nabs-gangster-dilpreets-aide-249154
07-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Mere promotion of junior does not confer right upon senior for elevation, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that mere promotion of a junior, that too in violation of the statutory rules, will not confer a right upon a senior for being promoted to the same promotional post on that ground alone.The Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma asserted it was required to be seen whether such a senior was firstly eligible for promotion under the statutory rules.“If yes, then is there any other person senior to him eligible for consideration for promotion and thereafter is there a vacancy available after considering the eligible senior to him, against which he can be considered for promotion,” the Bench asserted.The matter was brought to the notice of the High Court after Kiran Parkash filed an appeal against the state of Punjab and other respondents. The Bench was told that colleague Jagtar Singh was promoted as a Junior Engineer on June 24, 2009, without considering appellant Kiran Parkash. He was also a part of the feeder cadre and senior to respondent Jagtar Singh. Kiran Parkash then filed a writ petition, claiming promotion to a Junior Engineer’s post from the date his junior was promoted.His counsel told the court that the official respondents admitted the appellant was senior to the respondent. They also acknowledged erroneous act in promoting Jagtar Singh and reverted him to the surveyor’s post.He added that the Single Judge should have proceeded to grant him the benefit of promotion from the date his junior was promoted, once the respondents acknowledged that a person junior to the appellant had been promoted.The Bench asserted it was an acknowledged fact on the respondents’ part that the appellant was eligible for consideration for promotion and fulfilled the requisite qualifications and experience. The star question for the court’s consideration was whether a vacancy was available against which the appellant could be considered after taking into account other eligible persons senior to the appellant.“Unfortunately, the appellant has not been able to demonstrate or prove from the pleadings that there was a vacancy available against which he could be considered for promotion or that there was none eligible senior to him for such promotion,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mere-promotion-of-junior-does-not-confer-right-upon-senior-for-elevation-says-hc-249155
07-05-2021||---||Shatabdi, Jan Shatabdi cancelled from May 9||Chandigarh, May 6The Northern Railway has decided to cancel the morning Shatabdi, the evening Shatabdi, the Jan Shatabdi Express and the Kalka-Shimla Rail Motor Car from May 9.These trains will remain suspended till further notice.In a press note, the Northern Railway stated that these trains were cancelled due to poor patronisation and a surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shatabdi-jan-shatabdi-cancelled-from-may-9-249156
07-05-2021||---||Covid fear: Chhatbir Zoo shut till May 31||Mohali, May 6A couple of days after eight Asiatic lions tested positive for Covid-19 at the Hyderabad’s Nehru Zoological Park, the authorities here have ordered the closure of Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, till May 31.Naresh Mahajan, field director, Chhatbir Zoo, said: “As of now all the animals here are safe, but we don’t want to take any risk and have closed the zoo till May 31.”Last year, Chhatbir Zoo was closed due to pandemic on March 17 and it had reopened in December, causing Rs5-crore revenue loss to the sanctuary.The zoo had been earning Rs8 lakh per day before the lockdown and was hoping to become self-reliant in the next two years. However, it witnessed 33 per cent decline in footfall on the first day of its reopening on December 10, last year.Only 1,100 people had visited Chhatbir Zoo on that day as people over 65 years of age and children below 5 years were not allowed at the facility.Chhatbir Zoo is one of the largest zoos in India. It is spread over 505 acres of forest area in Mohali and is home to around 1,500 animals and birds, including five adult tigers and three cubs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-fear-chhatbir-zoo-shut-till-may-31-249157
07-05-2021||Amit Bathla||Amid irregular supply, oxygen unit gets functional at Panchkula hospital||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 6With the district struggling to get uninterrupted oxygen supply, an oxygen production unit installed at the Civil Hospital started functioning this evening.Officials said the unit began supplying oxygen to beds after approval of the sample by a Gurugram lab.The unit, installed by Absstem Technologies, can supply uninterrupted oxygen to 30 beds 24x7.The production capacity of the unit is 300 litres per minute (LPM).A similar plant with triple the capacity will come up adjacent to the current one soon.“Once the second one gets operational, oxygen supply for around 100 beds at the Civil Hospital can be ensured,” the Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said.Asked about the oxygen emergency that arose on Tuesday night that put the lives of over 150 patients at the Civil Hospital at risk, she said, “Efforts are on to ensure uninterrupted supply from Roorkee. We have sufficient quantity of oxygen cylinders as backup. The administration is trying its best to ensure such a situation does not arise again.” The district continues to face irregular supply of oxygen from a plant in Roorkee due to technical and transportation issues.On Tuesday evening, the district administration had to seek emergency help from Punjab after there was a delay in supply from Roorkee.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta said he was making efforts to ensure supply for Panchkula from the Inox Air plant in Barotiwala in Himachal Pradesh as earlier.“It takes more than four hours for oxygen tankers to reach the district from Roorkee. Their arrival is getting delayed due to the distance and some technical issues,” he said. Gupta said he discussed the matter with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to ask the Central Government to restore the supply for Panchkula from Himachal. “After the Centre’s order, the district had been attached to the plant in Roorkee,” an official said.Can cater to 30 bedsPanchkula reports 2 deaths, 394 casesPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 394 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 23,569. The district also witnessed two Covid deaths. While the death toll now stands at 236, the active caseload has reached 2,452. TNS6 more succumb in Mohali, 942 +veMohali: Six deaths due to Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 657. Meanwhile, 942 more persons were diagnosed with Covid till Thursday evening and 727 patients were cured. There are 8,910 active cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-irregular-supply-oxygen-unit-gets-functional-at-panchkula-hospital-249158
07-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||Seeks supply from Rajpura||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6In view of a shortage of medical oxygen at government and private hospitals in the city, the UT Administration today urged the Punjab Government to allow it to get cylinders refilled at a Rajpura-based plant.Chandigarh has been allocated 20 MT medical oxygen quota by the Centre. Since there is no cylinder refilling plant in the city, all hospitals here are dependent on private refilling vendors located in nearby areas, including Dera Bassi and Rajpura in Punjab.“Chandigarh Gases in the Industrial Area, Phase I, may kindly be permitted to get cylinders refilled from Jalan Gases (in Rajpura) and transport these back to the government and private hospitals in Chandigarh,” Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for the supply of oxygen, UT, wrote to Rahul Tiwari, in-charge, Punjab State Covid Control Room, Chandigarh.Sources said there were reports of diversion of oxygen to Patiala in the past few days due to which the UT failed to get its quota. “Like yesterday, there was shortage of oxygen supply today also,” said Dr Sanjay Bansal from Eden Hospital.Sanjay Tandon, senior BJP leader and founder of Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation, rued the procedural delays. “It is really sad to know that because of procedural hassles oxygen supply from Punjab to Chandigarh is held up.”“I am getting many hectic calls for oxygen, but the issue has to be resolved at the supply end. Also, the wastage of oxygen needs to be checked,” said Tandon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seeks-supply-from-rajpura-249162
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||14.2-mm rain affects power supply in tricity; expect more showers today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-2-mm-rain-affects-power-supply-in-tricity-expect-more-showers-today-249169
07-05-2021||---||Traders want shops opened, stage protests||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, May 6Resentment prevails among traders, shopkeepers and industrialists of Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amloh and Bassi Pathana against decision of the state government to allow opening of liquor shops while their establishments remain closed.Traders held demonstrations against the government in their respective towns, which they said was affecting their businesses. Protests disrupted traffic on the GT road in Mandi Gobindgarh. Traders raised slogans against the government during protests.Later, traders held meetings with their respective SDMs and presented memorandums to allow them to open all type of shopsTraders demanded that either a complete lock down be imposes or they should be allowed to open shops for fixed hours or on alternative days. The Fatehgarh Sahib SDM, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said he held a meeting with the Beopar Mandal district president in which the latter suggested some plans to open shops.He would brief the DC in this regard and hope to sort out the issue, the SDM added.The Amloh SDM, Anand Sagar Sharma, and the Bassi Pathana SDM, Jaspreet Singh, said representatives of traders had submitted memorandums to allow them to open their shops for fixed hours. They would take up the issue with the DC, the SDMs added.When contacted, the Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner, Amrit Kaur Gill, said, “All SDMs have been meetings traders’ representatives. The administration has sent its proposal to the state government and hopes to sort out the issue at the earliest.Meanwhile, industrialists have also urged the Punjab Chief Minister to intervene to stop the migration of labourers as out of more than 600 industrial units in Mandi Gobindgarh most have closed due to no supply of oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-want-shops-opened-stage-protests-249170
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man steals CCTV wires, arrested||Mobile phone snatchedChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a mobile phone from Lalit Sood, a resident of Sector 40, at Palsora village. The police have registered a case at the Sector 39 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-steals-cctv-wires-arrested-249171
07-05-2021||---||24-year-old youth stabbed to death at Panchkula slum||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 6The body of a 24-year-old youth with multiple stab injuries was found near the gate number three at Kharak Mangoli, a slum in Old Panchkula, this morning.The victim has been identified as Karan, who used to reside in the slum and worked as an unorganised garbage collector.Sources said the police had already rounded up suspects in connection with the crime.However, formal arrests would be shown only on Friday after the postmortem.According to the FIR, the youth was murdered at midnight, but the family and local residents alerted the police around 6 am.The body was shifted to the mortuary at the Civil Hospital where a postmortem will be conducted on Friday.“Investigation into the matter is underway. Statements of eyewitnesses and family members are being recorded,” the police said.The police filed a case on a complaint of the victim’s wife, Kajal.“On Wednesday night, around 10 pm, my husband left the hut to relieve himself. I woke up later and found he had not returned. I went to Ravi’s house where I could hear the sound of a DJ,” the complainant told the police.“I then witnessed an argument had erupted between my husband and 15 others. One of them stabbed him. They then threw his body on the rear side near the Ghaggar,” she said.According to the FIR, the wife lay beside her husband’s body throughout the night.Around 4 am, she went back home and took the victim’s father to the spot. The police were alerted then.An FIR has been registered under Sections 148, 149, 302, 506, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 58 of the Disaster Management Act at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-year-old-youth-stabbed-to-death-at-panchkula-slum-249172
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dust storm in Chandigarh, parts of Haryana, Punjab; disrupts power supply, uproots trees||A dust storm accompanied by a bout of rain swept through the union territory and parts of Haryana and Punjab on Thursday evening, disrupting the power supply and uprooting trees in some areas.According to the Meteorological Department forecast, thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by gusty winds of up to 30-40 kmph are likely at isolated places in Punjab on Friday.Isolated parts of Haryana too are expected to witness thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by hail and winds of up to 30-40 kmph on Friday, it said.On Thursday evening, power supply was disrupted in several parts of Chandigarh after the showers and the dust storm.An official in the weather office said rains lashed many places in Haryana and Punjab as well. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dust-storm-in-chandigarh-parts-of-haryana-punjab-disrupts-power-supply-uproots-trees-249027
