10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration issues mobile testing schedule||Chandigarh Administration has issued a schedule for mobile testing around thecity.Mobile testing begins on Tuesday.   1. MT no 1 Bus Stand Sec 172. MT 2 Police Hospital, Sec 263. MT 45 ESI Ram Darbar4. MT MM Containment Area East and Railway Station5. MT 22 CD Sarangpur6.  MT 6  SDM Central7.  MT 7 SDM CentralIn addition to this, two teams each are attached for testing of contacts with SDM Central and SDM East.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-issues-mobile-testing-schedule-250850
10-05-2021||Mohali||New high of 1,382 COVID-19 cases reported in Mohali district||COVID-19 cases touched a new high as 1,382 positive cases surfaced in the Mohali district taking the total number of cases to 56,140.Meanwhile, 14 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported till Monday evening whereas 303 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals in the district.Earlier, the highest number of 1,056 positive Covid cases were reported in the district on May 4.Out of the 1383 positive cases, 441 came from Mohali urban, 12 from Banur, 14 from Kurali, 31 from Boothgarh, 72 from Lalru, 91 from Gharuan, 167 from Dera Bassi, 256 from Kharar and 328 from Dhakoli area of Zirakpur.As of now there are 56,140 positive cases and out of these 43,676 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals.There are 11,758 active cases with 706 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-high-of-1-382-covid-19-cases-reported-in-mohali-district-250830
10-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||North region’s schools allotted 6,300 new vacancies under NCC’s self-finance scheme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 10The central government has allotted 6,300 additional vacancies for Junior Division NCC cadets to the schools in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh under the fully self-financing scheme.This long-awaited move is part of the expansion plan for NCC under which the government had approved additional one lakh vacancies for out of turn allotment of NCC to private or quasi-government schools which agree to bear all training expenses. Institutes having at least 500 students on its rolls can be allotted one company strength of about 150 cadets without any cost to the exchequer.This move comes in the wake of the demand from numerous schools who could not introduce NCC due to limited vacancies available. This will benefit the student community in a big way wherein they can be a part of nation building exercise and can get the ‘A’ certificate which will not only help them in admission to professional colleges but also accrue benefits in getting jobs.Besides getting basic military training, cadets will also get to attend camps, treks, mountaineering courses and leadership development capsules at a national level, as well as participate in various social service and community development activities.Additional Director General, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate, Maj Gen JS Sandhu, said schools which are interested in getting out of turn allotment under the self-financing scheme can approach the nearest NCC unit and they will be given the necessary guidance in utilizing the scheme.In December 2019, the Central government had approved one lakh additional vacancies in the NCC under the aforementioned scheme to boost the cadet strength and bring more educational institutes within its ambit. Under the scheme, the institutes availing the new vacancies are required to bear all the expenditure incurred on training, uniforms, equipment, transport, refreshments, NCC staff and the hiring of instructors.Filling up the vacancies has been a slow process so far, which has been attributed to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent restrictions and shutdowns imposed to mitigate its spread. According to government data compiled in March, NCC is available in 17,644 educational institutes in the country so far, with 8,902 institutes, including 5,862 schools and 3,040 colleges, currently on the wait list to introduce NCC.In 2018, a performance audit, once in 2-3 years for schools and 3-4 years in colleges was introduced by the government. NCC is being withdrawn from non performing institutions and vacancies so freed are being allotted to institutes on the waitlist.NCC is the largest uniformed youth organisation in the world with enrolled strength of 13.48 lakh cadets, out of which 33.72 per cent are girls. The Army Wing comprises 84 per cent of the strength, with the balance being with the Navy and Air wings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/north-regions-schools-allotted-6-300-new-vacancies-under-nccs-self-finance-scheme-250829
10-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 863 new COVID cases, seven deaths||Chandigarh reported 863 new COVID cases and seven deaths, a bulletin from the Chandigarh administration said on Monday.Chandigarh has 8,653 active cases, the bulletin showed.The death toll now stands at 575.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-863-new-covid-cases-seven-deaths-250828
10-05-2021||---||Chandigarh Admn tells food inspectors to crack down on hoarders, also sets up consumer helpline||Chandigarh, May 10Due to a sudden spike in the number of Covid cases in Chandigarh, concerns have been raised about the availability of essential commodities to the common man at fair prices. The Chandigarh Administration  has directed all Food and Supplies Inspectors as well as the Inspector, Legal Metrology, to maintain vigil in their respective areas and start drives to monitor issues related to overcharging, black-marketing, hoarding, etc. The administration has also sought an action taken report at the earliest.To facilitate the general public and for providing any information or registration of any complaint, a consumer helpline, 1800-180-2079, has been activated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-tells-food-inspectors-to-crack-down-on-hoarders-also-sets-up-consumer-helpline-250793
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-servicemen form nationwide network to assist fellow veterans in getting treatment for COVID-19||After some retired armed forces personnel succumbed to COVID-19 because they could not get medical treatment, ex-servicemen associations across the country have joined hands to create a nationwide network of ‘quick reaction teams’ to assist and guide veterans.Going under the banner of United Front of Ex-servicemen, based at Mohali, it is liaising with Army authorities and veterans’ cells in various military stations for helping veterans get proper medical care in the nearest military hospitals.“It is very encouraging that many ex-servicemen organisations and NGOs have joined us in this mission and have been successful in helping out thousands of veterans and their family members from all three services,” Lt Col SS Sohi (retd), president of the front, said.After the civilian medical services were overwhelmed by the massive spike in COVID-19 cases in April 2021, veterans started suffering due to non-availability of facilities in empanelled hospitals where they were entitled treatment under the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS).“We wrote to the Army chief and General Officers Commanding-in-Chief of all Army Commands, following which many veterans and their families who were suffering from COVID-19 were admitted in military hospitals,” Col Sohi said.The Army issued advisories, activated ex-servicemen cells and set up helplines.Orders were also issued by the Defence Minister and the Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services on the modalities to be adopted for providing medi-care to veterans, augmenting facilities in health-care centres and procurements of medical supplies and equipment.  Three officers, Col Sohi in Mohali, Col Dinesh Nain in Panchkula and Col Bedi in Pune are constantly in touch with Army authorities and are getting hundreds of calls daily from veterans from all over the country who are in need for medical treatment.In addition, about 100 veteran doctors have also joined the network for rendering advice and help.The front is also assisting veterans who are in quarantine at home as well as for reimbursement of bills of civilian hospitals where needed.It is also providing information on charity organisations and voluntary donors engaged in providing oxygen, beds and other medical facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-servicemen-form-nationwide-network-to-assist-fellow-veterans-in-getting-treatment-for-covid-19-250777
10-05-2021||---||Chandigarh deploys mobile vaccination teams, read to know where||Chandigarh, May 10The UT administration has deployed mobile vaccination teams in different parts of the city on Monday to speed up its vaccination drive.UT officials said the vaccination teams will be deployed at Sewa Dhaam , Sector 29, ICAI near IMA, Sector 35, Canara Bank Sector 34, Sector 21C Gurdwara, near pracheen Shiv Mandir,  Gurdwara phase 2 Industrial area near Tribune Chowk and Kendriya Sadan sector 9 (conference hall third floor).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-deploys-mobile-vaccination-teams-read-to-know-where-250751
10-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh death graph rising, 90 succumb in 9 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The city is witnessing an alarming rise in Covid-19 deaths as 90 persons have succumbed to the virus in just nine days, a sharp increase in the toll over last month that saw 99 deaths.To avoid crowding at hospitals, there should be a centralised screening chamber at the PGI. Doctors should decide if a patient needs hospitalisation and if yes, then where. — Manoj Parida, Chandigarh AdviserAs many as 62 B-type cylinders of the PGI were filled on Sunday by the UT Administration out of its own oxygen quota. — Chandigarh AdministrationCase fatality rate: 1.1%Despite the rise in fatalities, the case fatality rate (CFR) is only 1.1 per cent in Chandigarh due to a higher number of recoveries.Eight to 10 deaths are being reported from Chandigarh on a daily basis. A majority of those who succumbed to Covid-19 were aged 70 and above. Around 25 per cent fatalities this month were of those aged between 50 and 60, while 16 per cent Covid deaths were seen in the 40-50 age group. Six of those who died were in their 30s.Dr Zafar Ahmed, senior consultant (critical care), Pulmonology and Sleep Medicine, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said: “In patients affected by the new mutant strain, we are witnessing the involvement of various organs, aggressive cardiac involvement and vasculitis. This time, comorbid conditions have taken a back seat in Covid-19 fatalities. A very advanced lung involvement is seen in young patients with no comorbidities. However, it doesn’t mean comorbid patients are not at a risk.”“Most of the patients have started treatments at home. They take steroids, which complicates their condition. The non-availability of beds is increasing the toll,” said Dr Ahmed.He said: “If the disease in a patient has advanced and requires ventilator, he/she will not die if respiratory support is given early.”Dr Hardeep Singh from Santokh Hospital, Chandigarh, said: “A lot of patients start self-medication and we have been receiving more calls for ventilators than oxygen beds or normal Covid bed. This implies that patients are reporting late when the oxygen has already dropped to 70-80. Doctors are feeling helpless as we are unable to save patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-death-graph-rising-90-succumb-in-9-days-250570
10-05-2021||---||17 more succumb to virus in Mohali district, 918 new cases||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 9Seventeen persons succumbed to the virus in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 692.As many as 918 persons were found infected. Among the fresh cases, 253 were reported from Mohali (urban), 19 from Banur, 24 from Lalru, 27 from Boothgarh, 29 from Kurali, 71 from Gharuan, 126 from Dera Bassi, 150 from Kharar and 219 from Dhakoli. Of the 54,758 cases reported so far, 43,373 patients have been cured. There are now 10,693 active cases in the district.Three die in Panchkula, 477 test positivePanchkula: Three more persons succumbed to Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities to 249 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said those died of the pandemic included a 40-year-old man from Bir Ghaggar, a woman aged 81 from Sector 21 and a 14-year-old girl of Parwala village. Meanwhile, 477 persons — 269 males and 208 females — were diagnosed with Covid. Eleven cases each were reported from Sector 7 and 8, 16 each from Sector 12-A and 26, 17 from Sector 17, 19 from Sector 25, 20 from Sector 4, 23 from Sector 11, 28 from Sector 21, 31 each from Pinjore and Sector 15, 48 from Sector 20 and 55 from Kalka. So far, 24,930 persons have tested positive for Covid in the district and 21,728 of them have been cured. There are 2,953 active cases with 249 deaths in the district.10 deaths in Chandigarh, 895 new casesChandigarh: The city recorded 895 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 8,511. With 10 more deaths, the toll has reached 568. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 50,207. A total of 879 patients have been cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-more-succumb-to-virus-in-mohali-district-918-new-cases-250571
10-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Covid: 70% convicts to get special parole||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9In view of a spurt in Covid cases, about 70 per cent of the convicts at the Model Jail here will be released on a 90-day special parole.This was decided during a meeting of a high-powered committee for the UT Administration held on May 7 under the chairmanship of Justice Jaswant Singh of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, who is the Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), UT.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Home Department, Ombir Singh, IG (Prisons), and Puneesh Jindia, Member Secretary, SLSA, UT, were among those who attended the meeting.There are 302 convicts and 625 undertrials at the jail. Around 160 undertrials, facing charges for which the maximum prescribed punishment is seven years, will benefit from the decision.As per the order of the high-powered committee, four categories of prisoners will be considered for the special parole — convicts who are at present on parole, convicts who had availed of a special parole last year and surrendered in time, convicts facing trial in other cases and availed of a special parole in 2020 and surrendered in time and if they are on bail in those pending case(s), and convicts who have not availed of parole or special parole till date.The committee further decided that convicts/prisoners who are foreign nationals would not be granted parole. Confirmed or suspected cases of Covid will also not get the benefit. Similarly, it will not be given to convicts, who violated the parole or special parole conditions and have been rearrested during the past six months.The panel decided that the period of release under aforesaid directions shall not be counted towards the total period of the sentence of the prisoner/convict.The official has been told to ensure medical examination of the prisoner availing benefit at the time of the release as well as at the time of readmission so as to avoid virus transmission or spread of any other communicable disease(s).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-70-convicts-to-get-special-parole-250572
10-05-2021||---||Expect light rain tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The city witnessed showers with gusty winds on Sunday evening.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, 0.3 mm of rainfall was recorded between 6.45 pm and 7.45 pm. During this period, the wind blew at 30-40 km/hour.The maximum temperature in the city today was 37.4°C, one degree below normal, while the minimum was 23.6°C, a degree above normal.The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city are expected to rise marginally over the next three days. Monday is expected to see partly cloudy weather, while Tuesday and Wednesday are likely to see light rain, as per the forecast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-light-rain-tomorrow-250573
10-05-2021||---||Some respite, broke MC receives Rs125 cr||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9A broke Municipal Corporation that had to pay the April salary to its employees from its fixed deposits has finally received its first quarter grant-in-aid instalment of Rs125 crore.This is part of the Rs502 crore aid which the MC will get in four quarters from the UT Administration. The Administration has also given an additional Rs2 crore for the Swachh Bharat Mission to the civic body.An MC official said the amount would mainly go into salaries and other monthly expenses. Last month, the employees got their salaries after a delay of three-four days due to a shortage of funds.This year, the corporation cleared a Rs670-crore deficit Budget for the 2021-22 fiscal in anticipation of getting the grant-in-aid as per the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations. However, that is nowhere in sight for now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/some-respite-broke-mc-receives-rs125-cr-250574
10-05-2021||Smridhi Chawla||For them, sustainability isn’t just a word||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9As we grapple with and become victims to climate change that has put into question the capitalist development model globally, there is still hope for the world with entrepreneurs in pursuit of sustainable business practices.A tidbit, so you may knowA Canadian start-up, ChopValue, recycles old bamboo chopsticks into a stylish range of homewares and furniture. The idea came to founder Felix Böck due to his aversion to waste. Since 2016, more than 32 million chopsticks have been saved from landfill and turned into new products. Source: InternetAmong those who go beyond the notion of self is Chandigarh-based Anesha Dhaliwal, who owns a chocolate brand named Jar Pantry.“Sustainability is at the core of our work ethos,” she says. The chocolates are wrapped in unwaxed food grade paper. These go in glass jars adorned with cloth ribbons made from waste trimmings. The kitchen is set up with glass crockery and cupboards made from waste wood. This is how she is trying to bring about a change in her own little way.For Patiala resident Bankim Bhagat, the founder of an IT start-up, Codify Apps Private Limited, it’s not how much money you make, it’s how you do it. “Our firm has developed a restaurant management software. We offer it for free to cafes promoting vegan and organic food.”“Act now or you’ll do later, cutting our dependence on meat and dairy products is the way to reduce our ever-increasing carbon footprint,” he adds.Making her contribution, Anesha quips: “To compensate for the carbon footprint generated by imported Belgian raw chocolate, we add manure to saplings planted by the civic body to help nurture them.”When city’s Reet Sawhney co-founded WODE, a watch brand, she had just one thought in mind – there is enough for everyone’s need, but not for anyone’s greed. So, her product revolved around minimalism.“For our product, we use surgical grade steel that is 100 per cent recyclable. Packaging is our focus area for driving the sustainability goals. The idea was to discourage the act of disposal and pair the watch with something just as timeless. Hence, all our watches are housed inside a book that makes for a charming company as opposed to a box that will take up space in your closet before finally landing in a bin,” says Reet.For businesses with values, ways may be different, but they echo a similar sentiment – every drop counts to save the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-them-sustainability-isnt-just-a-word-250575
10-05-2021||---||Western Command hospital at PU starts today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9The 100-bed Covid hospital set up by the Western Command on the Panjab University campus to cater to the civilian population will start operating tomorrow.It is scheduled to be inaugurated by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.Two such similar hospitals have been established by the Western Command at Patiala and Faridabad, all of which will accommodate 100 mild to moderate symptomatic civilian patients.The Army temporarily moved its field hospitals from different places in the region for setting up Covid hospitals at the request of the state governments.Apart from contributing 108 doctors, 14 nursing officers and 205 paramedics to various hospitals set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, the Western Command has also provided 33 paramedics to Government Rajindra Hospital at Patiala and SVBP Hospital at Delhi. Another 100 paramedics will be deployed shortly at various other locations.A dedicated team from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers are working round the clock to resuscitate the oxygen generation plant of the Bhakra Beas Management Board at Nangal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/western-command-hospital-at-pu-starts-today-250576
10-05-2021||Has the Administration done enough to control the second wave of Covid in UT?||Found wanting, Admn must provide more ICU beds||To be honest, the answer is a big ‘No’Executing Covid appropriate behaviour norms doesn’t simply mean following what is being done in other cities. Right strategies should be adopted so that people are safe and the economy doesn’t not suffer. Those who resist following safety norms must be punished. The city will become a safer place if the authorities realise that they should be improvising and implementing rules among other efforts, which are needed during this hour of crisis.Charvi Tyagi, ChandigarhCovid test at all hospitalsAlthough the UT administration has made efforts to control pandemic, yet there is lot more to be done. All should get vaccinated without any fear or delay. Take precautions like wearing face mask, maintaining social distance and sanitising hands regularly. Covid test should be available in all hospitals.Sneh Lata, ChandigarhCall on lockdown not taken on timeThe authorities have failed considerably in curbing the spread of the virus in the UT. The call on the much-needed lockdown wasn’t taken on time. Rather UT waited for the neighbouring cities to take decisions on imposing curbs and then follow them. Markets and parks are still crowded, offices are still open, Covid norms are still being openly flouted everywhere, and the cases are at an all-time high. Complete lockdown for a long time is the only solution left to lessen the worsening impact of the pandemic. The authorities must impose it without worrying about the adverse economic consequences.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhProvide Extra beds in makeshift hospitalsThe UT authorities are doing their best to control the second wave of the pandemic, which is more dangerous than the first one. Social organisations, retired doctors and paramedical staff should voluntarily come forward to help the authorities combat the second wave of the Covid. The authorities must provide extra beds with oxygen facilities in makeshift hospitals to meet the demand of Covid patients. Last but not the least public must follow basic norms like keeping social distance, sanitising hands and wearing face mask.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliFree tele-consultancy for patientsMore efforts are needed on the part of the Chandigarh Administration to control the spread of coronavirus. Many people are seen roaming in parks in the morning. This should not be allowed. People still sit together in society parks. This practice must be avoided. The number of persons visiting religious places at a time must be restricted. The Administration must make it necessary for doctors and hospitals to provide tele-consultancy to patients without charging extra fee.Dr Sunil Behl, ChandigarhHalf-hearted curbs won’t be of much usePartial lockdown, night curfew or half-hearted restrictions on some activities will yield no result when it comes to controlling and breaking chain of the coronavirus infection. The Administration has to take serious steps involving public to work in unison and avoid loss of lives. Identify highly infectious areas. Emphasis should be on testing, tracing, isolation and vaccinating people in such areas. Strict action should be initiated against those involved in black marketing or hoarding of essential medicines and medical equipment.Deepak Khanna, ChandigarhTricity needs to work in tandemThe UT Administration has been on its toes and doing everything to control the spread of the second Covid-19 wave. Bureaucracy did all, but did not do what they should have done. UT residents were left wondering when weekend lockdown was imposed. As the authorities in the tricity have not been able to work in tandem for imposing the lockdown the pandemic has spread its wings. Hope that decision makers in the tricity will learn a lesson and impose simultaneous lockdown and curfew in their respective areas to contain the virus.SC Luthra, ChandigarhLarge population is a hindranceThe large population base has always been a problem in India. It’s always a hindrance in the progress of the country. Same applies to the current situation of the pandemic. The government is trying its level best, but due to large populace policies have become futile. All must follow the preventive guidelines and get vaccinated. Even our lax behaviour may pave way for a full lockdown. Stop blaming the system as we forget that we too are its part.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhAdmn complacent in dealing with crisisThe UT Administration has done much for Covid patients. But, the Administration has certainly failed in curbing the spread of the virus. Rose festival, huge gatherings at Mansa Devi, opening of hotels and restaurants for long hours should not have been permitted. It seems the Administration became little more complacent and bowed to requests of traders and residents. The need of the hour is to provide more beds and adequate supply of oxygen for Covid patients in the UT. Earlier it is done better it would be.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhLaxity on part of admn, individualsThe second wave of coronavirus, far more contagious, is no less devastating than a fire. Laxity and complacency on the part of individuals and the Administration when the first wave was on the wane is responsible for the resurge. There is no dearth of ways and means to combat the current crisis, but caution is the eldest child of wisdom. Till universal vaccination is achieved, lowering the guard will be only at our own peril. Upon the conduct of each one, depends the fate of all.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaGive free hand to health expertsThere are many facilities and arrangements for coronavirus patients in Chandigarh. Unfortunately, pandemic is on the rise in the UT. The present situation/crisis is being managed by bureaucrats and not by health experts. Free hand should be given to health experts to manage and contain the pandemic. It is duty of doctors to save lives.Anita Tandon, KhararShows lax attitude of officials concernedThe second wave of coronavirus is at its peak. The spike in positive cases is due to the lax attitude of the UT officials. If officials were concerned all people entering the city would have been tested for the virus. Moreover, the police also didn’t stop people without wearing face masks from roaming on roads or in public places. Social distancing and sanitation went for a toss at gatherings in the UT. At this point of time, it’s duty of every individual to adhere to safety protocol honestly and control the spread of the coronavirus.MR Bhateja, NayagaonUse funds generated from challansThe Administration is always active for controlling the virus in the UT. Still, it’s at fault on one or two grounds like face masks and sanitzers were not distributed among public. Eateries were allowed to open and there were no restrictions on malls. Funds generated from all sorts of challans whether traffic or individual should be diverted for providing medical oxygen to hospitals in the city.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhConvert PGI eye OPD into Covid hospitalThe UT Administration must make sure that people don’t roam without any reason during lockdown. Hefty penalties should be imposed on those not wearing face mask or maintaining social distance. The Administration should convert either PGI Eye OPD or PGI OPD into Covid patient hospital until the pandemic is over. Covid patients shouldn’t be admitted with other patients in emergency. The Administration should also come up with 1,000 bed emergency hall in the PGI and the GMCH-32 due to rise in population of the trincity.Nitin Sud, PanchkulaMedical infra totally overwhelmedThe UT Administration has been coming out with various measures to control the spread of the disease. Limited daily lockdowns and corona curfew on the weekends will definitely help in breaking the chain of the virus. Measures taken by the Administration will not bear any fruit unless the general public cooperates. We still find violations of the curfew norms. The medical infrastructure is totally overwhelmed and patients are losing lives on account of that.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhHealthcare stretched to breaking pointThe healthcare infrastructure is stretched to breaking point in most parts of the country, including UT. Given this situation, more restrictions cannot be avoided. A national lockdown can’t be ruled out. The challenge is managing pandemic with least required and unavoidable disruption in economic activity. Ramping up health infrastructure must be taken on a war footing. The Centre must join hands with states to frame a flexible and phased scheme of restrictions that takes into account specific requirements and concerns of various places and sectors of the economy.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMore needs to be done on part of UTEfforts of the UT Administration regarding control of the second pandemic wave leaves much to be desired. Considering that Chandigarh is a small in area it was expected that here action would be quick, planned and carefully executed. However, the planning is directionless, measures taken tentative and the execution ineffective. This lead coronavirus spread its tentacles in the UT. Checks on violation of norms are casual and half-hearted. Even now, if the authorities proceed with a defined strategy and strictly monitor the implementation of the Covid protocol with more presence of the police force things can improve.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhNot enough being doneThe Administration is struggling and doing its best to tackle the heavy inflow of Covid patients in hospitals in the UT, but it is not enough. The present situation has exposed loopholes in our system and preparedness. Healthcare is under immense pressure. Situation in hospitals across UT is worrisome. There is shortage of ICU beds and medical oxygen. The Administration has given a call for setting up mini Covid care centres in the city through social organisations, NGOs and industrialists, which has received a good response. Desperate time calls for desperate measures. Strict action should be taken against those don’t follow safety norms.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaPeople hesitant to get vaccinatedThe Administration is doing its best to provide regular and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to hospitals in the UT. Though vaccination is free for all beneficiaries, people are still hesitant to get inoculated against disease. Those entering Chandigarh must be tested for the disease. Unnecessary wandering in and around UT should be strictly prohibited.Parampreet Kaur, ChandigarhMini-lockdown is sufficientA mini lockdown is already in force in Chandigarh, which is more than sufficient. Last year, people suffered financially due to total lockdown as there was no economic activity. Now, during the second wave masses need to follow safety protocols strictly and step out of homes only when it is too necessary to reduce further spread of the virus. Hefty fines can be imposed for violation of protocols. The Administration needs to make appropriate arrangements for Covid patients and provide them proper treatment to save their lives.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliOne-sided efforts not enoughThough the UT Administration is doing its best to control Covid cases, these efforts should have been made at the onset of the second wave. Rather, preparations should have been beforehand, but the Administration lacked on this. Residents are not fully cooperative. Covid-related precautions are flouted openly, which is spreading coronavirus. Now, the situation has crossed all limits. The Administration needs to strictly handle violators of the safety norms. One-sided efforts of the Administration may not be enough. Residents too must take precautions seriously.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliNorms flouted with impunityThe Administration has not done enough to control the second wave of coronavirus in the UT. In Chandigarh, people don’t wear face masks and flout social distancing norm. Hospital facilities are lacking in the UT despite second Covid wave. Today’s situation is result of past errors and carelessness towards Covid norms. Strict lockdown is an option to tackle the deadly virus.Adish Sood, AmlohImpose more restrictionsThe rising number of Covid cases in Chandigarh pose a challenge to the UT Administration. The Administration was never prepared for this eventually, but it’s doing level best to prevent the spread of the virus. More restrictions should be imposed on public gatherings. Heavy penalty should be levied on people not following Covid protocols. As third wave of coronavirus is on its way, the Administration should be prepared for its adverse effects.Ryan Sood, PanchkulaPandemic can be contained with effortsThe Chandigarh Administration is not serious about controlling the Covid-19 pandemic. It has only been experimenting. Even lockdown or curfew is not a solution for this dangerous pandemic as these have adversely impacted financial condition of everyone. The Administration must ensure that people follow preventive guidelines, issued by the government from time to time. It is not difficult for the Administration to control the pandemic as Chandigarh has small territory.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliGood job so far, but best yet to comeThe UT authorities did good work, but best is yet to come. City residents are openly flouting pandemic norms. They don’t wear face mask, fail to maintain social distance and venture out of their homes without any urgency. The eligible beneficiaries are not coming forward to get vaccinated. Now, the foremost task for the authorities is to get sufficient doses of vaccine as the number of eligible beneficiaries has increased because of the inclusion of 18 years plus residents.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhPatients are sufferingThe UT Administration has failed to understand adverse consequences of the second Covid wave. Patients are suffering due to lackadaisical attitude in overall management of the situation in terms of availability of ICU beds, general beds, medical oxygen and medicines in hospitals compelling them to get treatment at other places. Non-existence of hotline or real time information about these facilities has added fuel to the fire.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhPeople can help contain the spreadHospitals are struggling to keep up with the rising number of Covid patients. During such time when healthcare system is collapsing people need take precautions that can prevent the spread of the deadly virus. The UT Administration should take stringent action against violators of Covid prevention guidelines. The Administration can only provide necessary resources to treat infection, but prevention lies in the hands of the public. Need of the hour is to provide healthcare facilities to public. Hoarding of oxygen cylinders or medicines should be a punishable offence. Charu Malhotra, MohaliPrepare for third wave of CoronavirusThe Chandigarh Administration is making untiring efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, but the virus is surging with each passing day. The desperate need of the hour is to recruit more medical professionals failing which the UT authorities might face more difficulties during the third Covid wave. SOPs should be followed strictly. More oxygen cylinders should be provided. Black marketing and hoarding of cylinders and medicines has to be checked.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONInstead of depending on private suppliers, should the PGI set up its own medical oxygen generation plant when both government and private healthcare institutions are facing a shortage of the life-saving gas? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/found-wanting-admn-must-provide-more-icu-beds-250578
10-05-2021||---||Shortage of ventilators: HC sets May 12 as next date of hearing||Surinder BhardwajFatehgarh Sahib, May 9The Punjab Government has released three ventilators for Fatehgarh Sahib. This was stated by Advocate General Atul Nanda, Punjab and Haryana High Court, in a reply to a plea filed by Advocate Gitish Bhardwaj.The plea was filed by Bhardwaj after the publication of a news in this regard in these columns that there were eight hospitals in Fatehgarh Sahib district, but no ventilator.The Punjab and Haryana High Court listed May 12 as the next date of hearing as Bhardwaj demanded at least two ventilators for each hospital in the district.Bhardwaj said during the course of hearing, Atul Nanda, along with additional Advocate General Pardeep Bajwa, said three ventilators had been reallocated from Sangrur to Fatehgarh Sahib district.He said more ventilators were required as there were eight hospital with a capacity of 300 beds. There were 112 isolation wards for level-two patients, he added. So, the court adjourned the matter to May 12 to check for the feasibility of ventilators.Recently, The Tribune had highlighted that despite having three MLAs and a doctor, who was Member of Parliament belonging to the ruling party, all eight Civil Hospitals in the district did not have even a single ventilator.The hospitals have to refer critically-ill patients to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, or the PGI, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shortage-of-ventilators-hc-sets-may-12-as-next-date-of-hearing-250579
10-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Covid panel comes to rescue of patients||To ensure proper treatment and facilities to Covid patients, a control committee constituted by the PPCC president is proving a boon for the needy.Patients are seeking help through the committee helpline. So far, more than 12 patients have been provided medicines, oxygen and ‘Fateh kits’ and admitted to hospitals.Subhash Sood, committee head, and Harinder Bhambhri, chairman, District Planning Board, said PPCC president Sunil Jakhar constituted such committees in every district to ensure proper treatment of Covid patients. The committee has been named “Duty for humanity”. If anyone needs help regarding Covid services he/she may contact at helpline numbers 91151-58100, 91151-59100 and 91151-22102,” they added.“We have been receiving calls from across the district for medical help. Treatment and medicines have been provdied to several people. People must take precautions to prevent the spread of Covid,” they said.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-panel-comes-to-rescue-of-patients-250580
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||PU asks inmates to vacate hostels||The Panjab University (PU) authorities have asked the hostellers to vacate campus before May 12 amid increasing Covid cases.An order, issued by the DSW, PU, stated: “This is in reference to the UT Administration directions and in continuation PU Registrar orders. All students are requested to return to their homes. All wardens are advised to inform hostel inmates to intimate their departure details within 24 hours in order to seek necessary assistance from the UT Administration, if required.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-asks-inmates-to-vacate-hostels-250581
10-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Chaos at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Mohali for Covid-19 vax||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 9Chaos prevailed at Radha Soami Satsang Beas here today after more than 6,000 persons gathered outside the complex to get vaccinated against Covid-19. A large number of people started gathering here after a rumour spread that a vaccination camp for 6,000 persons will be organised at the dera.I, along with my family members, was waiting here since morning to get vaccinated. The management later informed us that only 1,000 persons will be vaccinated on Sunday. The management should have arranged loudspeakers to make announcements that only 1,000 persons will be vaccinated so that a large number of people waiting outside can return to their homes. — Karanbir Singh, A FollowerThe police had a tough time in managing and dispersing the crowd.According to information, a misleading message went viral among people that around 6,000 followers will be vaccinated at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Mohali. Without confirming the message, over 6,000 followers gathered outside the dera around 11 am. They were told that the dera had vaccine only for 1,000 persons and it had vaccinated the equal number leaving a sense of resentment among the followers.Karanbir Singh, a follower, said he, along with his family members, was waiting here since morning to get vaccinated. The management later informed them that only 1,000 persons would be vaccinated today. The management should have arranged loudspeakers to make announcements that only 1,000 persons would be vaccinated so that a large number of people waiting outside could return to their homes.Another follower, on condition of anonymity, alleged that the management was facilitating near and dear ones and ignoring others. He said he, along with his wife, reached here after they got the news that around 6,000 persons would be vaccinated. Now, the management had closed the gates.Similar situationat Phase 4 campA similar situation was witnessed in Phase 4 here where a large number of people gathered at a vaccination camp organised by local councillor Rajinder Singh Rana. The police immediately reached the spot to disperse the crowd. The police said they had to face tough time in managing the huge rush. A police officer said they had orders that such gatherings should not be allowed. He said the situation was different here and they could not book them for violating Covid protocol. He said they managed to disperse the crowd.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chaos-at-radha-soami-satsang-beas-in-mohali-for-covid-19-vax-250582
10-05-2021||---||Patwari among four nabbed for manipulating revenue records||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 9The Vigilance Bureau booked 11 suspects, including four revenue officials, for allegedly manipulating revenue records during the division/mutation of a land at Majrian village.The suspectsNaib Tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, Joint Sub-Registrar Rupinder Singh Manku, Daulat Ram and Iqbal Singh (both Patwaris) and seven other persons namely Shyam Lal and Hansraj, both residents of Majrian village, Rabbi Singh of Karoran village, Dharam Pal from Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib, Sucha Ram of Kaimbala village, Paramjit Singh of Patiala and Ravinder Singh of Fatehgarh Sahib were found involved in this land scam.Naib Tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, Joint Sub-Registrar Rupinder Singh Manku, Daulat Ram and Iqbal Singh (both Patwaris) and seven other persons namely Shyam Lal and Hansraj, both residents of Majrian village, Rabbi Singh of Karoran village, Dharam Pal from Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib, Sucha Ram of Kaimbala village, Paramjit Singh of Patiala and Ravinder Singh of Fatehgarh Sahib were found involved in this land scam.Four suspects - patwari Iqbal Singh, Ravinder Singh, Paramjit Singh and Hansraj - have been arrested and sent to three-day police remand.A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 477-A, 201 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Vigilance Bureau police station, Mohali.Vigilance Bureau Chief Director-cum-Director General Police BK Uppal said some property dealers and land mafias had manipulated the revenue records during the division/mutation of land at Majrian village in connivance with revenue officials and transferred the ownership in ‘khewat’ numbers vis-à-vis transferred the land to known beneficiaries by using illegal ways through power of attorney.It came to light that in 1983-1984, 29,000 kanals of land was shown as ‘shamlat’ (common land) under ‘hasbat’ number 343 out of the total area of Majrian village. In 1991, this land was transferred in the name of locals through mutation number 2,026 as per the orders of the consolidation officer. Out of this land, 7,113 kanal was found to be distributed through mutation number 3,159. During the probe, it came to fore that 558 acres of land has been registered on the names of 14 fake persons by tampering with mutation number 3,159.In 2010-11, the land was later allotted to property dealers and land mafias in connivance with officials of the Revenue Department, who further sold it to others persons through power of attorneys.Ten fake transfers of 578 acres of land were found on June 18 and 19, 2014, and original documents under which transfers of land had been executed were destroyed from the records of the Revenue Department. A fake division case for 43 persons was prepared and approved on December 20, 2017.No prior notice was given to any petitioner or respondent in this bogus division case. Power of attorney of any lawyer was not attached to the file. In this connection, a fake advertisement was used, which was published in a newspaper on April 14, 2014.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patwari-among-four-nabbed-for-manipulating-revenue-records-250583
10-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Aiming to debut in NBA, Princepal working on his fitness in off-season||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9After a dream run in the NBA G League, Princepal Singh is spending his off-season concentrating on physical fitness in a bio-bubble at Orlando in Florida, USA.Interacting with the media, the 20-year-old said he was looking forward to bag a new contractor to fulfil his aim of playing in the NBA main league.After a scoreless seven-minute debut for Ignite in NBA G League, Princepal in his second game, scored five points in three minutes.The 2021 NBA G League season ended in March and Princepal is now spending more time on his fitness.Asked whether he was under any kind of stress, the 6ft 9inch cager said the journey had just started and he was doing everything to achieve his dream.“Right now I’m just training. I might play with another team (in G League), but I am not sure at this point of time. My training is moving in right direction. However, I’m not sure about what’s next in my kitty,” Princepal said, adding that “I might play in the NBA Summer League or with another G League team”.When asked about the difference he felt after moving to professional circuit in NBA, Princepal said: “Strength training is very important. In India, players don’t do it as much. They only play basketball. Even I used to just play basketball initially but when I went to Australia in the NBA Global Academy, I realised how important weight training was.”Talking about the effect of ongoing Covid pandemic on the life of hoopsters, Princepal said it was important to cope with the evolving scenario.“Knowledge about the sport is really important. Having so much in the kitty, cagers may adopt online way of learning,” he said.“Things can be implemented during dedicated practice hours at home. Physical fitness can also be attained through various means available at home,” said Princepal.“Yes, it may not help achieve great results, but it will help you remain in touch with the sport and stay mentally fit. I just want to tell everyone to support each other in these tough times,” he said.On his plans of coming back to India, Princepal said he was yet to think on those lines.As per reports, the 2021 NBA Summer League could be held in August. When asked about his availability for the national team, Princepal said: “No plan as of now and no talk about that so far.”Indian team had finished third in Group D at the 2021 FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers and will be participating in the final qualifying tournament in August in Jakarta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aiming-to-debut-in-nba-princepal-working-on-his-fitness-in-off-season-250584
10-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||School bus operators seek help from Association, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9With a surge in Covid-19 cases forcing the schools to remain shut, the Chandigarh School Bus Operators’ Welfare Association (Tricity) today sought help from the UT Administration and the Independent Schools’ Association (ISA).The association with a fleet of nearly 1,200 buses and over 3,000 members is struggling to meet ends amid as school continue to run in online mode.Head of the association Manjeet Singh claimed that parents had paid fee for the current session, but did not pay a single penny towards transportation charges in the past one year.“We have been writing to the ISA and now have started requesting schools individually. We are seeking their help in getting some loan. We have been surviving on our savings, but now things are getting worse,” said Manjeet Singh.“With no clear instructions on starting offline classes, we are not sure when we will get back to business,” he said.Manjeet said despite facing major losses, the operators were now getting notices from banks.“We took hefty loans to purchase these buses and upgrade them time to time as per the instructions of schools and the UT Administration. As we are not earning a single penny, how would we pay off our loans?” asked Manjeet.“As Covid crisis deepens, we don’t see schools starting offline classes any time soon. This is really scary,” he said.The association claimed to have faced losses worth Rs 6.5 crore since April 2020.“We had expected school buses to ply on city roads in April this year. However, all our plans have gone haywire,” said the president.“The government has waived off our taxes till June 2021, but under current circumstances, we seek an extension,” he added.“Since March 25, 2020, school buses have remained off roads. But our liabilities, including installments, insurance and staff salaries, continue to burden us,” he informed.The association demanded that schools should come forward to help them.Parents or schools should pay at least 50 per cent of the transportation fee for the past months, the association demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-bus-operators-seek-help-from-association-chandigarh-250585
10-05-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Auto dealer, firm fined for deficiency in service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Refusing to provide promised services despite taking required amount cost an auto dealer and a manufacturing company dear.The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Krishna Auto Sales, Industrial Area, Chandigarh, and Skoda India Private Limited to not only refund Rs9,999 to the complainant but also asked them to pay Rs10,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and cost of litigation.Dr Suvankar Chakraverty approached the Commission through counsel Devinder Kumar after the dealer refused to accept the maintenance package despite taking required charges.Chakraverty said he booked a Skoda car on March 31, 2018, which was delivered on April 4, 2018. He said at the time of purchase, he was promised that he would get a maintenance package of four years/60,000 km (whichever occurs first) at one-time fixed rate of Rs9,999. He had duly deposited the said amount and the first maintenance date was due on February 2, 2019. On February 15, 2019, the complainant was told by the dealer that the maintenance package was not valid for him. The complainant approached the dealer and also sent a legal notice, but to no avail. Alleging that the act amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, he filed a complaint.The opposite parties (OPs) – the dealer and the manufacturer - contested the claims of the consumer. The dealer, in its written reply, said it was not in a position to issue the maintenance package because the manufacturer had informed all dealership vide its sales circular sent on October 12, 2017 that the package should be issued within 30 days from the date of the purchase of a vehicle. Since the complainant failed to make the payment within a period of 30 days, the manufacturer refused to issue the package.After hearing the arguments, the Commission noted that a payment of Rs9,999 was made in the name of the manufacturer on May 2, 2018, and the car was delivered to the complainant on April 4, 2018. Hence, the amount was paid to the manufacturer within 30 days as specified by the OPs. Hence, the act of the OPs in not honouring the promised service to the complainant proves deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on their part.In view of this, the opposite parties are directed to refund Rs9,999 to the complainant along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of deposit i.e. May 2, 2018 till realisation. They have also been asked to pay Rs5,000 to the complainant as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-dealer-firm-fined-for-deficiency-in-service-250586
10-05-2021||---||Register online for oxygen on doorstep in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 9In view of the increasing demand of medical oxygen due to a spurt in Covid cases, the Panchkula administration has constituted a team of officials to assist the Secretary, Red Cross, Sector 15, Panchkula, for refilling the oxygen cylinders.Team to contact patient in home isolationDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said to ascertain whether the patients needed an oxygen cylinder, a team of officials would telephonically contact the patient in home isolation on the basis of the list of contact numbers provided by the Civil Surgeon, Panchkula. A feeback would also be sought from the doctor to whom the particular sector has been assigned.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the team would be led by city Magistrate Simranjeet Kaur. He said other members of the team include Anil Kumar, TGT (English), Government Middle School, Sector 25, and Deepak Yadav, vocational teacher, Sudhir Kumar, PGT (economics), Dinesh, PGT Hindi, and Jasbir, OSS Instructor, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Sector 15, Panchkula.Ahuja said door-to-door oxygen cylinder refilling facility would be made available to residents. A patient or his/her family members are required to apply online on the portal — oxygenhry.in. While applying, the applicant would also have to upload the photo of oximeter reading for oxygen level and his/her Aadhaar card number. They would also have to mention the age of the patient. The service would be provided by volunteers of the Red Cross Society. Apart from this, the district administration has also roped in NGOs for this purpose, he added.Ahuja said in order to ascertain whether the patients need oxygen cylinder, the team of officials would telephonically contact the patient in home isolation on the basis of the list of contact numbers provided by the Civil Surgeon, Panchkula. A feeback would also be sought from the doctor to whom the particular sector has been assigned.He said patients would be benefitted by the facility as their kin might need not to wait in a queue to get their cylinders refilled. Besides, this would also keep a tab on those involved in the black marketing of oxygen cylinders, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/register-online-for-oxygen-on-doorstep-in-panchkula-250587
