12-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 776 new COVID cases, 14 deaths||Chandigarh reported 776 new COVID-19 cases and 14 more deaths, a health bulletin from the administration showed on Wednesday.This takes the number of active cases in the union territory to 8,528.Some 859 people were released from hospitals and home isolation, the bulletin said.The screenshot below gives the status of beds in hospitals and COVID facilities around the union territory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-776-new-covid-cases-14-deaths-251879
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Property tax deadline extended till June 30 in Chandigarh||The Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh on Wednesday extended the property tax payment deadline from May 31 to June 30 due to the COVID-induced lockdown.This decision comes after a war room meeting held in the city with Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor and K.K. Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation.The Mayor said, as per the practice, the residential property taxpayers will get a rebate of 20 per cent, and commercial property taxpayers 10 per cent till June 3, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-property-tax-deadline-extended-till-june-30-in-chandigarh-251876
12-05-2021|||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to bear charges of cremating the poor||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has decided to bear the cost of cremating poor COVID-19 victims, officials said on Wednesday.The decision was taken after Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav did rounds of cremation grounds at Manimajra, Industrial area Phase-1 and Sector 25.Cremation grounds have been asked to display a break-up of the cost on signboards.The development comes after city Congress president Subhash Chawla and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla flagged the exorbitant prices being charged for cremating COVID patients. They claimed cremation grounds were charging between Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000 to cremate COVID patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-bear-charges-of-cremating-the-poor-251871
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh announces seven new containment zones||Chandigarh administration announced seven new containment zones on Wednesday.Under Section 26 of the Disaster Management Act, UT, Chandigarh declared Parts of Sector-18, Sector-20, Sector-21, Sector-30, Sector-48 (GBS & DC Society), and Ramdarbhar Phase-11, as containment zones.The UT administration has also instructed regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams.Frequent sanitisation of the area is a must. Residents are advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks, and follow hand hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-announces-seven-new-containment-zones-251861
12-05-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Centre allots 33,000 vaccines for 18-45 group in Chandigarh||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 12The Union Government has allotted 33,000 vaccines for Chandigarh to be administered to persons in the age group of 18-45 years.  The vaccines will reach Chandigarh on Wednesday and the vaccination will be started to eligible beneficiaries from May 14 onwards. The beneficiaries will have to book a slot and obtain time and place of vaccine through CoWIN portal. There is no facility for walk-in vaccination.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said in addition to the existing vaccination venues in the government sector, additional venues would be opened in a few schools, exclusively for this age group of beneficiaries.  The details of the venues will be intimated individually to the beneficiaries while booking the slot.The beneficiaries may check their time slot online. The vaccinations will be administered in a phased manner to avoid crowding at different venues.  Dr Amandeep Kang, Director of Health Services, has stated that all necessary arrangements would be made on selected sites to ensure that Covid protocol was strictly followed and doses were administered under proper medical supervision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-allots-33-000-vaccines-for-18-45-group-in-chandigarh-251826
12-05-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal ||2 drive-through vaccination in Mohali; 300 vaccinated in 2 hours||Tribune News Service Mohali, May 12Close to 300 persons were vaccinated in two hours at a drive-through vaccination facility at the District Sports Complex near Sohana gurdwara in Sector 78 here on Wednesday. The Mohali administration launched two drive-through vaccination facilities (10am to 4pm) at the District Sports Complex in Sector 78 and Piccadilia The Theatre Cafe in Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, on Wednesday morning. The drive-through option was only for those aged above 45 years, and the registration was being done on the spot. An Aadhaar card or any other identity card and a registered mobile phone is to be carried along for the vaccination. Only two people were allowed in a car. It was a free of cost service on first come first serve basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-drive-through-vaccination-in-mohali-300-vaccinated-in-2-hours-251809
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Light rain likely for 3 days: Met||Investiture at Tribune schoolChandigarh: Laying emphasis on the spirit of ‘service before self’, Tribune Model School, Sector 29, organised an investiture online. Chand Nehru, Chairperson of Tribune Model School, boosted the morale of the student council with her speech. School Principal Vandana Saxena motivated them to be role models for others. TNSPU declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has announced the results for various examinations, including MA (Music Instrumental) 3rd semester examination and MA (Human Rights & Duties) 3rd semester examination. The results are available on respective departments/colleges or Panjab University website. TNSSwaraj Tractors donates bedsMohali: Under its corporate social responsibility, the Swaraj Division of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd has donated 30 beds and 15 oxygen concentrators to Punjab through Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. Appreciating the efforts of the company, Balbir Singh Sidhu said thatSwaraj Tractors had stood by the government in the time of crisis and was working in close coordination with the state. TNSMan held with 140-gm opiumChandigarh: A 29-year-old man has been arrested by the UT police while possessing opium. The suspect, identified as Guddu, a resident of Kishangarh village, was arrested from Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra, while possessing 140 grams of opium. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the IT Park police station. TNSZirakpur resident held with heroinMohali: The police arrested a man smuggling 100 grams of heroin from Bhuru Chowk, Kharar, on Sunday. The suspect has been identified as Manjit Singh, a resident of Lohgarh, Zirakpur. Manjit, who used to wash vehicles, bought heroin from Delhi and sold it in Kharar and Kurali areas. A case has been registered against him under the NDPS Act at the Kharar City police station. He has been remanded in two-day police custody. TNSDist Attorneys on quarantine leaveChandigarh: Five assistant district attorneys of the District Courts, Sector 43, here, have proceeded on quarantine leave after they or their family members got infected with the virus. Two other employees of the district attorney office, UT, also reportedly tested positive. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-for-3-days-met-251682
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Expert dwells on cyber security||As cyber security becomes an increasing cause of concern, the government is mulling a new national security directive that will ensure that only secure and trusted equipment can be connected to our telecom network. This was stated by Lt Gen (Dr) Rajesh Pant (retd), National Cyber Security coordinator.  He was speaking during the 33rd foundation day of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali. He drew a parallel between cyber security and the ongoing pandemic. “The pandemic, which is characterised by radical uncertainty, gives us important lessons in cyber security because the later is also characterised by similar uncertainty,” he said.  Dr VK Saraswat, member of the Niti Aayog and Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, talked about the evolving technology in the field of supercomputing. He said the national supercomputing mission, spearheaded by C-DAC, was developing peta-scale computing systems that would take India into the league of supercomputing powers of the world. Dr PK Khosla, Executive Director, C-DAC, highlighted the achievements of the centre in the fields of artificial intelligence, cyber security and healthcare technologies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expert-dwells-on-cyber-security-251545
12-05-2021||---||10 CHB allottees win prizes for e-payments||Chandigarh, May 11 To further encourage online payments, Manoj Parida, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), has decided to continue with monthly reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions during this financial year. A computerised draw to decide 10 winners for the month of April was held today under the supervision of Dr Manpreet Singh, GMCH-32. Among the winners, a person deposited the lowest amount of Rs349 only. Two winners are from Maloya, three from Dhanas, two from Mauli Jagran, two from Sector 45 and one from Sector 40. Among the 10 winners, seven are allottees of small flats, two of residential units and one of commercial unit. The CHB again requested the allottees to use online payment facility while paying dues/fee to the board. Online payments can be made through net banking, debit and credit cards without any extra charge. In April, a total of Rs65.60 lakh was deposited through 882 online transactions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-chb-allottees-win-prizes-for-e-payments-251547
12-05-2021||---||Ex-Dy Speaker condemns termination of NRHM staff||Mohali, May 11 Former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh today slammed the decision of the Punjab government to dismiss National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) employees. In a statement issued here today, Bir Devinder Singh said on one hand the entire country, including Punjab, was fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic, while on the other health workers working in hospitals of Punjab had been terminated irrationally. The dismissal of these health workers had created a medical emergency like situation in Punjab. Bir Devinder Singh said in such a difficult time, the government should have rather accepted the legitimate demands of the protesting health workers instead of firing them. At the same time, the dismissal of health workers providing health services to patients in hospitals was nothing less than a dictator-like decision of the Punjab government. He said if the government had already paid attention to the health services, then the health workers would not have been forced to go on strike and there would have been no shortage of health facilities. Unfortunately, the Centre and the state government had drastically failed to make adequate arrangements for health facilities. Bir Devinder Singh suggested to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that he should immediately prune the strength of the army of his highly paid advisors and OSDs and recruit health workers to control the situation in the state so that precious lives could be saved. Referring to the lack of health facilities in the state during the pandemic, he said the number of Covid patients requiring oxygen in Punjab had crossed 10,000 due to inadequate health facilities in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-dy-speaker-condemns-termination-of-nrhm-staff-251548
12-05-2021||---||Gharuan university sets up 100-bed Covid care facility||Mohali, May 11In view of a spurt in Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has set up a 100-bed Covid care centre and an isolation facility in association with the district administration.Established under its CU-aid initiative on the campus, Chandigarh University has prepared CU-isolation complexes. Each complex comprises of a 100-bed quarantine facility, a 100-bed medical centre, OPD for patients, protection kits and other medical facilities.12 oxygen concentrators donatedZirakpur: The Khalsa Aid on Tuesday donated 12 oxygen concentrators to the 100-bed isolation centre set up by Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma at his Sharma Farms near Zirakpur. Sharma thanked Ravi Singh of Khalsa Aid and his team for this charitable effort. TNSDivulging details, Chandigarh University Chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said: “Covid-dedicated facility established by the university under the guidance of Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has round-the-clock medical team comprising of doctors, 50 paramedical staff, 24X7 oxygen cylinders and other biomedical facilities, ambulance and cooked food facility for patients as well as medical staff. The process of scaling up the quarantine facility that can accommodate up to 2,000 patients is on and the administration is already working on the proposal to upscale the university Covid facility to L2 scale”.Col (retd) Sanjeev Bakshi, Director Administration, said: “The isolation facility has been made functional since March 28. Till date, 116 Covid patients from different parts of the state have been admitted here for treatment. Out of this, 101 patients have been discharged and 15 are undergoing treatment”.40 elderly persons avail of helpline serviceMohali: As many as 40 persons have availed of the services of the senior citizen Covid helpline since May 6. The police had launched dedicated helpline numbers 9115516010 and 0172-2219356 to serve senior citizens in the hour of pandemic. This includes free ride for vaccination between 10 am and 2 pm as well as providing medical and essential services on doorstep. Guriqbal Singh, DSP (Traffic) (mobile number 9370600001) is designated as the nodal officer for the senior citizen helpline. The aim of this initiative is to safeguard the health of those senior citizens who stay alone in Mohali by minimising their exposure to the virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gharuan-university-sets-up-100-bed-covid-care-facility-251549
12-05-2021||---||Charitable trust offers free oxygen to Covid-19 patients||Chandigarh, May 11As tricity residents are reeling under an acute shortage of liquid oxygen amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, a city-based non-profitable charitable trust, “Serve Humanity Serve God”, has come forward to help citizens with free oxygen service. The trust has set up the service at New Chandigarh, from where it is providing the life-saving gas for free of cost to Covid-19 patients. Contact helpline at 9814119214Trust founder Swaranjit Singh said: “The service is available 24X7 and anyone can avail of an oxygen cylinder free of cost without depositing any security amount. The patient’s family can contact the helpline number at 9814119214 and our volunteers will drop the oxygen cylinder on their doorstep. There will be no delivery charges.Trust founder Swaranjit Singh said: “In view of the skyrocketing demand of oxygen cylinders, we have initiated the free oxygen service for Covid-infected persons. The service was started a few days ago. Till now, 37 Covid patients have benefitted from it. At present, we are catering to around 30 people in a day. The supply will soon be enhanced so that more precious lives can be saved.”Singh said: “The service is available 24X7 and anyone can avail of an oxygen cylinder free of cost without depositing any security amount. The patient’s family can contact the helpline number at 9814119214 and our volunteers will drop the oxygen cylinder on their doorstep. There will be no delivery charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charitable-trust-offers-free-oxygen-to-covid-19-patients-251551
12-05-2021||Panchkula||5 held for selling liquor illegally||The police here today claimed to have nabbed five persons for selling liquor in various parts of the district on Monday. The arrested suspects have been identified as Dinesh Mehra, a resident of Housing Complex, Sector 14, Krishna Chand and Sandeep Kumar, both residents of Saketri, Sunil Jain, a resident of Jain Market, Kalka, and Arjun, a resident of Mani Majra, Chandigarh. The police said Dinesh Mehra, an employee with a liquor vend, was arrested for selling liquor illegally near the Motor Market in the Mansa Devi Complex. Krishan Chand and Sandeep Kumar were arrested from near a liquor vend in Saketri, while Sunil Jain was arrested for selling liquor from inside a closed liquor vend at a market in Kalka. Arun was also arrested for selling liquor from a closed vend in Majri Chowk. The suspects have been booked under Sections 88, 269 and 270 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act - 2005. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-held-for-selling-liquor-illegally-251553
12-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh dept issues time slots to eligible players for practice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11As the UT Administrator allowed meritorious international/national sportspersons to use sports complexes after taking special permission, the UT Sports Department has started issuing time slots.Till date, a swimmer and a para-paddler veteran couple has been given the special permission to use the facilities after they provided schedule of their upcoming international and national events. Special permissionTill date, a swimmer and a para-paddler veteran couple have been given special permission to use the facilities after they provided the schedule of their upcoming international and national events.“The department is equally serious about the welfare of sportspersons amid Covid crisis. Permissions have been granted to the eligible sportspersons after cross-checking their schedule and assessing their need to prepare for the events. They have been given dedicate time slots in which they can carry out their preparation,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports.Providing a relief to local sportspersons preparing for various national/international competitions, the Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had recently allowed to open complexes in a phased manner despite the existing partial lockdown. The complexes were said to open after taking a special permission from the UT Secretary, Sports. However, the approval and allotment of timings were subject to the need of the players. The decision came after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted issues faced by local sportspersons. Earlier, the department had announced to close all local complexes due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.“We have received requests from other players also. However, they have not mentioned the exact dates of championships which they were scheduled to play. As confirmed by the higher authorities, we cannot allow everyone to use these complexes. Other sportspersons bound to practice have to wait for fresh orders or should provide proper schedule,” said Saini.Proud moment for departmentClearing doubts raised by some sports lovers and sportspersons on converting three sports complexes into Covid care centres, Saini maintained that it’s a proud moment for the department. “It’s a proud moment for us as our complexes are being used in the fight against Covid. The complexes were closed otherwise and players will only practice once the situation is back to normal. For that matter of fact, these care centres will also be closed by that time. It’s a temporary arrangement considering the need of beds and others technical aspect to save lives of people,” said Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dept-issues-time-slots-to-eligible-players-for-practice-251554
12-05-2021||Panchkula||‘Set up separate vaccination, testing centres||Bharat Hiteshi, chairman of a social organisation, Shri Mathuradas Lajwanti Subhash Hiteshi Foundation, has demanded setting up of separate centres for Covid testing and vaccination.In a letter to Health Minister Anil Vij, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Ahuja and Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur, Bharat Hiteshi, while expressing concern over a spurt in Covid cases, said testing of suspected coronavirus patients was also being done at vaccination centres in Panchkula which could be the main reason behind the spread of the virus.He said sometimes suspected Covid patients unknowingly stand in the queue meant for vaccination in hospitals and dispensaries in the district, resulting in the spread of the virus. If this goes on, people getting the vaccine could carry Covid to their homes and infect other family members. Hiteshi said in order to run the vaccination campaign smoothly, the police should make arrangements from 9 am to 2 pm to control the huge rush of people waiting to get inoculated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/set-up-separate-vaccination-testing-centres-251555
12-05-2021||Mohali||9 die in Mohali, 1,019 test +ve||Nine more people died due to Covid in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 715. Meanwhile, 1,019 persons were diagnosed with the disease till Tuesday evening while 258 patients have got better of it. Among the new cases, 423 came from Mohali (urban), nine from Kurali, 11 from Lalru, 21 from Banur, 38 from Boothgarh, 60 from Gharuan, 122 from Dera Bassi, 133 from Kharar and 202 from the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-die-in-mohali-1-019-test-ve-251527
12-05-2021||Panchkula||Six lives lost, 472 infected in Panchkula||Six more persons succumbed to Covid-19, taking the district toll to 259 today. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said five men, aged 59, 65 and 48 (all of Pinjore), 72 (Barwala) and 55 (Rajiv Colony), and a 59-year-old woman of Sector 20 died due to the disease. Meanwhile, 472 persons were diagnosed with the deadly virus, taking the tally to 25,769. Among the new cases, 11 each were reported from Barwala, Sector 10, 11, 12-A and 17, 12 from Sector 4 and 27, 13 from Sector 6, 14 from Sector 25, 15 from Sector 7, 20 each from Sector 15, 21 and 26, 21 from Sector 9 and 12, 22 from Kalka and 35 from Sector 20. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-lives-lost-472-infected-in-panchkula-251528
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 39 areas in Chandigarh||To prevent further spread of the coronavirus, the UT Administration today declared 39 more micro-containment zones in the city. District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted. Residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear face masks and follow hand hygiene. As many as 30 micro-containment zones were declared yesterday. The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 7, 15, 22, 26, 29, 32, 33, 35, 41-B, 42, 43-A, 44,46, 49-A, 50, 63, Dadu Majra Colony, Sarangpur, Dhanas village, Khuda Ali Sher, Modern Housing Complex and Pipli Wala Town. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-39-areas-in-chandigarh-251529
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||17-year-old boy commits suicide||A 17-year-old boy reportedly committed suicide by hanging at his house in Sector 41 here today. No suicide note was found from the spot. The victim, a native of Himachal Pradesh, was staying here with his two elder sisters. He was taking coaching for non-medical from a private institute. “His sisters had an appointment with a doctor. On returning home, they found the door bolted from inside,” said a cop. The victim’s body was later found hanging inside the house, following which the police were informed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-year-old-boy-commits-suicide-251532
12-05-2021||---||Common enemy, let’s fight it together: Tricity||Chandigarh, May 11Punjab, Haryana and the UT Administration have united to fight the common enemy of Covid-19 in the tricity.After detailed discussions, it was decided at a meeting of the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana and the UT Adviser that in case of emergencies anywhere in the tricity, the authorities concerned will provide oxygen, medicines and medical equipment such as ventilators to each other to avoid any untoward incident.The meeting was convened by Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore in compliance of the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The High Court had on May 4 suggested Punjab, Haryana and the UT Administration to consider setting up a unified command centre for better Covid management in the tricity.Pb, Hry Chief Secys, UT Adviser hold meetingAfter detailed discussions, it was decided at a meeting of the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana and the UT Adviser that in case of emergencies anywhere in the tricity, the authorities concerned will provide oxygen, medicines and medical equipment such as ventilators to each other to avoid any untoward incident.The senior functionaries decided that in addition to regular war room meetings, a committee comprising the Deputy Commissioners of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali will meet twice a week online to ensure effective coordination in all Covid-related matters such as lockdown restrictions, hospital management, supply management and vaccination.At the meeting, it was also decided that the Director, Health Services, of Mohali as well as Panchkula and Chandigarh will meet twice a week over video conference to decide a uniform and coordinated approach in medical treatment of Covid patients under the guidance and consultation of the PGI.It was also decided to request the High Court for a separate quota of 5 MT of liquid oxygen exclusively for the PGI.In his opening remarks, the Governor stated that there was already a well-established mechanism for coordination among the administration in the tricity, even before the pandemic.In order to effectively tackle the pandemic, war room meetings are being held regularly under the Administrator, wherein senior officers of the UT Administration, senior doctors of all three medical institutions, including the PGI, and the Deputy Commissioners of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula participate in video conferences. Decisions are taken after consultation, exchange of information and ideas and communicated to all concerned promptly, he added.The Governor said as a premier national institution, the PGI had been catering to the critical medical needs of not only Chandigarh residents but also of several states such as Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Uttarakhand by establishing a regular coordination mechanism and it had been ensured that there was no shortage of oxygen and medicines such as remdesivir. Senior PGI doctors were also regularly guiding medical teams in other government hospitals in Chandigarh and Punjab in the treatment of Covid patients.Badnore said he was in regular contact with the Chief Ministers of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh for a coordinated fight against Covid in the region.The Chief Secretaries of Haryana and Punjab and the UT Adviser concurred with the observations of the Governor and reiterated their commitment for a coordinated fight against the pandemic.Key decisions to tackle pandemic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/common-enemy-lets-fight-it-together-tricity-251533
12-05-2021||---||10 deaths, 787 new cases in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-deaths-787-new-cases-in-chandigarh-251534
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||No afternoon supply of water till May 18||The MC today extended the suspension of afternoon water supply to May 18.According to the civic body officials, due to ongoing repair work of canal at various locations, discharge of water in canal at the Kajauli waterworks has been reduced by the Irrigation Department, Punjab. Due to this repair, raw water from the waterworks cannot be supplied in full capacity.Hitesh Puri, Chairman, CRAWFED, said, “Residents are not getting the afternoon water supply since mid-April. It should be restored soon.”The MC had spent about Rs200 crore to get additional water supply. After getting it, the morning and evening supply were extended by an hour each and the afternoon supply was started in the city. — TNSTimings Water supply||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-afternoon-supply-of-water-till-may-18-251535
12-05-2021||---||BCI forms 7-member panel for amicable settlement||Chandigarh, May 11Less than a week after the Bar and the Bench relationship took a direct hit with the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association seeking Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha’s transfer, the Bar Council of India (BCI) has constituted a seven-member committee “to get the matter settled amicably”.The BCI, at the same time, refused to interfere with an order passed by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana staying the operation of the Bar association’s resolution calling for, among other things, the boycott of the Chief Justice’s court.Association had moved BCIHours after the Bar association had called for the transfer and boycott of the court of the Chief Justice on May 7, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana had stayed the operation of the resolution. Aggrieved by the orders, the Bar association moved the BCI against the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana.Hours after the Bar association had called for the transfer and boycott of the Chief’s court on May 7, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana had stayed the operation of the resolution. Aggrieved by the orders, the Bar association moved the BCI against the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana.Issuing a notice to the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana for May 14 for final hearing of the matter, the BCI asserted that the demand for transfer, prima facie, did not appear to be proper and justified, nor was it going to solve the problem. “Any type of such politics should not be allowed to be played in any Bar association. Associations should desist from passing such resolutions”.The BCI added that the council, under the facts and circumstances, did not find a prima facie case for staying the order dated May 7 passed by the chairman, Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana.The BCI added that neither the Bar Council of India, nor the state Bar Council, could support a resolution of any Bar association giving a call for the boycott of the court of the Chief Justice or any other Judge on such ground. “It can be done only in the rarest of the rare cases, when there is no other remedy left to the lawyers’ bodies,” the order added.Stressing the need for an amicable settlement, the BCI made it clear that senior advocate Ashwani Chopra would be the convener, while the Bar association president would be the co-convener. The other members include Harpreet Singh Brar, Puneet Bali, Anu Chatrath and Partap Singh.The BCI also requested the Chief Justice to hear the committee, listen to the grievances and redress the same as far as practicable and feasible. “The council hopes and trusts that the Chief Justice will fix a meeting with the committee soon after getting the request for the same from the convener…,” the order added.In a press note released later during the day, state Bar Council chairman Minderjeet Yadav said the BCI was the apex body. “We should obey the orders passed by the BCI and the rift between the Bar and the Bench should be resolved immediately taking into consideration the larger interest of the legal fraternity”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bci-forms-7-member-panel-for-amicable-settlement-251536
12-05-2021||---||‘Provide Oxygen for non-Covid patients’||Chandigarh, May 11Private nursing homes in the UT have asked the Director, Health Services, to provide them sufficient supply of oxygen cylinders to cater to non-Covid patients.In a letter to the official, the nursing home representatives stated that they were facing oxygen crisis. “There are around 25 centres with a total daily requirement of around 100 cylinders. We have been sanctioned only 20 cylinders and asked to distribute among ourselves,” read the letter.“Some of us are running NICU/paediatric ICUs. We have already stopped elective procedures and using oxygen very judiciously. We request you to intervene so that we can avoid any critical situation. Otherwise, we will be forced to inform patients to shift to government institutions and refuse further admissions,” the letter read.RS Bedi, former president of IMA, Chandigarh, said, “Oxygen requirement has to be calculated for both Covid and non-Covid private hospitals and allocated accordingly. At a given time, approximately 20 to 25 newborns are on ventilator at private hospitals in the city. They have to be catered to also.”A UT official, on a condition of anonymity, said, “These hospitals are 100 per cent non-Covid. We tried to provide these nursing homes maximum oxygen possible from the limited resources.”The UT Administration on Tuesday revised its daily quota for oxygen cylinders for private hospitals and mini Covid centres. Three new private hospitals have been included in the list of revised oxygen quota.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-oxygen-for-non-covid-patients-251537
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh may start jabbing 18 plus on May 14||The UT is likely to start vaccinating those above the age of 18 against Covid this week.A senior UT official said the vaccination for 18 years and above was expected to start on May 14.Against the demand of 1 lakh vaccines, only 33,000 vaccine doses have been approved by the Centre for the 18-45 years age group.There will be no on-site registration for this age group and they would be vaccinated against the reserved slot. The UT is yet to receive the doses till date from the Central government due to which the slots have not been opened for this age group on the CoWIN portal yet.UT Advisor Manoj Parida had announced that vaccination for the 18-45 age group will be in a phased manner due to staggered allocation of doses.Meanwhile, the vaccination drive in the city has gone down. As many as 37,146 doses were administered between April 24 and April 30 while in the subsequent week, the number of doses given to beneficiaries dropped to 32,418. This decline was shown after five weeks of continuous rise in the number of doses administered in the city.The rate of adverse event following immunisation in the UT is 0.051 per cent. — TNSDrive-through vaccination in MohaliMohali: In a first-of-its-kind facility, the district administration, in a bid to boost vaccination, has set up additional facilities for drive-through vaccination at two places from Wednesday. The venues are District Sports Complex near the Sohana gurdwara in Sector 78 and Piccadilia — The Theatre Café, Mullanpur, New Chandigarh. Jagdeep Sehgal, SDM, who initiated the move, said they would have a trial run on Wednesday and on May 13, the facilities would be opened to the public. He said the initiative was planned keeping in mind the increasing number of cases and to maintain social distancing. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-start-jabbing-18-plus-on-may-14-251538
12-05-2021||---||Mason, a father of six, murdered in Mohali||Mohali, May 11A 48-year-old mason, a father of six, was gruesomely murdered, allegedly by a labourer, at an under-construction house in Sector 66-B here on Sunday night.The deceased has been identified as Buti Choudhary from Champaran, Bihar.The police have arrested Umesh, 32, of Pratapgarh, UP, a construction labourer, as the prime suspect in the case. The duo was employed in the construction of a two-storey house and lived in it.On Sunday, Umesh remained absent from the work without informing the mason. There was a heated argument between the two over this. Around 11 pm, Umesh Singh, under the influence of alcohol, hit the victim with stones, bricks and iron pipe on his head and face.The suspect later wrapped the body in a blanket and hid it in another room before fleeing. On Monday morning, when the mason did not report for work, the owner checked their rooms and found the blood-stained body nearby. He informed the police following which an investigation was launched and the suspect was arrested near Bakarpur on Monday afternoon.The police said the body was badly mutilated.A case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered at the Sohana police station on Monday. Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said, “The body has been handed over to the brother-in-law of the deceased after a postmortem examination. The kin are taking it to Bihar where his family lives for the last rites. The suspect will be produced in court tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mason-a-father-of-six-murdered-in-mohali-251540
12-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Scholars, authorities at loggerheads||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11The Panjab University authorities and hostellers are now again at loggerheads over vacating the hostels amid Covid-19 crisis.The protesting students raised some allegations against hostel wardens, while the authorities maintained that the decision had been taken considering welfare of the students.According to official figures, over 800 students were staying in hostels till last month. However as on May 11, over 400 are in hostels. “Around 80 to 100 have given their consent for leaving the hostels this week, while over 300 are unsure,” said one of the spokespersons.The spokesperson said: “The mess facility at girls’ hostels No. 1 and 8, boys’ hostel 6 and the canteen of girls’ hostel 2 are operational.”Cases had been reported from many hostel buildings and recently, a young attendant succumbed to the virus, sources claimed.“Today all wardens of girls and boys hostels held online and offline meetings with the residents for counselling regarding safe return to their homes,” said a spokesperson.‘Leaked’ conversationMeanwhile, protesting students claimed that a majority of wardens wanted them to go back. A source, who attended the online meeting of wardens, informed students about the discussion.While addressing the research scholars outside the Administrative Block, one of the student leaders said: “We have been told that during an online meeting, one of the DSWs referred us as students who indulge in hooliganism. The official should resign. One of the sources confirmed that the PU authorities have questioned UT Administration’s stance during the meeting. One of the professors asked the authorities to support us (students) to which all wardens and authorities had opposed. The faculty has been divided into groups. We don’t want to sit here (protesting site) but if any of us gets affected by Covid, the onus will be on the authorities.”No help from AdmnA few of the PU officials maintained that the UT Administration was not helping them in imposing the orders. “On the one hand, the UT Administration is taking over our hostels and on the other, research scholars want stay. We have been following the Administration’s order and they should help us in getting the hostels vacated. Despite a number of cases in hostels and campus, there has been no news on making containment zones here,” said an official.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said: “They should write to us about help they need.”In the meantime, the PU Registrar has now written letters to the SSP and UT Deputy Commissioner seeking their intervention for the safety of students and faculty.Students’ protestResearch scholars held a protest against authorities today. “We made it clear that residential areas should be vacated first. Wardens, guides and chairpersons are literally threatening us. We have already agreed to closing down of AC Joshi Library till May 31. We also made clear that we will act as frontline warriors. We have unanimously decided not to leave the hostels at any cost. The authorities must not call our guides, chairpersons and parents,” stated SFS members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scholars-authorities-at-loggerheads-251541
12-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||100 fresh cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||As many as 100 fresh cases and four deaths were reported today in the district. The tally of active cases in the district has now reached 860 and the toll stands at 170.  Meanwhile, the Health Department has declared Khare village and Rajindergarh village as micro-containment zones after 12 and 6 positive cases were reported, respectively, in the villages. The department has ordered sealing, 100 per cent testing and strict implementation of the Covid guidelines in the villages. Dr Mohinder Singh Civil Surgeon said the increasing Covid cases was a matter of great concern and people must get themselves vaccinated and follow the Covid guidelines. He said till today, 1,50,619 samples had been collected of which 6,098 tested positive. He said the positivity rate of the district had increased to 6.56 per cent and the recovery rate is 83.2 per cent. He laid stress on testing and wearing masks. Meanwhile, people were now thronging Civil Hospitals in the district for vaccination and camps are being organised by NGOs, said Dr Kuldeep Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-fresh-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-251542
12-05-2021||---||3 Panjab University blocks closed after spike in cases||Chandigarh, May 11  Panjab University has decided to close the Administrative Block, University School of Open Learning and Aruna Ranjit Hall for May 12 and 13 considering the surge in Covid cases in the past few days on the campus.  However, the staff of these buildings shall work from home under the instructions of their Controlling Officers.  A committee under the Chairmanship of Vikram Nayyar, officiating Registrar, held a discussion on the matter in the presence of Prof Sanjay Kaushik, Dean, College Development Council, Prof Devinder Singh, Secretary to Vice-Chancellor, Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, Vikram Singh, Chief of University Security, Renuka B Salwan, Director, Public Relations, Deputy Registrar (General) and Assistant Registrar (General Branch).   They decided that no staff of these buildings will leave the station without the prior approval of the Controlling Officers. “To attend to the urgent time-bound assignments and also to the matters concerning Students/research scholars requiring immediate intervention, the Assistant Registrar concerned shall attend the office with the subordinate staff if required and all the three buildings will be sanitised,” said a committee member.   To trace the information on Covid cases in employees or their immediate family members, the committee members suggested the possibility of creation of an online portal be explored. For this purpose, a meeting will be convened by inviting the Director, Computer Centre, and the PU Chief Medical Officer for their inputs. The situation will be reviewed on May 17 to suggest other measures, if required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-panjab-university-blocks-closed-after-spike-in-cases-251543
12-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||‘Setting up care centres subject to SOPs’||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 11The district administration today clarified that everyone cannot be granted the permission for setting up a Covid care facility in the district as establishing such facilities was subject to standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Punjab Government.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, had laid down SOPs for setting up a Covid care facility and any deviation from the protocol could be catastrophic.He said: “Many philanthropists, smaller hospitals, RWAs, religious institutions and NGOs have offered assistance in combating Covid by setting up L1 and L2 Covid care centres, but everyone cannot be permitted to do so since establishing a care facility is subject to certain mandatory requirements.”Dayalan said adequate manpower, including teams of doctors/ paramedics, medicine, food supply, basic infrastructure such as beds, fans, washrooms, separate enclosures for symptomatic/ asymptomatic or male/female patients, 24*7 electricity/water, ambulance, sterilisation of the premises, link with at least two higher (L2 or L3) facilities was a must. “Besides, donning/doffing area, oxygen supply, ventilation, control room, basic training, emergency bay are a few basic minimum requirements for setting up L1/L2 Covid care facilities. Without these, the permission to set up a care facility cannot be granted,” he added.Dayalan said meeting all requirements single-handedly by an individual/non-healthcare institution was challenging and wavering from the guidelines could prove to be detrimental to the healthcare delivery system and could lead to the spread of Covid faster.He said likeminded people/organisations might pool resources and run a Covid care facility. Inspection and certification from the team of officials of the district administration and Health Department was a must, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/setting-up-care-centres-subject-to-sops-251544
