13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man held with 10 kg cocaine worth Rs 100 crore||Over 10 kilograms of cocaine, worth over Rs 100 crore, was recovered here from a man who was trying to send the narcotic to Australia via courier, the police said on Thursday.Acting on a tip off, a police team led by Assistant Superintendent of Police (South Division) Shruti Arora arrested Ashfaq Rahman, a resident of Chennai, and recovered 10.24 kg of the narcotics from his possession.The accused had brought the consignment to Chandigarh to send it further to Australia through courier, said Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal.The consignment of drugs was hidden in a wooden tray duly sealed by plywood and mixed with crockery items in cardboard boxes, he further said.The accused will be produced in a court on Friday, officials said, adding that police will seek his custody to trace the origin of recovered cocaine. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-held-with-10-kg-cocaine-worth-rs-100-crore-252379
13-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Vaccine slots for 18-44 age group to open in Chandigarh from Friday||From tomorrow onwards, appointment slots will be opened at 10 am every day from 23 May onwards for those registering for the COVID-19 vaccine in the 18-44 age group in Chandigarh.The Chandigarh Administration on Thursday declared many parts of the city as containment zones amid the rapid spread of COVID-19.The areas declared as containment zones are part of Sector 2, part of Sector 7, part of Sector 10, part of Sector 22, part of Sector 27, part of Sector 28, part of Sector 33, part of Sector 34, part of Sector 35, part of Sector 36, part of Sector 37, part of Sector 44, part of Sector 49, part of Sector 52, part of Maloya Small Flats, Maloya Colony, part of Dadu Majra Colony, part of Mariwala Town, part of Manimajra, part of Modern Housing Complex 30, and part of Ramdarbar Phase 1.The order has declared the above areas and pockets as containment zones and also directed that regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams will continue.Frequent sanitization of the areas by municipal authorities will be conducted and the residents will be advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.The order will come into force with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-slots-for-18-44-age-group-to-open-in-chandigarh-from-friday-252369
13-05-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh sees 760 new Covid cases; 10 die||Chandigarh, May 13Chandigarh recorded 760 new Covid cases on Thursday, taking active caseload to 8,441.Ten Covid deaths were also reported.A total of 44,343 Covid patients have been cured till date, while 609 have succumbed to the virus.A total of 837 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per MoHFW guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-760-new-covid-cases-10-die-252358
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||45+ to get priority in vaccine: Chandigarh Adviser||Covid-19 vaccination in Chandigarh for 18 years is being rolled out gradually but the priority is for those who are above 45 waiting for the second dose, officials said on Thursday.Vaccination for above 18 population is being rolled out gradually in phases, Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida said.He said the priority has to be given to above 45 persons waiting for the second dose keeping in view the limited vaccines available now.The Central government has allotted 33,000 vaccines to Chandigarh for vaccinated people in the age group of 18-45 years.The eligible people will be inoculated from May 14. Walk-in vaccination facility is not available for the beneficiaries the 18-45 age group, officials said.Health Services Director Amandeep Kaur Kang said the slots for booking online appointment opened on Thursday for 15 days.Initially, she said, 1,000 people would be inoculated. If needed, the slots may be increased accordingly.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-to-get-priority-in-vaccine-chandigarh-adviser-252291
13-05-2021||Panchkula||One held for selling liquor||The police arrested a person for illegally smuggling liquor in Kharag Mangoli on Tuesday. The suspect has been identified as Rajat, a resident of Kharag Mangoli.The police said a team of the crime branch, led by Inspector Aman Kumar, had received information that the suspect was openly selling liquor in a street at Kharag Mangoli. The team reached there and found the suspect standing in a street with a large plastic bag. On seeing the police, the suspect tried to flee but was nabbed with 10 bottles of liquor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-held-for-selling-liquor-251969
13-05-2021||Mohali||3 cops assaulted at naka||Three policemen were assaulted by five SUV-borne assailants at the Phase 8-9 light point during night checking on May 10. Two suspects have been identified as the residents of Phase-7 and one of Kharar.The police alleged that the suspects assaulted cops, snatched their mobile phones and tore their uniform during the scuffle. While fleeing, a mobile phone of the assailants fell on the spot. A case under sections 307, 353, 379B, 148 and149 of the IPC has been registered at the Phase 8 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-cops-assaulted-at-naka-251970
13-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Young deaths sadden us: Covid ward nurses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12As the situation gets grimmer by the day, nurses at Covid wards try to keep patients’ morale high by constantly talking to them and giving them assurances that they will make through it.Pawanjot Kaur (24), a nursing officer at the PGI, said: “While working with patients, we often talk to them about their life and try to establish a connection with them. It breaks my heart to see younger patients dying. I have seen patients in their 20s dying and we could do nothing to save them because of their condition. The situation is frustrating.”“Often patients ask us about their chances of survival and we find it difficult to answer it. An old woman recently asked me if she will survive. I answered that things will get better but her condition was deteriorating each day. This is taking a toll on my mental health as we are losing so many people. I am worried about my parents after I go home from work. We are trying to cope with each day and hope that things get back to normal soon,” she said.Sunita, another nursing officer from the PGI, said: “We have to face the relatives of patients every day after duty hours. It gets very difficult to answer their questions. This is the first time that a disease has broken out at this level in my entire service of 28 years.” At home, Sunita stays in different room and tries to distance herself from children.Justeena (57), a nursing officer from Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, said: “We are trying our best to save the patients but it is sad to see young patients losing their lives. We feel helpless. Every minute we are following on patients’ reports from laboratories. This is the best we can do at our end.”Deputy Medical Superintendent Paramjit Singh of the GMSH said: “The nursing fraternity has been leading from the front in the fight against Covid with devotion and dedication towards providing care to sick patients.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “The nurses are empathetic while providing care to the patients. During this challenging period of Covid-19, many of them have lost their lives. We should acknowledge and appreciate their contribution towards healthcare.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/young-deaths-sadden-us-covid-ward-nurses-251971
13-05-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Centre helps Chandigarh with remdesivir, tocilizumab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has allocated a total of 960 vials of remdesivir and tocilizumab to the UT Administration and the PGI.The city had been reportedly facing shortage of tocilizumab.Chandigarh has been approved a quota of 100 vials of tocilizumab, received in donation from Roche.A total of 200 vials have been allocated to the PGI, revealed an official communication between the ministry and the chairman and managing director of M/s HLL Lifecare Limited.As for remdesvir, a total of 500 vials have been allocated to PGI, while 160 to the Administration.Both remdesvir and tocilizumab are used in treating severe Covid patients.“As per the orders, treating doctors have to write to the company and procure tocilizumab directly. The patient is not charged for the medicine. We have remdesivir in our stock. It can be purchased locally and we get it from the DHS office too,” a UT Health Department official said on condition of anonymity.“At present, the UT has 1,600 vials of remdesvir. Tocilizumab is purchased as and when required. The dosage is two per patient,” said the official.The ministry has directed Joint Secretaries/officers in-charge of institutions to get in touch with Sanjeev Gupta of HLL for immediate arrangement of essential medical supplies.“They shall also ensure that these equipment are accounted for and put to use for the benefit of patients. A confirmation to this effect may kindly be sought from the Medical Superintendent of the hospital concerned and forwarded to Sanjeev Gupta for records of HLL,” read the communication.Vials allocatedChandigarh has been approved a quota of 100 vials of tocilizumab. A total of 200 vials have been allocated to the PGI. As for remdesvir, a total of 500 vials have been allocated to the PGI, while 160 to the UT Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-helps-chandigarh-with-remdesivir-tocilizumab-251972
13-05-2021||---||Residents want sewerage work completed soon||Chandigarh, May 12Though the MC has started the sewerage and storm water pipeline work in Khuda Lahora Colony, residents want the work to be completed before the monsoon.“We are thankful to the local councillor and the MC, but it must be ensured that the work gets finished before the monsoon. Otherwise, it will leave the residents in a lot of trouble during the rainy season,” said Rajinder, local resident.The MC has started the work for connecting the open sewerage lines of Khudda Lahora Colony, Part 1, with the main lines. These lines pass from the Part 2 of the colony to the Maloya/Dhanas sewage treatment plant.Another work for connecting storm lines with pipes at Patiala ki Rao is yet to be started by the MC.“Residents are concerned if the work will be completed before the rainy season or they have to face flood-like situation this year as well. We are requesting the MC and the Administration for timely initiation and completion of the work,” added Rajinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-want-sewerage-work-completed-soon-251973
13-05-2021||---||Nonagenarian writer succumbs to Covid||Chandigarh, May 12Nonagenarian author Kidar Nath Kidar succumbed to Covid on Tuesday.A prolific Urdu, Hindi and Punjabi writer, Kidar was active in literary circles, holding monthly ‘baithaks’ for ‘shayars’ and poets at his Panchkula residence.Born in Bassi Gulam Husain, a small village near Hoshiarpur, Punjab, Kidar developed interest in writing when he moved to Lahore and started learning the skill under Ustad Arshimaan Singh. He then moved to Kuwait, running a successful business for over two decades, before returning to the tricity in early 90s.Through all this, his love for writing continued. He wrote poems, ghazals, nazams and plays. He ran the Kidar Adabi Trust, encouraging Punjabi authors. He holds to his credit more than 10 books and 50 radio plays. He was a recipient of the Haryana Sahitya Akademi Gaurav Puruskar.“He was a fine gentleman, much in love with words,” shared Dolly Guleria, who launched an album, ‘Aa Sajna Do Gallan Kariye’, based on Kidar’s works. “We stayed in touch regarding the album. His birthday fell on Lohri and mine on Baisakhi. We would always make time to meet and greet on such occasions.”Punjabi poet Siri Ram Arsh, who wrote the introduction to Kidar’s last release Rang Pyar De, an anthology of Punjabi poems, lauds Kidar’s efforts towards promoting Punjabi. “Kidar would hold monthly poet gatherings and even give scholarships to children who topped in Punjabi language. His writings were themed around ‘pyar hi paratma hai and parmatma hi pyar hai (love is god and god is love).”Several authors — Sham Singh, Prem Vij, Ashok Nadir , Inder Varsha, PP Verma, Sham Singh, Manjit Indra, Ganesh Dutt and Gurvinder Singh Dhamija, Vice-Chairman Haryana Punjabi Sahitya Academy — mourned the demise of the literary figure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nonagenarian-writer-succumbs-to-covid-251974
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Paperless mgmt of care centres||Students from Punjab Engineering College (PEC) Deemed University have prepared a user-friendly mobile app, Be Sure Buddy Care-PEC, for paperless management of mini-Covid care centres. The app will accommodate the information of patients, doctors, nurses and families at centres.Additional features of the software include updates on crucial administrative data such as the number of available beds, record updates of the nursing staff and attendants and other description.Through the platform, patients can be registered at the centre at the time of admission, their daily vitals will be recorded and regularly updated on the platform, which can be used for treatment and monitoring by the doctors and other health professionals.Students involved in the development of the application are Manpreet Singh Juneja, Puneet Bansal, Taranjot Singh, Utkarsh Goel and Shubh Ashish. They were mentored by Assistant Professor Mayank Gupta from the Computer Science Department at PEC and Professor Vasundhara Singh.One such centre has been set up by Sartaj Lamba, founder and CEO of Buddy Cabs Pvt Ltd, at Sri Aurobindo School, Sector 27, in association with Arvind Mehan, management head of the school and a PEC alumnus of 1974 batch. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paperless-mgmt-of-care-centres-251975
13-05-2021||Mohali||Mother of 2 ‘hurls’ stones at child unit staff, booked||A Pabhat resident, mother of two girls, today allegedly created a ruckus at the office of the District Child Protection Unit (Room No. 535) on the fourth floor of the District Administrative Complex, Mohali.Identified as Reshma, a widow who was reportedly mentally unstable and suffering from tuberculosis, allegedly hurled two stones at women employees, broke a glass door with a chair and damaged computers around 11.45 am.Women employees in the office said they were in a state of fear and demanded a guard be posted outside the office. The employees alleged that no one came to help them as the woman abused and created ruckus. No one has sustained any major injury, said the police.District Child Protection Officer Navpreet Kaur said how can a person enter the District Administrative Complex, with Mohali DC and SSP’s office close by, and reach the fourth floor with big stones and a stick?Officials said the woman had earlier applied to the department for taking care of her daughters as she was a widow, underprivileged and sick, which was accepted. But later, she took back the custody of her daughters in November 2020. Off and on, she used to come to office and argue with the staff, the officials said.SP City Harvinder Virk said: “The District Child Protection Officer has submitted a complaint and the police are investigating the matter.”A case has been registered against the woman under sections 506,332,353,186,292 and 427 at the Sohana police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mother-of-2-hurls-stones-at-child-unit-staff-booked-251976
13-05-2021||---||Beef up security at oxygen plant, Chandigarh tells police||Chandigarh, May 12The UT Administration has asked the police to beef up the security at the oxygen generation plant in the Industrial Area, Phase-I, after repeated incidents of forceful refilling of cylinders was reported from the facility.In a letter to Senior Superintendent of Police, Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supplies in UT, stated that on May 6, some “influential persons”, who were not eligible to get their oxygen cylinders refilled, pressurised the officials and workers of M/s Super Agencies.Subsequently, it was requested that appropriate security might be put in place on the premises of the plant, Garg said, and added that though some police personnel were deployed there from May 7, similar incidents happened on May 9 and 10.Garg said yesterday around 9.45 pm, some persons tried to force the workers of M/s Super Agencies to get their cylinders refilled. There was scuffle with the workers and at that time, no police personnel were present there.“The workers deployed at the oxygen generation plant seem to be quite frightened and any possible resentment may prove disastrous,” said Garg.Considering that any shortage of oxygen to the hospitals in the city may lead to serious crisis, Garg requested the SSP to take action against those involved in the yesterday’s incident.Garg also requested the SSP to look into the reasons for non-presence of police personnel at the time of the incident.The UT has been allocated a daily quota of 20 MT of medical oxygen from M/s INOX, Barotiwala, by the Centre.The private healthcare institutions are mostly dependent upon medical oxygen in cylinders.To ensure smooth supply of oxygen to all healthcare institutions in Chandigarh, two officers have been stationed at the INOX plant.The police escort has also been provided to the oxygen tankers from INOX plant to Chandigarh to reduce the travel time and avoid any untoward incident.Garg further said three private vendors had been authorised for refilling of medical oxygen from the UT quota and officers had been stationed on their premises to ensure that oxygen cylinders are issued in regulated manner and there is no diversion.A senior officer has been deputed to see the supply of oxygen to private hospitals, said Garg. Daily quota has been fixed for private hospitals and every hospital has been attached to either of the private vendor to avoid confusion, he added.Fixed ratesThe UT Administration has fixed the rates for refilling of medical oxygen cylinders. Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supply, said the rates had been approved to ensure that refilling was done at the rate approved for the GMCH. With the consent of private refilling vendors, it has been decided that refilling of medical oxygen cylinders would be done at Rs295 for each ‘D’ type cylinder and Rs175 for each ‘A’ and ‘B’ type cylinder. Garg said any unauthorised refilling or supply of oxygen cylinders or overcharging would invite strict action as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beef-up-security-at-oxygen-plant-chandigarh-tells-police-251977
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||New due dates for Property tax, water bill||ABVP submits memorandumChandigarh: The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad has submitted a memorandum to the Secretary, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, and demanded a vaccination drive for students residing in hostels. "The ABVP urged the university administration to stop unnecessarily harassing the students and they should be allowed to stay in their hostels. Vaccination should be arranged as soon as possible for the students residing in hostels and the university should set up an oxygen plant on the university campus," the ABVP states in a press release. TNSSuspend online classes: NSUIChandigarh: The Panjab University unit of the NSUI has submitted a memorandum to the Dean, University Instructions, seeking the suspension of online classes to give a break to teachers and students. They also demanded the promotion of students as per the UGC guidelines. "We appreciate the concern and dedication of the university to maintain its academic standards, but many other universities have suspended their online classes. It's not just students who need a break, even teachers need it too," says a statement of the NSUI. TNSPrayer meeting held onlineChandigarh: More than 250 persons attended an online prayer meeting held in the memory of hockey icon Yash Pal Vohra, who breathed his last earlier this month. The Hockey Chandigarh and Rock Rover Hockey Club conducted the prayer meeting which was attended by Dr Chander Shekhar, Prof Sudesh Gupta, Gurcharan Singh, Gurbax Singh and other prominent persons. Vohra was the general secretary of the Chandigarh Hockey Association, now Hockey Chandigarh and Rock Rover Hockey Club, in 2000. TNSWebinar on NEP organisedChandigarh: The Foreign Students Cell of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised a webinar on 'National Education Policy 2020: Addressing National and International Aspirations for Education in India'. Prof Nishi Pandey, Department of English and Modern European Languages, was the resource person. Over 400 participants benefitted from the webinar. Prof Nishi Pandey enlightened the participants on the significant highlights of the NEP 2020. TNSBus driver, conductor heldPanchkula: The Panchkula police have arrested a bus driver and its conductor for violating the Covid norms on Tuesday night. The suspects have been identified as Naeem and Badre Alam, both residents of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. Sources said a police team from Sector 7 was on a checking drive near Majri Chowk in Old Panchkula in view of the Covid lockdown. The team stopped a bus having UP registration number and after checking the bus, they found 50 passengers in it. A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act 2005 was registered against the bus driver and conductor. TNSLiquor vend worker heldPanchkula: Two persons were booked on the charge of illegally selling liquor to their customers here on Tuesday. One of them was arrested. The arrested suspect was identified as Ravi, a resident of Baral near Dharampur, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh. The police said a team of the Sector 5 police station had received a tip-off that liquor was being sold at a vend near Bella Vista hotel. After reaching the spot, the team found that a worker at the vend was selling the liquor and arrested him. A case under section 88, 269, 270, 120B was registered against the suspects. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-due-dates-for-property-tax-water-bill-251978
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man ends life by hanging||A 26-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging at his house in Hallo Majra here on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Mukesh. He was a driver by profession, but was out of job at present.The body was shifted to the mortuary.Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the incident under Section 174 of the CrPC at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-life-by-hanging-251963
13-05-2021||Mohali||Nurses felicitated||To mark International Nurses Day, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan handed over gift hampers and ‘Thank You’ cards to nurses at the District Administrative Complex here today.He said nurses had always played a crucial role in recovery and wellbeing of patients across the globe. They are the backbone of the healthcare system in hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nurses-felicitated-251964
13-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||A priceless collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12Autograph-hunter Dharam Vir Duggal, popularly known as the ‘nation’s best collector of autographed cricket bats’, is now eyeing to have a first-of-its-kind cricket museum in Chandigarh to display his priceless collection of 578 autographed bats, white balls and everything related to the sport for the coming generations.Having a world record title for collecting maximum autographed bats, 60-year-old Duggal is eagerly waiting for the ICC T20 Cricket World Cup, scheduled later this year, to increase his precious collection to 600.“I have purchased PPE kits, special pens, gloves and everything to get autographs of cricketers in the upcoming championship. Cricket is my passion. I will continue to go as far as possible to collect unimaginable memories with cricketers,” said Duggal.He added: “I am making a proposal and will meet the Punjab Governor & UT Administrator to build a cricket museum of the precious collection. It has taken my 30 years to collect the rarest of the collections. I have followed well-known names of cricket to get their signatures on my collection.”His 578 collection of autographed bats include signatures of Brian Lara, Clive Lloyd, Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar, Kapil Dev, Yuvraj Singh, Brain Lara, Sir Garry Sobers, Ramiz Raja, Viv Richards and many others. He also has a small bat signed by Yuvi six times, after he struck six sixes in an over against England. The autograph collection goes over the 3,000 mark, including a single bat having signatures of Chris Gayle, Virat Kohli and AB De Villiers. His collection of autographed cricket balls bear the names of Australian pacer Jeff Thomson, Denis Lillee, Glenn McGrath, Michael Holding, Javagal Srinath, Richard Hadlee, Shoaib Akhtar, Wasim Akram and Imran Khan, and the list goes on.“I have a gold coin gifted by John Bradman, son of Sir Donald Bradman, given on his father’s birth centenary. I also met Mohd Jahangir Khan in Lahore who autographed a Re 1 note for me.I got a gift of golden knife signed by Imran Khan, now Pakistan’s Prime Minister,” added Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-priceless-collection-251965
13-05-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Zirakpur authorities struggle to implement odd-even system||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, May 12Five days after the administration allowed opening of shops on an odd-even basis from 5 am to 5 pm in Mohali district, the Dera Bassi SDM, the Zirakpur MC, the Police Department and market associations are still struggling to effectively implement the order in Zirakpur.At the Patiala chowk, the Zirakpur DSP and the SHO today met traders to enforce the orders smoothly but most traders continued to open their shops arbitrarily. The Dera Bassi SDM, Kuldeep Bawa, met the traders several times to streamline the arrangement in Zirakpur.“The odd-even arrangement is being enforced properly in Zirakpur. Most of the shopkeepers are following it. Today, shopkeepers on the Patiala road wanted to change it to ‘left and right side of the main road’, instead of the odd-even basis. They have been counselled accordingly”Meanwhile, the MC officials were seen pasting the odd-even stickers on the shops today. The representatives of a community met the police officials to seek permission for holding the Eid prayer in a mosque. 27 FIRs registeredThe police have registered 27 FIRs against owners of commercial establishments for the violation of Covid-19 guidelines and arrested 35 persons. As many as 14 salons, five spa centres, a mobile phone shop, a garment shop, a hotel-cum-spa centre, four tattoo artists and a vehicle owner have been booked. The violators were released on bail later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-authorities-struggle-to-implement-odd-even-system-251966
13-05-2021||---||PUTA seeks vax for teaching, non-teaching staff||Chandigarh, May 12Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has written to Chancellor and Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu for including research scholars, teachers and non-teaching staff among frontline workers.“Vaccination drive on the campus for the research scholars, chairpersons, office staff, PIs, teachers and other important officials should be done as frontline workers. It should be immediately strategised to facilitate the academic, administrative and research activities,” read the PUTA letter.“Vaccination is important for all above mentioned so that deadlines of projects, research-submission and other time-bound administrative works related to the research of the university do not suffer,” PUTA added.There are two vaccination centres on PU campus, where eligible citizens can get the vaccine.PUTA also alleged administrative failure on part of Vice-Chancellor.“The sudden announcement of opening the hostels and laboratories and then announcing their sudden closure, the university administration under the leadership of Vice Chancellor has made no cogent plan even after a period of more than a year. Research scholars are already protesting,” they alleged.The PU authorities though maintained that they had been following the guidelines from the UT Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-seeks-vax-for-teaching-non-teaching-staff-251967
13-05-2021||---||Varsity extends deadline to vacate hostels till May 15||Chandigarh, May 12Amid the ongoing tussle between the students and authorities over vacating hostels, Panjab University today extended the deadline by three more days.The decision was taken to help students who have got travel reservations for coming days.“Keeping in view that some hostel residents have got their transport reservations for coming days, the authorities have extended the period to vacate the hostels till May 15,” informed Prof Sukhbir Kaur, Dean Student Welfare.“The mess of girls’ hostel No. 1, boys’ hostel No. 6 and girls’ hostel No. 8 will remain open,” said Prof Sukhbir Kaur, adding that “around 20-25 students left for their respective homes today”.As per the official figures, over 800 students were staying in PU hostels till last month. However as of May 11, just over 400 are left.Eighty to 100 students have agreed to leave the hostels. Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the PU authorities had asked the hostellers to vacate the premises till May 12.Protest continuesResearch scholars, meanwhile, continued their protest against the authorities and alleged that many of them were facing mental trauma due to constant pressure from the authorities.“The pressure, depression and anxiety level is high among senior scholars. The UGC guidelines categorically instruct universities to arrange for counsellors and mentors for mental health, psychological support and wellbeing of all stakeholders,” reads a press note of students. “Representatives of PU authorities have verbally ensured that no students and their parents will be called either through their guides, chairpersons or wardens,” it adds.Vice-Chancellor’s office shutThe office of the PU Vice-Chancellor was closed on Wednesday following Covid cases. The office will remain shut till May 16. On Tuesday, the authorities had decided to close the Administrative Block, University School of Open Learning and Aruna Ranjit Hall till May 13. The building having offices of the Vice-Chancellor, Dean, Research, and the DUI will remain closed on Thursday for sanitisation. Five employees and their family members had recently tested positive for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/varsity-extends-deadline-to-vacate-hostels-till-may-15-251968
13-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Immediate medical help part of right to life: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court today reiterated that the right to life encompassed immediate medical help before directing the Centre to examine the possibility of providing additional ventilators to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted that the hospital was centrally located and patients normally approached it in the first instance. Referring to the issue of supporting staff, the Bench added that it may be examined by the Secretary, Health.“If it is found that more staff are required in this emergency situation, he is at liberty to recruit the same on a contract basis, in case a provision to this effect exists in the rules,” the Bench ruled.The assertion came after amicus curiae Rupinder Khosla emphasised the need for more ventilators at the GMSH. He added that six ventilators were functional following the intervention by the Bench headed by Justice Gupta several years ago. At that time, the pandemic was beyond the realm of imagination.The Bench added that all states were aware of the critical care the PGI, through its advanced medical expertise, was providing. As such, all states were required to cooperate “in every respect” to ensure that its functioning remained smooth and efficient.The assertion came in reference to senior counsel Anupam Gupta’s submission that the PGI, being a premier medical institute, was also catering to the needs of nearby states such as Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. It was required to be ensured that it did not face any problem in technical support or oxygen supply.Appearing before the Bench, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that uniform anti-corona measures were being undertaken in the tricity. War room meetings were being held regularly by the UT Administrator with the Deputy Commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula, along with other officials and doctors at the PGI. The Administrator was also in touch with the Chief Ministers of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the region.Jain said two committees had been constituted. In case of emergency anywhere in the tricity, the authorities concerned would provide oxygen, medicines and medical equipment such as ventilators to each other to avoid any untoward incident.Jain further submitted that a request had also been made to keep a separate quota of five MT of liquid oxygen exclusively for the PGI. “As regards the supply of drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab in the tricity, any private hospital was free to make an application to the Director, Health and Family Welfare, and the same would be made available rationally at the earliest, he added.The Bench was also told that steps had been taken to ensure rational use of oxygen. A senior PCS officer had been deputed to ensure timely supply of oxygen to private hospitals in accordance with the daily quota.Centrally locatedThe Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted that the hospital was centrally located and patients normally approached it in the first instance. Referring to the issue of supporting staff, the Bench added that it may be examined by the Secretary, Health. “If it is found that more staff are required in this emergency situation, he is at liberty to recruit the same on a contract basis, in case a provision to this effect exists in the rules,” the Bench ruled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immediate-medical-help-part-of-right-to-life-high-court-251956
13-05-2021||---||Panchkula sees record 8 deaths in a day, 593 test positive||Panchkula, May 12A record number of eight deaths were reported from the district in a single day since the outbreak of the pandemic, taking the district toll to 267.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a 24-year-old youth from Pinjore, a 53-year-old man and an 82-year-old man from Sector 4, a 77-year-old man from Sector 6, a 70-year-old woman from Bakshiwala, a 60-year-old woman of Raipur Rani, a 49-year-old woman of Garhi Kotaha and a 53-year-old woman of Sector 20 succumbed to the virus.Meanwhile, 593 persons tested positive for the virus, taking the total number of Covid cases to 26,362. Among the new cases, 12 were reported from Sector 16, 14 each from Sector 12 and 21, 15 each from Sector 4 and 7, 17 from Sector 15, 18 from Sector 26, 36 from Sector 20, 50 from Kalka and 70 from Pinjore.Of the total 26,362 patients in the district, 23,344 have been cured. There are 2,751 active cases in the district.14 deaths, 776 new cases in cityChandigarh: The UT reported 14 deaths and 776 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. The active cases now stand at 8,528 and the toll 599. As many as 859 patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS7 deaths, 713 new cases in MohaliMohali: Seven patients died while 713 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Wednesday. The victims were above 60 years of age. As many as 299 patients have recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 205 came from Mohali (urban), 143 from Dhakoli, 114 from Dera Bassi, 113 from Kharar, 32 from Banur, 51 from Gharuan, 20 from Lalru, 18 from Boothgarh and 17 from Kurali. The overall case tally stands at 57,872 with 44,228 recoveries. The active cases in the district are 12,922. With seven fresh fatalities, the toll has reached 722 in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-record-8-deaths-in-a-day-593-test-positive-251957
13-05-2021||---||Exclusive ward for infected youngsters at ESI Hospital||Chandigarh, May 12As more youngsters are infected with the coronavirus in the second wave, the UT Administration has allocated a separate ward for such patients at ESI Hospital.Since the new corona strain is affecting young persons, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed earmarking of an exclusive ward for such patients. ESI Hospital, which has a paediatric wing, will now be utilised for the purpose, said an official spokesperson.Badnore thanked the Central Government for making available the infrastructure of ESI Hospital to the UT Administration. The Centre had recently handed over the 70-bed ESI Hospital to the UT to treat Covid patients.Mini-Covid facility at Sri Aurobindo SchoolUT Adviser Manoj Parida on Wednesday inaugurated a 25-bed mini-Covid care centre at Sri Aurobindo School in Sector 27. The Adviser inspected the facility before it was opened.Set up jointly by BeSure Buddy and Sri Aurobindo Society, the facility is equipped with all necessary equipment and medical supplies.Sartaj Lamba of BeSure Buddy said Covid was spreading fast and more such facilities by private enterprises would help provide the necessary medical support to patients.Arvind Mehan, Trustee Chair of Sri Aurobindo Society, said the premises had been provided to help patients recover in peace with dedicated oxygen supply, on-site monitoring and clinical and nursing attention.On the occasion, BUDDY Care App for the Covid centre was launched to map beds with patients and doctors to go paperless. Reports of the patients would be available on the app.The society has employed 15 staff members, including two doctors, staff nurses, cleaning and administrative staff, to take care of the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/exclusive-ward-for-infected-youngsters-at-esi-hospital-251958
13-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||AI-based tool that can detect Covid from cough sound||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 12A novel online tool based on artificial intelligence (AI) that can detect the Covid-19 infection in an individual by analysing the sound of coughing has been developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) in Mohali.The tool, christened Vaani Mitr, only requires people to submit a brief recording of coughing through a mobile phone or a laptop, which is then processed to determine their status in real time. It can be used by anyone at anytime from anywhere.A large data base is fundamental for AI tools to be effective. For the purpose, a data bank for coughing sounds of both Covid positive as well as Covid negative persons is being built by C-DAC, against which the samples are compared.“Covid primarily affects the respiratory system, which in turn causes subtle changes in the sounds produced during respiration, coughing or speaking,” Dr PK Khosla, Executive Director, C-DAC, said. “The acoustic signature of Covid-positive individuals shows some particular characteristics that can be identified and tracked,” he added.The indigenously developed automated AI system analyses the acoustic signatures to detect the possibility of the Covid-19 infection in a human.So far, C-DAC’s data base for Vaani Mitr comprises over a thousand recordings from Covid negative persons and over 300 recordings from Covid positive persons. The data base has been built with assistance from the Nation Health Mission, Haryana, and the University of Cambridge, UK.“We have to build our data base further. Larger the data base, more accurate the test will be.” Dr Khosla said. As of now, the tool is being looked at as a means of preliminary screening for suspected cases while sitting at home rather than a clinical diagnosis.C-DAC, which functions under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, is looking for volunteers who are either Covid positive or have been cured to provide their voice and cough samples to build its data base. This can be done online along with providing some basic medical details.The use of the AI in the healthcare sector, including areas such as hospital information, drug management, tele-medicine mobile healthcare and decision support, is among the niche areas C-DAC is working on. eSanjeevani, a nationwide tele-consultation service developed by it during the lockdown period last year, had won the Digital India Award-2020 in the category of “Innovation in Pandemic”.How C-DAC’s Vaani Mitr works The tool, christened Vaani Mitr, developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) in Mohali, only requires people to submit a brief recording of coughing through a mobile phone or a laptop, which is then processed to determine their status in real time. It can be used by anyone at anytime from anywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ai-based-tool-that-can-detect-covid-from-cough-sound-251959
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||MC to bear cremation cost of poor Covid victims||The Municipal Corporation has decided that the cremation charges of poor and needy people in case of death due to Covid-19 will be borne by it.This was decided by Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor, and KK Yadav, MC Commissioner, during a visit to the cremation grounds at Mani Majra, the Industrial Area, Phase 1, and Sector 25. They decided that the cremation charges of the poor would be incurred from the Covid cess.During the visit to the Mani Majra cremation ground, the Mayor asked the sanitary staff to maintain proper cleanliness. The team was apprised by priests that Rs3,000 was being charged for the cremation and Rs1,200 for the “samagri” for bodies of Covid victims and Rs1,500 for the “samagri” in case of non-Covid deaths.City Congress president Subhash Chawla and Leader of the Opposition in the MC House Devinder Singh Babla had raised the issue earlier. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-to-bear-cremation-cost-of-poor-covid-victims-251960
13-05-2021||Naina Mishra||18-45 vaccination begins in Chandigarh, all slots booked in 15 minutes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13The vaccination booking slots in Chandigarh for beneficiaries of the new age group (18-45 years) opened on Thursday at 2:55 pm.In just 15 minutes, the CoWIN portal showed all slots at five different vaccination sites booked.On Wednesday, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, had said, “The slots for booking online appointment will be available from Thursday and would remain open for the next 15 days. Initially, about 1,000 slots will be visible per day. Depending on the response, the slots may be increased later.”The Central Government has allotted 33,000 vaccines to the UT for persons in the age group of 18-45 years. The consignment of Covishield was received by the UT health authorities today. Eligible beneficiaries will be inoculated from May 14. Walk-in vaccination facility will not be available to the beneficiaries under this age group.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said apart from the existing vaccination venues in the government sector, additional sites would be opened in a few schools, exclusively for this age group of beneficiaries.The details of the venues will be intimated individually to the beneficiaries while booking the slot. They may check their time slots online.Meanwhile, private hospitals are to get the vaccine directly from the manufacturers. The Serum Institute of India (SII) has allocated 12,000 doses of Covishield to Chaitanya Hospital for May. The rate at which the vaccine will be available at private hospitals is not known yet.The UT Administration has stated that private hospitals may also start the vaccination drive on a payment basis immediately after the receipt of the jabs. 33K vaccines arrive in cityThe Central Government has allotted 33,000 vaccines for Chandigarh to be administered to persons in the age group of 18-45 years. The consignment of Covishield was received by the UT health authorities on Wednesday.How many slots at which siteWhile 100 slots each will be available for the Maloya HCW Dispensary, the PU Dental College, the PGI and the GMCH-32, 200 slots each will be for a school in Mani Majra, a school in Sector 45 and the GMSH-16 auditorium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-45-vaccination-begins-in-chandigarh-all-slots-booked-in-15-minutes-251961
13-05-2021||Mohali||640 take the vaccine at two drive-through sites||As many as 640 persons in the 45-plus age group were jabbed at the two drive-through vaccination facilities, the District Sports Complex in Sector 78 and Piccadilia in Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, today. While 390 doses were administered at the Sector 78 complex, 250 persons received the vaccine at the Mullanpur facility.The Mohali administration launched the two facilities today where people were inoculated from 10 am to 4 pm.The drive-through option is for those aged above 45, healthcare workers and frontline workers. The registration is being done on the spot. Those wishing to get inoculated have to carry Aadhaar card or any other identity card and a registered mobile phone to the vaccination site. Only two people are allowed in a car. It is a free-of-cost service on first come, first served basis.“For faster movement, beneficiaries’ details, including name, date of birth/age, mobile number and an ID card, should be kept handy. After getting the jab in the car, the vaccinated person will have to wait in his car at the earmarked parking area for the stipulated observation time and would need to just honk to avail medical assistance,” said an official of the Health Department.Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal said, “We have got a good response. Such drive-throughs will continue in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/640-take-the-vaccine-at-two-drive-through-sites-251962
