14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s COVID-19 tally climbs to 54,043 with 650 fresh cases||Chandigarh’s COVID-19 tally mounted to 54,043 with 650 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 617 with eight more fatalities, a medical bulletin stated on Friday.The number of active cases in the Union territory stood at 8,158, it said.So far, 45,268 patients, including 925 who were discharged the previous day, have recovered from the coronavirus in Chandigarh, the bulletin said.A total of 4,54,814 samples have been taken for testing till now. Of these, 3,99,617 samples have tested negative while reports of 69 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-54-043-with-650-fresh-cases-252875
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration launches e-permit for medical oxygen||Chandigarh Administration said on Friday that it was launching an online e-permit system to help COVID-19 patients access medical oxygen at home.The administration said on Friday those who need oxygen cylinders could file an application for e-permits with a doctor’s prescription and proof of address. The application could be submitted to Chandigarh administration’s website chandigarh.gov.in/health_covid19.htm Once the application is approved, the applicant will get an intimation.  The approval will be valid for two days.The e-permit could be downloaded from the website, but a hardcopy isn’t essential and oxygen cylinders could be acquired on the basis of the approved application number.Details of the vendor and charges are as follows:   VendorM/s Super Agencies,40-MW Industrial Area-I , Chandigarh-160002ChargesWith an empty cylinder:Refilling charges: Rs 295 plus 12% GST for each 'D' CylinderWithout an empty cylinder:Refilling charges: Rs. 295, plus 12% GST, for each 'D' CylinderSecurity deposit: Rs. 25,000 for each empty cylinder which will be refunded after deduction of rent  Rs. 100 a per day||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-launches-e-permit-for-medical-oxygen-252848
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Staring at losses, Chandigarh traders want odd-even for shops||Staring at financial losses due to closing down of non-essential shops, traders have urged the UT Administration to reconsider its decision of imposing corona curfew for a longer period in the city.Opposing the decision of the Administration, Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said the Administration should allow non-essential shops to open during the partial lockdown. “When banks, offices and industries are open and people are moving freely, there is no justification in closing down shops,” he said, adding that at least the shops should be allowed to open on the pattern of the Punjab Government on an odd-even basis as traders have a liability to pay rent, salaries, bank interest and other bills. “Also, there is a need for announcing a relief package for the traders,” he said, adding that they had already suffered huge losses during the lockdown period last year.In an appeal, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, urged UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to reconsider the previous decision under the present scenario. “Either there should be a complete lockdown or shops should be allowed to open on an odd-even basis as Chandigarh is the common capital of Punjab and Haryana and the maximum cases are coming from these states,” he said, adding that to break the chain of coronavirus transmission, which is claiming precious lives, this partial lockdown would not solve the purpose.He urged the Administrator to announce some financial aid for traders, who were suffering from huge losses during the pandemic.Meanwhile, Arvind Jain, president, Vyapar Sadan, had suggested that all types of rehri markets and booths (either essential or non-essential) in commercial markets should be allowed to operate from 6 am to noon daily and all SCFs and SCOs (dealing in either essential or non-essential services) should be allowed to operate from 1 pm to 6 pm daily.He said all shops operating in the Industrial Area/ Ram Darbar should be allowed to function from 1 pm to 6 pm on all working days.There should be a total lockdown/curfew from 6.30 pm to 5.30 am on all working days and there should be a total lockdown/curfew on Sundays. No service/trade (either essential or non-essential) should be allowed to operate during this total lockdown and only hawkers/rehrirs should be allowed on Sundays on streets within the sectors from 6 am to noon.“This way, all traders will function, but only half the market will be operational in one time slot,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staring-at-losses-chandigarh-traders-want-odd-even-for-shops-252557
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend curfew to continue in Chandigarh||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration has decided to continue with the weekend curfew in the city. The curfew will remain in force from 5 am on Saturday till 5 am on Monday.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in the city, prohibiting the movement of people, barring a few exemptions. Shops dealing with supply of essential goods such as milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, meat, groceries and bakery products will be allowed to remain open up to 2 pm only for the purpose of home delivery.Kitchens of restaurants/eating places, etc, can remain open for home delivery till 9 pm. Morning walkers will be allowed to go out from 6 am to 9 am. Marriages with prior permission from the SDM concerned, with attendance up to 20 persons, will be allowed. Funerals/last rites with attendance of upto 10 persons are allowed during the weekend curfew. All other previous exemptions have been retained in the imposition of the weekend curfew. Meanwhile, the night curfew will continue to remain in force from 6 pm to 5 am every day.What is allowed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekend-curfew-to-continue-in-chandigarh-252558
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cases dip, so does rush  in hospital emergencies||There has been a constant decline in the daily cases reported from the city for the past four days. City hospitals have been reporting a lesser rush of patients in emergencies as well.The past week saw the number of new infections grow by an average 1.7 per cent a day. For every 100 confirmed cases, 16 are currently infected. The positivity rate is still high at 21 per cent in the city.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “The cases have been declining because of restrictions. The cases will continue to decline till restrictions are in place. We appeal to people that whenever restrictions are eased by the UT Administration, they should follow self-imposed restrictions and must wear a mask so that the decline in cases continues.”“For the past two days, the rush of patients in an emergency has decreased by 30 to 40 per cent. It is too early to predict anything but this has been a little breather to us. Let’s hope that the curve declines henceforth,” said Dr Naveen Pandey, Administrative Head, PGI Emergency.PGI gets some breathing space: DirectorDr Jagat Ram, PGI DirectorIn the past three days, there is some breathing space in our hospital. The city has been witnessing a peak in the daily Covid cases of late. In the past three days, the peak has started to reverse, with daily cases declining. There will be more comfort and breathing space by the end of this month. The curve may take more time to come down than it took to go up in this second wave.Dr Paramjeet Singh, Deputy Medical Superintendent, GMSH-16, said, “Certainly, there has been a decrease in the people reporting to the Emergency for Covid beds and that could be because of the number of cases staying constant for some days now in the city. The Chandigarh Administration initiative to open new Covid facilities with the help of NGOs and social groups in the city may have a role to play as well.”PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said, “In the past three days, there is some breathing space in our hospital. The city has been witnessing the peak in the daily Covid cases of late. In the past three days, the peak has started to reverse, with daily cases declining. There will be more comfort and breathing space by the end of this month. The curve may take more time to come down than it took to go up in this second wave.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-dip-so-does-rush-in-hospital-emergencies-252559
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Slots for 8 days booked in one hour of opening||In just an hour, 8,000 slots for Covid vaccination in the age group of 18-45 years were booked in the city today.The vaccination booking slots for the 18 plus beneficiaries opened at 2:55 pm in the city today. In just 15 minutes, the CoWIN portal showed all slots at five vaccination sites booked. The remaining two centres, including the PGI, opened their slots late but these too were taken up within an hour of the first booking made under the 18-45 age group.Vaccination centres for 18-45 age groupThere will be no vaccination drive on Sunday. A total of 8,000 slots were booked for eight days (May 14 to May 22, excluding Sunday)Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “Now, there is no slot available on the CoWIN portal till May 22 for this age group. There are seven exclusive centres for vaccination. Around 1,000 appointment slots per day were opened on the portal. From tomorrow onwards, people can book their slots at 10 am every day for vaccination on May 23 onwards.”Dr Kang added, “We have got only 33,000 doses and till we get confirmation on further supply, we cannot escalate the drive. However, we have enough doses for those above 45 years. There are about 55,000 doses for this group.”The vaccination for 18 to 45 years age group is purely based on online appointment on CoWIN portal and there is no on-the-spot allocation.The vaccination for the new age group will start at 9 am tomorrow.The vaccination will be available at seven centres — Nehru Hospital Extension (PGI), the GMSH auditorium, Government Model School, Mani Majra, Government Model School-45, Health and Wellness Centre, Maloya, Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences & Hospital, PU, and Block B of the GMCH-32.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/slots-for-8-days-booked-in-one-hour-of-opening-252561
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops unearth int’l drug racket||The UT police claimed to have busted an international drug racket with the arrest of a Chennai resident, who was allegedly trying to send a consignment of 10.24-kg cocaine, concealed in wooden trays, to Australia through a courier. The police claimed that the cocaine was worth Rs100 crore in the international market.The suspect, Ashfaq Rahman (36), today visited a courier company, Excel Worldwide, Industrial Area, Phase II, to send the courier, which included crockery items.While checking the items, employees of the courier company got suspicious when they found that trays were heavier than expected. They noticed a cavity under 14 trays and found something concealed under it. They opened a tray and found some packets hidden there.On getting exposed, the suspect tried to escape. However, he was nabbed. The police were informed, who visited the spot and apprehended the suspect. On verification, cocaine was found concealed under the trays.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said the suspect had arrived in the city alone a week ago and was staying in Sector 26.“The consignment reached the city through a courier from Chennai and it was received at the railway station by the suspect. It was further meant to be sent to Australia,” the SSP said, adding that a huge drug racket had been unearthed.Investigation revealed that the suspect had earlier also visited the city and sent drug consignments through some other courier company.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. The Chennai police have been informed about the suspect’s arrest and his antecedents are being verified. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-unearth-intl-drug-racket-252562
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Woman sublets flat in Sector 39, booked||A woman has been booked by the local police for allegedly subletting a flat in Sector 39. The complaint was filed by the wife of a retired IAS officer.According to the police, complainant Neelam Goyal (70), who is a retired college principal, reported that she was the owner of the flat, which was rented out to Jaya Prajuli in November 2017. The 11-month rent deed was renewed from time to time.She stated that in March last year, she came to know that four girls were residing in her flat. She tried to enquire about it from the tenant, but she did not take her call. The complainant then visited her flat and found Surabhi Gupta, an employee of the Bank of Baroda, Sector 9, residing as a tenant of Jaya. The bank had executed an agreement with Jaya.The complainant was told that Jaya had introduced herself as the owner of the flat and the bank was depositing the rent in Jaya’s bank account. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-sublets-flat-in-sector-39-booked-252563
14-05-2021||---||Nine mini-Covid care centres made operational in the Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Amid a surge in the coronavirus cases, nine mini-Covid care centres have been made operational in different parts of the city for treating Covid patients.An order issued by UT Adviser Manoj Parida states that since beds in the government hospitals at Sector 16 and 32 are almost full, new patients coming for medication and requiring indoor treatment may be sent to these mini-Covid care centres for medication and admission, if need be.Doctors from the attached hospitals will also make periodic inspections of the Covid care centres. The patient will make his/her own arrangement to travel to the centre and will get necessary discharge certificate after cure from the doctor concerned of the centre. Patients can also directly approach the mini-Covid care centres.“More than 100 beds with doctors, nurses and medicines and oxygen facility are available in various mini-Covid care centres set up in city. Any resident can directly approach the centre for diagnosis, medication or admission,” said Parida. All these Covid care centres have professional doctors and nurses available to attend to the patients.They are also providing free food, medicines and necessary care. Many of these centres have arranged for providing oxygen to the patients through cylinders or concentrators.Keeping in view the increasing number of Covid cases, the UT Administration has given a call for setting up mini-Covid care centres voluntarily by any individual, association, voluntary organisation, NGO, religious organisation, corporate, firm or trust for asymptomatic Covid positive patients. Stay, food, medicines and every other facility at the centre will be provided free of cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-mini-covid-care-centres-made-operational-in-the-chandigarh-252564
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records coldest May day in a decade||The city today witnessed its coldest May day in a decade. It recorded a maximum temperature of 29°C, 10 degrees below normal. Before this, it was in 2011 that May saw the maximum temperature dropping to 28.6°C, lower than that recorded today.The Met Department has forecast that the maximum temperature will start increasing from tomorrow and is likely to go up to 36°C by May 16.“There are two main reasons behind it. A long period of western disturbance has been witnessed this time. Though rain activity is there, it still less than what was expected this month. There has been rain in the hills and it has led to a cool breeze in the city. It has further brought down the temperature,” said a Chandigarh Met Department official.According to the weatherman, Friday is likely to see a cloudy sky, while Saturday and Sunday are likely to see a partly cloudy and clear sky, respectively. The minimum temperature in the city today was 21.4°C, one degree below normal. It is expected to increase to 23°C by May 16.The city today recorded 1 mm of rainfall with gusty winds, while yesterday, it had witnessed 2 mm of rainfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-coldest-may-day-in-a-decade-252566
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 10 deaths, 760 fresh cases||8 breathe their last in Mohali, 991 +veMohali: Eight people died due to Covid in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 730. Meanwhile, 991 persons tested positive and 1,702 were cured. TNSFive die in Panchkula, 291 infectedPanchkula: Five more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the district toll to 272. Meanwhile, 291 persons tested positive for the virus, taking the tally to 26,653. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-10-deaths-760-fresh-cases-252567
14-05-2021||Mohali||F&CC gives nod to development works of Rs19.5 cr in Mohali||The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Mohali Municipal Corporation passed development works worth Rs19.50 crore at its first meeting held here today.The F&CC meeting was presided over by Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Commissioner Kamal Garg, Committee members Jasbir Singh Manku, Anuradha Anand and other officials of the MC were among those present in the meeting.Repair of paver blocksThe development works passed by the F&CC include Rs6.50 crore for the repair of paver blocks and curve channels in all 50 wards of Mohali city. Besides, the committee also approved Rs3.33 crore for patchwork on roads of Mohali and applying premix on roads, wherever required.The development works passed by the F&CC include Rs6.50 crore for the repair of paver blocks and curve channels in all 50 wards of the Mohali city. Besides this, the committee also approved Rs3.33 crore for patchwork on the roads of Mohali and applying premix on the roads where required.The F&CC also passed a resolution worth Rs3.35 crore for the installation of three tube wells in Mohali village, Sector 65 and Sector 78, besides purchasing two tractors. The committee also passed resolutions worth Rs20 lakh for the repair of electrical works in Mohali. In addition, Rs65 lakh has been sanctioned for the purchase of generator sets for tube wells in GMADA sectors that do not have canal water supply.Besides this, the committee also passed resolution worth Rs4 crore for joint works, including Rs50 lakh on cremation grounds, Rs1.63 crore for the installation of uniform number plates in all 50 wards of the city. Before the rains, old sheds have to be replaced and new platforms have to be made. This also includes the beautification of triangular green belts, along with Mohali traffic lights, all green belts, works of major parks, including Phase XI Nature Park, and main roads maintenance works.Mayor Amarjit Singh said the development of the city was his top priority and all works were approved with transparency. He said in future, the estimates would be prepared as per the requirements of different wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fcc-gives-nod-to-development-works-of-rs19-5-cr-in-mohali-252568
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt favours Guv as university Chancellor||The Punjab Government has submitted its recommendations regarding governance reforms to the 11-member high-level committee formed by M Venkaiah Naidu, Vice-President of India and PU Chancellor.In one its submissions, the state government has recommended reviewing the set precedent for appointing the Vice-President of India as the Chancellor, Panjab University, and instead has favoured giving the charge to the Punjab Governor.Paramjit Singh, Director of Public Instruction (C), Punjab, has made the submission to Prof RP Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, who is the chairman of the committee. The submission was made on the advice of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.The circular stated: “A meeting under the chairmanship of the CPS/CM was held on April 29 to discuss the issues. The meeting was also attended by the VC, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and others. After discussion on the recommendation of the members (who attended the meeting), the Chief Minister has given the advice on the issues.”The state government had earlier asked the committee not to finalise the draft recommendations on governance reforms. “Suggestions were made to the government regarding the composition of the PU Senate as suggested in draft report of the sub-committee.”A sub-committee had earlier proposed changing the existing structure of 15 registered graduates (elected) and 36 nominated by the Chancellor with four registered post-graduates by election and 18 academicians to be nominated by the Chancellor out of which nine would be appointed in consultation with the Punjab Government.Advice by the stateCommittee membersThe 11-member committee includes Prof RP Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda; Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, (IIM) Amritsar; Prof VS Chauhan, Chairman, Executive Committee, National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC)- Nominee of Chairman, UGC Member; Prof PK Raina, Director, lIT, Ropar; Prof KN Pathak, former Vice-Chancellor, PU; Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU; Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar- Nominee of the Chief Minister, Punjab; Paramjit Singh, DPI (Colleges), Government of Punjab; Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director (Higher Education), Chandigarh Administration; Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor-General of India - Nominee of the Chancellor, Panjab University, and Vikram Nayyar, Registrar, PU, Member Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-govt-favours-guv-as-university-chancellor-252571
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||High Court adjourns Panjab University petition till July 8||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has adjourned the hearing on a petition filed by Panjab University and another petitioner, stating that it was not possible to hold the Senate election on May 19 because of the pandemic, till July.“The matter is being adjourned to July 8 to reassess the situation at that time,” the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Archana Puri asserted. Appearing before the Bench, Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain referred to the notification dated April 16, whereby the schedule for holding the election was set up for April 26. The notification was revised vide another notification dated April 24 and election to the Senate was rescheduled for May 19.However, the notification dated April 19 issued by the Punjab Government barred gathering of more than 20 people in any event. He further stated there were 3,75,500 voters spread over six states. In view of the present situation arising due to Covid-19, it was not possible to hold the election on the date fixed.Appearing before the Bench on behalf of Keshav Malhotra and other respondents, senior advocate RS Cheema stated he was unable to dispute the fact regarding the prevailing pandemic situation.Acting on a petition filed by Prof Keshav Malhotra and others through senior counsel Cheema and advocate R Kartikeya, Justice Fateh Deep Singh had earlier ruled that the orders putting off indefinitely Senate-2020 elections were passed to usurp its powers.“The respondent, being the Vice-Chancellor, to usurp the powers of the Senate appears to have chosen a way out and in this scheme has managed to pass orders, thereby putting off the Senate elections, 2020, indefinitely…,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh had asserted.The Bench had added that the election process was required to be held at the earliest to prevent autocratic governance in the university, affecting its democratic functioning “which could be a scar on its reputation, being one of the oldest and prestigious universities of this country and internationally acknowledged as well”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-adjourns-panjab-university-petition-till-july-8-252572
14-05-2021||Mohali||RBU inks pact with hospital||Rayat Bahra University has signed a memorandum of understanding with Max Super Speciality Hospital for training and placement of nursing students.Dr Parvinder Singh, Vice-Chancellor of the RBU, said the university made sure that every student got a fair chance at achieving their goals by learning from pioneers in the industry concerned.He said the Rayat Bahra University was proud to announce its MoU with Max Super Speciality Hospital. He said the demand for paramedical courses had increased post Covid as nursing professionals now had even a more important role to play.Dr Deepika R Kumar, Director-Principal of the College of Nursing, said nursing occupied the largest bulk of the healthcare force but the biggest challenge posed by this profession was shortage of trained nurses. She expressed optimism that the MoU with Max Super Speciality Hospital would open new vistas for the nursing students not only in practical training but also in placements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbu-inks-pact-with-hospital-252574
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t ‘harass’ women research scholars: Students to authorities||The deadlock between the Panjab University authorities and research scholars continues even after the deadline for vacating hostels was extended.A meeting in this regard was held between hostellers and the PU authorities today. It was mediated by the Chandigarh Police today.Research Scholars demanded that the authorities should not harass female hostel residents or they threatened to make their names public. While authorities maintained that there’s no deadlock on the issue.“We categorically said we will not vacate hostels at any cost. Already, several scholars have left hostels under duress. Female scholars are continuously harassed by the PU authorities. We demand that girls’ hostel canteen must be opened immediately. If the supervisors continue to harass the scholars, their names will be released in the press,” stated in a press commune by SFS.“We are in routine and constant touch with hostellers. As such, there is no deadlock. On an average, about 12 students are leaving the PU hostels on a daily basis. The Chandigarh Police have urged the protesting students to let the willing students go home. The facilitation committee of the PU will look into the genuine concerns of students regarding stay on the campus with due permission of their chairpersons/guides,” said PU spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-harass-women-research-scholars-students-to-authorities-252575
14-05-2021||Panchkula||Jewellery shops open today in Panchkula||In view of the auspicious day of ‘Akshay Tritiya’, the district administration TODAY has allowed opening of all jewellery shops in Panchkula tomorrow.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has issued orders that shops would remain open from 12 noon to 7 pm in strict compliance with the Covid-19 rules. He said during this time, no customer would be allowed to enter the shop without a mask and shopkeepers would ensure proper social distancing inside the shops.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the shopkeepers would sanitise their shop properly and allow the customers to enter by screening them and getting their hands sanitised manually. During this time, shopkeepers will sanitise everything that comes in the touch of public and will strictly follow the Covid-19 norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jewellery-shops-open-today-in-panchkula-252577
14-05-2021||Mohali||On Day 2, 904 inoculated at two drive-through centres||The move to administer Covid-19 vaccine at two drive-through centres in the district is receiving an overwhelming response as 904 persons were inoculated today.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 500 persons were vaccinated at Picadillia – The Theatre Café, Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, while 404 were inoculated at the District Sports Complex near Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara in Sohana, Mohali.In figuresAs many as 12,143 healthcare workers (HCWs) have received the first dose, while 6,208 HCWs got the second jab till date. A total of 1,36,903 frontline workers (FLWs) have got the first jab, while 6,557 FLWs have got the second dose. Similarly, 81 891 persons aged above 45 had got the first dose, while 9,015 had received the second dose. As many as 59,535 persons aged 60 and above have got the first dose, while 13,755 had got the second dose.Dayalan said they were getting good response to the concept of making people sit in their cars and get inoculated without coming out of their vehicle. This was not only saving time of people coming for vaccination but also of the paramedics. It also helped in maintaining social distancing.It is pertinent to mention here that on the first day, 640 persons were vaccinated at the two drive-through vaccination centres in the district. A total of 1,544 persons have been vaccinated at these two drive-through sites in Mohali.As many as 12,143 healthcare workers (HCWs) have received the first dose, while 6,208 HCWs got the second jab till date. A total of 1,36,903 frontline workers (FLWs) have got the first jab, while 6,557 FLWs have got the second dose. Similarly, 81 891 persons aged above 45 had got the first dose, while 9,015 had received the second dose. As many as 59,535 persons aged 60 and above have got the first dose, while 13,755 had got the second dose.Though the Punjab government is yet to start vaccination of 18+ officially, 1,078 persons above the age of 18 have been vaccinated till date. Out of this, 537 persons aged above 18 were administered the vaccine on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-day-2-904-inoculated-at-two-drive-through-centres-252578
14-05-2021||Mohali||Civil, Army officers recce site for 100-bed facility in Mohali||To augment the health infrastructure, officers of the district administration and the Western Command today jointly conducted a recce of a site for setting up a 100-bed facility for Covid-19 patients in Mohali.Divulging details, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “The initial plan is of setting up a makeshift facility. Till the pre-fabricated structure arrives, we intend to commence the facility on the second/third floor of the Civil Hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, in order to provide early respite in the raging pandemic”.Dayalan said the exercise for joint needs assessment had begun and pooling of resources with the Western Command was being worked out so that a well-equipped L2 facility for holistic treatment to Covid-19 patients as per the ICMR guidelines could be set up.Various aspects of the set-up, including site, deployment of doctors, nurses, paramedics, ambulance service, trained personnel for administration and management of the facility and uninterrupted oxygen supply, were being looked into, he said.Dayalan said with the availability of L2/L3 beds hovering around saturation, they seek to make available as many oxygen beds as possible to Covid-19 patients.Rubbishing aside the reports that due to non-commissioning of makeshift hospital in Mohali, the Western Command is now extending support to the Covid facility at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, which will be a loss to natives of Mohali, Dayalan said: “Rajindra Hospital is the government L3 facility attached officially with Mohali and any critical Covid-19 patient from Mohali can be referred to Rajindra Hospital. So, by no means Army supporting Rajindra Hospital is a loss to the people of Mohali. In the meanwhile, we are working towards operationalising a civil-Army joint venture.”Col Jasdeep Sandhu, Director, Civil and Military Affairs, Western Command, also ruled out the idea of sending staff earmarked for one district to another and said the Army would work to provide support to the civil authorities in combating the Covid surge, wherever the need be.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civil-army-officers-recce-site-for-100-bed-facility-in-mohali-252579
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Youth accused of hitting cop with car at naka denied bail||A local court has denied bail to an accused, Paras Arora, facing charges of hitting an ASI of the Chandigarh Police with his car at a naka in Sector 20 here. The police arrested the accused after registering an FIR against him on the statement of Constable Parvesh.As per the FIR, Constable Parvesh, along with ASI Ramesh Chand and other officials, was deployed at a naka in Sector 20, Chandigarh, on April 10, 2021.Parvesh said they were standing at the naka near a petrol pump at the turn of Sector 20-C and D. When ASI Ramesh Kumar signalled a speeding car to stop, the driver drove the vehicle towards him and hit him. The impact of the hit was such that the ASI flung into the air and sustained multiple injuries. The accused fled the spot after the mishap.Navjit Brar, counsel of the accused, claimed that Paras was falsely implicated in the case. He had been behind the bars since April 11, 2021.Brar said the accused was a student of BA (final-year) with no criminal record.He claimed that it was yet to be ascertained if ASI Ramesh Chand suffered injuries after being hit by the applicant’s vehicle as alleged or he was already lying injured there. Brar said as per the record of the General Hospital, ASI Ramesh Chand was discharged and released as “cured” on April 15, 2021. A person with multiple injuries cannot be cured and discharged in 2-3 days.Brar said after a few days of discharge, the ASI succumbed to Covid-19, but his death was being falsely linked to the alleged accident just to project the gravity of offence. He also cited the Supreme Court’s guidelines for release on bail.The public prosecutor argued that the applicant was involved in a case of attempt to murder. He did not deserve the leniency of the court in grant of regular bail. He said the victim expired on May 1, 2021, during treatment. His post-mortem examination report was still awaited. After the receipt of the report, relevant sections were to be added to the present case.After hearing the arguments, Additional Sessions Judge Dr Rajneesh said in view of the grave nature of offence, the court was of the opinion that the applicant did not deserve the discretionary concession of bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-accused-of-hitting-cop-with-car-at-naka-denied-bail-252580
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||UT orders audit of Oxygen cylinders procured by private hospitals||To prevent the misuse of medical oxygen, the UT Administration has ordered an audit of oxygen cylinders procured by private hospitals in the city.Considering an acute shortage of medical oxygen, the UT Administration has rationalised the distribution of oxygen cylinders and also fixed the daily quota for each of the private hospitals.Further, Jagjit Singh, PCS officer, was assigned the charge of coordinating with all private hospitals regarding their availability of beds and supply of medical oxygen.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for managing medical oxygen supply in the UT, said the consumption of each of the private hospitals was examined with regard to its capacity and bed reserved for Covid patients.During the process, it was found that earlier some of the private hospitals were consuming excess quantity of oxygen. One private hospital was taking abnormal quantity of about 400 cylinders per day while another hospital of almost the same capacity was consuming about 90 cylinders only.Senior doctors from government hospitals observed that it seemed almost impossible to consume such quantity even when all patients were on ventilators, he said.Accordingly, the private hospitals had been asked to submit detailed information about the number of beds and oxygen cylinders procured by them from private vendors approved for refilling of oxygen cylinders and other sources from April 1 to May 10, he said.He said a detailed inquiry had also been ordered against procurement of excess cylinders by the private hospital.He said it had also been decided that a team of senior doctors from the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16 would visit private hospitals and government hospitals to educate and sensitise them to optimum utilisation of oxygen, which is a precious commodity.Garg said a team, led by Jagjit Singh, along with Dr Manjit Singh, GMSH-16, and Dr Manpreet Singh, GMCH-32, visited Landmark Hospital, Mukat Hospital and Healing Hospital yesterday to educate and sensitise staff to optimum utilisation of oxygen. Today, the team visited City/Apollo Hospital, Kare Partners Hospital and Santokh Hospital. The team would visit Eden Hospital tomorrow.The team would also visit mini-Covid care centres and government hospitals next week with the same purpose of optimum utilisation of oxygen, he said.The Central Government had fixed the daily quota of 20 MT of medical oxygen for the UT from M/s INOX, Barotiwala, to be utilised for the GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and the Sector 48 Covid hospital. Private health care institutions were also being catered from this quota of oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-orders-audit-of-oxygen-cylinders-procured-by-private-hospitals-252583
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Allow vaccination of 18+ at Sector 21 camp, Chandigarh administration urged||The Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) has requested the UT Administration to allow vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 at a camp in Sector 21.In a letter to the UT Adviser, Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC, stated that FOSWAC and the Residents Welfare Association of Sector 21 were managing a Covid vaccination centre at Pracheen Shiv Mandir/Gurdwara Sahib in Sector 21-C for the past one week.Now that the Administration has announced to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group from May 14 and health officials are allowing only a few centres such as the PGI, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16, he submitted that their camp should be allowed to continue vaccination drive at Pracheen Shiv Mandir/Gurdwara Sahib in Sector 21-C as the space available is quite big to maintain social distancing.“The place is neat and clean and easily accessible to people living in the neighbouring five-six sectors. People feel scared to go to hospitals for vaccination,” he said.“We have made elaborate arrangements for vaccination drive with arrangement of qualified doctors and paramedics so that no additional burden is put on the existing medical staff of the UT Health Department,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-vaccination-of-18-at-sector-21-camp-chandigarh-administration-urged-252584
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Board invites e-bids for sale of 79 dwelling units in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has invited e-bids for the sale of 79 dwelling units on a freehold basis in various sectors of the city.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said the e-bids could be submitted from 10 am on May 17 to 6 pm on May 31. The e-bids would be opened at 10 am on June 1.On April 1, the CHB had invited e-tenders for sale of 109 built-up dwelling units on a freehold basis. However, the Board had received 105 bids for 36 dwelling units.Garg said the highest bidders were required to deposit 25 per cent of the bid amount within five working days. However, six highest bidders could not deposit the 25 per cent amount within the prescribed period. Hence, their EMD amount of Rs2 lakh each had been forfeited. These six dwelling units had been again included in the vacant units.“Now, the CHB is going to sale its 79 built-up residential units on a freehold basis through e-tender,” he said. The units are available in Sector 38 (West), Sector 49, Sector 51 and Sector 63.He said the e-tender process was open to all citizens of India as well as NRIs/PIOs above 18 years of age. The persons already having any property (residential or commercial) could also participate in the e-tender.The e-tenders will be invited separately for each dwelling unit. The e-bid must be above the reserve price and the dwelling unit will be allotted to the highest bidder. The bidders can revise their e-bids, any number of times, till the closure of the bid submission.The dwelling unit can be further sold, alienated, transferred, etc., after the execution of conveyance deed with the CHB, as per law and the transfer policies of the CHB applicable to freehold properties. There will be no restriction on the transfer of the dwelling unit purchased by way of tender on a freehold basis.An EMD of Rs2 lakh for each dwelling unit is to be submitted online through e-tendering portal i.e. https://etenders.chd.nic.in. Bidders can submit their bid only after depositing online EMD. Payments may be deposited by bank transfer using SBI MOPS or RTGS/ NEFT transfer through https://etenders.chd.nic.in portal. In case of unsuccessful e-bids, the EMD will be refunded online to the bidders’ account.Specific details such as unit number, location and reserve price of each of the unit are available on the CHB website www.chbonline.in.During the previous auction, the CHB had received the highest bid of Rs1.05 crore for three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 against the reserve price of Rs86 lakh. Similarly, two more three-bedroom flats in Sector 63 went for more than Rs1 crore against the reserve price of Rs86 lakh.The Board had earned the total revenue of Rs29.41 crore against the total reserve price of Rs26.58 crore of the 36 dwelling units.Due to high cost of flats, in December 2019, the CHB had failed to evince interest in buyers for its 212 properties. To attract buyers, the CHB had to reduce the reserve price of the flats by about 10 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/board-invites-e-bids-for-sale-of-79-dwelling-units-in-chandigarh-252586
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||2 arrested for snatching purse||AUCT writes to Vice-ChancellorChandigarh: The Association of Unaided College Teachers’ (AUCT) has written to the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor raising concern over the non-payment of salaries. The association claimed that several colleges in Punjab affiliated with the PU have not paid salaries. “The colleges are flouting norms framed by the PU Calendar by not giving salaries. Teachers in various districts of Punjab are on performing their duty amid the Covid-19 pandemic. We request the PU authorities to intervene,” said Harjeet Singh, general secretary of the association. TNSSession on citizenshipChandigarh: The Postgraduate Department of Sociology and Charitra Nirman Committee of MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised an online workshop-cum-awareness programme titled ‘Critical Citizenship- Earning and Learning Sensibly’. More than 400 educators, professionals, research scholars and students from across India and from different countries — Jordan, Philippines, Pakistan, Ghana, Bangladesh and Srilanka — registered for the programme. The resource person for the highly enlightening programme was Prof Vinod Chaudhary, Department of Sociology, Panjab University. TNS5 arrested for violating normsPanchkula: The Panchkula police have nabbed four shopkeepers and a mechanic in the district for violating the Covid-19 protocol. The suspects have been identified as Ahmed, a resident of Haripur village in Sector 4, Preetpal, Rohit, Amar Singh and Rajinder Puksh, all residents of Kalka. The police said a case under Sections 188, 269 and 279 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act 2005 had been registered against them for opening their shops under the non-essential category. TNSLiquor smuggling: 4 land in police netPanchkula: The police have arrested for persons for illegally smuggling liquor from various parts of the district. The arrested accused have been identified as Abhishek, a resident of Kharag Mangoli, Rajkumar, a resident of Mahadev Colony in Rampur Seuri near Pinjore, Narender, a resident of Sector 18, Panchkula, and Ankit, resident of Vees Bhareli near Panchkula town. The liquor was seized from the accused. TNSCurbs imposed in 30 more UT areasChandigarh: To prevent further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration on Thursday declared 30 micro-containment zones in the city. District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. The areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 2, 7, 10, 22, 27, 28, 33, 34, 35, 36, 42, 49, 52, Maloya Small Flats, Maloya Colony, Dadu Majra Colony, Ram Darbar, Phase I, and Modern Housing Complex and Mariwala Town in Mani Majra. TNS652 vaccinated at two-day campMohali: The Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 91, Mohali, in association with the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, organised a two-day Covid vaccination drive for area residents. A total of 652 persons were vaccinated against Covid-19. There was a special slot for the inoculation of house maids and other workers in the area. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-snatching-purse-252590
14-05-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh to impose weekend corona curfew from May 15||Chandigarh, May 13The Chandigarh administration has decided to impose weekend corona curfew from 5 am, Saturday (May 15) to 5 am, Monday (May 17).The decision was taken in a War Room meeting held today to review the COVID-19 situation in Chandigarh.No person shall leave their home or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during above said hours.However, certain essential categories shall be exempted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-impose-weekend-corona-curfew-from-may-15-252344
