15-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 660 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday||Chandigarh on Saturday recorded 660 fresh cases of Covid-19 while eight more people succumbed to the infection and 963 recoveries were reported.The active cases in the city now stand at 7,847.The total number of cases in Chandigarh has reached 54,703 while the death toll is 625.As many as 46,231 people have recovered from the virus in the city so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-660-new-cases-of-covid-19-on-saturday-253305
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Charitable centres ease Covid pressure in Chandigarh||A total of 67 patients are being treated in mini-Covid-19 care centres set up by charitable organizations in Chandigarh that help government hospitals ease pressure, a senior official said on Saturday."As many as 67 patients are being treated in four mini Covid care centres. This is an index of philanthropic and charitable attitude of local people," Adviser Manoj Parida told the media here."I salute them for sharing the pressure on government hospitals. Together we can win this battle," he added.Currently, nine such centres with a bed capacity of more than 100 have been working across the city for treating the patients.Any resident can directly approach the centre for diagnosis, medication or admission, said Parida.An order issued by the administration says since beds in the government hospitals at Sectors 16 and 32 are almost full, new patients coming for medication and requiring indoor treatment may be sent to these mini-Covid care centres  for medication and admission, if need be.Doctors from the attached hospitals will also make periodic inspections of the care centres, it said. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charitable-centres-ease-covid-pressure-in-chandigarh-253244
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Youngsters get a shot in the arm, 93% show up||Youngsters turned up in huge numbers today at the vaccination centres to receive their first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. The day saw a high turnout of 93 per cent of those who had registered for the jab today in the 18 to 44 age group.No walk-ins allowedThe drive received a very good response. Only pre-booked appointment- based vaccinations took place. No walk-ins were allowed.— Dr Amandeep Kang, DHS, UTDr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, said, “The UT Administration launched the vaccination drive for 18 plus today. We received a very good response and only pre-booked appointment based-vaccinations took place. There were 1,000 appointment slots and 929 got vaccinated. There were 61 people who missed their appointment due to personal reasons. No walk-ins were allowed. Proper social distancing was ensured by the vaccination centres by managing the crowd and the vaccination process went on smoothly.”Dr Kang said, “The response in the 18 to 44 age group was heartening as all young people were calm, followed social distancing and wore masks. There were no arguments.”A few centres were dotted with long queues as beneficiaries turned up in the first slot, which started at 9 am.Amarinder Singh, a resident, said, “People were not uniformly divided for the slots for the day. My number was 72 in the 9 to 10 am slot. There was a long queue after me. There must have been 100 people in that slot. The waiting area was changed when they saw the rush.”Mohit Gupta, another resident, said, “I went to a school in Mani Majra. The experience was good because in a hospital, there is routine rush and social distancing is difficult to maintain. Space is not an issue in schools.”Aman Aloon, another resident, said, “By and large, it was managed well at the GMSH-16, except for the fact that around 25 of us were huddled in a tiny AC room. On raising this medical negligence with the staff, I was allowed to sit outside.”Sunila, a mother, said, “I took my daughter for vaccination at the GMSH. Doctors, nurses and security guards ensured proper social distancing and hygiene there.”84-day gap must between 2 dosesIn line with the Central Government guidelines, people who are waiting to get the second dose after a gap of 45 days will not be vaccinated now as the gap has been extended to 84 days, said Dr Amandeep Kang. She said Cowin will not accept those with less than an 84-day gap between the two doses from Saturday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youngsters-get-a-shot-in-the-arm-93-show-up-253066
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Deep-rooted’ drug racket, suspect was to get ‘Rs5 lakh’||Chennai resident Ashfaq Rahman (36) had also sent a drug consignment concealed in healthcare products from Chandigarh to Australia through a courier around three months ago.Names another Chennai person, gets 10-day remandChennai resident Ashfaq Rahman (36), who was arrested on Thursday, has revealed the name of another Chennai-based person, saying that he had handed over the cocaine consignment to him. He was produced in a court and remanded in 10-day police custody.Rahman, who was arrested yesterday, has revealed the name of another Chennai-based person, saying that he had handed over the 10.24-kg cocaine consignment to him. He was produced in a court today and remanded in 10-day police custody.A cop said the suspect had sent drugs to Australia three months ago as well through a courier company in Sector 22. However, it was sent to a person with a different name. “We are verifying from the company as to how much the courier weighed and on which address it was sent. We will also check if the suspect had visited the courier office alone and the identity used to send the courier abroad,” said a cop.A police team will soon leave for Chennai to trace the man who had reportedly handed over the consignment to the suspect. “His arrest will further provide information about people involved in this deep-rooted international drug racket,” said the official.During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he was supposed to get Rs5 lakh for the job. The police are also trying to trace the Ludhiana resident on whose identity the suspect was trying to send the courier to Australia.Yesterday, the suspect had visited a courier company to send the courier, which included crockery items. While checking the items, staff of the company got suspicious on finding the trays heavier than expected. They noticed a cavity under the trays and found some packets containing cocaine hidden there after which the police were informed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deep-rooted-drug-racket-suspect-was-to-get-rs5-lakh-253067
15-05-2021||Mohali||10 succumb, record 1,942 cured in Mohali||Two deaths, 418 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: Two more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the district toll to 274. A 36-year-old man from Kalka and a 37-year-old man from Pinjore died due to the disease. Meanwhile, 418 persons tested positive for the virus, taking the tally to 27,071. TNSEight die, 650 test positive for virus in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city reported eight deaths and 650 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday. The active cases now stand at 8,158. As many as 925 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-succumb-record-1-942-cured-in-mohali-253068
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh Covid patients at home can have access to oxygen cylinders||Now, Covid patients recuperating at home in the city can have access to medical oxygen cylinders.Where to applyhttp://chandigarh.gov.in/health_covid19.htmCylinder providerM/s Super Agencies, 40-MW, Industrial Area-I, Chandigarh; Mobile: 9888035000; e-mail: superchandigarh@gmail.comHow much to payRefilling chargesCost of new cylinderTaking notice of problems being faced by patients, who were prescribed oxygen at home but finding it difficult to get it from the market, the UT Administration, with the assistance of the National Informatics Centre (NIC), has developed a facility where the patients can obtain online e-permit for oxygen cylinder.Yashpal Garg, the nodal officer for oxygen supplies in the UT, said applications for e-permit could be submitted on the website of the Chandigarh Administration from 11 am on Sunday. He said a prescription of the doctor for requirement of oxygen and any address proof of Chandigarh were required to be uploaded at the time of submitting the application.“The applicant will be intimated once the application is approved; the approval will be valid for two days. Though e-permit may be downloaded from the website, hard copy is not required to obtain a cylinder. The maximum two cylinders may be procured on the basis of the approved application number,” he said, adding that the cylinders would be provided by M/s Super Agencies, Industrial Area-I, Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarh-covid-patients-at-home-can-have-access-to-oxygen-cylinders-253070
15-05-2021||---||Some cheer amid Covid gloom: 2 Bengal Tiger cubs born at zoo||Mohali, May 14Diya, a white tigress, delivered two Bengal Tiger cubs at Chhatbir zoo on May 8.“Diya is an eight-year-old white tigress while the sire is a Bengal Tiger, Aman, aged nine. Diya had delivered three cubs in 2019. The two newborn cubs are absolutely fine and under the nurture of Diya,” said Harpal Singh, Range Officer-cum-Zoo Education Officer, Chhatbir Zoo.Meanwhile, an 18-month-old female cub delivered by Diya passed away at the zoo on May 9. It was born with two other male tigers in 2019. According to its postmortem report, it was a natural death. The cub tested negative for Covid-19 and SARS-CoV-2.All other carnivores at the zoo had been screened for Covid-19 and SARS-CoV-2, said zoo officials.On May 7, all zoo employees were tested for Covid-19. All zookeepers and animal handlers tested negative for the virus. A vaccination camp was held for 219 employees of the zoo on May 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/some-cheer-amid-covid-gloom-2-bengal-tiger-cubs-born-at-zoo-253071
15-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court upholds reallotment of plot in Aerocity scheme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has upheld the reallotment of a residential plot in the Aerocity scheme to an allottee, who could not deposit the initial amount following unfortunate circumstances.The 2015 orderThe judgment is significant as one of the grounds taken by Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to challenge the order of reallotment after condoning the delay in the payment of initial money was that the property prices had escalated.The Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Archana Puri ruled that increase in the price of a plot was no ground to act against the allotteeThe matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after the GMADA Estate Officer filed a petition for quashing an order dated December 24, 2015, passed by the Revisional Authority-cum-Additional Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Department of Housing and Urban Development.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the Additional Secretary had set aside the cancellation of letter of intent by condoning the delay in depositing 15 per cent of the tentative price of the plot.The Bench was also told that a letter of intent was issued to Bachittar Kaur after she was successful in the draw of lots for a plot measuring 125 square yards. She was required to deposit 15 per cent of the total amount within 30 days from the issuance of the letter.In an affidavit, she specifically stated that her husband was bitten by a stray dog, following which he was treated at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. Thereafter, she met with an accident and suffered grievous injuries.The Bench observed that the competent authority, GMADA, accepted a demand draft dated January 13, 2020, for Rs29,93,378 after reallotment of the plot and during the pendency of the writ petition.The Bench added: “A perusal of the order shows that the authority had taken the right decision in condoning the delay in depositing 15 per cent of the tentative price of plot…. No ground to interfere in the order dated December 24, 2015, is made out as the competent authority exercised its power to condone the delay in exceptional circumstances and restore the plot”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-upholds-reallotment-of-plot-in-aerocity-scheme-253072
15-05-2021||---||Zade to be UT Finance Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14After over eight months, the UT Administration will get a Finance Secretary. The Central Government has approved the appointment of Vijay Namdeorao Zade, a 2002-batch IAS officer of the Punjab cadre, to the post for a period of three years.The post was lying vacant since September 1, 2020, after Punjab-cadre IAS officer Ajoy Kumar Sinha was relieved of the charge on the completion of his deputation with the UT Administration.Most of the departments under him were given to Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home), in addition to his existing departments.Meanwhile, the three-year deputation of Arun Kumar Gupta, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer of the 1992 batch, and the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, KK Yadav, a Punjab-cadre IAS officer of the 2003 batch, with the Administration will end this month.The Haryana Government had earlier sent a panel of three IAS officers to succeed Gupta. The panel included the names of Nitin Kumar Yadav (2000 batch), Ravi Pankaj Agarwal (2000 batch) and Vinay Singh (2003 batch).Meanwhile, the Punjab Government had sent a panel of three IAS officers — Anindita Mitra, Amit Kumar and Rajiv Prashar — to succeed Yadav as the MC Commissioner.As the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is yet to finalise the names for the posts of Home Secretary and the MC Commissioner, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had sought three-month extension in service for both officers amid the continuous rise in number of Covid-19 cases.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said extension in service was sought for both officers as it would not be the right decision to replace the officers in the present Covid circumstances. He, however, said they were yet to receive approval in this regard from the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zade-to-be-ut-finance-secretary-253073
15-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||In two weeks, Mohali sees 24.36% rise in Covid deaths||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 14In view of a surge in coronavirus cases, Mohali district has witnessed 24.36 per cent increase in deaths due to Covid in the past two weeks. As many as 740 deaths have been reported till Friday against 595 fatalities reported till April 30.In figuresThe district also witnessed 27.81 per cent increase in positive cases in the same period. As many as 59,524 cases were reported against 36,944 infections reported till April 30.There was 20.85 per cent increase in active cases. There were 10,914 active cases till Friday evening against 9,031 cases till April 30.However, there was a marginal increase of around one percent in recovery rate. The district today recorded 80.42 per cent recovery rate against 79.33 per cent on April 30.As many as 3,644 patients recovered from the virus in the past two days. The number of cured persons had gone up from 36,944 to 47,870 till date.According to rough estimates, around 30 per cent people, mostly youngsters, are stepping out of their homes without masks to visit markets and other places. The district police had been challaning people who were seen without face mask and are venturing on roads without any purpose.A senior official of the Health Department said increase in the death rate was due to a large number of cases surfacing from the district and the deceased were suffering from comorbidities. He said people were taking the pandemic lightly and were getting admitted to the hospital only after their condition deteriorated. He said if people develop any symptom, they should immediately go for Covid testing so that proper treatment could be given to them on time which would help in reducing the fatalities.It is pertinent to mention here that the district administration had already doubled the penalty from Rs500 to Rs1000 for not wearing face mask and spitting in public places for each violation. Any violations will invite criminal proceedings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-two-weeks-mohali-sees-24-36-rise-in-covid-deaths-253077
15-05-2021||Mohali||Mohali police launch food helpline for Covid patients||Mohali SP (City) Harvinder Virk and SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur launched a food helpline for Covid patients at Sohana, Zirakpur and Dhakoli police stations today. Poor and destitute Covid patients in Punjab can call at helpline numbers 181 and 112 and the police would provide food free of cost at their home. Officials said depending on the need, the service could be expanded to six more police stations.SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said the poor and helpless Covid patients need food and water. The police are also liaising with the kitchens and delivery agents for this purpose.15 calls received in Zirakpur, 3 in SohanaZirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said they received 15 calls on Friday and the food was distributed to the callers in half an hour. Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said they received three calls on Friday and the food was delivered to the needy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-launch-food-helpline-for-covid-patients-253078
15-05-2021||---||Nine murder accused sent to judicial custody||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 14Nine youths, who were accused of murdering a Kharag Mangoli resident on May 5, were produced before a court today, which remanded them to judicial custody.The police arrested six persons identified as Deepak, Mohammad Usman, Vishal, Arjun, Rajiv, Vinay, all residents of Kharag Mangoli, on Thursday. The police had arrested three suspects identified as Gaurav, Amit and Anil, also residents of Kharag Mangoli on May 8. They were on five-day police remand.The police said Kajal, a resident of Kharag Mangoli, in her complaint on May 6, had stated that her husband, Karan, went out for a walk late in the evening outside their house. Around 12 youths, including the six arrested yesterday, had a brawl over some issue. The suspects started beating her husband. One of the youths attacked her husband with a knife. Later, the accused threw him in the bushes nearby. The police reached the site after receiving information.A case was registered against the unidentified persons. During investigation, the police arrested three youths who revealed the names of other six suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-murder-accused-sent-to-judicial-custody-253080
15-05-2021||---||Mohali appoints 8 officers to assist people in last rites||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 14The district administration here has appointed eight officers to help people cremate/bury their kin dying of Covid-19.“Losing a loved one is very hard. We are here for you. There are dedicated officers to help you with cremations/burials,” read a message posted by Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on his twitter handle.The administration informed that eight officers had been appointed area wise to render assistance to the distressed families.People in Mohali can call Sukhwinder Singh (98822-01787) for help, while those living in Kharar can reach Balbir Singh Dhaka (82840-018197) and Hardarshanjit Singh (96460-05032).Varinder Singh (88552-05032) has been assigned to help people in Zirakpur.Jung Bhadur (97803-31900) in Lalru, Ashok Kumar (96288-00004) in Banur, Rishab Garg (98880-00241) in Dera Bassi, Ram Gopal (97800-21299) in Naya Gaon, and Sher Singh (97800-25188) in Kurali will extend help to those in need.A central helpline number – 94637-75070 – has also been created in case the family in distress cannot reach out to the nodal officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-appoints-8-officers-to-assist-people-in-last-rites-253084
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||SDM orders FIR against 2-wheeler showroom in UT||SDM (East) Ruchi Singh has ordered the registration of an FIR against a motorcycle showroom in the Industrial Area here for violating the curfew norms.During checking, a showroom of Jawa motorcycle was found open. The SDM immediately ordered the registration of a case against the showroom.The UT Administration has imposed strict restrictions to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the city under Section 188 of the IPC where all shops dealing in non-essential items to remain closed till 5 am on May 18. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sdm-orders-fir-against-2-wheeler-showroom-in-ut-253091
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 23 more areas||Two nabbed with liquor in cityChandigarh: The UT police arrested two persons while possessing liquor on May 13. Sukhwinder Singh of Bathinda was nabbed while carrying 36 bottles of rum in his car. He was arrested from the Sector 23 market. In another incident, Manoj Kumar of Sector 29, was arrested with 15 quarters from near the Sector 29/30 light point. Meanwhile, an unknown person fled after leaving his car nearHallo Majra. The vehicle had 168 bottles of whisky. Cases have been registered against the suspects. TNS110 rly staffers vaccinatedChandigarh: Northern Railway, Ambala Division, started a special vaccination drive at Chandigarh railway station. A total of 110 staffers got vaccinated on Friday, said Divisional Manager GM Singh. The staff of all departments, along with coolies and GRP personnel, working at Chandigarh station received their first dose, he said. TNSTwo held with narcotic pillsMohali: The police have arrested two suspects with 11,750 narcotic pills in Kharar. A case has been registered against Amit Kumar, a resident of Balongi, and his accomplice Vijay Kumar, alias Bablu, a resident of Phase 5, at the Balongi police station.Six tocilizumab vials stolenPatiala: Six vials of immunosuppressive drug tocilizumab, which is used in the treatment of Covid-19, have been allegedly stolen from the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital here. A case was registered after the hospital authorities reported the incident to the police. Surbhi Malik, in-charge, Covid ward, said they had also set up a committee for an internal inquiry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-23-more-areas-253101
