16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 10 deaths and 635 Covid cases||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 10 deaths and 664 Covid-19 cases, taking the Union Territory's total death count to 635. The city's coronavirus count stands at 55,367. About 857 patients have recovered from the deadly disease in the last 24 hours.The figure includes six deaths of Covid positive cases due to other reasons. 7,644 cases remain active. Notification:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-10-deaths-and-635-covid-cases-253766
16-05-2021||New Delhi||Chandigarh dentist asks SC to order probe against NCB chief Rakesh Asthana||The Supreme Court would hear after four weeks a plea by a dentist who has challenged the Delhi High Court order dismissing his petition seeking directions to the Centre, Central Vigilance Commission and CBI to probe and launch prosecution on his complaint against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) chief Rakesh Asthana.The plea against the high court’s order came up for hearing on May 13 before a bench of Justices UU Lalit and BR Gavai.“At the request of the counsel for the petitioner, the matter is adjourned for four weeks,” the bench said in its May 13 order.The high court had on February 15 dismissed the plea filed by Chandigarh resident Dr Mohit Dhawan, who had sought directions to the Centre, CVC and CBI to investigate and launch criminal prosecution on his complaint against Asthana.The high court had rejected the plea with a cost of Rs 20,000 to be paid by the petitioner in favour of the Delhi High Court Legal Services Committee.In his plea filed in the apex court, Dhawan has claimed that the high court had erred in not appreciating that CVC has failed in “dispensing its constitutional duty” cast upon it by its “disappointing act of total inaction by just sitting over” the criminal complaint submitted by him against the senior IPS officer under the provision of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The plea alleged that the high court had not appreciated that both the CVC and CBI have failed to adjudicate upon the criminal complaints filed by the petitioner.The dentist had earlier moved the apex court seeking directions to investigate and launch criminal prosecution against Asthana, who also heads the BSF, on the basis of his allegations.However, he had on February 8 withdrawn the plea from the apex court and said that he would approach the high court to pursue the remedy. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dentist-asks-sc-to-order-probe-against-ncb-chief-rakesh-asthana-253722
16-05-2021||Dera Bassi||Four held with fake currency||Eleven disobey DM’s order, heldChandigarh: Ten FIRs have been registered at different police stations under Section 188 of the IPC for breaking Covid guidelines. Eleven persons were arrested from different parts of the city while roaming without pass/permit, disobeying orders of DM, UT, on Friday. They were later released on bail. TNS2 motorcycles stolen from cityChandigarh: A Khudda Jassu resident, Gopal, reported that unknown person stole his motorcycle from near his house on the night of April 28. A case has been registered at the Sarangpur police station. In another case, Kharar resident Jaskaran Singh reported that an unknown person stole his motorcycle near the Sector 22-B market on May 5. A case has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-held-with-fake-currency-253531
16-05-2021||---||Mohali DC marks inquiry against private hospital||Mohali, May 15Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today marked an inquiry into the allegations of overcharging by a Zirakpur-based private hospital and denial to give the body to the family without clearance of bills, levelled by the family of a deceased Covid-19 patient.A three-member committee comprising the local SDM, DSP and the SMO has been constituted to probe the matter and asked to submit a report within 24 hours.Paramjit Singh, 39, who was suffering from severe pneumonia because of Covid, was admitted to New Life Line Hospital, Zirakpur, on April 26. On May 10, the patient’s family obtained “left against medical advice” (LAMA) from New Life Line Hospital to transfer the patient to the Mukut hospital in Sector 34, Chandigarh. An ambulance of the Mukut hospital couldn’t take the patient as in the process of shifting him, his condition deteriorated. Given the urgency of the situation, the patient was retained in the same hospital and he died on May 14, said officials concerned.Sanbir Kapoor, deceased’s relative, said: ‘’The doctor, Muneesh Goel, was reluctant to release the patient.’’After the death of the patient, his attendant had a heated argument with the hospital staff. In the ensuing scuffle, an LED TV of the hospital was broken. The patient’s relatives accused the hospital authorities of not providing proper care to the patient and raising exorbitant bills. They alleged that the hospital authorities refused to hand over the patient’s body and asked the family to clear the bills first.Meanwhile, the hospital authorities claimed that no substandard treatment was provided to the patient. He was in a critical condition and unfortunately passed away. In fact, they issued LAMA to the family at the latter’s behest and readmitted the patient when his admission to the other hospital did not materialise. They claimed the bills were as per GoP norms, the 19-day stay on ventilator on capped rates and over Rs3 lakh as charges for the room.Zirakpur SHO Omkar Brar rushed to the spot on receiving a complaint and controlled the situation. The body was handed over to the patient’s family and he was cremated the same day.The Deputy Commissioner said the bills raised by the hospital were being examined by the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dc-marks-inquiry-against-private-hospital-253527
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||10 oxygen concentrators donated||Social worker Karan Gilhotra, president of the Hockey Chandigarh, in association with Ease My Trip, donated 10 oxygen concentrators to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for needy citizens of the city. Gilhotra said depending upon the situation, more concentrators would be arranged for the city. He donated the concentrators at the Punjab Raj Bhawan in the presence of Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-oxygen-concentrators-donated-253524
16-05-2021||Mohali||Mohali Mayor Jeeti inaugurates Rs 65 lakh development works||Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu inaugurated development works worth Rs65 lakh in different areas of the district.These include footpath work in Army flats, Phase 2, construction of a walking track in the neighbourhood park, Phase 6, and beautification of the Industrial Area park near Sector 57.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present.The Mayor said Rs32 lakh would be spent on the beautification of a park in the Industrial Area, Rs18 lakh on the construction of a walking track in the Phase 6 neighbourhood park and Rs15 lakh would be spent on the footpath work in Army flats, Phase 2.He said this was for the first time that the work was being carried out by the Municipal Corporation in Army flats. Earlier, work in societies was not carried out by the MC and Army flats were under Joginder Vihar Society.He said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu took up the matter with the Punjab Government and took over the affairs of Mohali societies under the Municipal Corporation, which was a relief for residents of the societies. Now, development work was being carried out by the Municipal Corporation in all societies of Mohali.Jeeti Sidhu said a walking track would be constructed in the neighbourhood park, Phase 6. Beautification work of the park in the Industrial Area would be started immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mayor-jeeti-inaugurates-rs-65-lakh-development-works-253522
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Reserve 10 beds at makeshift hospital on PU campus: PUTA||After demanding inclusion of teachers and others as frontline warriors for Covid vaccination drive, the Punjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has now written a letter to the Punjab Governor for reserving a minimum of 10 beds in the recently set-up 100-bed Western Command Hospital, Sector 25, PU Campus, for employees (teachers and non-teachers), along with their dependents, research scholars and students, who are entitled to services at the PU health centre.“We applaud the setting up of a 100-bed hospital at the International Hostel on the PU campus. It is humbly submitted that a large number of PU employees, including teaching and non-teaching, and their families have already been infected by Covid-19. Some of them have even fallen prey to the virus. Under the circumstances, it is requested that at least 10 beds may be reserved,” said a commune issued by PUTA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reserve-10-beds-at-makeshift-hospital-on-pu-campus-puta-253521
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Divider on Industrial Area road irks bizmen||Businessmen in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, are a harried lot due to a divider that has come up on the road from the SDM East office to the Poultry Farm chowk.A team, including industrialists Rakesh Aggarwal, Akshay Chugh and Avi Bhasin from the Laghu Udyog Bharati, recently met the UT Chief Engineer and requested him to provide cuts between the road divider. They said the cuts were required to enter the units on both sides of the main road. Without cuts in the divider, the industrial traffic would have to take a long route that might create pressure on traffic lights near the tube well and Colony No. 4 entry road.They were directed to meet the DTP, who visited the site and assured the industrialist of a revision in the divider plan. However, the construction was nearing completion without any change, said the businessmen. They also said the roads in the area were in a shambles.UT Chief Engineer CB Ojha said the drawings of the divider were being examined by the Urban Planning Department and they were waiting for their approval. They had also sought comments of the SSP (Traffic) in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/divider-on-industrial-area-road-irks-bizmen-253519
16-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||55 to undergo Covid-19 test at 2 Panjab varsity hostels today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 15The UT Health Department will conduct testing of students (hostellers), staff, mess workers and others at two girls’ hostels (hostel number 1 & 2) at Panjab University tomorrow after Covid cases surfaced from one of the hostels here.Mandatory testing of 55 persons will be held on Sunday as the PU authorities have been asked to submit the data of students, staff, workers and their contacts. The authorities maintained that some students were found to Covid positive in addition to previously reported cases among staff and workers.“After the cases surfaced, we wrote to the PU CMO, who further brought it to the notice of the UT Health Department. As per protocol, the Health Department will conduct testing of residents, workers and staff of these two hostels. Cases were reported from girls’ hostel number 2 and students were having their meal in the common mess in girls’ hostel number 1,” said an official, seeking anonymity.Source said: “The rest of the procedure (to isolate or let go students to their respective hometowns) will be considered as per the directions of the Health Department. A total of 55 persons will undergo this mandatory test. They all have to appear for the test and a list has already been prepared.”“A total of seven out of 18 staff members and two students are reported to be facing problems since April 19. Out of the seven, four had rejoined the duty but they were facing post-Covid complications and the remaining are infected and quarantined. Two girl students left the hostel together on May 12 and one of them has informed to be reported positive (on May 13) after reaching home, while there’s no information about another girl,” said an official of the medical team.“An attendant, who tested Covid positive yesterday, came in contact with several hostel staff, canteen workers and residents of the hostel. She also came in contact with the protesting students on May 12 while serving them water. Residents of other hostels also come to these two hostels, which increases the possibility of further spread,” said the PU spokesperson.‘Vacate hostel premises’PU Dean Student Welfare (DSW) Prof SK Tomar issued an appeal to hostellers for vacating the premises. The students were asked to leave before May 15 to which they have already refused. “Hostel residents should go back to their homes for their safety. In order to break the transmission chain, it’s hereby again advised that those who are still staying in hostels should go back. It’s in the larger interest of all of us and for the safety of residents and staff. Several hostel cleaners, attendants, gardeners and mess canteen workers, including wardens and office staff, contracted infection in the past few days. The administrative block, Vice-Chancellor’s office and some other departments/buildings have been closed for few days,” said Tomar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-to-undergo-covid-19-test-at-2-panjab-varsity-hostels-today-253515
16-05-2021||Panchkula||Three succumb in Panchkula, 210 contract virus||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-succumb-in-panchkula-210-contract-virus-253512
16-05-2021||Mohali||Eight die, 535 infected in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-die-535-infected-in-mohali-253510
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Water wastage: 1,134 notices, 156 challans issued in one month||The Municipal Corporation has issued 1,134 notices and 156 challans for water wastage in the city in the past one month. Three water meters were also disconnected.The annual inspection drive, which started on April 15, will go on till June 30 in view of shortage of water during the summer.What invites penaltyWatering of lawns, washing of courtyards and vehicles with a hosepipe is prohibited. Misuse of water in any other form such as overflow from overhead/underground water tanks, leakage in water meter chamber, leakage and overflow from desert coolers, installation and use of booster pump on water supply line and wastage due to non-installation of bib taps attract penalty.Teams of various departments of the MC have been formed for the purpose. The teams visit various localities in the early morning hours. If wastage is detected at some place, the owner of that house is served a notice. He or she is asked to fix the problem. In case it is not done, the owner is issued a challan with a penalty of Rs5,000. The water connection of repeat violators is disconnected.The UT Administration had increased the fine for water wastage from Rs2,000 to Rs5,000 through a notification on the water tariff hike in September last year.The civic body is also mulling over continuing its challan drive throughout the year after Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma proposed it.Watering of lawns, washing of courtyards and vehicles with a hosepipe is prohibited. Misuse of water in any other form such as overflow from overhead/ underground water tanks, leakage in water meter chamber, leakage and overflow from desert coolers, installation and use of booster pump on water supply line and wastage due to non-installation of bib taps attract penalty. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-wastage-1-134-notices-156-challans-issued-in-one-month-253509
16-05-2021||---||Chandigarh imposes curbs in 28 more areas||Chandigarh, May 15To prevent a further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration today declared 28 micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the new micro-containment zones would be conducted. Residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene, he added.The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 19, 20, 29, 33, 37, 41, 44, 45, 46, 48, 51 and 63, Dadu Majra Colony, Maloya village, Daria, Ram Darbar, Phase I, Railway Colony (Daria), Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran), Mauli Jagran Complex, Mauli Jagran, Modern Housing Complex, Pipliwala Town and Bank Colony in Mani Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-imposes-curbs-in-28-more-areas-253508
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||271 air purifiers for Covid care centres, hospitals||Molekule Inc USA in partnership with Panjab University (PU) will distribute 271 air purifiers in various hospitals of Chandigarh and Punjab and Covid care centres in the city.Prof Raj Kumar, PU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Ganga Ram Chaudhary, Director, SAIF/CIL, and Dr Rajeev Kumar from Environment Studies, received 271 Molekule air purifier units.Dr Jaspreet Singh Dhau, PU’s alumni and Head of R&D at Molekule Inc USA, demonstrated assembling air purifier to the technical staff members of the SAIF/CIL through online mode.“Covid is known to be transmitted from person to person by exposure to aerosolised respiratory droplets. This makes adequate indoor air purification and ventilation extremely critical. We hope that Molekule devices will add an extra layer of protection for air in hospitals, clinics and health centres in India,” said Dhau. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/271-air-purifiers-for-covid-care-centres-hospitals-253507
16-05-2021||---||Chandigarh gets Oxygen concentrators||Chandigarh, May 15To provide better healthcare facilities to Covid-19 patients, the UT has for the first time received a consignment of 89 oxygen concentrators and 20 ventilators.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said the Administration had raised the demand with the Centre for supply of oxygen concentrators, medicines and ventilators to avoid any eventuality, as with the rise in the number of coronavirus cases, there was a need to ramp up the health infrastructure to save precious lives.He said today, they received a set of 89 oxygen concentrators, which were received in donation by the Centre. All concentrators, including 73 of 10-litre capacity and 16 of 5-litre capacity, were handed over to the Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, for use in the government hospitals in the city, he added.Dr Amandeep Kang, DHS, said they would use the concentrators in the GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and the Civil Hospital in Sector 45 to decrease the load on liquid oxygen. Meanwhile, Chandigarh has also been allotted 20 additional ventilators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-oxygen-concentrators-253506
16-05-2021||---||Chandigarh to conduct oxygen audit of government hospitals||Chandigarh, May 15To prevent potential misuse and ensure optimum use of available oxygen, the UT Administration has decided to carry out an oxygen audit of the government hospitals as well as the mini-Covid care centres in the city. The authorities have already started the audit of oxygen cylinders procured by the private hospitals from the UT quota.With a surge in Covid-19 cases, the demand for medical oxygen has increased. The Administration has decided to carry out an audit of oxygen after receiving reports of its misuse.The UT Administration has reduced the refundable amount for the B-Type cylinder to Rs10,000 while for the D-Type cylinder, it will remain Rs25,000 for the time being.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for management of oxygen supply in UT, said they decided to include the government hospitals and mini-Covid care centres in the audit being carried out at private hospitals for optimal utilisation of the life-saving gas. The private hospitals had already been directed to provide the number of oxygen cylinders procured by them from April 1 to May 10 vis-à-vis the bed capacity.The Central Government has fixed UT’s daily quota of medical oxygen at 20 metric tonne (MT), to be utilised for the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, and the Covid hospital in Sector 48. Private hospitals are also being catered to from this quota.Oxygen managementConsidering incidents of death in some hospitals in other parts of the country either due to the delay in supply of oxygen or a dip in oxygen pressure, the Administration has decided that while increasing beds in the hospital, especially the ICU ones, the aspect of oxygen supply and maintenance of its pressure needs to be taken into account. Also, there should be a proper system of de-icing vaporisers. A permanent arrangement such as sprinklers/showers, etc, should be put in place immediately. Bypass for vaporisers will have to be provided so that these can be used alternatively to avoid any incident due to possible choking.Staff deployed on duty of oxygen supply should be immediately provided gasman kits. All oxygen points to be got checked from technician to ensure there is no leakage and these are properly closed after use.11 E-permits for cylinders issuedTill 7 pm on Saturday, the UT Administration received a total of 12 online applications for oxygen cylinder of which 11 were approved. One was rejected, as the application was devoid of prescription from a doctor. The Administration has started issuing online e-permits for procurement of oxygen cylinders at home to patients who have a prescription from a doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-conduct-oxygen-audit-of-government-hospitals-253505
16-05-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Expect some relief in curfew||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 15After nearly a fortnight, residents of the city are likely to get some relaxation in corona curfew from the next week.With a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the UT Administration is mulling over providing some conditional relief so that the residents could meet their requirements.Eight deaths, 660 new cases in UTChandigarh: The city reported eight deaths and 660 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. The active cases now stand at 7,847 and the toll 625. As many as 963 patients recovered from the disease during the past 24 hours. TNSAn official said the Administration could allow the opening of shops dealing in non-essential commodities on an odd-even basis or could allow all shops to open for three or four days. However, the night curfew and weekend lockdown were likely to continue further, he added.Suffering losses, traders had requested the UT Administration to reconsider its decision of imposing corona curfew for a longer period in the city. They had stated that they were yet to recover from losses they suffered during the previous lockdown, and now the UT Administration had imposed a partial lockdown in the city.Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, had requested the Administration to allow non-essential shops to open on the pattern of the neighbouring state of Punjab. He said there was no reason to close all shops when banks, government and private offices and industries were opened and people were allowed to move freely.He said the Administration should allow all shops to open at least on an odd-even basis as traders have a liability to pay rent, salaries, bank interest and water and electricity bills.Meanwhile, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, said to break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the Administration should either impose a complete lockdown for a certain period of time or allow shops to open with strict restrictions. He said a partial lockdown would not serve any purpose, since all other activities were allowed except opening of shops selling non-essential items.He said the imposition of curfew for a longer period of time would adversely affect not only the business community but every section of society and the daily wage earners the most. If the Administration was planning to extend the partial lockdown, then the traders must be given financial assistance, he demanded.On providing some relief in corona curfew, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said a final decision in this regard would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore at a meeting on Monday.As a total lockdown for a long period would adversely affect the economy and may also lead to migration of labourers from the city, the UT Administration had decided to impose daytime restrictions from 5 am on May 4, which would continue till 5 am on May 18, and night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am on all days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-some-relief-in-curfew-253502
