17-05-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Covid-19: Chandigarh fixes rates of private ambulance||Chandigarh, May 17The Chandigarh Administration has fixed rates of private ambulance drivers or service providers to prevent any overcharging from the citizens for transporting the patients within and outside the city.According to an order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, rates of hiring of ambulance will be as follows: Any breach of this order shall invite action as per law, which may include cancellation of the driving licence of the ambulance driver, cancellation of the registration certificate of ambulance, impounding of the vehicle/ambulance, imposition of a penalty starting from minimum of Rs 50,000 in case of non-compliance of instructions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-fixes-rates-of-private-ambulance-254201
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 620 new Covid cases, six deaths||Chandigarh reported 620 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the union territory's health bulletin showed.The UT also reported six deaths, taking its total fatality count since the pandemic began last year to 641.The UT has 7,382 active cases.The screenshot below gives the status of beds in hospitals and Covid care facilities in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-620-new-covid-cases-six-deaths-254191
17-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Quota of oxygen cylinders fixed for private hospitals increased in Chandigarh||The Indian government has fixed the daily quota of 20 MT of medical oxygen for Chandigarh from M/s INOX Barotiwala. This medical oxygen is being utilised for GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and the Covid Hospital at Sector 48, Chandigarh.Considering availability of sufficient oxygen, the quota of oxygen cylinders fixed for private hospitals has been increased.Private healthcare institutions are also being catered from this quota of oxygen. Additionally, three oxygen generation plants have been commissioned recently in these hospitals.The private healthcare institutions in Chandigarh also require medical oxygen and they are mostly dependent upon medical oxygen in cylinders. The oxygen cylinders are used by the government hospitals also in ambulances and during shifting the patients from one ward to other.Considering increase in number of beds in the Covid Wards and ICU and influx of more patients, the consumption of oxygen has suddenly increased.To ensure smooth supply of oxygen to all the healthcare institutions in Chandigarh, the administration has taken following steps in last few days.Officers have been stationed at the INOX Plant at Barotiwala, Baddi in Himachal Pradesh.Police escort has been provided to the oxygen tankers from INOX Plant to Chandigarh to reduce the travel time and avoid any untoward incident.Three private refilling vendors have been authorised for re-filling medical oxygen from the quota of UT Chandigarh.The rate for re-filling of oxygen cylinders has been fixed at par with the approved rate of GMCH-32.Officers have been stationed at the premises of the private refilling vendors to ensure that oxygen cylinders are being issued in regulated manner and there is no diversion from the UT quota.Round the clock police security has been provided at one of the oxygen generation plants in Industrial Area, Chandigarh.A senior PCS officer has been deputed to see supply of oxygen to private hospitals and daily quota has been fixed for each of the private hospitals in Chandigarh.Enquiry/audit of some of the private hospitals is going on about the procurement of oxygen cylinders for the period 1.04.2021 to 10.05.2021.Each of the private hospital has been attached with either the private vendor to avoid confusion and regulate the actual supply in better way.The voluntary organisations which have come forward to set-up mini-Covid centres have been requested to have own arrangements of oxygen through concentrators.Online e-permit facility for oxygen cylinders has been provided to those patients who have been prescribed oxygen by the doctors at their homes.Back-up plans have been prepared to ensure uninterrupted oxygen to the patients in case of any delay arrival of liquid oxygen tanker.There is co-ordination in Tricity to help each other with liquid oxygen on loan basis in case of any crisis. About one week before, there was some crisis in Panchkula which was taken care by Chandigarh by providing 3 MT oxygen on loan basis. The same quantity was returned by the Panchkula the next day.A team of senior doctors from GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 have visited private hospitals and government hospitals. The purpose of the visit was to educate and sensitise them for optimum utilisation of oxygen, which is a precious commodity. A considerable amount of oxygen has been saved by ensuring following:(i)There is no leakage in the oxygen pipelines and outlets.(ii)Oxygen valves are not left open sometimesOxygen masks are fitted property over the face of the patients.(iii)The guidelines to maintain the saturation at 94 instead of 100 are followed.(iv)Flow of oxygen is correct as per the requirement of the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quota-of-oxygen-cylinders-fixed-for-private-hospitals-increased-in-chandigarh-254187
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh extends curfew restrictions by one week||Chandigarh Administration said on Monday it was extending its curfew restrictions by a week.Current curfew restrictions will be in force until 5 am on May 25, the Chandigarh Administration says in its new order. The development comes after there were talks of restrictions being eased as cases came down in the union territory.Chandigarh reported 620 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-curfew-restrictions-by-one-week-254178
17-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Double mutant B.1.617 behind second Covid wave in region: PGI Director||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16The PGIMER on Sunday confirmed that the presence of the double mutant B.1.617 variant was behind the second wave in the region after the reports of sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 samples sent by the institute came from National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi.“Reports of sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 from twenty-three nasopharyngeal swab samples of Covid-19 patients sent from PGIMER, Chandigarh, were received on May 13 from NCDC, New Delhi. Presence of the double mutant B.1.617 variant having the signature mutations L452R and E484Q has been confirmed in 22 per cent (5/23) of the samples after sequencing,” PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said today.The Director further stated that the B.1.617 variant first identified in India last year has been found in more than 40 countries and has recently been classified as a “variant of concern” (VOC) by World Health Organization (WHO). It has been found by researchers that the mutations in the double-mutant strain render it to be more transmissible and vaccine induced antibodies are somewhat less potent in neutralising this variant.“The surge of cases during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has somewhat been attributed to the B.1.617 variant strain,” Jagat Ram added.Detailing further on the findings, he said, “Of the other samples, the UK variant B.1.1.7 which is also a VOC and associated with higher transmissibility was found in 39 per cent (9/23) samples. The UK variant B.1.1.7 carries the signature mutations N501Y, P681H, 69/70 Del. The rest of the samples carry the P681R mutation in the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/double-mutant-b-1-617-behind-second-covid-wave-in-region-pgi-director-253786
17-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Scramble for anti-fungal drug in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16After remdesivir and tocilizumab, the tricity region is now facing a shortage of Liposomal amphotericin B (L-AmB), which is used to treat Covid-associated mucormycosis (CAM), also known as “black fungus”.Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary‘Centre to send the drug to states’The PGI has a stock of amphotericin. We had taken 25 injections from them for the GMSH-16. It is not available with chemists and stockists. The GOI has now conveyed that amphotericin will be sent to states like tocilizumab.The PGI has been now reporting a high incidence of mucormycosis among patients of Covid 19, especially those who are diabetic and those who have received steroids. In the past three days, the institute has seen 21 cases of mucormycosis among Covid-19 patients.Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, Head of Department of Microbiology, PGI, says that the Covid-associated mucormycosis (CAM) has been associated with high morbidity and mortality, exorbitant treatment costs and has led to a shortage of anti-fungal drugs such as amphotericin b.“Poorly controlled diabetes is a major issue due to which CAM occurs. Good glycemic control during management of Covid 19 patients is required to prevent this. Systemic steroids should only be used in patients with hypoxemia. Oral steroids are contra indicated in patients with normal oxygen saturation on room air. If systemic steroid is used, blood sugar should be monitored,” said Dr Chakraborty.Meanwhile, attendants are scrambling for the injection required to treat fungal infection.“We urgently need liposomal amphotericin b 50mg injections for my mother admitted to the PGI for the past 21 days. She is Covid negative now but her lungs are badly damaged. The injection is very costly (Rs6-7K) and we can’t afford it. Besides, the injections are not even available anywhere in and around the city,” said the attendant of a 51-year-old patient admitted to the PGI.Sandeep, another attendant, said: “My father has fungal infection in nose and eyes. This is 100 vial course and 48 vials have already been given to him. The drug is not available anywhere in the tricity and that is why we have shifted my father to the PGI. We require 52 vials more and the hospital has asked us to arrange the same. This is a very helpless situation.”On the shortage of anti-fungal drug, Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary of UT, said: “The Centre has to take a call on the shortage of amphotericin. The ministry is considering allocating the drug to states on the pattern of remdesivir and tocilizumab.”Symptoms of mucormycosis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scramble-for-anti-fungal-drug-in-chandigarh-253805
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Double mutant behind second Covid surge: PGI||The PGI today confirmed that the double mutant (B.1.617) variant was behind the second Covid wave in the region. The fact came to the fore after the reports on the sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 for samples sent by the PGI were received from the National Centre for Disease Control (NSDC), New Delhi.Prof Jagat Ram, PGI DirectorThe Donald Thinks D-Day Is About HimThe B.1.617 variant, first identified in India last year, has been found in over 40 countries. The WHO recently classified it as a variant of concern“Reports on the sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 for 23 nasopharyngeal swab samples of Covid-19 patients sent from PGIMER, Chandigarh, were received on May 13 from the NCDC. The presence of the double mutant (B.1.617) variant having the signature mutations L452R and E484Q has been confirmed in 22 per cent (5/23) of the samples,” said Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI.The Director further stated that the B.1.617 variant first identified in India last year has been found in more than 40 countries and has recently been classified as a “variant of concern” (VOC) by the World Health Organisation (WHO). It has been found by researchers that the mutations in the strain render it to be more transmissible and vaccine-induced antibodies are somewhat less potent in neutralising this variant.“The surge of cases during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic could somewhat be attributed to the B.1.617 variant,” added Prof Jagat Ram.Detailing further on the findings, the PGI Director said: “Of the other samples, the UK variant (B.1.1.7), which is also a VOC, was found in 39 per cent (9/23) samples. The UK variant carries the signature mutations N501Y, P681H, 69/70 Del. The rest of the samples carry the P681R mutation in the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/double-mutant-behind-second-covid-surge-pgi-253806
17-05-2021||---||Only 3 of 34 Panjab University pupils take Covid test||Chandigarh, May 16Only three out of 34 hostellers underwent Covid-19 testing conducted by the UT Health Department on the request of the Panjab University authorities after coronavirus cases were reported from one of the hostels, here today.A total of 55 persons, including 34 students, were asked to undergo mandatory Covid testing.While students remained adamant, others, including mess workers, hostel staff and workers, underwent Covid-19 testing and their reports are awaited.“On the request of the PU authorities, officials of the UT Health Department visited girls’ hostel numbers 1 and 2 to conduct Covid testing of staff members and students. However, when the team reached the venue, students started protesting against conducting their tests. Out of the total 34 students, only three underwent testing from girls’ hostel number 1,” stated a PU spokesperson.“Meanwhile, 17 staff members from girls’ hostel number 1 and 13 from girls’ hotel number 2 underwent testing. Student leaders threatened to one of the wardens on telephone and asked the official to stop counselling of residents for rerunning home. They rather advised the official to do academic work only,” said the spokesperson.“The PU authorities are spreading lies over students obstructing the Covid testing process. Testing should be voluntary to which the authorities had agreed. Hence, their statementis contradictory. The authorities have become habitual of defaming students,” stated a statement issued by the SFS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-3-of-34-panjab-university-pupils-take-covid-test-253807
17-05-2021||Mohali||Oximeters sought back from those cured||Facing a shortage of oximeters, the district health authorities today urged those cured of Covid-19 to return the device provided to them in the Fateh kit so that it could be given to those currently infected.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said since the Covid cases shot up across the country of late, the availability of pulse oximeters came down drastically, which made it difficult for the government to procure these for new patients.She said the government started providing ‘Corona Fateh Kits’ to isolated patients last year for an effective medical care. She said the kit included a pulse oximeter, steamer, a digital thermometer, medicines and masks as well as Covid-19 awareness material.So far, the state government had given away pulse oximeters to over one lakh persons, she added.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said in view of this, the recovered patients were urged to return the pulse oximeters to their nearest government health facility. These would be sanitised and given to those in home isolation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oximeters-sought-back-from-those-cured-253808
17-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali shops to open on odd-even basis till May 31||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 16In view of the state government declaring an extension of the existing lockdown till May 31, the district administration has decided to strictly enforce all the restrictions. However, the shops will be opened on an odd-even basis in Mohali.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the opening of shops on an odd-even basis would be allowed from 5 am to 5 pm till May 31. However, no shopping malls or single/multi-brand retail standalone shops shall open, except shops selling essential items in these malls/complexes. He said all shops will remain open in the villages of the three subdivisions of Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi in the district.Dayalan said with respect to government and private offices, the orders state that the private offices are allowed to open without any separate permission. In order to avoid crowding and congestion, only 33 per cent staff shall be called at any given time and work from home should be encouraged by the heads of all offices. The staff/employees concerned can travel ‘to and from’ their workplaces only on production of their ID cards and their misuse will invite strict penal action, he added.The DC said restaurants/eateries can open only for home delivery till 9 pm and both the management and the customer would be held liable for violations if any. Services provided by self-employed persons such as electricians, plumbers, IT repairs, etc, shall also be allowed, he added.Covid monitors shall be appointed by private offices and their names shall be prominently displayed. They shall be responsible for ensuring adherence to the Covid guidelines. All private offices should ensure that their staff/employees are tested regularly, preferably every two weeks. Any person showing symptoms should be asked to isolate and tested immediately, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-shops-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-till-may-31-253809
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees 664 cases, 10 deaths||13 succumb in Mohali, 1,923 curedMohali: Thirteen persons succumbed to Covid in the district, taking the total number of deaths to 761 during the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, 542 persons were diagnosed with the disease till Sunday evening and a record number of 1,923 patients were cured. Among the new cases, 180 came from Mohali (urban), five from Lalru, 13 each from Boothgarh and Kurali, 18 from Banur, 21 from Gharuan, 90 from Dhakoli, 99 from Kharar and 103 from Dera Bassi. So far, the district has reported 60,601 cases and 51,123 recoveries. There are 8,717 active cases. TNSVirus claims 8 lives in P’kula, 285 test +vePanchkula: Eight more persons succumbed to Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 285 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said five men, a 79-year-old from Sector 15, an 83-year-old from Sector 14, an 83-year-old from Ramgarh, a 45-year-old from Kalka and a 30-year-old from Mirpur village, and three women, a 77-year-old from Sector 14, a 55-year-old from Sector 17 and an 82-year-old from Sector 15, lost their battle against the virus. Meanwhile, 285 persons, including 179 males, were diagnosed with Covid till Sunday evening, taking the total number of cases to 27,566. So far, 24,867 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 2,414 active cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-664-cases-10-deaths-253810
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Today’s vaccine bookings for 18+ not cancelled’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/todays-vaccine-bookings-for-18-not-cancelled-253811
17-05-2021||Panchkula||Covid norms given go-by, bus driver, conductor nabbed||The Panchkula police have arrested the driver and the conductor of a bus for violating the Covid norms on Saturday.The suspects have been identified as Mohammad Irshad, the bus driver, and Humayun, both residents of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh.A police team from Pinjore was on a checking drive near the Navanagar T-point when it found the bus driver and the conductor without mask. There were more than 50 passengers in the bus, while there were orders to allow only 50 per cent passengers of the total capacity.The two suspects had also failed to produce a movement pass. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-norms-given-go-by-bus-driver-conductor-nabbed-253812
17-05-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Vaccine shortage hits drive in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, May 16With only 1,111 vaccinations across all categories in the district, the fight against the virus moved at a snail’s pace on Sunday.Health officials said the stock was running out, leading to the inconvenience to the beneficiaries, besides fuelling the growing impatience among them.On an average, 4,500-5,000 doses are administered in the district daily, but on Sunday, it had to be cut to almost one-fourth. Not a single shot of Covaxin was administered in the district.The gates of the Sports Complex in Sector 78 for the drive-through vaccination remained closed for most part of the day.“In Zirakpur, only 161 persons in the age group of 18 plus with comorbidities were vaccinated today,” said Zirakpur SMO Pommy Chhatrath.No other person in any age group could be vaccinated due to the scarcity of the vaccine. It is the third consecutive day when the pace of vaccination has reduced in the area. Vaccination in Dera Bassi too was affected for three days before it continued on Saturday.Sources said the vaccine shortage was likely to continue till May 20 following which there would be enough doses.“Even if the vaccine is available, a team of five members can at the most vaccinate around 200-220 persons from 9 am to 5 pm at one place,” said an official.Meanwhile, the health authorities said eight teams had been formed for comprehensive rapid antigen tests till the time vaccine was available. The teams would visit various housing societies in the Zirakpur area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-shortage-hits-drive-in-mohali-district-253813
17-05-2021||---||Chandgiarh Sector 21 stinks||Chandigarh, May 16Waste collectors have not been lifting garbage from houses in Sector 21 for the past three-four days over a payment issue.A resident of the sector, JC Verma, said: “The waste has not been lifted for four days. We faced this problem earlier as well. Cleanliness should be a priority during these Covid times.”Chairman of FOSWAC Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “If the MC is not able to get the waste collected through its two-bin vehicles, then it should let RWAs run the waste collection system.”Chairman of waste collectors union OP Saini claimed the collectors did not get their payment from the MC as was promised in the MoU. Thus, they are not working. He said they would meet the officials concerned on Monday to work out the issue.Additional Commissioner Sorabh Arora said there was some issue with the collectors in Sector 21 and it would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandgiarh-sector-21-stinks-253814
17-05-2021||Zirakpur||10 held for prostitution in Zirakpur||2 held, 15 booked for violating ordersZirakpur: A spa centre owner of Hotel Purple in the main market of Kalgidhar, Baltana, was booked for violating the DM’s order. In another incident, the owner of Hotel Kangan on the Zirakpur-Panchkula road was found renting out a room in the hotel without any ID proof and registration. The owners of these hotels have been arrested. The police also registered a case against Paramjit Singh Dhiman, president of the Baltana Furniture Market, and 14 others for violating the orders of the Mohali DC and playing a cricket match during the lockdown on Sunday. — TNS‘Open shops on odd-even basis’Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has again demanded opening of non-essential shops in the city on odd-even basis on the Punjab pattern or for three or four days a week. “Frequent and long lockdowns are causing financial loss to those dealing in non-essential goods,” said Sanjeev Chadha, CBM general secretary. Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said small and medium traders find it difficult to pay rent, salaries and electricity and water charges due to such extended partial lockdowns. TNS2 violate Covid protocol, heldMohali: The police arrested two persons, including a salon owner, for violating the Covid protocol on May 15. The suspects have been identified as salon owner Balkishan Tribpathi, a resident of Geeta Colony, Tarwad, and Amarnath of Maheshpur in Sector 21, Panchkula. The police received information that “Thai Healing and Styling Salon” was open in Sector 20 here in violation of the Covid protocol. The police said Amarnath was roaming aimlessly. He was arrested by a team of the Sector 21 police chowki. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-held-for-prostitution-in-zirakpur-253815
17-05-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Delay in possession of flat costs company dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16Not handing over the possession of a flat in the fixed time has cost a real estate company dear. The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has directed Omaxe Chandigarh Private Limited to not only refund Rs63,39,972 to the complainant, along with interest, but also pay Rs50,000 as compensation for causing mental agony, harassment and cost of litigation.Anjali, a resident of Khanna, who approached the commission through counsel Narender Yadav, said she booked a flat in “The Lake”, Omaxe, New Chandigarh, SAS Nagar district, in August 2014. As per the agreement dated April 7, 2015, the possession of the unit was to be delivered within 48 months from the date of pact. The builder was supposed to hand over the possession of the flat on or before April 2019, but it was not completed till date.Anjali filed a complaint before the Commission seeking the refund of the entire amount, along with 15 per cent interest.The builder, in its reply, refuted the claims of the complainant and said the project was registered under the RERA Act and the RERA authority was only competent to decide the matter.Yadav said the builder was still not sure as by which date the possession of the unit could be given to the complainant. The period mentioned in the allotment letters and agreements had also expired.After hearing the arguments, the Commission found the builder guilty of deficiency in service. The Commission said the complainant could not wait for an indefinite period in the matter. It further held that it is well-settled law that non-delivery of possession of plot/unit in a developed project by the promised date was a material violation on part of a builder. In these circumstances, the allottee was well within his/her right to seek refund. The complainant is therefore held entitled to get refund of the amount paid, along with interest, from the respective dates of deposits till realisation, which would meet the ends of justice.The Commission held that the complainant could not be termed as a defaulter for non-payment of the remaining amount, if the builder failed to deliver the flat within the stipulated time. All facts established that from the very inception there was intent to induce the complainant to enter into the contract by way of signing agreement, and also intent to deceive him, which amounted to grave deficiency in providing service, negligence and adoption of unfair trade practice on part of the builder.The Commission also rejected the plea of the builder that the case falls in the purview of RERA. It directed Omaxe Chandigarh Pvt Ltd to refund Rs63,39,972 to the complainant, along with interest at the rate of 12 per cent from the respective date of deposit till realisation within a period of 30 days. It also directed the builder to pay Rs50,000 as compensation to the complainant for causing mental agony, harassment and cost of litigation. The Commission also made it clear that no TDS should be deducted from the amount awarded as compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delay-in-possession-of-flat-costs-company-dear-253816
17-05-2021||---||Society guard booked for assaulting 15-year-old boy||Mohali, May 16The police have booked a security guard of a housing society for assaulting a 15-year-old boy, Gurman, when he, along with his mother, went to deliver food to a Covid patient on Saturday.The victim’s mother Imanbeer Kaur, a resident of Sector 94, alleged that the suspect, Harshpreet Singh, a resident of Nanheri village near Kharar, repeatedly hit his son on the face with his bracelet. The child suffered injuries and started bleeding profusely.The incident took place on Saturday when Gurman and his mother went to TDI Wellington Heights in Sector 117 to deliver free meal to a Covid patient in the society.The mother-son had been delivering the food at the gate of the housing society for the past two weeks. They came to know that the security guard was not delivering the food to the Covid patient. Instead, he was consuming it himself.Gurman’s mother complained to the supervisor, following which the guard apologised for the mistake.When they went to deliver the food yesterday, the security guard abused the duo and assaulted the child.Balongi SHO Bhagwant Singh Riar said: “A case has been registered against the security guard under Sections 323 and 341 of the IPC. He is yet to be arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/society-guard-booked-for-assaulting-15-year-old-boy-253817
17-05-2021||OPEN HOUSE||To become self-reliant, PGI must have oxygen plant||Death Toll mainly due to oxygen shortageThe recent spate in deaths in this coronavirus pandemic is mainly on account of oxygen shortage. The government has been found lacking in regulating of the oxygen supply. Under such circumstances it is best to set up an oxygen generation plant at the PGI, which is an eminent medical institution of north India next only to AIIMS, New Delhi.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhBetter to have own plantAccording to the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturing Association industry is already been burdened with generation and supply of oxygen. Earlier, at the beginning of the pandemic 750 tonnes of oxygen was generated. Setting up of oxygen generation plants instead of dependence on medical oxygen could save many lives. Therefore, the PGI should go for the oxygen generation plant.Charvi Tyagi, ChandigarhProfiteering has worsened situationThe PGI must set up its own medical oxygen generation plant instead of depending on private suppliers. The situation is going from bad to worse because of profiteering, black marketing and hoarding of medicines, equipment and paucity of the life-saving gas. If the PGI sets up its own generation unit, oxygen cylinders will be refilled at affordable prices.Shobhna kalra, PanchkulaWill save critical patientsThe fact is that oxygen cylinders cannot reach every corner of the country. Hospitals with their own oxygen generating infrastructure can save critical patients. With rising curve of the second Covid wave the PGI must have its own oxygen generation plant. Even private hospitals must have their own oxygen plants to meet the present demand.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhUT can have a plant of big capacityIt is pathetic to watch wailing relatives of Covid patients begging for oxygen cylinders. Many such patients have died due to non availability of the life-saving gas. Not only the PGI all big hospitals in government and private sector must have their own oxygen generation plants. Besides, the UT should have a high-capacity oxygen plant, linked to all major hospitals.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliCan reduce expenditureTime has come for the PGI and the GMCH-32 to have own medical oxygen generation plants. This will save lives of Covid and other critical patients. None will lose their loved ones because of the shortage of the medical oxygen. This will also reduce expenditure of the PGI and the GMCH-32 on gas. The saved amount can be utilised for other purposes.Nitin Sud, PanchkulaOutsourcing is better optionThe PGIMER should continue to outsource oxygen supply to dependable private units. Running oxygen generation plant by a government institution is not viable due to high cost of operation, union culture and maintenance. Optimum utilisation of any plant is rarely achieved in public sector units. As such the PGI should not set up such plant on its premises.KC Rana, ChandigarhPGI must follow AIIMS patternUnion Health Ministry must ensure that the PGIMER does not lose its credibility and reputation just because it has no oxygen generation plant. The PGI authorities must approach the DRDO to install oxygen plant of the required capacity. Dependence on private plants for medical oxygen does not go well with the stature of the premier institute like the PGIMER.LUTHRA, ChandigarhO2 plant should have been set up earlierChandigarhians are facing tough time due to shortage of the life-saving gas during the Covid pandemic. If not earlier, at least by now an esteemed institute like the PGI should have set up its own medical oxygen generation plant to reduce its dependence on private suppliers.Pardeep Malhotra, ChandigarhWhy look up to private suppliers?The PGI is a premier institute of the country. Since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic there is shortage of oxygen all over country. Why to look up to other agencies/private generation units for supply of oxygen? The PGI administration should immediately install its own oxygen generation plant. Oxygen is a recurring requirement of any hospital.MR Bhateja, NayagaonMake oxygen plants mandatoryThe present situation makes it further mandatory to have their own oxygen generation plants. Many patients have died in various hospitals due to shortage of oxygen during the last one month of the Covid pandemic. Premier hospitals like the PGI, Chandigarh, has been facing acute shortage of oxygen. People are running from pillar to post to get oxygen cylinders refilled. Now is the time to instruct all hospitals, including the PGI, to install oxygen generation plants.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliA top priority for PGIThe PGI should have own its medical oxygen generation plant in order to cater to huge rush of patients from the tricity, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi. It must be top priority of the PGI to generate own life-saving gas so that not a single patient loses life because of non-availability of oxygen.Opinder Kaur Sekhon ChandigarhFirms must improve generation of oxygenThe PGI having its own oxygen generation plant may be proper solution to reduce difference between demand and supply of the gas, but it does not take into account overburden on the staff and resources, which are already stretched to the limit. Instead, the government should ensure that companies improve generation of oxygen and supply to hospitals never is never delayed.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhShould have necessary infraThe PGI, Chandigarh, is a premier medical institute. In the midst of the covid crisis, the numbers of covid patients increased and there is an extra need of life- saving gas. Doctors are forced to beg to other administrations or states to provide oxygen. There is an urgent need that the PGI should have all the necessary infrastructure to be self-sufficient in medical oxygen generation.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhShould employ latest technologyLives lost during the pandemic leave no option, but to have medical oxygen generation facility at the PGIMER, Chandigarh. This will reduce/avoid costs incurred due to distress transport of oxygen by road, rail or sea. The proposed plant should employ latest world class technology for in-built flexibility vis-a-vis augmenting production on ad hoc basis as and when required.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSad state of affairsIt is sad that the PGIMER administration failed to set up its own medical oxygen generation plant when in September 2020 the Centre sent a proposal and asked the institute to allot land in its complex for the same. The whole expenditure of this project was to be borne by the Centre. The PGIMER remained silent till date and now its begging for medical oxygen.Gurpreet S Malhotra, ChandigarhA matter of prime importancePGI is prime medical set up for needs of common people. It is paramount for the PGI to have its own oxygen generation plant rather than depend on private suppliers. Producing oxygen is integral part of the PGI. Besides, the PGI can also supply oxygen to hospitals in the tricity during pandemic. It will also stop black marketing of medical oxygen.Col TBS Bedi (retd) MohaliCentre should give nod without any delayThe PGI should set up its own oxygen generation plant to reduce shortage of the life-saving gas. The institution is known to provide best healthcare facilities with experienced doctors and research work. To combat the present Covid situation, the Central Government should give a nod to the PGI to set up oxygen plant.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliHigh footfall of patientsThousands of patients come to the PGI from different parts of India and even from other countries for treatment. Oxygen is necessary for saving lives of patients. These days demand for medical oxygen has gone up manifold due to the pandemic. In the present situation the PGI must set up an oxygen generation plant on its premises.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliSupply oxygen via dedicated pipelineThe PGI should install oxygen generation plant. Every hospital should have its own oxygen plant to reduce dependence on suppliers. Moreover, pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants employ a technology that absorbs nitrogen from air to concentrate oxygen. The oxygen generated can be supplied straight to the site of use either through a dedicated pipeline or compressed to fill cylinder.Parampreet Kaur, ChandigarhUninterrupted supplyThe PGI should set up in-house oxygen generation plant to meet the shortage of the gas instead of relying on private vendors. The plant will supply oxygen uninterrupted and round-the-clock oxygen to patients at the PGI. If a reputed hospital like PGI is does not have oxygen generation plant then who else will have it?Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhShows lack of foresightednessThe PGI, Chandigarh, is one of the renowned hospitals in this region. It’s surprising that till date it does not have its own medical oxygen generation plant. This clearly shows lack of foresightedness of the past and current PGI administration towards creating its own infrastructure. It is high time that the PGI and other big hospitals have their own medical oxygen generation plants.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhNo need for oxygen generation plantThe PGIMER should not set up its own oxygen generation plant as the situation will not remain the same forever. The PGIMER should not be burdened with another set of responsibility outside their specialisation. To combat medical oxygen shortage Chandigarh can have its own or private oxygen generation plant with centrally controlled distribution system.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhReduce dependence on other statesMedical oxygen is used by the PGI, GMSH-16, GMCH-32 and Covid Hospital, Sector 48, and various private hospitals in the city. Recently, GMCH-32 installed its own oxygen generation plant, which is able to meet around 50 per cent of its own demand. As present, the PGI is solely dependent on oxygen supplies from a plant in Mandi Gobindgarh, Punjab. The PGI must have its own oxygen generation plant to reduce its dependency on other states.Sanjay Chopra, ChandigarhCan increase revenueThe PGI is a premier medical institute. Recently, the demand for medical oxygen increased dramatically at the PGI due to spurt in Covid cases. There is a dire need to set up a medical oxygen generation plant at the PGI to meet its own demand. Surplus oxygen can be supplied to other hospitals in cylinders. It’ll also add to revenue of the PGI.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhShows lack of responsibilityOxygen generation plants are essential and it is irresponsible not to have them. The PGI should set up oxygen generation plant at the earliest. It will make the premier healthcare institution self reliant. Onus of saving patient's life lies in hands of doctors and they are dependent on facilities available at hospital.Charu Malhotra, MohaliQUESTIONUT is vaccinating only 1,000 beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years per day. Should Chandigarh open more vaccination slots for the 18+ group to speed up the inoculation drive?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-become-self-reliant-pgi-must-have-oxygen-plant-253818
