18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 526 new Covid-19 cases, six deaths||Chandigarh reported 526 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths in the last 24 hours, a new health bulletin showed on Tuesday.The union territory has 7,035 active cases.The UT has been showing a steady decline in cases since last week.Chandigarh’s fatality count since the pandemic began last year stands at 647.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-526-new-covid-19-cases-six-deaths-254752
18-05-2021||---||Live-in relationships morally, socially unacceptable, says Punjab & Haryana HC||Chandigarh/New Delhi, May 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court has said live-in-relationships are morally and socially unacceptable, an observation which runs contrary to the Supreme Court stand recognising them.The High Court made the observation while dismissing a petition filed by a runaway couple seeking protection.In their petition, Gulza Kumari (19) and Gurwinder Singh (22) said they were living together and intended to get married shortly. They apprehended danger to their lives from Kumari’s parents.In his May 11 order, Justice HS Madaan said, “As a matter of fact, the petitioners in the garb of filing the present petition are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable and no protection order in the petition can be passed. The petition stands dismissed accordingly,” his order said.According to petitioners’ counsel J S Thakur, Singh and Kumari were living together in Tarn Taran district. The woman’s parents in Ludhiana did not approve of their relationship.The couple could not get married as Kumari’s documents, which have details of her age, were in the possession of her family, Thakur added.The Supreme Court has taken a different view on the issue in the past.A three-judge bench of the apex court held in May 2018 that an adult couple had the right to live together even without marriage.It had made this clear while asserting that a 20-year-old Kerala woman, whose marriage had been annulled, could choose whom she wanted to live with.The top court had held that live-in-relationships were now even recognized by the legislature and they had found a place under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005.In another landmark case filed by actor S Khushboo, the Supreme Court had said live-in relationships are permissible and the act of two adults living together cannot be considered illegal or unlawful.“While it is true that the mainstream view in our society is that sexual contact should take place only between marital partners, there is no statutory offence that takes place when adults willingly engage in sexual relations outside the marital setting, with the exception of ‘adultery’ as defined under Section 497 IPC,” it said.The apex court had also referred to its decision in Lata Singh vs State of UP.That judgment had said a live-in relationship between two consenting adults did not amount to any offence, with the obvious exception of adultery, even though it may be perceived as immoral. A major girl is free to marry anyone she likes or “live with anyone she likes”.“Notions of social morality are inherently subjective and the criminal law cannot be used as a means to unduly interfere with the domain of personal autonomy. Morality and criminality are not co-extensive,” the court said.In 2013, the top court in Indra Sarma vs VKV Sarma said, “Live-in or marriage-like relationship is neither a crime nor a sin though socially unacceptable in this country”.“Long-standing relationship as a concubine, though not a relationship in the nature of a marriage, of course, may at times, deserve protection because that woman might not be financially independent,” it added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/live-in-relationships-morally-socially-unacceptable-says-punjab-haryana-hc-254747
18-05-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal ||5 areas in Dera Bassi turned into containment zone||Tribune News Service Dera Bassi, May 18Mirpur village in Dera Bassi has been turned into a major containment zone after 15 Covid cases were detected in the area.Devinagar village, SBP housing society, Adarsh Colony, College road colony have been declared as minor containment zones.Officials said random sampling in these areas would begin soon.Besides, samples would be taken at markets and residential areas.Officials said the lockdown would be implemented strictly and persons roaming without any valid reasons would be sampled.On being found Covid positive, they would be penalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-areas-in-dera-bassi-turned-into-containment-zone-254717
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Refund excess amount charged from Covid patients: Chandigarh administration to private hospitals||Following reports of fleecing by private hospitals in the city, Chandigarh Health Department on Tuesday directed them to refund the excess amount charged.An inspection committee from the UT Health Department has been deputed to conduct surprise inspections of all the private hospitals and nursing homes admitting Covid-19 patients to check if patients were being charged at rates notified by the Chandigarh Administration.Dr Charu Singla, Nodal Officer, UT said, “A lot of private hospitals are overcharging patients. We have asked them to refund the amount charged excessively.”The administration on Monday directed all private hospitals to ensure that when a team comes for inspection of the facility, they should extend full cooperation and submit all the documents in respect to the case file, pharmacy bills, billing details, and other bills that are generated.The private hospitals and nursing homes have been asked to charge for Remdesivir as per the rate decided by UT. The details of rates charged and facilities available are to be prominently displayed at a conspicuous place. UT has also sought compliance reports of the instructions to be reported to the Director of Health & Family Welfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/refund-excess-amount-charged-from-covid-patients-chandigarh-administration-to-private-hospitals-254680
18-05-2021||---||Chandigarh extends curfew by a week, says it’s helping; traders fume||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Following extensive discussions in various forums and with medical experts, the UT Administration has decided to extend the restrictions imposed under the corona curfew by another week (from 5 am on May 18 to 5 am on May 25) so that the gain of plateauing of the caseload of Covid-19 due to the lockdown is not lost.Now, 2,000 to get jab daily in 18 plus categoryKeeping in view the additional availability of vaccines for the 18 plus category, the UT Administration has decided to increase the number of vaccines and venues and also to administer 2,000 doses every day to the eligible beneficiaries, who have registered themselves on the CoWIN portal. The Administration has received confirmation for an additional 33,000 doses of the vaccine.The decision was taken at a review meeting, chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, here today.It was decided that the Deputy Commissioner will meet representatives of various trader, market and industry associations to solicit their views and suggestions regarding relief that can be provided to them due to the loss suffered due to the shutdown.The Administrator appealed to landlords of small residential houses to voluntarily reduce the house rent for the lockdown period in order to give relief to the tenants, who have lost their income and prevent their migration.Over complaints against private hospitals overcharging Covid patients, the Administrator directed that the Health Department should again notify the approved rates for Covid treatment. It will be given in the media and also published prominently on notice boards of the hospital concerned, he said.Badnore expressed happiness over the oxygen audit conducted in all medical institutions. He directed that the oxygen plants functioning at the GMCH-32, and the GMSH-16, should be specially checked so that there was no overuse, nor any mishap of any kind.The Administrator thanked the Army authorities, NGOs and various charitable institutions who have come forward to set up mini-Covid care centres. He also appealed to other organisations to come forward to set up such facilityfor oxygen. It would reduce the pressure on government hospitals. Such partnership would go a long way in winning the battle against corona, he said.He mentioned that additional vaccines had been received for eligible beneficiaries in both the 18 plus and 45 plus categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-curfew-by-a-week-says-its-helping-traders-fume-254467
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders to hold protests||Disappointed over the decision of the UT Administration to extend the corona curfew by another week, the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, the apex body of traders representing over 125 markets in the city, has decided to hold peaceful protests to show resentment within the framework of the corona guidelines.Charanjiv Singh, president of the mandal, said the traders had been pleading for some kind of relief to them without compromising on anti-Covid measures to contain the deadly virus.He hoped for some kind of immediate government relief under its lockdown policy, especially towards deeply stressed dealers in non-essential goods who are facing a tough time financially, physically and mentally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traders-to-hold-protests-254468
18-05-2021||---||Chandigarh fixes charges for private ambulances||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Showing concern over reports of patients being fleeced by private ambulances in various parts of the country, the UT Administration today fixed the hiring charges for ambulances to be used by citizens for transporting patients within and outside Chandigarh.As per an order issued by Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, any breach will invite action as per law, which may include cancellation of the driving licence of the ambulance driver or cancellation of the registration certificate of the ambulance. Non-compliance of instructions may also lead to impounding of the ambulance and imposition of penalty starting from a minimum of Rs50,000.Ambulance charges With ventilator Waiting charges: Rs100 per hour or part thereof||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fixes-charges-for-private-ambulances-254472
18-05-2021||---||Chandigarh increases oxygen quota for private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17To ensure sufficient oxygen, the UT Administration has decided to increase the quota of oxygen cylinders fixed for private hospitals.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supplies in UT, said a team of senior doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, visited private and government hospitals to educate and sensitise the authorities concerned on optimum utilisation of oxygen, which is a precious commodity.A considerable amount of oxygen has been saved by ensuring that there is no leakage in the oxygen pipelines and outlets, valves are not left open, oxygen masks are fitted properly over the face of patients, guidelines to maintain the saturation at 94 instead of 100 are followed and flow of oxygen is correct as per the requirement of patients, said Garg.“The consumption of oxygen by some of hospitals has considerably reduced. May be because of efforts of optimum utilisation and conservation by check on wastage,” he said.The Centre has fixed the daily quota of 20 MT of medical oxygen for UT from M/s INOX, Barotiwala, which is being utilised for GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and the Covid hospital at Sector 48. Private hospitals, which are mostly dependent upon medical oxygen in cylinders, are also being catered to from this quota.To ensure smooth supply of oxygen to all healthcare institutions, three private vendors have been authorised for refilling medical oxygen from the UT quota.The rate for refilling of oxygen cylinders has been fixed and a senior PCS officer has been deputed to see the supply of oxygen to private hospitals.Daily quota has been fixed for each of the private hospitals and each of these has been attached to either of the three private vendors to avoid confusion and regulate the actual supply.“Back-up plans have been prepared to ensure uninterrupted oxygen to the patients in case of any delay in arrival of liquid oxygen tanker,” said Garg. “There is co-ordination in tricity on helping each other with liquid oxygen on loan basis in case of any crisis,” he said, adding “about a week ago, there was some crisis in Panchkula which was taken care by UT Chandigarh by providing 3 MT oxygen on loan basis”.“The same quantity was returned by Panchkula very next day,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-increases-oxygen-quota-for-private-hospitals-254480
18-05-2021||---||21 ICU beds vacant in Chandigarh, 161 occupied||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Even as the UT Administration boasts of opening nine mini-Covid centres in a short span, patients here continue to scramble for ventilator and ICU beds.Not even a single ICU bed is there at the mini-Covid care centre set up recently.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said it would be difficult to set up ICU beds at the Covid care centres. Of the 182 ICU beds in the city, including private and government, only 21 are vacant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-icu-beds-vacant-in-chandigarh-161-occupied-254485
18-05-2021||---||Zirakpur: Panel wants ‘strict action’ against hospital for overcharging and mismanagement||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 17The three-member committee constituted by the district administration here to probe the allegations of overcharging and mismanagement against Zirakpur-based New Life Line Hospital has recommended “strict action” against the hospital.The committee found lapses in medical record management of the hospital and also submitted that the rates charged by the hospital were “exorbitantly high”. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan had on Saturday marked an inquiry into the allegations of overcharging by New Life Line Hospital and denial to give the body to the family without clearance of bills.The allegations were levelled by the family members of a deceased Covid-19 patient.The inquiry report submitted to the DC also stated that the hospital was operating without the National Accredited Board of Hospitals (NABH) certification.The claims made by the hospital that the patient in question was being treated as per the medical protocols also fell flat as the hospital could not produce any treatment record of the patient. In fact, the entire medical record management system was found to be faulty, the panel mentioned.The claim of the hospital authorities that they had given left against medical advice (LAMA) to the patient’s family after they wanted to shift him to another hospital could also not be established as the hospital could not produce any documentary evidence in this context, the report mentioned.“New Life Line Hospital Zirakpur failed to show NABH certificate, stock register, patient’s summary/treatment record and the LAMA summary/discharged certificate,” stated the report.It further mentioned that the basic Covid care guidelines pertaining wearing of PPE kits by the sanitation staff was also not adhered to by the hospital.“Covid-19 norm regarding bio-medical waste disposal and wearing of PPE kit, etc., has not being adhered to,” stated the reports.The panel was not provided with the stock register, and neither payment received record was properly maintained. No payee PAN detail entries were maintained for any transaction above Rs 1 lakh, stated the panel.“The rates they are charging for an ICU bed with ventilator are not as per norms issued by the Government of Punjab vide order No. Covid-19/NHM/Pb/21/10280 dated 08-03-2021 and are highly excessive,” it said.The committee also raised questions on the behavior of Dr Munish Goel. “It is ascertained that medical negligence on part of New Lifeline Hospital, Zirakpur, and the only treating doctor – Dr Munish Goel – cannot be ruled out as no record pertaining to treatment has been put herewith,” mentioned the report.“The behavior of Dr Munish Goel was not as per his profession. He has been found very rude and violent towards patients and their attendants,” it added.The panel further mentioned that New Lifeline Hospital “failed to submit the record and mode of payment done by the patient for/during the treatment from the date of admission in hospital till death”.The committee thus recommended “strict action” against the hospital “under Section 51 (b) & 58 of National Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act 1897.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-panel-wants-strict-action-against-hospital-for-overcharging-and-mismanagement-254486
18-05-2021||Mohali||Baby girl found abandoned in Mohali||The police have found a new-born baby girl abandoned near a sewage drain on the Airport Road in Sector 67.The baby, with yellow t-shirt, was found in a wooden casket near a garbage dump in the drain, said the police.On Sunday afternoon, a few youth heard the cries of the baby and informed the police, they said, adding that the Phase-11 police had booked an unidentified mother for abandoning the baby girl.The girl, approximately 10-15 days old, has been kept at the hospital where she has been screened for various ailments, the police added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baby-girl-found-abandoned-in-mohali-254487
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||6 dead in Chandigarh, 620 new Covid cases||11 deaths, 889 cases in MohaliMohali: Eleven persons succumbed to the virus in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 771. A total of 889 fresh cases were reported, while 938 more patients were cured. Of the 61,490 cases reported so far, 52,062 patients have been cured. There are now 8,657 active cases in the district. TNSRecord 9 deaths in Panchkula Panchkula: Panchkula recorded nine Covid deaths on Monday, the highest single day toll in the district since March last year. The fatality count in the district has gone up to 294, while the infection count went up to 27,807 with the addition of 241 fresh cases. There are 2,219 active cases in the district while 25,294 patients have been cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-dead-in-chandigarh-620-new-covid-cases-254490
18-05-2021||---||PU hostel row: Three staffers test positive||Chandigarh, May 17Three staff members are reported to have tested Covid-19 positive while the results of two more are awaited. A total of 33 samples were collected from girls’ hostels (no. 1 & 2) of Panjab University. No decision on vacating hostelsWhile cases were reported in hostels, the PU authorities have decided to keep silent on the issue of vacating hotels. The students were requested to vacate the hostels before May 15. However, after protests and issues raised by the student groups, the authorities failed to come to any decision.A team of the UT Health Department collected the samples at these two hostels yesterday. While 34 hostellers were scheduled to undergo the test, only three agreed to give samples.As many as 17 staff members from girls’ hostel number 1 and 14 from girls’ hotel number 2 underwent testing. The cooks of messes are asked to undergo self-isolation, said sources.“A total of seven girls are residing in girls’ hostel no. 1. Only three girls have given the samples and all are found to be negative. As many as 16 hostel staff and mess workers gave samples, of whom two (both cleaners) have tested positive. Two persons (a peon and a cook) have been asked to undergo re-sampling. One person’s (mess worker) record was not found due to an incorrect mobile number recorded by the health team.“Earlier, two attendants from this hostel were reported to be positive. The working staff here have now been reduced to one clerk, one peon and two cleaners only,” said a PU spokesperson.“No sample was given by any resident of girls’ hostel no. 2. As many as 14 hostel staff and canteen workers underwent test. One person was found to be Covid positive. Earlier this month, three persons were reported to be infected with the virus. One person’s (canteen worker) report has been sent for re-sampling while the record of another was found to be incorrect,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-hostel-row-three-staffers-test-positive-254491
18-05-2021||---||PU launches online portal for submission of info on Covid||Chandigarh, May 17Panjab University has launched an online portal through the PU main web page to facilitate the submission of information by the employees/heads of offices/branches about Covid 19 cases in their respective departments in a timely manner.“This will enable the administration to take adequate measure to control and contain the spread of infectious virus after taking an urgent review and assessment of the situation on the basis of information provided by the respective departments. Accordingly, all employees and heads of the offices/branches/departments are asked to ensure uploading of information relating to Covid-19 cases of PU,” states a spokesperson of the PU.The details of employees who have been tested corona positive and are still on quarantine leave (on the date of this circular) and employees who came into contact with a positive person and are on quarantine leave (till today).“The information must be uploaded latest by May 19. The information of those employees, who have recovered and joined the office, need not be uploaded on the portal. All employees have been requested to ensure strict Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” added the spokesperson. Office timings changedA meeting was held to review the status of Covid-19 cases in the Administrative Block, Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall and the University School of Open Learning. It was also discussed while the university administration has to protect the health and safety of its employees, it has to simultaneously ensure that it must function to attend to all important and time-bound assignments.“It was recommended that for Tuesday and Wednesday, the office timings will be from 9 am to 2 pm with 25% strength ofstaff and the roster for the same shall be prepared by the head of the department/branches/offices concerned, said an official. “There will not be any public dealing till May 21 except with the prior appointment of the HOD concerned that too for urgent issues only. The members will meet again on May 20.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-launches-online-portal-for-submission-of-info-on-covid-254492
18-05-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sector 37 property grab case: Accused seeks full list of witnesses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17An accused in the Sector 37 property grab case has alleged that the chargesheet supplied to him is incomplete. Police illegally detained Rubal: MahajanVishal Garg Narwana, counsel of accused Satpal Dagar, filed an application before the court seeking documents which are missing from the chargesheet supplied to the accused.Narwana has filed the application under section 207 of the CrPC for the supply of the documents, in the court. He said the complete lists of the documents and the witnesses have not been provided with the charge sheet.Video mentioned in charge sheet also ‘missing’Narwana alleged that the police had done a poor investigation. He said besides the other documents, one video mentioned in the charge sheet was also missing. The video was allegedly made by Anupam Chhetri before the sub-registrar office in 2017 on mobile. The police claimed that four accused were seen standing with Rahul Mehta in the video.The statement of witnesses recorded under section 164 of the CrPC has also been sought in the application. The police filed the chargesheet within two months of the first arrest made in the case.The caseThe police have arrested Sanjeev Mahajan, Manish Gupta, Satpal Dagar and inspector Rajdeep Singh in the case so far. The other accused Arvind Singla, Khalendra Singh Kadyan, Gurpreet Singh and Saurabh Gupta have absconded. As per the chargesheet, the accused took possession of the first floor of the house of owner Rahul Mehta in March 2017. They had allegedly taken his signatures on papers after torturing him. He was later abandoned in Gujarat. The police said a man posing as Rahul Mehta was produced before the office of sub-registrar at the time of execution of sale deed of the house.Rajesh Sharma, counsel of another accused Sanjeev Mahajan, also said the perusal of the challan showed that it was unnumbered and a number of pages in the police report were illegible due to the misprinting. Moreover, the electronic documents, as mentioned in the police report, are not even supplied to the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-37-property-grab-case-accused-seeks-full-list-of-witnesses-254500
18-05-2021||---||Competent Foundation holds mass havan at 300 places in Tricity for global healing||Chandigarh, May 17Competent Foundation organised a mass havan at 300 places in the Tricity yesterday to free humanity from the global pandemic Covid-19.Devotees also joined the programme through live streaming on YouTube.The UT Administrator and Governor of Punjab, VP Singh Badnore, also attended the programme and addressed the participants. While praising Competent chief Sanjay Tandon for his non-political initiative, he said his efforts would go a long way in global healing.He emphasised Chandigarh would collectively succeed in curbing the second wave of Covid 19 and would not allow the third wave to happen at all. Emphasising the importance of the age-old practice of havan, he said the “mahamrityunjaya mantra” is very powerful and should be chanted on a daily basis.Swami Rasikji Maharaj from Haridwar and Swami Sampurnanandji Maharaj from Panchkula participated in the programme via virtual mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/competent-foundation-holds-mass-havan-at-300-places-in-tricity-for-global-healing-254501
18-05-2021||---||Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti to open Covid care centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti will set up a 50-bed Covid care hospital at the Sports Complex of Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 8.Amar Vivek Aggarwal, one of the functionaries of the body, said hospital was expected to be opened from Tuesday. The centre will have CCTVs for monitoring patients, WiFi, intercoms and public address system for keeping patients in a happy atmosphere. Recreational activities such as yoga will also be organised for them.Bharat B Gupta, Satish Garg and Rohina Khullar, spokespersons for the organisation, said patients would be provided a kit containing essential items, including toiletries, free of cost. The organisation has made arrangements for oxygen cylinders, oximeters, essential medical equipment and supplies, and is expected to receive a few oxygen concentrators.Anybody who wants to support the cause may contact Amar Vivek Aggarwal on 9814027754 and at amarvivek551@gmail.com, and BB Gupta on 83604 37334.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sri-sathya-sai-gramin-jagriti-to-open-covid-care-centre-254502
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 8 more areas in Chandigarh||The UT Administration today declared seven micro-containment zones and one containment zone in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms and wear face masks.The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 29 and 47, part of New Indira Colony and part of Shanti Nagar, Mariwala Town, and Morigate Area in Mani Majra; and all houses in Gali No. 9, Shanti Nagar, in Mani Majra have been declared as a containment zone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-8-more-areas-in-chandigarh-254504
18-05-2021||---||Man sets self on fire at Dhakoli, dies||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, May 17A 23-year-old man set himself on fire near Dashmesh Enclave in Dhakoli on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Pankaj Ahuja.Ahuja, who worked at a tailor shop, took the extreme step at a lonely place near the Verka booth in the vicinity of his house. Some passersby saw the victim in flames and informed the police.An ambulance was called and he was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him dead, said the police.The police took the body in possession and shifted it to the mortuary at Dera Bassi hospital.The body was handed over to the kin of the deceased today, said the police.The police have recorded the statement of deceased’s father under Section 174 of the CrPc at the Dhakoli police post, said Sub-Inspector Gulab Singh.The deceased used to consume alcohol and other intoxicants. Family members also said Ahuja was mentally upset for the past sometime, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-sets-self-on-fire-at-dhakoli-dies-254505
18-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||High-altitude training camps unlikely, again||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17For the second consecutive year, the UT Sports Department will not be able to conduct high-altitude training camps for trainees of state-run academies.For over one year, all three state-run academies - football, cricket (for boys) and hockey (boys & girls) - have been shut owing to Covid-19 restrictions. The fresh batch in all these academies is also yet to be inducted.The department organises one-month-long high-altitude training camps in Himachal Pradesh (SAI Centre, Shillaroo), starting first week of June every year, for which planning starts in May, to improve fitness of these players.“These camps are unlikely to happen considering the current situation. Amid lockdown restrictions, no players in academies and no practise sessions, the focus is on safeguarding the players. Even if players are called back to the academy in June, they would take at least three months to settle down. Till the time, it (camp) will be of no use,” said a senior official.Perhaps, it’s for the second time, in the past two decades, that this camp will not be organised.In 2019, a total of 102 trainees participated in the camp, organised by the Chandigarh Sports Council.“The trainees were sent back to their respective hometown in March 2020. The senior group has already been passed out without playing any tourneys during last year. It has been a complete loss for players. We really can’t do anything. Putting a bio-bubble is a difficult task,” said an official.“Practicing at such high altitude helps players in enhancing their physiological fitness. It improves oxygen intake, lungs, ventilation and anaerobic capacities. This camp has been instrumental in augmenting their physical fitness in terms of strength, endurance and speed development. This is the only government academy of the region to provide such facilities to its trainees,” said a coach.Meanwhile, a minimum 15-day programme, which is called a sports wing, wherein selected players get diet and training under professional coaches, is also likely to be delayed or even cancelled. “The championships under the annual sports calendar are yet to be started. The sports wing will be only possible once the school opens for players or players start coming to the coaching centre to prepare for tournaments,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-altitude-training-camps-unlikely-again-254507
18-05-2021||---||Panchkula fixes rates for private hospitals||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 17After receiving a series of complaints against local hospitals, the district administration today fixed treatment charges for Covid patients at private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics.As per the protocol established by the administration, rates for private hospital beds will be all inclusive as a package. The package will include the cost of medical care of underlying comorbid conditions, including supportive care, oxygen and cost of medication for the duration of care for Covid-19.The package includes all treatment, except remdesivir /tocilizumab and Covid test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-fixes-rates-for-private-hospitals-254509
18-05-2021||---||Sanitise crematoriums on priority: Panchkula Mayor||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 17In view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the district, Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal directed the officials concerned of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation to visit crematoriums in Sector 20 and 28 and ensure sanitisation on a priority basis.The Mayor stated this while holding a meeting with MC officials on various developmental works in the city.He directed the officials for regular garbage collection from houses of Covid-infected persons and isolation centres.Goyal said all officials and employees must come to the office wearing proper face masks and ensure that they sanitise or wash their hands repeatedly. He also directed the officials to pay special attention towards cleanliness in the city.Goyal said all works passed in the last MC meeting should be completed immediately. He gave instructions to purchase a pick-up van and a dumper placer and repair old dustbins and mobile toilets.Joint Commissioner Sanyam Garg and other officials assured that they were taking all development works seriously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitise-crematoriums-on-priority-panchkula-mayor-254510
18-05-2021||---||Biker, cyclist die in hit & run||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 17A motorcyclist died after being hit by a car near Quark City light point on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as 62-year-old Durali native Harbans Singh.The victim was rushed to Sohana hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, the police said.The car driver, coming from Kharar side, fled the spot after the incident but police traced the vehicle with the help of CCTV footage from the area.The suspect has been identified as Bassi Pathana resident Simran Singh.On the complaint of deceased’s son-in-law Amanpreet Singh, a case under Section 304A, 279 and 427 of the IPC has been registered at the Sohana police station.In another accident, a cyclist died after being hit by an unknown vehicle near Chappar Chiri on Saturday night.The deceased has been identified as Mohali resident Harpreet Singh, who used to work in a factory in Chappar Chiri.He was returning home when an unknown vehicle hit him near a marble shop.Harpreet was rushed to Kharar hospital by passersby where doctors declared him dead.A case under Sections 304A, 279 and 427 of the IPC has been registered at the Balongi police station, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-cyclist-die-in-hit-run-254511
18-05-2021||Panchkula||Woman among 4 arrested for circulating counterfeit currency||The Crime Branch of the Panchkula police has arrested four persons, including a woman, for circulating counterfeit currency. It recovered fake currency worth Rs37,800, a computer and a scanner from their possession.Modus operandiThe police said Inspector Karambir Singh and his team of the Crime Branch, Sector 19, received information that three persons, including a woman, were circulating counterfeit currency of Rs100 and Rs500 by purchasing items of lesser amount and receiving balance amount from shopkeepers in Barwala.The recoveriesThe Crime Branch of the Panchkula police recovered fake currency worth Rs37,800, a computer and a scanner from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Pradeep Kumar, Jai Parkash, Anu Rawat and Deepka, alias Charanjit, a native of Mansa who is presently residing in Dera Bassi.The police said Inspector Karambir Singh and his team of the Crime Branch, Sector 19, had received information that three persons, including a woman, were circulating counterfeit currency of Rs100 and Rs500 by purchasing items of lesser amount and receiving balance amount from shopkeepers in Barwala.The team visited the Barwala market. After seeing the police team, the three accused started running away from the area. However, the police managed to nab them. They were identified as Pradeep Kumar, Jai Parkash and Anu Rawat. The police recovered fake currency worth Rs30,700 from their possession and each currency of Rs500 and Rs100 had the same serial number.They were produced in a court on May 15, which remanded them in police custody. During their police remand, the accused disclosed the name of Deepak, alias Charanjit. The police arrested the accused on May 16 and recovered Rs7,100, a computer and a scanner from his possession.A case under Sections 420, 489-A, 489-B and 489-C of the IPC has been registered against the accused at the Chandimandir police station. All accused were produced in a court today, which remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-4-arrested-for-circulating-counterfeit-currency-254512
18-05-2021||---||Theft of valuable plants in Chandigarh goes unchecked||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17City residents are worried as valuable plants are being stolen from in front of their houses and parks.Raj Kumar Goyal, a resident of Sector 46-A, lamented that some women steal valuable plants from in front of their houses during the night hours.KS Gill, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 21-B, said the suspected women were also stealing plants from parks in Sector 21-B.“The problem is not confined only to a particular area. Similar incidents are reported from other parts of the city, too. We have witnessed such cases in Sector 38-A and B several times. Even replanted saplings were also being stolen,” said Joginder Singh, a resident.Superiya Goel, treasurer, RWA, Sector 28-D, echoed similar views. “There is a similar problem in Sector 28-D. Two-three women come on a cycle cart around 4:30 am. They steel iron from under-construction houses,” she said.To check such incidents, some residents have installed CCTV cameras outside their houses. “Plants were stolen from my house also. Following this, I installed CCTVs at my house. Things are fine now for the past one month,” said Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, CRAWFED.Meanwhile, the MC’s Horticulture Department is not aware of such theft incidents. Krishan Pal Singh, Superintending Engineer, Horticulture Wing, said: “It is not in my knowledge that plants are being stolen from parks. Still, I will get it checked.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-of-valuable-plants-in-chandigarh-goes-unchecked-254513
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Congress workers protest ‘mismanagement’ by Centre||Members of the Chandigarh Youth Congress held a protest at Matka Chowk here today against the alleged “mismanagement in Covid handling by the Modi government.”Young Congress leaders Prikshit Rana, Navdeep Singh, Ravi Prasher, Umesh Kumar, Devinder, Sandeep, Pardeep Kumar, Bakeel Khan, Jaspreet Singh and Shanu Khan were seen holding placards at the protest site.“India started its Covid vaccination drive on January 16, yet its performance has been poor on the vaccination front. The vaccination rate is very slow. Interestingly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been exporting vaccine to other nations for self-promotion,” said Manoj Lubana of the Youth Congress.“It feels really sad to see people dying due to poor governance. Around 6.6 crore doses of Covid vaccine could have saved several lives. The PM should be ashamed of what he is doing today and he will soon pay the price for it,” he said.“People across the country are finding it difficult to get their hands on the vaccine. On the contrary, FIRs are being registered and arrests are being made in Delhi for raising the issue,” Lubana said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-congress-workers-protest-mismanagement-by-centre-254514
18-05-2021||---||Panchkula: Two nabbed for smuggling country-made liquor, IMFL||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 17The Panchkula police arrested two persons for smuggling country-made liquor and India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) late last night.The arrested accused have been identified as Vakil Khan, a resident of Haryali village near Raipur Rani, and Krishan Singh, a resident of Kharag Mangoli.The police said they had received information that Vakil Khan was selling country made liquor at Gugga Marri near his house at Moli village. The police team raided the spot and recovered seven cartons of country made liquor of “Raseela Santra” brand from Vakil Khan.A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC, Excise Act and the Disaster Management Act 2005 has been registered against him at the Raipur Rani police station.Similarly, the police received information that Krishan Singh, a resident of Kharag Mangoli, was smuggling liquor from Chandigarh in his car and selling it at exorbitant rates. The police team laid a naka on the slip road on the Majri chowk. The police signalled Krishan Singh to stop his car at the naka. They recovered four cartons of IMFL, which was meant for sale in Chandigarh only.A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC, Excise Act and the Disaster Management Act 2005 has been registered against him at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-two-nabbed-for-smuggling-country-made-liquor-imfl-254515
18-05-2021||---||UHBVN to hold consumer redressal meet on May 21||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) will hold proceedings of the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum on May 21 between 10 am and 4 pm at the Executive Engineer office, Panchkula. The chairman and members of the forum will participate in it.While giving information in this regard today, an official spokesperson for the corporation said members of the forum would take up the problems of consumers, primarily related to billing, voltage, complaints regarding meters, connection, power cut offs, efficiency, safety, unreliability and non-compliance of orders of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission.However, punishment and fine in cases related to power theft and misuse of power under Sections 126 and 135 to 139 of the Electricity Act and power-related investigations and mishaps under Section 161 will not be taken up by the forum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uhbvn-to-hold-consumer-redressal-meet-on-may-21-254516
18-05-2021||---||Virtual conference marks Hereditary Angioedema Day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17The Department of Paediatrics and the Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Leprology, PGI, Chandigarh, jointly celebrated International Hereditary Angioedema Day on May 16 by holding a virtual conference by the Hereditary Angioedema Society of India (HAESI) at the PGI.Angioedema is the rapid edema or swelling of the area beneath the skin or mucosa. It is normally an allergic reaction when accompanied by hives, but it can also be hereditary (non-itchy).Hereditary Angioedema is a rare disorder that affects approximately 1 in 10,000 to 1 in 50,000 people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virtual-conference-marks-hereditary-angioedema-day-254518
18-05-2021||Mohali||Furniture shop gutted in Mohali||A furniture shop in Sector 77 here was gutted on Monday. It took a fire tender nearly an hour to douse the flames at Punjab Furniture House. The fire was caused by short-circuit near the shop. Owner Jasbir Singh Badali said the loss was worth lakhs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/furniture-shop-gutted-in-mohali-254519
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury rises, expect rain in Tricity||Man found dead near railway trackDera Bassi: The Railway Police on Monday found the body of an unidentified man on the Ambala-Kalka railway track near Janetpur. The man, who appeared to be in his 40s, was wearing a red shirt and black pants, said the police. It is suspected that he fell from a moving train at night. TNScollege conducts7-day workshopChandigarh: The Skill Development Committee of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised the annual seven-day workshop, 'Be a Health Manager 2021'. This online edition witnessed participation by 1,836 people from across India as well as other countries. Dr Nisha Bhargava conducted an informative session, titled "Hints for Holistic Well-being" wherein she shared her valuable experiences for leading a healthy life. The event also witnessed sessions on "Preventive Eye Care" by Dr Parul Chawla Gupta, "Understanding PCOS: Symptoms and Treatment" by Dr Nirja Chawla, "Hair and Skin Care" by Dr Raihan Ashraf, "Balanced Diet to Maintain Right Weight" by Dr Nancy Sahni, and "Understanding Food Through Growing It: Towards Holistic Health" by Dr Gurvinder Kaur. TNSInteractive session heldChandigarh: As part of the 7th International Online SDP, Panjab University organised the 23rd session on 'Magic of Meditation'. Manjula Verma, science teacher and heartfulness meditation trainer, was the keynote speaker of the day. The session began with a meditative relaxation by Tanya Gupta from Department of Zoology, Panjab University. It was followed by a lecture by Akanksha Mahajan, PhD scholar from the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, PU. Manjula stressed the importance of doing meditation in the early hours. TNSTwo kidnap child, bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked two persons after they kidnapped a four-year-old boy following an altercation with his father at Faidan village after consuming liquor together on May 15. The suspects, however, dropped the child back the next morning. According to the police, the victim’s father alleged that the suspects - Veran and Argi - visited his house at Faidan. The suspects consumed liquor with the child’s father and later entered into an argument with him. The police said while leaving, the suspects saw the minor boy sitting in their auto, following which they took him along. The police were informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 363, 365 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. The suspects returned the child the next morning. TNSTwo held for violating rulesPanchkula: The police have arrested two shopkeepers for opening their shops in violation of the Covid guidelines issued by the state government, on Sunday. The arrested accused have been identified as Jai Karan, a resident of Budhanpur near Sector 16, and Wajid Ali, a resident of Rajiv Colony near Sector 17, Panchkula. The police said Jai Karan opened his mobile shop, JK Communication, in Budhanpur near Sector 16, while Wajid Ali opened his salon in Rajiv Colony near Sector 17. Cases under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act - 2005 have been registered against the duo at the Sector 14 police station. TNSOnline golden jubilee celebrationsChandigarh: The online golden jubilee celebrations of Karaoke Fusion Club, Chandigarh, was a huge draw on Sunday night with over 30 signers belting out evergreen Bollywood songs. The club’s online show was streamed live on social networking sites. While Bollywood playback singer Usha Timothy was the chief guest, eminent singer and winner of Zee TV’s musical show “Sa Re Ga Ma” Rinku Kalia, composer and vocalist RD Kailey and Punjabi music director Rox-A were guests of honour. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mercury-rises-expect-rain-in-tricity-254522
