19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 414 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||Chandigarh saw another decline in Covid-19 cases, recording 414 new infections on Wednesday.Fatality count continues to be a cause for worry, however, with Chandigarh recording nine deaths on Wednesday.The UT added 870 recoveries to its tally. Chandigarh now has 6,570 active cases.   The screenshot below shows a list of COVID beds, both in hospitals and Covid care facilities, currently available in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-414-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-255319
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Army engineers come up with innovative solution for conversion of liquid oxygen to bedside oxygen Covid-19 patients||Indian Army engineers have come up with an innovative solution for efficient conversion of liquid oxygen to low pressure oxygen for administering it to Covid-19 patients.Since oxygen was transported in liquid form in cryogenic tanks, quick conversion of liquid oxygen to oxygen gas and ensuring availability at the patients’ bed was a critical challenge faced by all hospitals managing Covid patients. READ: New vaccine policy: Covid infected to defer jab by 3 months; approval given for lactating mothersA specialised task force was quickly put together for the early execution of an innovation to ensure that oxygen is made available without the use of gas cylinders, thus obviating the need to refill them frequently.  Prior dengue infection can double Covid-19 risk: StudyOver a period of seven days, a team under Maj Gen Sanjay Rihani, in-direct consultation and material support from Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the Defence Research and Development Organisation, put together a working solution using vaporisers, PRVs and liquid oxygen cylinders, according to an official statement.All hands on deck: Armed forces use veterinary corps personnel at Covid facilitiesIn order to ensure continuous conversion of liquid oxygen into oxygen gas at the requisite pressure and temperature at the Covid bed, the team used a self pressuring liquid oxygen cylinder of small capacity (250 litres) and processed it through a specially designed vaporiser and directly usable outlet pressure (4 Bar) with requisite leak proof pipeline and pressure valves. A prototype with two liquid cylinders capable of feeding oxygen gas for 40 beds for a period of two to three days has been made functional at Base Hospital, Delhi Cantonment. The team has also tested a mobile version to cater for typical shifting requirements in hospitals. The system is economically viable and is safe to operate since it obviates high gas pressure in the pipeline or cylinders and does not require any power supply to operate. The system is capable of replication in a quick time frame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-engineers-come-up-with-innovative-solution-for-conversion-of-liquid-oxygen-to-bedside-oxygen-covid-19-patients-255304
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 99-year old veteran donates Rs 1 lakh to Army at Jalandhar headquarters||A 99-year-old former soldier, from the British times, donated Rs 1 lakh to the Indian Army for fighting against the global coronavirus pandemic.The soldier— Lance Naik Kesho Lal Verma—visited the Sub Area Headquarters in Jalandhar on Wednesday, and hand-delivered the cheque to senior Army officers.In conversation with The Tribune from his Jalandhar Cantonment residence, Verma revealed that he has spent 16 years in the Army after enrolling in 1942.Verma had served with the erstwhile Royal Indian Army Service Corps, and was deployed with the British Army's South East Asia Command.He witnessed action against the Japanese during the Second World War, and was taken as a prisoner of the war.He even served in the North-West Frontier Province—now, in Pakistan—and underwent a technical course in Meerut.After leaving the Army, he was employed with the state-run Pepsu Roadways in Punjab. His son passed away. Now, he lives alone with a cook.According to Army officers, there have been many cases where ex-servicemen have made contributions towards the Army’s efforts in combating the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-99-year-old-veteran-donates-rs-1-lakh-to-army-at-jalandhar-headquarters-255289
19-05-2021||New Delhi||Women activists demand safety at protest sites, say time to look||She remembers a man who just would not leave her friend and her alone at the Singhu protest site. They would be followed everywhere. Eventually, her breaking point came. She punched him hard in the stomach."Imagine the first word that came out of his mouth—'sister'. I told him to get lost and go back to his hometown," says activist and research scholar Kanupriya, the first and only woman President (2018) in the history of Panjab University's Students' Union in Chandigarh who has spent months at the farmers' protest site at Singhu and has been instrumental in mobilising urban women from across Punjab and Chandigarh in joining the protests against the new farm laws.Even as the alleged gang rape of a 26-year-old woman from Bengal at Tikri a few days has been making news, several young women are coming forward with charges of sexual misconduct at the protest sites.Recently, another survivor opened up to Kanupriya. She told her that a man had been constantly following her throughout the protests even as she was with her mother and friend. The person then started taking pictures of her, post which she snatched his phone and confronted him. "Despite scores of people around, no one came forward to support her. That was really shocking for us. You have to respond and take action. When we challenge such men in the society, why not in progressive circles as well?" Simran Atwal is a Chemical Engineering graduate, now pursuing a degree in Law. Not affiliated to any organisation, she has been going to the Singhu protest site in her individual capacity and has stayed there thrice. Recalling her experience at the site during one of her visits, she says, "A young man from Punjab, formerly a member of Students For Society (SFS), very active in progressive circles, who has been called out by many women activists on the social media, was a permanent fixture at the Singhu protest site. Every time I would bump into him, he would propose to me, and just not leave me alone. He touched my face a few times, despite me telling me that I was very uncomfortable with that. Once when I had gone with my sister, he touched her too. I never interacted with him after that." In fact the same young man, a permanent fixture at most protests in Punjab and Chandigarh, also active during CAA-NRC protests at Shaheen Bagh has been called out by multiple women for harassing them at different times and places.Stressing that she personally knows about more than 10 women who have faced harassment at the farmers' protest sites, Atwal feels that it is high time that Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) realises that if a sizable number of women are coming out in their support, they too have a responsibility towards them. "It cannot be one-way traffic, no? You can't have us supporting you, but neglect our issues completely. That is not how it should be," she adds.Kanupriya says that initially they did not want to come out individually for fear of being "labelled". "We were also anxious about the morcha as the girls were afraid that it could be at at stake." Post coming out publicly, they approached 'Women Against State Repression and Sexual Harassment' (WSS). "Our purpose was to pressurize the leaders of the SKM. We wanted a support system. It is very important that there be an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) with helpline numbers and members ready to listen," says Kanupriya.Recalling a tweet by a woman activist, which read—'Not going to support any movement unless it is safe for women', the former student leader got in touch with her. "When I spoke with her, I realised that she was referring to the farmers' movement. The women are standing strong with the agitation. But they will not put up with harassment and misogyny." Contrary to popular perception, women activists have not really had it easy at the agitation. "I remember in the beginning, the day before I went over there, young women who had accompanied the morcha on November 26, stood up to some men who had been hurling abuses at one another. There were several who had been throwing up all over the place after getting drunk and dancing to lewd songs. But we women are always challenged and nobody ever questions those miscreants." Another activist from Abhor adds, " I have been pushing strongly for an IIC from day one. Earlier, I was working as an individual, so, my voice did not matter much. We recently formed a group for the survivors of harassment, in order to put collective pressure. Then there is another group 'WSS', which I recently joined through some girls. That group is working with a lot of organisations. So, they have a heavy presence and have a strong voice. They have been doing really good work in putting pressure on the SKM." Speaking to IANS, Sukhwinder Kaur, State Committee Member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) says that steps are being taken to address the issue. "The key is to address the problems that emerge. I know the state will make a great deal of this in order to discredit the movement but it is important to ascertain that everyone's problems are looked into. I am in Bathinda right now. The moment I am back at Singhu, we plan to formulate a five-member committee so that complaints regarding sexual harassment can be lodged immediately."President of the women's wing of the powerful Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), Harinder Bindu, who heads more than 40,000 women associated with the union, clarifying, that the accused in the alleged gang rape were not even camping near their protest site, says, "They were in Tikri, but in the other part. In fact, the moment we came to know about the incident, it was us who raised the issue. Our leader personally met the father of the deceased girl and assured that we stood by him." Ask her if they plan to address the issues of harassment on protest sites, and she says, "Yes, we are going to make an office manned by women near our protest site at Tikri. By the way, we have always ensured patrolling in cars and on foot near the tents where our women cadre put up. There is a constant dialogue with them to ensure that they feel safe." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-activists-demand-safety-at-protest-sites-say-time-to-look-255253
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid fight draws a pat from PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi today appreciated the steps taken by the UT Administration to fight the deadly coronavirus in the city.The Prime Minister held a video conference with the chief ministers and administrators of states and UTs, including a select group of deputy commissioners, today. Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner (DC), Chandigarh, was selected to make a presentation regarding Covid management in the city.The Prime Minister appreciated the efforts of the UT Administration and stated that the action deserved special praise because a large number of senior citizens stay in Chandigarh who are susceptible to corona infection. Modi desired that the DC should make a presentation and share some of the good practices of Chandigarh with the rest of the states.In his direct interaction with the Prime Minister, Brar mentioned steps such as coordination among the tricity, involvement of all doctors in decision making, increase in testing and contact tracing, setting up of oxygen plants on priority, retraining of staff to prevent leakage or improper use of oxygen, containment of Bapu Dham Colony, setting up of micro-containment zones and resultant steps to stop transmission of the virus, use of Covid care centres, role played by Ayush and Dhanwantry ayurvedic college, positive role being played by NGOs, RWAs, religious organisations and other members of civil society and increase in the number of oxygen and ICU beds in government hospitals.The DC said the PM was all praise for the timely commissioning of three oxygen generation plants at the GMCH, Sector 32, GMSH, Sector 16, and the Covid hospital at Sector 48. Moreover, nearly 10 per cent of oxygen was saved after a team of senior doctors from the GMCH and the GMSH visited private and government hospitals to educate and sensitise them to optimum utilisation of oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-covid-fight-draws-a-pat-from-pm-modi-254896
19-05-2021||Mohali||15 succumb in Mohali, 716 more test +ve||Chandigarh sees six deaths, 526 fresh casesChandigarh: The city reported six deaths and 526 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. The number of active cases now stands at 7,035 and the toll 647. As many as 867 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS2 die, 270 contract infection in PanchkulaPanchkula: Two more persons succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 296. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said the deceased were a 65-year-old man from Sector 12 and a 70-year-old man from Ambwala village in the district. As many as 270 cases surfaced in the district, taking the case tally to 28,077. Of the 28,077 cases reported so far, 25,457 patients have been cured. There are now 2,324 active cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-succumb-in-mohali-716-more-test-ve-254898
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||High Court raps Chandigarh over Rs 10K security for Oxygen cylinders||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today virtually rapped the UT Administration for prescribing a security payment of Rs10,000 for supplying oxygen cylinders to home. “People will not run away with oxygen cylinders,” the Bench pointed out.The Bench also made it clear that Rs2,000 for a CT scan/HRCT chest was on the higher side. “Thus, we direct that the same may be reconsidered,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.‘Rs2K for CT scan on higher side’“People will not run away with oxygen cylinders,” the Bench pointed out. It also made it clear that Rs2,000 for a CT scan/HRCT chest was on the higher side. “Thus, we direct that the same may be reconsidered,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta asserted that Rs10,000 for oxygen was a little repugnant to the idea floated by the court on the supply of oxygen to residents. “Why is the supplier so insecure? Can’t he, instead of money, keep something else as security?”Justice Gupta added that the earning of the people had declined and some were leading a hand-to-mouth existence. “There is sufficient oxygen in the atmosphere. It is not that one goes out to look out for oxygen. You step out and there is oxygen. It is for the first time that we are hearing “we need oxygen, we need oxygen”. Now for that also you have to pay. Oxygen, water, air… Will people have to pay for this also?”Displaying the humanitarian side of law, Justice Gupta added: “If someone is not able to arrange Rs10,000, he will go here and there, beg, borrow or steal or leave it to fate. You have to think of something else”.Responding to the assertions, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that the issues would be examined by the department concerned at the earliest.“This court shall be apprised accordingly,” Justice Gupta added. Jain siad 174 oxygen concentrators had been received from the Government of India. The Administration now had a bank of 100 concentrators for backup oxygen supply. He further referred to the status report filed by Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, to state that vaccine wastage in the city till May 16 was 0.94 per cent, which was “very low”. Efforts were on to take it to zero. He has further submitted that an order has been passed by the competent authority on May 17 fixing the outer limit for ambulance services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-raps-chandigarh-over-rs-10k-security-for-oxygen-cylinders-254902
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panel for seeking explanation from Panchkula's Paras Hospital||A district-level committee formed to look into complaints of overcharging from Covid patients by private hospitals in Panchkula has recommended issuing a warning to Paras Hospital and seeking an explanation from it for alleged inflated bills.Revealing the committee findings, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today said he would write to the state government for carrying out an audit of bills of private hospitals, issued to Covid patients.Recently, Gupta, who is a legislator from the Panchkula constituency, had visited Paras Hospital after receiving complaints of overcharging.The six-member committee comprising nodal officer Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner Sanjiv Rathee, Dr Rajiv Narwal, Dr Angela Dhingra, Dr Shivani Hooda, Dr Archana Aggarwal and accounts officer Narender Kandola inspected three bills issued by the hospital.BB Singal, a member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council, is also part of the committee as a volunteer member.In the case of patient Jog Dhian, the committee found that he was admitted to the hospital on May 2 and till May 13, his family was issued a provisional bill of Rs7,59,831. Of this amount, Rs2.95 lakh was shown as advance.When the committee contacted the patient’s brother Sanjv Kumar, he said Dhian was on a ventilator and alleged that the hospital had not been providing adequate treatment.The committee found that a large number of tests had been conducted on the patient for which charges were depicted in the bill.When the committee contacted Dr Ria of Paras Hospital, she stated that the summary of tests and the charges for those tests were for the record of the hospital only. She also informed that the charges were provisional but the final billing would be done strictly as per the Haryana Government instructions…,” said the minutes of the meeting of the committee.“But on the same day, the patient was issued a final bill of Rs2.91 lakh,” said Gupta, during a media interaction.The committee concluded that the patient was excessively charged Rs7.60 lakh but during the cross-verification, they reduced the bill by Rs4.69 lakh to Rs2.90 lakh, while conforming to the Haryana Government guidelines.It also observed that the patient was being charged separately for tests such as physiotherapy, dialysis, cardiology and miscellaneous services.In another case, a Covid patient was admitted on April 17 and discharged on May 3 but charged Rs4.98 lakh. He was kept in the medical intensive care unit (MICU) from April 17 to April 29. He was covered under insurance.The committee also looked into the case of another patient, who was admitted on March 24 and expired on April 9. A bill of Rs9.01 lakh was issued but he too was covered under insurance.As per the Haryana Government guidelines dated June 25 last year, hospital rates for per day admission for different categories have been fixed but they do not apply in cases of patients covered under family health insurance schemes. These rates are part of the package and include all charges.The rates per day are Rs8,000 for isolation bed, Rs13,000 for ICU without ventilator care and Rs15,000 for ICU with ventilator care for hospitals which were not NABH-accredited. For the NABH-accredited hospitals, the rates per day are Rs10,000 for isolation bed, Rs15,000 for ICU without ventilator care and Rs18,000 for ICU with ventilator care.But in both these cases of insurance cover, the committee concluded “there is a propensity on the part of the hospital to have charged them excessively”.“Health Minister Anil Vij has been informed about the Paras Hospital case and bills concerned have been submitted to him,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-for-seeking-explanation-from-panchkulas-paras-hospital-254905
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||5 days on, waste collectors turn up in Chandigarh's Sector 21||After a gap of five days, door-to-door waste collectors turned up for collecting garbage in Sector 21, providing respite to people.Local residents were surprised to see collectors coming in both rehris and two-bin vehicles to their houses to collect waste. Due to payment issues between the MC and collectors, some workers were operating independently.Some collectors even tried to stop MC vehicles from collecting waste. The police were deployed to ensure that the vehicles were not stopped. The collectors had arguments with the police.“A lot of garbage had accumulated at our houses. It was lifted after five days. The MC must streamline waste collection,” said KS Gill, president of the RWA, Sector 21-B.FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said, “The problem erupted as the MC is not paying the collectors properly. The civic body should hand over the collection system to the RWAs as it has failed to manage it even after so many days of launching it.”The collectors held a meeting with Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma yesterday after which they turned up for work. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-days-on-waste-collectors-turn-up-in-chandigarhs-sector-21-254906
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moderate to heavy rain likely for 2 days in Chandigarh||Remnant of cyclonic storm Tauktae is expected to cause moderate to heavy rain in the city during the next two days.According to the city branch of the Meteorological Department, it will have more impact in Haryana, with widespread rain associated with isolated heavy to very heavy showers/ gusty winds, mostly in northeastern parts or so, including Chandigarh. Punjab will see minimal impact. Districts adjoining northeast Haryana could have moderate showers.Officials said it was not the cyclone, but its remnant, which would cause western disturbance in the region.“Cyclone doesn’t have a direct impact in North India as its impact is confined to the coastal region only. It is only the remaining cyclonic winds and clouds which will affect mostly Haryana. Its impact will be minimal in Punjab,” said AK Singh, Director, IMD, Chandigarh.Meanwhile, due to cloudy weather, the maximum temperature in the city today fell by eight degrees. The day’s temperature had touched the 40.7°C mark, which dropped to 32.2°C today, which is five degrees below normal. On the contrary, the minimum temperature increased from 22.6°C to 27°C, which is four degrees above normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/moderate-to-heavy-rain-likely-for-2-days-in-chandigarh-254907
19-05-2021||Mohali||FIR against Zirakpur hospital for overcharging||A day after the submission of the inquiry report, an FIR has been registered against Lifeline Hospital, Zirakpur, for overcharging. The inquiry report has been forwarded to a medical board to determine the extent of medical negligence and the subsequent punitive action.Display charges, pvt hospitals toldDirecting all private hospitals in the district to prominently display government-capped Covid treatment charges, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said to prevent these hospitals from exploiting patients, the government had fixed the charges for different category of hospitals according to the illness status of the patient.Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had announced that a state-level committee would soon conduct a detailed audit of the treatment of Covid-19 patients by private hospitals. He said anyone could file a complaint about fleecing on the 104 helpline number of the Health Department and action would be taken immediately.Nodal officers for grievance redressalDayalan said nodal officers for grievance redressal in the district were the SDMs of the respective subdivision — Himanshu Jain (9533502245) for Kharar, Kuldeep Bawa (9815711006) for Dera Bassi and Jagdeep Sehgal (8727856083) for Mohali. The treatment charges for tertiary care (L3) in private medical colleges and hospitals without ventilator and with ventilator (invasive/non-invasive) for moderate to very sick patients range from Rs10,000 to Rs18,000. For details, a copy of the government orders could be seen on the website of the district administration, he said.Directing all private hospitals in the district to prominently display government-capped Covid treatment charges, Dayalan said to prevent these hospitals from exploiting patients, the government had fixed the charges for different category of hospitals according to the illness status of the patient.Dayalan said hospitals had also been advised to exhibit the name of the nodal officer for grievance redressal so that patients’ family/attendant could approach the office concerned and air their grievances. Reiterating strict action against hospitals overcharging Covid patients, he said stringent action under the Epidemic Diseases Act would be taken against erring hospitals. The government was empowered to shut the hospital or take control over it, if need be, he warned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fir-against-zirakpur-hospital-for-overcharging-254909
19-05-2021||Panchkula||Two nailed for setting car afire||The police today claimed to have arrested two persons for setting a Honda City on fire at Housing Board Colony in Kalka.The suspects have been identified as Amjad, a resident of Khera Sitaram, and Shubham, a resident of Khatik Mohalla.In his complaint to the police on May 12, the car owner, Vishal of Housing Board Colony, had stated that he had parked his car outside his house a day before. He stated that he went outside his house to check the car at about 4 am the next day and found that it had been set on fire. He said his cheque book and Rs2.5 lakh were lying in the car.The police said during an investigation, the police checked the CCTV footage of the area and identified two persons, who were arrested on Monday. A case has been registered at the Kalka police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-nailed-for-setting-car-afire-254910
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to keep tabs on immigration companies||To put a check on activities of immigration, emigration and student visa companies, the UT Administration has issued orders, making it mandatory for such companies to provide complete antecedents in writing to the police.Some immigration, emigration and student visa companies are running their offices in Chandigarh. Since there is no need of licence for consultancy of student visa, they also start providing immigration or emigration consultancy to people. They get published advertisements in leading newspapers and dupe innocent people of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and after 2/3 months, they close their offices and run way from the city. The unlawful activities of these companies can cause endanger to the general public.In an order issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, District Magistrate Mandip Sing Brar has directed owners of such companies to provide complete antecedents in writing to the police at Public Window or Police Headquarters within seven days as and when they start their consultancy business in the city. The order will come into force with effect from zero hours on May 20 and will be effective for a period of 60 days up to and including July 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-keep-tabs-on-immigration-companies-254920
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs in 27 more Chandigarh areas||The UT Administration today declared 27 micro-containment zones in the city. District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue.The new micro-containment zones fall in Sector 8, 11, 14, 20, 22, 23, 29, 30, 38-A, 42, 43-A, 43-B and 61, Maloya Colony, small flats in Dhanas, Ram Darbar, Phase I, and Khuda Lahora and Faidan villages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-in-27-more-chandigarh-areas-254930
19-05-2021||Panchkula||Chander Mohan seeks action against Haryana CM for ‘violating’ Covid norms||Former Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana Chander Mohan and former Kalka MLA Pradeep Chaudhary have submitted a memorandum to the Haryana Governor through the Deputy Commissioner for taking appropriate action against the Chief Minister on charges of violation of Covid protocol and Section 144.Chander Mohan said the manner in which the police had lathi-charged and fired teargas shells on the unarmed farmers, who were expressing their anguish against the CM for supporting the three farm laws in a peaceful manner in Hisar, had shamed the democracy.He said the way BJP was looking for an opportunity even during the pandemic times, it was clearly reflected that it was an anti-farmer government. The manner in which all three black agricultural laws had been passed in Parliament during the corona period to benefit the corporate houses is clearly reflected in the anti-farmer image of the BJP.Questioning the sensitivity of the Chief Minister when the women were being lathi-charged by the police, Chander Mohan said the anti-people action would prove to be the last nail in the coffin of this government. All credit goes to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for this grossly deplorable and inhumane act, he quipped.Former MLA Pardeep Chaudhary said all democratic values had gone down in Haryana during the rule of the BJP. He said this shocking incident clearly reflected that the police sentiments were also dead and they were carrying out such actions at the behest of the Chief Minister.Both leaders demanded that the Chief Minister had not only violated Covid rules by misusing his post but also damaged the dignity of the post. They demanded that the CM should apologise to the farmers and especially to the women so that their hurt feelings can be healed with love and to save the farmers, who were fighting for their survival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chander-mohan-seeks-action-against-haryana-cm-for-violating-covid-norms-254937
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||New mortuary to handle load of Covid deaths||In view of the rising deaths due to Covid-19, the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has initiated the process to install a walk-in mortuary which can hold up to 25 bodies at the required temperature.Dr Dasari Harish said of five mortuary chambers, only two were functional. One was having certain issues while two were non-functional. At present, an air-conditioned hall is being used as mortuary but it is a temporary arrangement, he addedIt has now been decided that since the mortuary chambers have not functioned well, actions as per terms and conditions may be initiated.“Considering the requirement for proper arrangements for the bodies of Covid patients, a proposal may be immediately processed to have a walk-in mortuary of some reputed brand,” Yashpal Garg, nodal officer of Covid-19 management at GMCH-32, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-mortuary-to-handle-load-of-covid-deaths-254942
19-05-2021||Dera Bassi||Mirpur village in Dera Bassi declared containment zone||Mirpur village in Dera Bassi has been turned into a containment zone after 15 active cases of Covid were reported in the area. Devinagar village, SBP housing society, Adarsh Colony, College road colony are the other five areas where cases are being frequently reported.Officials said there were close to seven-eight containment zones in the Dera Bassi area.Officials of the Health Department said random sampling in these areas would begin soon. On Tuesday, a team of the department carried out rapid antigen tests in some areas.Besides, samples would be taken at markets and residential areas.Rishabh Garg, nodal officer appointed by the Mohali administration, said: ‘’The lockdown will be implemented strictly here and persons roaming without any valid reasons would be sampled. On being found Covid positive, they will be penalised.’’In April 2020, Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi became the first Covid hotspot of the district after 46 cases were reported from the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mirpur-village-in-dera-bassi-declared-containment-zone-254949
19-05-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||YAD to launch campaign against AAP||The youth wing of the Akali Dal will launch a campaign to expose the “lies and false propaganda” of AAP and leaders like Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Navjot Sidhu against the party and the SGPC, said Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader Sarabjit Singh Jhinjhar.Addressing mediapersons here today, the YAD district president said they would go door to door to educate people about the “nefarious designs” of AAP and other leaders.“Navjot Sidhu is a turncoat. He is the most untrustworthy and opportunistic person in Indian politics,” claimed Jhinjhar. He alleged that AAP chief Kejriwal had announced that he would erect a huge statue of Nirankari chief in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yad-to-launch-campaign-against-aap-254954
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers rescue calf from 10-foot pit in Chandigarh||A number of people gathered near the traffic light points of Sector 46 and Sector 47 to mark 100 days of protest against the 2020 agro-market laws this afternoon. The gathering was interrupted by the cries of an animal, from the vicinity. Following the sound, they saw a calf stuck inside a deep pit, which the locals said was dug for construction purposes.At the site, Satnam Singh Tanda of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, shared: “We saw a baby cow stuck inside the pit, which was dug for construction purposes, maybe 10 feet deep. It kept crying and it was intrinsic for us to go and help.”He explains: “At first, a bunch of us got a rope and tried to pull the calf out. We needed more people so, everyone joined in, men, women and children. Balwinder Balli, who stages the protest there, had called more people. In maybe half an hour, we were able to pull it out of the pit.”He added: “In fact, the Municipal Corporation also came to help, but by the time they arrived, most of the job was done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-farmers-rescue-calf-from-10-foot-pit-in-chandigarh-254955
19-05-2021||Mohali||Desh Bhagat Hospital steps up vax drive||Contributing to the campaign to make Punjab covid-free, around 500 people are being given free vaccine jabs at Desh Bhagat Hospital daily.Dr Jora Singh, President of Desh Bhagat Hospital, said vaccination was being done in the hospital from 9 am to 2 pm, for which anyone can get vaccinated after showing his or her Aadhaar card and providing information about their medical history. Social distancing is being followed during vaccination and the entire hospital is being repeatedly sanitised.He said medical students of Desh Bhagat University were also serving Covid patients in various hospitals and health centres. The vaccine will go a long way in reducing the risk of disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/desh-bhagat-hospital-steps-up-vax-drive-254956
19-05-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib logs 159 cases, 3 deaths||With the Covid spreading fast in the rural areas, the district today recorded 159 cases – the highest single day spike – pushing the infection tally to 6,981. Sixty per cent of the new cases were reported from rural areas.The district also registered three deaths, taking the fatality count to 195.Earlier the district, on an average, used to record 40 to 50 cases per day with no causalities.Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill said it was a “matter of great concern”.In her video message, she urged people living in the rural areas to “strictly follow the Covid guidelines” to save themselves and their families from the infection.Civil Surgeon Dr Mohinder Singh said the Health Department had declared Khare and Rajindergarh villages as micro containment zones after 12 and six cases were reported from these places respectively.“The department has ordered sealing, 100 per cent testing and strict implementation of Covid guidelines in these villages,” said Dr Mohinder Singh.Till today, 1,62,210 samples have been taken for testing. Out of these, 1,54,479 have been reported negative, while 6,981 tested positive for the virus, he said.Dr Singh said 5,870 had been cured and 195 people succumbed to Covid-19.The positivity rate in the urban areas of the district is 2.16 per cent, he said, adding that it is 3.9 per cent in rural areas. The recovery rate has increased to 84.1 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-logs-159-cases-3-deaths-254957
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University dept celebrates Museum Day||Department of library and information science, Panjab University, today celebrated International Museum Day through the online mode.The theme of the event was “The Future of Museums: Recover and Reimagine”. The event commenced with a brief introduction, history and significance of this day. It is coordinated by the International Council of Museums (ICOM) since 1977 to raise awareness about the significance of museums with respect to culture exchange, enrichment of cultures and fostering creativity, imagination and respect for diversity. The council is based in Paris.All faculty members of the department presented their views on the relevance of museums in society. They emphasised that museums were not just repositories of objects and artefacts but they hold up a mirror to society about tangible and intangible heritage of humanity.Students took part in various activities such as showcasing the 3-D virtual tour of the museums of the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-dept-celebrates-museum-day-254958
19-05-2021||Mohali||ESIC sets up Covid facility dashboard||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), in its endeavour to enhance citizen-centric services and dissemination of information during the pandemic, has set up a ‘dashboard’ to help needy citizens in searching a bed in a dedicated ESIC Hospital.Free treatment for insured person, kinThe ESIC, in a release issued on Tuesday, said the insured person and/or his family members in case of being infected with Covid-19 could avail of free-of-cost medical care at any of the ESIC/ESIS hospitals declared a Covid-19 dedicated hospital.The ESIC spokesperson said the participating ESI health institutions were updating the data on a regular basis. Through this dashboard, citizens would be able to navigate to a displayed ESI health institution, view bed position there and take conscious decision of availing of services. The link for the Covid facility dashboard has been made available at https://www.esic.in/Dashboard/CovidDashBoard.aspxSickness benefit for 91 daysIn case the insured person abstains from his work being infected with Covid-19, he can claim sickness benefit for his period of abstention as per his entitlement. Sickness benefit is paid at the rate of 70 per cent of average daily wages for 91 days. In case any insured person becomes unemployed, he might avail of relief under the Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana (ABVKY) at the rate of 50 per cent of average per day earning for a maximum 90 days.Meanwhile, the ESIC, in a release issued today, said the insured person and/or his family members in case of being infected with Covid-19 could avail of free-of-cost medical care at any of the ESIC/ESIS hospitals declared as a Covid-19 dedicated hospital.He said at present 21 ESIC hospitals run directly by the ESIC with 3,676 Covid isolation beds, 229 ICU beds and 163 ventilator beds and 26 ESI scheme hospitals run by the state governments having 2,023 beds were functioning as Covid-19 dedicated hospitals.In case the insured person abstains from his work being infected with Covid-19, he can claim sickness benefit for his period of abstention as per his entitlement. Sickness benefit is paid at the rate of 70 per cent of average daily wages for 91 days. In case any insured person becomes unemployed, he might avail of relief under the Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana (ABVKY) at the rate of 50 per cent of average per day earning for a maximum 90 days. For availing of this relief, the insured person can submit his claim online at www.esic.in. In the event of unfortunate demise of any insured person, funeral expenses of Rs15,000 are paid to the eldest surviving member of his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/esic-sets-up-covid-facility-dashboard-254959
19-05-2021||Mohali||Reconstruction of road from Phase 11 to Balongi begins||Residents of Phase 11 and its surrounding area in Mohali will soon get reprieve from travelling extra to reach their home as the Mohali Municipal Corporation has started work on reconstructing a road from Phase 11 to Balongi.While inaugurating the Rs10-crore project today, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the estimated cost of the project was Rs 22 crore. Out of this, Rs12 crore had been spent on laying sewer pipes. Road was lying dug up since longOne side of the main road from Phase 11, Mohali, to Balongi has been lying dug up since long and sewer pipes have been laid to solve the sewage problem of Mohali. Sewer pipes laid at the time when Mohali city came into existence were completely blocked. People were facing problem since long due to overflowing sewerage.Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present on the occasion.It is pertinent to mention here that one side of the main road from Phase 11, Mohali, to Balongi has been lying dug up since long and sewer pipes have been laid to solve the sewage problem of Mohali. Sewer pipes laid at the time when Mohali city came into existence were completely blocked. People were facing problem since long due to overflowing sewerage.The Minister said people of Mohali elected him MLA three times in a row. As a result, he had been given the post of the Cabinet Minister by the Punjab Government. He said Mohali’s development was his priority and it was his responsibility to solve the problems of residents.Expressing his commitment to accelerate the development works in Mohali, he said the Mohali Municipal Corporation would never be allowed to run out of funds for development. The Minister said the work on this road would be completed before the rainy season.On this occasion the official of the corporation informed that the tender for this road was given last month to NS Construction company and the maintenance of the road would be the responsibility of the company for the next five years. He said the project came under the Amrut scheme and 50 per cent of the funds are being given by the central government, 30 by the state government and the rest 20 per cent will be spent by Mohali Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reconstruction-of-road-from-phase-11-to-balongi-begins-254963
19-05-2021||Zirakpur||2 fuel station staffers assaulted, 6 booked||The police have booked six unidentified persons for assaulting and snatching mobile phones of two filling station employees in Sanauli on Monday night.The miscreants assaulted and snatched mobile phones from Vinod Yadav and watchman Pushpinder Singh before fleeing from the spot. The duo, who suffered injuries, was shifted to the Dhakoli hospital.On a complaint of filling station accountant Darshan Lal, a case under Section 379-B has been registered at the Zirakpur police station.The incident came to light on Tuesday morning, following which the police were informed. Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh said: “We have rounded up a few suspects and the investigation is on into the matter.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fuel-station-staffers-assaulted-6-booked-254971
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Preserve CCTV footage of Sec 31 police station from May 11-16: Court||A local court today directed the SHO of the Sector 31 police station to preserve the CCTV footage of the police station from May 11 to May 16, 2021. The direction was passed on an application moved by Sanjeev Mahajan, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh.In the application, Mahajan’s counsel Rajesh Sharma said it came to their knowledge that Daljit Singh, alias Rubal, one of the accused in the case, was illegally detained in the police custody at the Sector 31 police station on May 12, but he was not produced in a court in gross violation of his fundamental rights.Sharma also attached an affidavit of a person, Khem Sai, in this regard. He said they strongly apprehend that accused Daljeet Singh, alias Rubal, would be coerced or unduly influenced by the police to falsely depose against Mahajan in the present case so as to create false evidence against him. In view of this, Sharma demanded that the direction be issued to the technical staff concerned and the IT Cell of the Chandigarh Police to preserve all CCTV footage of the Sector 31 police station.The police have submitted the status report on the application before the court.Meanwhile, JMIC Chetesh Sharma has referred the case to the District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, for appropriate orders observing that careful perusal of the chargesheet reveals that the offence under Section 13 (1) (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, is made out against the accused persons, which is triable by the Special Court. On the other hand, Daljit Singh Rubal, one of the accused in the case, has applied for anticipatory bail. The court has sought reply from the police on his application on May 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/preserve-cctv-footage-of-sec-31-police-station-from-may-11-16-court-254981
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh extends ban on rallies, protests for two months||The UT Administration has extended the ban on taking out processions, rallies, protests, strikes, etc., within the territory of the UT other than rally ground in Sector 25 for a period of two months.An order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar states that the general public is prohibited from taking out any procession, rally, protest, strike, making speeches, raising slogans, or gathering of five or more persons, etc., within the territory of the UT other than the rally ground in Sector 25 for a period of 60 days.Further, prior permission for organising procession, rally, protest, strike, making speeches, raising slogans or gathering of five or more people at the rally ground must be obtained from the competent authority.The order will come into force from this midnight and will be effective till July 17, 2021.The Administration has earmarked the rally ground in Sector 25 for taking out processions, rallies, dharnas, etc., and no permission has been granted to organise processions, rallies, dharnas elsewhere in the city other than the designated location at the rally ground. It has been done to avoid traffic congestion, keeping in view the convenience of the general public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-ban-on-rallies-protests-for-two-months-254984
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Allow motor markets to open, Chandigarh administration urged||Members of five Motor Market Associations have urged the UT Administration and the city unit of the BJP to open the market with strict implementation of Covid protocol.The members said the imposition of curfew and subsequent extension given to it had ruined the business of their markets, shopkeepers and the mechanics.‘Business hit’Members said the imposition of curfew and subsequent extension given to it had ruined the business of their markets, shopkeepers and mechanics.“We request the Administration to consider vehicle repair shops as an essential work,” they said, adding that the motor markets should also be allowed to open as all such markets and auto workshops in Mohali were open with full strength. If not all days, the Administration should allow their markets to open on an odd-even basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-motor-markets-to-open-chandigarh-administration-urged-254985
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure safety of women staff travelling at night, firms told||For the safety and security of women employees who travel during late night hours, the UT Administration has issued certain directions for employers.An order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar states that BPOs, also known as call centres, corporate house, media houses, companies or organisations are providing cab services to employees for the purpose of picking and dropping them from their places of stay to office and back.He said women employees who travel during late nigh hours were vulnerable to crime and criminal acts by anti-social elements.To ensure that security and safety of employees, especially women employees, working till late hours, Brar directed that all such organisations should maintain a data of all employees, security personnel, cab drivers and contractual workers working with them, for access by the police as and when required. Hire security personnel as far as possible from licensed agencies only.Ensure that women employees are not made to travel alone with the cab driver and duly verified security guard or a male colleague was deployed in each cab carrying women staff during night hours from 8 pm to 7 am.Choose the route in such a manner that as far as possible a woman employee is not the first one to be picked up or the last to be dropped. Get GPS system installed in the cabs used in the transportation of such employees, especially women employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-safety-of-women-staff-travelling-at-night-firms-told-254986
19-05-2021||Zirakpur||Two Zirakpur residents booked on rape charge||The Chandimandir police have registered a zero-FIR against two suspects for allegedly raping a Dhakoli resident and forwarded it to the Dhakoli police station.Dhakoli in-charge Deepinder Singh Brar said a case had been registered against two Zirakpur residents – Ajay Arora and Om Shankar - on the complaint of a 30-year-old woman.In her complaint to the police, the woman stated that her husband died in 2017. She rented a flat in Dhakoli in 2020 where she met Ajay Arora.The suspect told her that he was single and wanted to marry her. The suspect invited the woman to a hotel in Dhakoli where he allegedly raped her. Later, the suspect started blackmailing her.On March 13 this year, Arora came to the woman’s house with his friend Om Shankar and tried to sexually assault her. The police have registered a case against the suspects and initiated further action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-zirakpur-residents-booked-on-rape-charge-255002
19-05-2021||Mohali||Fugitive gangster lands in police net||The police have arrested fugitive gangster Bahadur Singh, a resident of Lakhnaur village, near Kurali.He was wanted in eight cases of arms supply and drugs smuggling. A total of 1,300 tramadol tablets, ammunition and pistols were recovered from his house.Acting on a tip-off, the police raided his hideout on May 16 and arrested him with 1.50-kg heroin.A case under Sections 21 and 22 of NDPS Act and Section 25 of the Arms Act was registered against him at the Sadar Kurali police station on May 16.The suspect tried to flee from the house with a bag on his back, but was overpowered by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fugitive-gangster-lands-in-police-net-255004
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Furnish particulars of tenants to police station, landlords told||To prevent anti-social elements from making their hideouts clandestinely in the residential or commercial areas of the city, the UT Administration has directed landlords, owners, managers of residential or commercial establishments to furnish the particulars of their tenant or servant to the local police station.Under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar ordered that no landlord, owner, manager of residential or commercial establishments will rent out or sub-let any accommodation to any person, unless and until he/she has furnished the particulars of the said servant(s) to the local police station. All persons, who intend to offer accommodation or rent or employ any servant, should inform about the particulars of tenants, paying guests and servants in writing to the Station House Officer (SHO) concerned in whose jurisdiction the premises fall.This order will come into force with effect from zero hours on May 20 and will be effective for a period of 60 days up to July 18. It is applicable to those also who already have domestic servants/maids and have not informed the police yet when the order is in force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/furnish-particulars-of-tenants-to-police-station-landlords-told-255010
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hit by car, cyclist dies||Covid Care helplineMohali: Chandigarh University (CU) on Tuesday launched Covid Care toll free helpline for the benefit of the university students and the general public afflicted by the virus. Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor of CU, while launching the dedicated 1800-203-0019 toll free Covid Care helpline at the university complex, said the helpline would offer psychological and telemedicine counselling support to Covid-19 patients. A team of experts comprising medical fraternity and psychiatrists would be available through the helpline. The toll-free helpline will also provide tele-mental health counselling support to the student community who are facing uncertainty due to the second wave of coronavirus. TNSCollege granted autonomyRopar: The University Grants Commission has granted the autonomous status to Amar Shaheed Baba Ajit Singh Jujhar Singh Memorial College of Pharmacy. According to the college director, Dr Shaileh Sharma, Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University gave conferment of status to the college situated at nearby Bela village. Dr Sharma said the college had been declared an autonomous body for 10 years. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-car-cyclist-dies-255011
