22-05-2021||Mohali||Show cause notice issued to Mayo Hospital in Mohali for misappropriation of state supply of Remdesivir injection||The Mohali district administration has issued a show cause notice to Mayo Hospital in the city for misappropriation of government supply of Remdesivir injections for Covid patients.Confirming the same, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had received a complaint today against misappropriation of state supply of Remdesivir injection for treatment of Covid-19 patients by Mayo Hospital, Mohali.He said a show cause notice had been issued to the hospital authorities to reply within 48 hours.According to information, the Remdesivir injections which are being provided at control rates to private hospitals by the state government for the treatment of Covid-19 patients were being taken wrongfully by the hospital without corresponding record of patients whom the injections are given, allegedly the injections are being misappropriated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/show-cause-notice-issued-to-mayo-hospital-in-mohali-for-misappropriation-of-state-supply-of-remdesivir-injection-256880
22-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh Administration gives clarion call to organisations to set up mini Covid centres||The Chandigarh Administration has given a clarion call for setting up mini Covid centres in the city voluntarily by the interested organisations or associations.A total of seven mini Covid centres have been set-up in different parts of the city and all of them have become functional.Each of the Covid centre is having 80 per cent or more of the capacity as oxygenated beds.The mini Covid Care Centre at Sector 8B and at Sector 43 were inaugurated by Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore on May 20.The last centre at Sector 34 was inaugurated on May 21 Manoj Parida, Advisor to the Administrator.The present occupancy of the Mini Covid Care Centres is more than 50 per cent.All the facilities like medicine, nutritious food, recreation and yoga etc are being provided by the trained doctors and support staff, free of charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-gives-clarion-call-to-organisations-to-set-up-mini-covid-centres-256866
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports fewer than 400 new Covid-19 infections, 12 deaths||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 cases fell below 400 on Saturday, although at 12 more deaths, its fatality count remains a point of worry for the union territory.Chandigarh reported 392 new Covid-19 cases. Some 3,962 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The UT’s active infections stand at 5,265.The UT’s fatality count stands at 692.Given below is a screenshot of beds in hospitals and Covid facilities in the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-fewer-than-400-new-covid-19-infections-12-deaths-256861
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||14 die in Chandigarh, 406 test positive||No death in Panchkula, 206 infectedPanchkula: The district reported no death while 206 persons tested positive for Covid-19 till Friday evening. Among the new cases, 10 each were reported from Sector 10 and 21, 16 from Kalka and 22 from Pinjore. So far, 28,866 persons have been diagnosed with Covid and 26,725 of them have got better of it. There are 1,834 active cases with 307 deaths in the district. TNS13 more fall prey to virus in MohaliMohali: Thirteen persons succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 834. As many as 336 fresh cases surfaced, while 1,003 patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, 105 were reported from Mohali (urban), three from Banur, eight from Kurali, 18 from Boothgarh, 22 from Gharuan, 27 from Lalru, 42 from Dera Bassi, 48 from Kharar and 63 from Dhakoli. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-die-in-chandigarh-406-test-positive-256577
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Theft at house in Mauli Jagran||Valuables stolen from houseChandigarh: A woman resident of Sector 46 has complained that a person, identified as Vishal, alias Sunny, stole a mobile phone, a laptop, a gold bangle and a necklace from her residence on May 15. A case has been registered. TNSMinor molested, one bookedMohali: The police have booked a Badhmajra resident, Talib, for allegedly molesting a 15-year-old girl at the Balongi market. Investigating officer Harjit Singh said the victim had gone to the market where the suspect made obscene gestures at her and molested her. TNSCartons of Illicit liquor seizedZirakpur: The police have arrested two Sangrur residents with 700 cartons of illicit liquor in a truck here on Friday. The suspects have been identified as Satpal Singh and Balwinder Singh. The police said a truck was intercepted at a blockade near the UT barrier in Baltana and 700 cartons of 555 Gold Whisky were recovered. A case has been registered against the suspects under the Excise Act and 188 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station. The police said the liquor was meant for sale in Chandigarh only. The duo bought the liquor from Industrial Area, Phase 1, and was going to sell it in Zirakpur and nearby states. TNSO2 concentrators for universityChandigarh: To help Covid patients, the National Tsing Hua University and Taiwan Education Centre in India, with the support of governments of both nations, gifted Chitkara University five oxygen concentrators. Dr Ashok Chitkara, Chancellor, Chitkar University, said eight LPM-type oxygen concentrators would be used for the welfare of society and for the needy under the patronage of the Chitkara community. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-house-in-mauli-jagran-256575
22-05-2021||---||Bhakra Beas Management Board gets 15K persons vaccinated||Chandigarh, May 21 The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) here has vaccinated over 15,000 persons, including its employees, against Covid-19. The number includes 9,097 employees and their dependents above 45 years of age, 1,139 employees between 18 to 45 years of age and 4,839 residents of areas adjoining various BBMB stations. “To safeguard its workforce, which has the responsibility for maintain essential services of supplying water and power to states in the region, the BBMB is conducting massive vaccination drive at its project stations and sub-stations,” said a spokesperson. Besides several camps in Chandigarh, other stations where vaccines are being administered include Nangal, Sunder Nagar, Talwara, Dear, Slapar Panipat and Bhiwani. The BBMB is also treating Covid patients at its hospitals in Nangal, Sundernagar and Talwara. All these hospitals have been equipped with sufficient supply of oxygen and other essential medicines.  Employees of the BBMB have also been providing food and other essential items to the needy during these difficult times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhakra-beas-management-board-gets-15k-persons-vaccinated-256561
22-05-2021||Mohali||Man found dead in under-construction building in Mohali||The police found an unidentified body of a man in the basement of an under-construction building in Phase 1 here on Thursday.  The body, estimated to be a week old, was floating in pool of rain water, said the police, adding that children from a nearby area, who used to play at the site, saw the body first and intimated the contractor who further informed the police.  The body has been shifted to the Civil Hospital mortuary and the matter is being investigated, said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-in-under-construction-building-in-mohali-256562
22-05-2021||---||Stable patients from Chandigarh's GMCH-32 to be shifted to care centres||Chandigarh, May 21The UT Administration has decided not to admit new Covid-19 patients to Sood Dharamshala and Dhanwantry Hospital.In the orders issued today, Yashpal Garg, in-charge of Covid management at the GMCH, Sector 32, said: “Since sufficient oxygen and non-oxygen beds are available at mini-Covid care centres with better facilities, we need not admit more patients to Sood Dharmshala and Dhanwantry Hospital.”Patients required to stay four days or more would be shifted to mini-Covid care centre of their choice, he added.The services of doctors, nurses and staff posted at these facilities would be utilised at the GMCH-32 and at the Covid hospital in Sector 48.Sood Dharamshala and Dhanwantry Hospital would be kept on a standby for the time being so that these could be again put to use if cases surge.Garg said Dr Dasari Harish from the GMCH would be the nodal officer for taking care of mini-Covid care centres attached with the hospital. “A time slot is being decided for video interaction with doctors of mini-Covid care centres at some fixed hours regularly to take care of the issue, if any. Moreover, periodic visits will be made by doctors to the attached mini-Covid care centre,” he said.“Patients at the GMCH-32 and at the Covid Hospital in Sector 48, who are stable, are now being shifted to care centers so that space is available for those in need for special medical care at the government hospital,” he added.Meanwhile, Dr Dasari Harish said there was an urgent requirement for a walk-in mortuary to keep the increasing number of bodies and to prepare for the possible third wave of Covid. “A short notice tender will be issued to set-up a walk-in mortuary on the lines of the mortuary in Department of Anatomy, without any further delay,” he said.The GMCH Director said the 10 new ventilators might be received from the Director Health Services, UT, in the next two-three days and immediate action would be taken for their commissioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stable-patients-from-chandigarhs-gmch-32-to-be-shifted-to-care-centres-256553
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospital told not to admit new patients||The UT Administration has asked M/s City/Apollo Hospital, Sector 8-C, not to admit any new patients.In view of the acute shortage of oxygen, the UT Administration had fixed a daily quota for all private hospitals.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supplies in the UT, said entirely different patterns of consumption had been observed. To analyse and examine it further for taking appropriate actions, private hospitals were asked to provide information within three days on the number of beds occupied and the number of cylinders procured from April 1 to May 10. Garg said all other private hospitals submitted the required details, yet M/s City/Apollo Hospital did not submit the same despite repeated reminders on WhatsApp group sent on May 13, 17 and 19.“In view of above, M/s City/Apollo Hospital is advised not to admit any new patients for the time being. The quota of oxygen is being revised,” reads the order issued by Garg. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospital-told-not-to-admit-new-patients-256555
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||32-bed Covid care centre set up in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, May 21 A 32-bed Covid care centre was inaugurated at Shuddhi Super Speciality Hospital here today by Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma.  It is the first such centre in Dera Bassi.   The centre has 19 beds with oxygen. Plans are afoot to upgrade the overall bed capacity to 50.  The centre will provide round the clock doctor support, helpers, ayurvedic and allopathic Covid treatment protocols, medicines, and medical consultation. “The centre will benefit rural residents of the area and the treatment is free of cost,” said Guru Manish. Shuddhi Ayurveda will provide a mix of ayurvedic treatment as well as allopathic expertise.  Both ayurveda and MBBS doctors will man the facility, he said, adding that extra precautions are being taken with respect to the patients’ diet.  The team has devised special diet plans, which will help patients recover faster. Natural healing methods like pranayama, etc., will also be used to improve oxygen saturation levels of patients, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/32-bed-covid-care-centre-set-up-in-dera-bassi-256556
22-05-2021||---||Panchkula MC to start bus service for religious, tourist destinations||Panchkula, May 21The Panchkula Municipal Corporation will soon start bus service to various religious and tourist places in the district. The civic body has also decided to float tenders for the purchase of an electronic or double-decker bus for the project.The tours will be offered to the tourists coming from outside the district at cheaper rates, said Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, adding that he has instructed executive engineer Sanjeev Kumar to expedite the process of purchasing the bus.TENDERS SOONThe Mayor said the MC would soon float tenders for purchase of bus at cheaper rates but with better facilities. The bus will cover parks in the Panchkula city, Pinjore gardens, Nada Sahib Gurdwara, Mansa Devi temple, Kalka Ji temple in Kalka and other religious places.The Mayor said the MC would soon float tenders for purchase of bus at cheaper rates but with better facilities.After procuring the bus, bookings will be done on priority basis, he said. “The bus service is being started keeping in view the demand of the city residents and tourists coming from other states,” said the Mayor.The bus will be parked at a designated place, preferably where most of the hotels are located, and passengers will be dropped at the same place on return, Goyal informed.“All the procedures for the purchase of bus and fixing the route will be completed by the time corona gets over,” he said.The bus will cover parks in the Panchkula city, Pinjore gardens, Nada Sahib Gurdwara, Mansa Devi temple, Kalka Ji temple in Kalka and other religious places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-to-start-bus-service-for-religious-tourist-destinations-256557
22-05-2021||---||Congress distributes masks among Chandigarh residents||Chandigarh, May 21 To mark the 30th death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, the Chandigarh Congress today distributed more than 1.25 lakh masks among city residents.  The drive was started by Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health Minister of Punjab, and Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Congress, at a function in Sector 41 organiSed by Bhupinder Badheri, senior Congress leader, and youth leader Attinder Roby.  Sidhu praised the efforts of the Chandigarh Congress for working to help the city residents during the pandemic. He said the ambulance service started by the Chandigarh Congress was a great effort.  Congress workers, including Youth Congress, Mahila Congress, NSUI, INTUC and Sewa Dal, went door to door to distribute masks in 35 blocks of the city.  Former Union Minister Pawan Bansal said Rajiv Gandhi was instrumental in building a modern, resurgent India. It was his vision that computer technology thrived in the country, he said. He was a man with a scientific temper and modern outlook, added Bansal. Subhash Chawla said Rajiv Gandhi would always be remembered for the works he did.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-distributes-masks-among-chandigarh-residents-256558
22-05-2021||---||Pinjore woman takes loan on fake gold, held||Panchkula, May 21  The Pinjore police have arrested a 40-year-old woman for defrauding a bank by taking a gold loan of Rs1.58 lakh by giving fake yellow metal. The suspect has been identified as Manjit Kaur, a resident of Pinjore. She was produced in a court, which remanded her in judicial custody.  In his complaint to the police, Saurabh Jain, Branch Manager of Federal Bank, Kalka, stated that the woman had applied for gold loan on May 21. He said they got suspicious about the gold and asked the valuer of M/s Sai Jewellers, Kalka, to visit the bank to check it. He said the valuer found the ornaments, including a bangle and two chains, fake.  Jain stated that the woman had also taken the loan of Rs1.58 lakh on March 27 by depositing two gold bangles weighing 53.3 grams which were also found to be fake. During preliminary investigation, the woman told the police that the fake gold belonged to Seema Bansal, her husband and son Vishal, who had asked her to take the loan from the bank by depositing it.  The woman claimed that Seema and the other two persons had also taken loan in other people’s name from the same bank. A case under Section 420, 468, 511 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Manjit Kaur and the other three persons.  The police said further investigation in the case was on and other suspects would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pinjore-woman-takes-loan-on-fake-gold-held-256547
22-05-2021||---||Chandigarh: Home Secy, MC chief to continue on their posts||Chandigarh, May 21The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has communicated to the UT Administration that Home Secretary Arun Gupta and MC Commissioner KK Yadav will continue on their posts till the Appointment Committee of Cabinet decides on their proposal for extension in their deputation tenure.UT sought extensionThe UT had sought three-month extension for Home Secretary Arun Gupta and MC Commissioner KK Yadav from the Ministry of Home Affairs in view of the prevailing pandemic.The term of Gupta, a Haryana cadre IAS officer on deputation with UT Chandigarh, was to end on May 31, while the term of the Punjab cadre IAS officer Yadav was to end on May 23. However, they will now continue on their posts. The UT Administration had sought three month extension for both Yadav and Gupta in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure continuity in the Covid management efforts.In response to the UT’s request, the MHA today stated: “Both the officers will continue on their posts till the approval/decision of the Appointment Committee of Cabinet is received on the proposal for extension of three months in their deputation centre.”Minor reshuffle in UT AdministrationA day after IAS officer Vijay Namdeorao Zade joined the Chandigarh Administration as Finance Secretary, the UT reshuffled some the officers. Zade will also hold the charge of Secretary, Treasury and Accounts, Planning, Excise and Taxation, Engineering, Labour and Employment, Industries, Urban Planning, and Estate. He will also be the Chief Electoral Officer and Chief Administrator. Yashpal Garg, who is currently the Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board, has been given the additional charge of Secretary, Tourism Department, while SS Gill, Secretary Education, has also been designated as Secretary, House Allotment Committee. Nitika Pawar, Special Secretary, Personnel, will also be Secretary, Social Welfare and Women and Child Development. She has also been give the responsibility of Chairman, Child and Women Development Corporation; Chairman, SC, BC and Minorities Financial and Development Corporation; and Special Secretary, House Allotment Committee. Pawar, though, has been relieved of her duties in the CITCO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-home-secy-mc-chief-to-continue-on-their-posts-256549
22-05-2021||---||Mohali ADC goes door to door, meets recovered patients||Mohali, May 21  Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) supervised the distribution of the Mission Fateh Kits among home-isolated Covid patients in various parts of the district today.  Aashika Jain ADC(G) visited various parts of the district, including Jujharnagar and Nayagaon, and interacted with those who were isolated at home and have defeated Covid.  She reviewed the role of Fateh Kit in their recovery and the efforts made by the district administration towards their healthcare. The home-isolated patients thanked the district administration for its support and praised Jain by saying that they were happy to see a high rank official concerned about their health. Jain said SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal has been appointed as the nodal officer for distributing the Mission Fateh Kits among Covid patients. She said a Fateh Kit contains 18 items, including pulse oximetre, digital thermometre, medicines, information material, medicine instructions, instructions for patient’s attendant and self-monitoring log charts. She said the kit was very helpful for patients isolated at home. SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said food kits were also being provided to the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-adc-goes-door-to-door-meets-recovered-patients-256552
22-05-2021||---||Cut high-resolution CT charges: High Court||Chandigarh, May 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked the UT Administration to impress upon private diagnostic centres to reduce the charges for high-resolution CT (HRCT) to Rs1,800.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh in the Covid control and prevention case, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that Chandigarh had been divided into five zones for the purpose of tele-consultancy. Referring to a publication placed before the Bench by Jain, the Judges asserted that its perusal showed that the doctors had been assigned to each zone. Their phone numbers were also mentioned in the publication. Even Sector-wise and village-wise break-up was given in the publication.Jain told the Bench that the facility was functional at present. Referring to security charges for oxygen cylinders, Jain said it had been slashed to Rs8,000. The rates for CT and HRCT, too, had been reduced from Rs2,000 to Rs1,900.Senior advocate Anupam Gupta and amicus curiae Rupinder Khosla, on the other hand, submitted that the reduction in the rates for HRCT, frequently advised in Covid cases, was cosmetic in nature.“We, therefore, direct that the UT may impress upon the private diagnostic centres to reduced it further to Rs1,800 for HRCT,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cut-high-resolution-ct-charges-high-court-256567
22-05-2021||---||50-bed Covid care centre at Sec 34 Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 21 UT Adviser Manoj Parida today inaugurated a 50-bed mini-Covid care centre at the Sports Complex, Sector 34, Chandigarh. Parida said he was happy that NGOs and institutions in the city were participating in a big way to fight the virus. “Now, there are so many Covid care centres in Chandigarh that even if 100 patients come from any part of the city, we do not have a shortage of beds,” he said.    He appreciated the facilities available at the centre, set up by the Kandhari Beverages. Dr G Diwan, a former Director, Health Services, UT, volunteered his services for the centre. Jaspal Singh Kandhari of Kandhari Beverages said the centre would help patients in their recovery with dedicated oxygen supply, on-site monitoring and clinical and nursing attention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-bed-covid-care-centre-at-sec-34-chandigarh-256537
22-05-2021||---||3-member panel to look into plaint against Panchkula hospital||Chandigarh, May 21Haryana Health and Home Minister Anil Vij today directed the authorities concerned to constitute a committee of three senior-level officers to re-examine the allegations of overcharging patients by Paras Hospital in Panchkula.A few days ago, Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had submitted a written complaint to the Home Minister in which he said the hospital was accused of overcharging three patients.A committee was constituted at the district level to investigate these allegations, which submitted its report. The investigation report revealed some irregularities being committed by the hospital.Sharing the names of the members of the committee, Vij said the Director General of the Medical Education and Research Department, Dr Shaleen, the Additional Director General of the Health Department, Dr VK Bansal, and a senior accounts officer of the Accounts Department would conduct further investigation in this regard.The committee will examine all facts and submit a report within a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-member-panel-to-look-into-plaint-against-panchkula-hospital-256538
22-05-2021||---||Chandigarh extends weekend curfew||Chandigarh, May 21To prevent non-essential movement of people and vehicles, the UT Administration has extended the weekend corona curfew in the city.The Administration has also decided to expand the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group. From Saturday, 4,000 appointment slots will be available per day. This is being done to vaccinate people faster in this age group and protect them against Covid infection.14 die in city, 406 test positiveChandigarh: The city reported 14 deaths and 406 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday. The active case tally now stands at 5,675 and the toll at 680. As many as 790 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. TNSAccording to an order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, the weekend curfew will be imposed from 5 am on Saturday till 5 am on Monday. No person will be allowed to leave home or move by a vehicle during the curfew.On providing some relief in the curfew after the city reported a decline in the number of positive Covid cases, an official said though the number of cases had come down in the past few days, providing relaxation at this point could undermine the gain achieved so far due to the lockdown.Meanwhile, morning walk will be allowed from 6 am to 9 am, but people have to strictly follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour.Shops dealing with supply of essential goods like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, meat, groceries, bakeries, etc, will be allowed to remain open for home delivery up to 2 pm. Only essential travel would be allowed during curfew period.Manufacturing industry will be allowed to remain open and there will be no curbs on the interstate movement of essential and non-essential goods. The kitchens of restaurants or eating places and hotels can remain open for home delivery only till 9 pm. Passengers going to or returning from the airport, railway station or ISBT would be exempted. During the weekend curfew, movement of those going for appearing in examination and those on examination dutie will be allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-weekend-curfew-256540
22-05-2021||---||Partial lockdown brings clean air to Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 21The restricted movement of people and vehicles during the partial lockdown has significantly improved the air quality of the city.As per the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), the air quality index (AQI) has improved to ‘satisfactory’ to ‘good’ levels since May 4, when strict restrictions were imposed in the city.The movement of people and vehicles remained restricted and all shops dealing in non-essential items remained closed during the corona curfew imposed by the UT Administration to combat the deadly virus.“There has been an improvement in the air quality as the lockdown has restricted the movement of vehicles. Also, the construction work in the city has come to a halt,” said Debendra Dalai, member secretary, CPCC. Dalai said the AQI for the first three days of May was in the range of ‘moderate’ – 158 on May 1, 111 on May 2 and 123 on May 3.“With the imposition of partial lockdown on May 4, the major air pollution causing pollutants like PM10 (particulate matter with diameter lower than 10 micrometre) and PM2.5 had been restricted and the air quality improved to ‘satisfactory’ level for the next several days,” said Dalai.The city though breathed the cleanest air on May 13 and 14 when air quality further improved to ‘good’ and the AQI touched 43 and 48, respectively.Between May 4 and 20, the air quality fell to ‘moderate’ level only for three days on May 14, 16 and 17, whereas it remained ‘satisfactory’ for the remaining period.“There could be a progressive improvement in the overall air quality of the city if the right initiatives are taken,” said Dalai.“The lockdown has ruined the economy, but it has improved the quality of life as air has become cleaner,” said Maninder Singh, a Mani Majra resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/partial-lockdown-brings-clean-air-to-chandigarh-256542
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan now held in bouncer murder case||Allowing two-day police remand, a local court has rejected the plea of former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan for brain mapping, conducting a lie-detector test and narco-analysis test in the murder case of bouncer Surjit Singh. Mahajan, who was already in judicial custody in the Sector 37 property grab case, has now been arrested by the police in the bouncer’s murder case after obtaining a production warrant from the court.The police had sought three-day remand, but the court allowed it for two days. The public prosecutor argued that the accused needed to be interrogated after the wife of deceased Surjit Singh reportedly gave a statement that Mahajan’s role could not be ruled out in the case. Surjit Singh was also one of the accused in the property grab case.Rajesh Sharma, Mahajan’s counsel, opposed the remand, stating that Mahajan was being falsely implicated in the case. Sharma said the incident dated back to March 16, 2020, but the police were now seeking Mahajan’s custody after he was arrested in another case.He claimed that the statement of the deceased’s wife was not obtained by the police till the time Mahajan was arrested. Sharma sought directions from the court for allowing the counsel to remain present during Mahajan’s interrogation and direction to the onvestigating officer to record the interrogation proceedings through an audio-video camera and submit a copy of the footage.He demanded that directions should also be issued for the medical examination of the accused, to which the court agreed. The court also directed the police to let the accused meet his advocate during the interrogation. Meanwhile, the court has allowed an interim anticipatory bail to one of the accused, Daljit Singh Rubal, who is absconding, in the alleged property grab case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-journalist-sanjeev-mahajan-now-held-in-bouncer-murder-case-256544
22-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Black fungus cases on the rise, PGI getting 10 to 15 cases daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21The cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, are on a rise in the city. In the past one week, the Microbiology Department at the PGI has been diagnosing 10-15 patients with the infection on a daily basis.In the pre-Covid times, the institute used to witness 50 cases annually.Though not every patient needs to be admitted to the hospital, there are currently 21 mucormycosis cases admitted to the NHE Covid block of the PGIMER, of which nine are from Punjab and seven from Haryana.Prof Arunaloke Chakrabarti, Head, Department of Medical Microbiology, said, “Patients with mucormycosis symptoms are showing up in the emergency block of the hospital and a lot of them are from other states.”“The samples of patients are sent to the Microbiology Department laboratory for assessment. A majority of patients who are diagnosed with the disease in our institute have recovered from Covid-19,” said Prof Chakrabarti.“Almost 80 per cent of the suspected cases are diagnosed with mucormycosis. The symptoms are facial pain, nasal blockage, etc.As per the previous studies, the mortality rate of mucormycosis was found to be 50 per cent,” Prof Chakrabarti added.Emphasising the role of an ENT specialist in post-Covid care, Prof Chakrabarti said, “It is highly unlikely that patients come to the hospital in the early stage of mucormycosis as OPDs are shut and they can only visit emergencies. There should be involvement of ENT specialists in the post-Covid clinics so that such patients can be treated in time.” ‘Set up task force’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/black-fungus-cases-on-the-rise-pgi-getting-10-to-15-cases-daily-256545
22-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||2,251 vaccinated on Day 1 of drive-through event in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 21The first drive-through vaccination event held at Parade Ground in Sector 5 received a huge response as 2,251 persons were administered the Covid vaccine today.According to sources, people started arriving at the centre from the early hours of the day and by the time the vaccination started at 9 am the whole area around the stadium was occupied by cars. In view of the heavy rush, the health authorities decided to run the programme for about nine hours continuously. Earlier, it was scheduled to be held in two batches from 9 am to noon and 4 pm to 5 pm.To boost the vaccination drive, the health authorities had decided to hold drive-through vaccination for two days, May 21 and 22.Beneficiaries were administered the vaccine in their cars. Later, they were directed to a place where they were kept under supervision of doctors and other medical staff for about 30 minutes.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said the drive would continue for the second day tomorrow and people should come in large numbers to get inoculated.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta inaugurating the drive-through vaccination programme. Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur were among those present on the occasion.No death in P’kula, 206 infectedPanchkula: The district reported no death while 206 persons tested positive for Covid-19 till Friday evening. Among the new cases, 10 each were reported from Sector 10 and 21, 16 from Kalka and 22 from Pinjore. So far, 28,866 persons have been diagnosed with Covid and 26,725 of them have got better of it. There are 1,834 active cases with 307 deaths in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-251-vaccinated-on-day-1-of-drive-through-event-in-panchkula-256546
22-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Black fungus: Come up with preventive measures, directs Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Taking cognisance of the increasing number of black fungal infections, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to come up with possible preventive measures. “In case any such steps are possible, the same be taken immediately,” the Bench directed. As the matter came up for resumed hearing, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh made it clear that its worry travelled beyond ordering medicines for treating black fungus.“The concern of this court is as regards preventive steps, if any, possible. Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and the Union of India would assist this court on the issue,” the Bench asserted.Justice Gupta said the Bench was “not happy” with the tele-consultation services provided to Covid-19 patients. “The telecom companies are busy sending meaningless messages to consumers...,” he asserted.Justice Gupta made clear that the Bench was not talking about mobile applications and websites, but the simple act of providing local numbers to patients for consulting health professionals. Expressing concern over the rural spread of the virus, Justice Gupta asserted it was a recent phenomenon and “the reasons you know why”. People living in urban areas wanted to go to the countryside as the chances of contracting the disease were less there because of the open space. “The court, under the circumstances, is trying to help the states.”Justice Gupta also said the issue of overcharging by certain laboratories, except the charitable ones, was required to be addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/black-fungus-come-up-with-preventive-measures-directs-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-256559
