24-05-2021||New Delhi||1971 war hero dies, cremation in Chandigarh on Tuesday||A hero of the Battle of Poonch during the 1971 India-Pak war, Col Panjab Singh, died at Command Hospital Chandimandir on Sunday.He had recovered from Covid-19 and was out of the intensive care unit (ICU). This morning he passed away.Awarded the Vir Chakra – the third highest war-time gallantry award – the colonel hailed from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh and was in the Sixth battalion of the Sikh Regiment.During the war, he as a major and commanding a company deployed in the Western Sector.December 3, 1971, the company was attacked by two enemy companies supported by artillery and mortar fire. The Sikh Regiment boys retaliated and held back the attackers.“Three more attempts by the enemy to assault the position were similarly foiled in the next two days,” read his citation for the gallantry award.Sadly, just four days ago he had lost his son, Anil Singh to Covid at a hospital in Delhi.Col Panjab Singh’s son-in-law is serving as a Lieutenant General of the Indian Army, posted as Corps Commander.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1971-war-hero-dies-cremation-in-chandigarh-on-tuesday-257784
24-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh Administration starts oxygen concentrator bank for Covid patients in home isolation||The Chandigarh Administration in association with the Indian Red Cross Society, UT Branch, has started oxygen concentrator bank for Covid patients who need oxygen when in home isolation or after discharge from hospital.The patients requiring concentrator may contact at the following helpline number: +91-6280726662.The timings for the bank are 9 am to 5 pm.The applicant is required to submit following documents:*Covid positive report of patient.*Doctor’s prescription for oxygen requirement.*Any residential proof of UT Chandigarh.After confirming the eligibility, the applicant will be informed telephonically regarding availability of oxygen concentrator.The security amount of Rs 5,000 will be required to be remitted in favour of Indian Red Cross Society, UT Branch, Chandigarh.This will be refunded on the return of equipment. Oxygen concentrator will be delivered by the team of Red Cross at patient’s home.This service is free of cost, but the user will have to bear the repair cost in case of any breakage/damage to the equipment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-starts-oxygen-concentrator-bank-for-covid-patients-in-home-isolation-257766
24-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 245 fresh cases of Covid-19; 7 deaths||Chandigarh on Monday reported 245 fresh cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of active cases in the city to 4,428.There were seven deaths of Covid-19 positive patients in the last 24 hours.The total number of cases in Chandigarh is 58,734 while the death toll is 709.A total of 684 patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per the Health Ministry guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-245-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-7-deaths-257763
24-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh weekly positivity rate dips to 13%, was 23.2% fortnight ago||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23The Covid case positivity rate of the UT has come down significantly from a record high of 23.2 per cent during the week ending May 9, to approximately 13 per cent this week. A positivity rate of below 5 per cent is considered safe as far as the spread of the virus is concerned.From a single-day positivity rate of 27.8 per cent reported on May 11, the test positivity rate dropped to 9.8 per cent today.Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UTDon’t lower the guard: DHSEven if the cases are decreasing, there is a need for people to strictly observe Covid-appropriate behaviour to keep the virus at bay.In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.9% every day. The active cases have also reached 9.1 per cent in the city with a constant decline in the new cases.Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said even if the cases were decreasing, there was a need for people to strictly observe Covid-appropriate behaviour to keep the virus at bay. It was the natural cycle of the pandemic and with the ongoing restrictions, the cases were expected to decrease this week as well, she added.With new infections on the decline, oxygen and ventilator bed availability in the city is also improving. On Sunday, 11 ventilator beds were vacant at the PGI, eight were vacant at the GMCH-32 and two at the GMCH-48 (South Campus). The number of patients requiring oxygen beds at the PGI also reduced as 150 such beds were vacant on Sunday. A total of 306 oxygen beds were vacant in the city hospitals. On May 6, no ICU bed was vacant in the government-run hospitals in the city while 116 oxygen beds were vacant at the healthcare facilities.Despite the decline in new cases, the fatalities in the city are still on the higher side as an average 10 deaths due to Covid-19 are taking place daily.Mucormycosis another challenge: PGI DirectorProf Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “We have already crossed the peak and Covid cases are coming down now. Moderate to serious patients take double the time to recover than the mild patients. Even as the hospital admission has fallen, doctors now face a new challenge of mucormycosis. The number of mucormycosis patients is significant. Another challenge is that it takes much more effort to eliminate fungus from the nose and eye. Many patients with fungal infection are admitted to the Covid ICUs now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-weekly-positivity-rate-dips-to-13-was-23-2-fortnight-ago-257392
24-05-2021||---||Chandigarh may extend lockdown with odd-even for shops||Chandigarh, May 23The UT Administration is expected to further extend the ongoing lockdown, but may allow non-essential shops to open. A review meeting in this regard is scheduled for tomorrow.A senior officialOfficialspeakThe neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have imposed a lockdown till May-end. It is likely that we will also have a lockdown at least for one more week.“The neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have already imposed a lockdown till May-end. It is likely that we will also have a lockdown at least for one more week,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.The shops may be allowed to open on an odd-even basis. Traders’ associations in the city have already been protesting against the closure of non-essential shops.Charanjiv Singh, Traders’ Body Chief‘Traders at loss’Punjab and Haryana have opened non-essential shops; these must be allowed to open in the city too. Traders are facing huge losses. They won’t be able to sustain if the shops remain closed.“Punjab and Haryana have opened non-essential shops; these must be allowed to open in the city as well. Traders are facing huge losses. They are yet to recover from the losses suffered last year. They won’t be able to sustain if the shops remain closed. At a meeting, the Deputy Commissioner assured that shops would be allowed to open on the odd-even model,” said Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.“We will discuss both business aspects as well as the current status of Covid -19, based on which a decision will be taken,” said an official.UT Adviser Manoj Parida yesterday stated that the positivity rate had come in the city. With cases on the decline, the restrictions are likely to be relaxed.Following the second wave, the Administration had imposed a lockdown on May 4 in the city. Since then, the lockdown has continued along with a weekend curfew.UT sees 10 fatalities, 360 fresh casesChandigarh: The city reported 10 deaths and 360 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. The active case tally now stands at 4,874 and the toll at 702. As many as 741 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. TNS16 die, 454 infected in Mohali distMohali: Sixteen patients lost their battle against Covid in the district for the second consecutive day, taking the toll to 866. Meanwhile, 454 persons were diagnosed with the disease and 995 patients were reported to have been cured in the past 24 hours. TNSVirus claims 3 lives in P’kula, 124 test +vePanchkula: The district witnessed three more Covid fatalities and 124 fresh cases till Sunday evening. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a 76-year-old woman from Sector 21, a 45-year-old woman from Batour village and a 65-year-old woman from Barwala lost their lives to the virus. She said the victims had comorbidities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-extend-lockdown-with-odd-even-for-shops-257459
24-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Avoid indiscriminate use of steroids, says PGI Director||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23The indiscriminate use of steroids has given rise to a new challenge for the health authorities — black fungus.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, says mucormycosis (commonly known as black fungus) can be prevented if we stop the indiscriminate use of steroids in Covid patients.“The use of steroids in mild Covid-19 cases (without hypoxemia) or the utilisation of higher doses of glucocorticoids should be avoided. The development of mucormycosis can be attributed to the indiscriminate use of glucocorticoids and suggests a need for their judicious use,” he said.“Steroids aggravate sugar levels in patients and those with uncontrolled diabetes are at a higher risk of developing the fungal infection. A lot of patients start self-medication with steroids even when it is not required. It has also been seen that some patients were given steroids in higher quantities that worsened their condition,” said Prof Jagat Ram.Prof Arunaloke Chakrabarti, Professor and Head of the Department of Medical Microbiology, PGI, said: “As uncontrolled diabetes is the major issue, good glycemic control during the management of Covid patients is required. Systemic steroids should only be used in patients with hypoxemia and oral steroids are contraindicated in patients with normal oxygen saturation on room air.”“If systemic steroids are used, blood sugar should be monitored. The dose and duration of steroid therapy should be limited to dexamethasone (0.1mg/kg/day) for 5-10 days,” Professor Chakrabarti said.He said: “During the discharge of Covid-19 patients, they should be advised about the early symptoms or signs of mucormycosis (facial pain, nasal blockage and excessive discharge, loosening of teeth, chest pain and respiratory insufficiency).”Professor Chakrabarti clarified that no anti-fungal prophylaxis is recommended as the incidence is not more than 10 per cent in any Covid-19 cohort.FAQs on steroids answered by Prof Sanjay Jain, HoD, Internal Medicine, PGI What is the ideal stage in infection when steroids should be administered to a patient.Steroids are given in the second week only if the oxygen level has reduced (hypoxia). It should be taken only when prescribed by a doctor.Should patients under home isolation be advised to take steroids?When the oxygen level falls, patients are advised admission to a hospital. It is only then they are given steroids. Hence, these should not be taken at home.What are the culprits for mucormycosis in Covid and recovered patients?Steroids, high blood sugar level, diabetes, kidney diseases and immunocompromised conditions are well recognised factors for mucormycosis. However, the role of other factors cannot be ruled out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-indiscriminate-use-of-steroids-says-pgi-director-257460
24-05-2021||---||Restart drive-through facility for vaccine, Panchkula MLA urges health department||Panchkula, May 23After an overwhelming response from the two-day drive-through vaccination camp organised at the Parade Ground in Sector 5 here, Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today suggested the Health Department to restart the drive.5,257 inoculated at 2-day campGupta stated this after visiting Alchemist Hospital in Sector 21 here today. He said as people were now demanding the continuation of the drive-through vaccination camp, he suggested Health Department officials to consider holding the camp on a regular basis.A total of 5,257 persons were vaccinated during the two-day drive-through vaccination camp that concluded here on Saturday.Gupta interacted with patients at the hospital and also took stock of the arrangements being made to deal with black fungus the third wave of Covid-19. He instructed the hospital management that Covid patients should be treated at the rates prescribed by the government. Strict action would be taken against those overcharging on medicines or other expenses.The hospital management and doctors suggested that the district administration should arrange a sufficient number of oxygen cylinders and at least 100 BiPAP machines. On this, Gupta assured the hospital management that there would be no shortage of any equipment or oxygen from the administration.Member of the Haryana Pharmacy Council and Monitoring Committee BB Singal, Deputy CMO Dr Rajeev Narwal, Dr Paramjit Mann, tehsildar Punyadeep Sharma and Dr Bhanu Pratap were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restart-drive-through-facility-for-vaccine-panchkula-mla-urges-health-department-257461
24-05-2021||---||Despite curfew, Chandigarh residents throng parks in evening hours||Chandigarh, May 23Despite the implementation of a curfew due to Covid on the weekend, residents are moving out in parks during the evening hours.In a random check around 6.30 pm today, people were seen in parks at Sectors 23, 24, 38, 38 (West), 15 and others. The residents were seen walking, jogging or taking their dogs out for a walk.Random checkIn a random check around 6.30 pm today, people were seen in parks at Sectors 23, 24, 38, 38 (West), 15 and others. The residents were seen walking, jogging or taking their dogs out for a walk.In a park at Sector 15, a group of young boys were seen playing football. The UT Administration has allowed only morning walkers between 6 am and 9 am, prohibiting all other activities. Restrictions have been imposed to curb the rush, especially in the evening hours. Residents were seen flouting the norms with no check by the police.“I think walking in local parks is allowed,” said a resident.“We are bored sitting at home and walking is good for health during the pandemic. The Administration should allow two hours for evening walkers,” said another resident.However, Rajesh Singh, a resident, said: “The authorities should make people aware. And if people are still found roaming around, action should be taken against them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-curfew-chandigarh-residents-throng-parks-in-evening-hours-257462
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh police move plea for Sanjeev Mahajan’s narco-analysis test||The UT police have now moved an application in a local court to get the narco-analysis test of former scribe Sanjeev Mahajan conducted in the Surjit Singh murder case. Mahajan, meanwhile, was produced in the court today and sent to judicial custody.A police official said they had information following which they wanted to get the narco-analysis test conducted.Earlier, Mahajan had moved an application for his lie-detector and narco-analysis tests, which was rejected by the court.Surjit, a bouncer-turned-financier, was gunned down by two motorcycle-borne miscreants near his house in Sector 38 (West) in March last year. He was returning home in his car and stopped at a traffic light when the assailants, wearing helmets, arrived there and opened fire at him.Mahajan, an associate of Surjit, was remanded in police custody after Surjit’s wife Meenakshi gave a statement to the police on April 25 that Mahajan’s role in the murder could not be ruled out.The late Surjit was also named as one of the accused in the property grab case registered against nine persons, including Mahajan, in March this year. — TNSSurjit Singh was gunned downSurjit Singh, a bouncer-turned-financier, was gunned down by two motorcycle-borne miscreants near his house in Sector 38 (West) in March last year. He was returning home in his car and stopped at a traffic light when the assailants, wearing helmets, arrived there and opened fire at him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarh-police-move-plea-for-sanjeev-mahajans-narco-analysis-test-257472
24-05-2021||---||Chandigarh, civic body start process to install speed limit boards||Chandigarh, May 23The UT Administration and the MC have started the process for installing new speed limit boards on various roads in the city. The speed limit was recently revised.The MC is going to float a tender for Rs1.50 crore for the works, which include speed limit boards, zebra crossing and stop-line markings. “We have prepared our estimates and the tender will be floated in two-three days,” said a senior MC official.Senior MC officialWe have prepared our estimate and the tender will be floated in two-three days.Meanwhile, the Administration has floated a tender for its road works for Rs14.74 lakh. May 27 is the last date for the submission of online bids by the firm.The UT Transport Department had issued a notification last month regarding new speed limits in the city. The sector-dividing roads where the maximum speed was 50 km per hour (kmph) has now been increased to 60 kmph for cars. With this, the speed limit will be uniform on all sector-dividing roads in the city.The commercial goods vehicles and vehicles used for carriage of passengers with nine or more seats now has the maximum speed limit of 50 kmph on dual carriageway roads and 40 kmph on the single carriageway roads and sector roads.Motorcycles and three-wheelers now have the maximum speed limit of 45 kmph on dual carriageway roads and 40 kmph on the single carriageway roads and sector roads. Presently, there are boards with old speed limits in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-civic-body-start-process-to-install-speed-limit-boards-257479
24-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Punjab-born cager adds another feather to her cap||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23Punjab-born 17-year-old cager Asmat Kaur Taunque added yet another feather to her cap. She signed with the California Institute of Technology, an NCAA Division III Institution in the USA.Asmat Kaur Taunque, Cager I stayed in Chandigarh for five years before moving to other states with my parents. My journey to take basketball as a hobby started from Chandigarh only.Six-feet-tall Asmat, who spent her childhood in Chandigarh before playing for states such as Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, was accepted into Lawrenceville School in August 2019, and was also part of the first two NBA Academy India Women’s Camps (May 2018 and January 2019) at the NBA Academy India facilities.As per NBA stats, she is now fourth Indian women to have played college basketball in the NCAA circuits with the other three being Kavita Akula, Sanjana Ramesh and Harsimran Kaur (later in 2021).The former captain of the Maharashtra U-16 squad, she was part of the India roster at the 2017 FIBA U-16 Women’s Asia Championship that clinched the Division B title.“It’s a proud moment for me and my family,” said Asmat. She was among five girls who were selected from the NBA Academies Women’s Programme (India) in order to get a chance of becoming the first-ever WNBA player. Her grandparents and parents belong to Chandigarh.“I stayed in Chandigarh for five years before moving to other states with my parents. My journey to take basketball as a hobby started from Chandigarh only,” said Asmat.She said: “The buzzer beater shot in the U-16 FIBA ASIA Cup 2017 final against Malaysia is still the most favourite of my career. The NBA India programme has helped me in turning professional and bagged important scholarships. It’s a proud moment for me as its (NBA Academy) alum. I will be spending my next four years with the college team.”She had the honour of getting trained under the supervision of Olympics gold medallist cagers Jennifer Azzi and Ruth Riley. Earlier, she received three scholarships (academics and sports) amounting to $1,65,000.“Well, my ultimate aim is to play in the Women’s National Basketball Association (WNBA). Performing in the college’s team will be a key breakthrough. It won’t be easy, but my experience at the NBA academy and my built will surely help me in proving my mettle. Bagging a contract with the WNBA will be the happiest day of my life,” said Asmat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-born-cager-adds-another-feather-to-her-cap-257490
24-05-2021||---||BKU leader Tikait asks people to carry black flags on May 26||Mohali, May 23Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), today urged people to carry black flags on May 26 as farmers are observing it as a black day. The farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the past six months.Rakesh Tikait, who was in the city to attend the bhog ceremony of Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s nephew Abhay Singh Sandhu held at Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara in Sohana, said their protest would continue till the Central Government withdraws the ‘black’ laws.He said they would come up with a new strategy once the second wave of Covid-19 ends. Replying to a question, he said they were maintaining all Covid precautions and tents had been installed at the Singhu and other borders of Delhi keeping social distancing in mind.Interacting with the media, Tikait said: “On May 26, we will complete six months of the farmers’ protest. We will be observing it as a black day”.He appealed to the public to observe it in a peaceful manner due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bku-leader-tikait-asks-people-to-carry-black-flags-on-may-26-257491
24-05-2021||Mohali||Pensioners in Mohali want revised pay scales||The Pensioners and Senior Citizens Welfare Association, Mohali, have urged the Department of Finance, Punjab, to implement the UGC revised pay scales as and when the recommendations of the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission were implemented so that financial assistance given by the MHRD may be utilised by the state government.The MHRD and the Department of Higher Education have issued a notification on Nov 2, 2017, regarding the revision of pay scales of university and college lecturers with effect from January 1, 2016, along with financial assistance up to 50 per cent of additional expenditure involved in the implementation of the pay revision.Pensioners and Senior Citizens Welfare Association president SS Jaspal said: “The meeting of our executive body was held on May 6 at Mohali where a resolution in this regard was passed. We have also informed the Principal Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Punjab, in this regard.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pensioners-in-mohali-want-revised-pay-scales-257492
24-05-2021||---||Cafe owner in Panchkula violates protocol, held||Panchkula, May 23The police yesterday arrested a Cafe owner for holding a party for a large number of people on the intervening night of May 13 and 14 in violation of Covid protocol.The cafe owner has been identified as Randeep Singh, alias Raju, a resident of Bitna Road in Pinjore.The police said they received information that a party was going on at Hotel Royal Gajibo on the Chandigarh-Shimla road. A police team raided the spot. The suspect eloped from the site. The police recovered some empty bottles and snack plates lying on the table in a wooden hut. The police took the photographs of the site.The police have registered a case against the cafe owner under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act - 2005 at the Pinjore police station. The police arrested the accused yesterday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cafe-owner-in-panchkula-violates-protocol-held-257493
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Colleges against one portal for admission||A delegation of the Non-Government Colleges’ Managements Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh submitted a memorandum to Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Minister, Higher Education, Punjab, for deferring the decision on making a common portal for three universities for centralised admission in all degree colleges, affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.The federation said it was impractical and unrealistic and would affect all higher education institutions .The federation alleged that Internet was a major concern in interior areas of Punjab. “In the present scenario, when parents are unwilling to send their wards to colleges, it is impossible that they will allow their children to crowd cyber cafes and squander money for online centralised admission,” said a federation members.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/colleges-against-one-portal-for-admission-257494
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University association wants faculty house for Covid patients||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has sought directions from the M Venkaiah Naidu, Chancellor, Panjab University, to accommodate teachers under home-quarantine due to Covid-19 at the faculty house.“PUTA has submitted a request on May 17 to the PU Vice-Chancellor regarding faculty members quarantined at teachers’/new teachers’ flats, who may be accommodated at the faculty house, which is vacant. These young teachers are residing in small flats with only one washroom. Even after a week, PUTA has not received any response from the VC. The issue deserves immediate attention in view of the current situation,” stated PUTA.“The Chancellor is urged to kindly issue directions allowing teachers to use rooms at the faculty house free of cost in case any member of their family is advised home-quarantine due to Covid-19 .”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-association-wants-faculty-house-for-covid-patients-257495
24-05-2021||---||UP native held for murder in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 23A UP native has been arrested for murdering a man with a spade in the fields at Behad village in the district on Friday.The suspect has been identified as Dalip, alias Chhotu, who belongs to Shishwana village in Khushinagar area of UP.In his complaint to the police, Sushil, a resident of Behad village, stated that he was employed as a home guard in the Haryana Police and had taken on lease two acres owned by Rajbala, a resident of Sector 11, Panchkula.Chhotu was working as a labour with them for the past three years. He stated that his father Suresh Kumar, along with Chhotu, went to the fields to get fodder for the animals on May 21.He said when he returned home from duty at 2 pm, he came to know that his father had not returned yet. Sushil went to the fields and found Chhotu filling a pit with earth with the help of spade.On seeing him, Chhotu ran away. He went to the spot and found his father lying dead in the pit with half of the body covered with earth.The complainant further stated that he brought out his father’s body and found a deep cut on the left side of the head.A case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the suspect at the Chandimandir police station.The suspect was arrested by the police yesterday. He produced in a court today, which remanded him in police custody for a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/up-native-held-for-murder-in-panchkula-257496
24-05-2021||Mohali||Kharar lawyer hangs himself||Kharar advocate Harsimran Singh Sandhu reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 70 on Sunday.The deceased was an Assistant Public Prosecutor at a Kharar court. His family told the police that Harsimran had recently recovered from Covid-19, but was mentally upset for the past some time.Mataur SHO Manphul Singh said: “Harsimran’s kin rushed him to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The police were informed later.” Harsimran was found hanging with a bedsheet from the grill of his room’s gate. He was married recently, but had no children. No suicide note was found on him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-lawyer-hangs-himself-257497
24-05-2021||---||Biker hit by truck, dies in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 23A 34-year-old man was killed after the motorcycle he was riding was hit by an unknown truck in the Industrial Area, Phase I, last night.The victim has been identified as Gursahibjit Singh. A PCR vehicle patrolling the area found the victim lying injured and people gathered at the spot near the SDM office in the Industrial Area.The PCR vehicle rushed the victim to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police said the victim’s identity was established through documents in his purse. He was a JCB driver.The police have registered a case against the unknown truck driver at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-hit-by-truck-dies-in-chandigarh-257499
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man loses Rs 25,700 in online fraud in Chandigarh||JE ‘assaulted’ by contractorChandigarh: MC Junior Engineer Ashutosh was allegedly beaten up by a private contractor and his men late on Saturday night. According to Angrej Singh, general secretary, MC Engineers’ Association, the incident occurred at 11 pm when the engineer went to Sector 48 to repair a water supply line damaged allegedly by the contractor. His vehicle was allegedly blocked by car-borne men and he was beaten up. The association has taken up the issue with the Chief Engineer and sought the registration of an FIR against the contractor. TNSOne held in murder caseMohali: The police arrested the main accused, Pindi (32), in connection with the murder case of a Ranimajra property dealer, Balbir Singh, on Saturday. Pindi’s associate Jassi is yet to be arrested. A clash between two groups of property dealers turned ugly at Ranimajra village of Mullanpur. Pindi shot Balbir Singh (52) dead and injured his partner Parminder Singh (32) in a dispute over 1.5-kanal land. The duo fled the spot after the incident. The injured persons were rushed to the PGI where Balbir was declared brought dead. Parminder is undergoing treatment. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the duo at the Mullanpur police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-loses-rs-25-700-in-online-fraud-in-chandigarh-257503
24-05-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Ramp up vaccination for 18+, adopt multipronged approach||Rope in private laboratoriesThe pandemic is spreading fast. The second wave is more lethal. Only remedy found till date are precautions and vaccine. As such, the Administration should make efforts to vaccinate maximum eligible residents. As the Administration has started inoculation for eighteen plus group it is prayed that more slots be arranged for beneficiaries at laboratories like Atulya, SRL, Medicos Centre, Dr Lal Path Labs and others.NPS Sohal, Chandigarhstrong strategy needed to contain virusThe Covid-19 pandemic has created a grim situation. It needs an equally strong strategy to tackle it head on. Need of the hour is to fight it out on war footing with a multi-pronged strategy, including vaccination to prevent it from making strongholds. As it has been evident that only immunisation can control its spread and save lives. Accepting offence as the best form of defence, the UT Administration should become offensive by opening more vaccination slots to prepare a large army of Covid fighters and force the contagion to retreat.Sunil Khanna, ChandigarhFighting enemy without ammoScarcity of vaccine is hampering the inoculation drive. Without vaccine it's just like fighting enemy without ammunition. Vaccine supplied is less as compared to the Chandigarh's population. The Administration should procure more vaccine doses and open inoculation centres in each sector so that Covid cases are reduced to negligible.Nitin Sud, PanchkulaAvoid increasing slots all of a suddenUT has already received 33,000 doses of vaccine for inoculating people in the 18 to 45 age group. To ensure efficiency and good response, the Administration should avoid increasing slots all of a sudden for the time being. An alternative option could be increasing slots with each passing day. Slow and steady procedures will help in making the vaccination drive successful and eliminate coronavirus soon.Charvi Tyagi, ChandigarhAge bar should have been liftedIn order to wipe out the Covid pandemic the only solution is opening vaccination slots for 18 plus groups. Had there been no age limit for inoculation maximum beneficiaries would have been vaccinated by this month. This would also have prevented wastage of vaccine doses. The mismanagement of vaccination drive must be stopped to save all.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhAdmn must make all-out effortsSince there seems to be no better option, at least as of now, vaccination slots for 18 plus group must be increased. However, lack of proper planning and coordination amongst various stakeholders could possibly be behind such a poor show. It also goes without saying that at this speed, it might take much longer to inoculate the entire group of the targeted people. This might ultimately defeat the purpose of the entire exercise. Let the UT Administration urgently peruse its action plan and make all out efforts to rescue of all concerned.Vinayak G, PanchkulaMake vaccination compulsory for allIt's high time that we speed up vaccination drive for all age groups to control the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Soon, we might face third stage of the virus. So, the UT Administration should make vaccination compulsory irrespective of the age or any other condition of the beneficiary.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSafety norms more importantMedical experts opine that people in the 45 plus group and those with comorbidities should be vaccinated first. Inoculation of 18 plus group should be accelerated depending upon the availability of vaccine. However, the UT Administration should focus on enforcing Covid appropriate behaviour as people still flout norms with impunity and only small number are penalised. Implementing safety guidelines is more important than vaccination.KC Rana, ChandigarhProtect 18+ group on a priorityUnlike the first Covid wave, younger people are more vulnerable to infection during the second onslaught of the virus. The 18 plus group needs to be protected on priority as they are the working people, who keep kitchen in every household running. Unfortunately, neither the UT Administration nor the Centre has felt the urgency to vaccinate this group. The Centre must release adequate quota of vaccine for Chandigarh based on its realistic demand. The inoculation drive must be suitably beefed up at more sites.SC Luthra, ChandigarhDeploy more staff for vaccinationVaccination of only 1,000 people between 18 to 45 years cannot be justified when it comes to eradicating virus and reaching herd immunity. There is a dire need to increase staff for vaccination at various centres. Inoculation will provide safety from virus to beneficiaries, reduce load on hospitals, doctors, medical staff and frontline workers. Less the time the authorities take to vaccinate people the earliest our economy will be back on the track. The confidence level and mental health problems of people will also reduce.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliPreference to organ transplant casesOf course Chandigarh should open more vaccination slots for 18 plus group while giving priority to immune-compromised patients particularly those, who have undergone organ transplant and are more prone to such infections. All those with comorbidities for which the government has already listed 20 such conditions, including patients undergoing dialysis, those suffering from cancer, severe cardiac diseases, acid attack victims, physically challenged and organ transplant cases, should be given priority over general public falling under the 18 plus group.Parveen Kumar Rattan, ChandigarhVaccine on doorstep for senior citizensAs coronavirus spreads its tentacles vaccination drive has to be speed up. More vaccination centers should be set up to enable timely inoculation of the masses. Beneficiaries can be vaccinated at community centres, offices or at camps. A special home vaccination drive should be launched for senior citizens and physically challenged. Only vaccination can safeguard people against the deadly virus.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali45 plus category bearing the bruntYes, for sure the Chandigarh Administration must open more vaccination slots for the 18 plus group. But 45 plus categories are also facing vaccine crunch especially with respect to their second doses. So, the vaccination supply has to be streamlined so that people of all age groups are inoculated in shortest span. We should not get anxious as it always leads to chaos. The people ought to support the Administration make the inoculation drive success and contain the virus.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhFollow norms even after vaccinationVaccination of people in 18 to 45 years group will go a long way in curbing the raging pandemic due to their vulnerability to infection. This group is most outgoing due to various compulsions. It's, however, important that people above this age group are not sidelined and vaccinated on priority basis. Ensure that people follow Covid guidelines in letter and spirit even after vaccination for containing the virus.Dr DK Verma, PanchkulaProcure vaccine in advanceThere are thousands of beneficiaries in 18 plus age group in Chandigarh. The Health Department should increase vaccination capacity so that maximum beneficiaries are covered per day. Arrangements should be made in advance for procurement of vaccine. Everyone must keep in mind that virus has not yet vanished or subsided. Take Covid preventive measures while at home or outside. Venture out only whenever it is necessary.MR Bhateja, NayagaonOnly proactive approach can helpThe Centre’s policy of a three-tier price structure for states, UTs and private hospitals to purchase vaccine on their own has opened up a Pandora’s box. Most states and UTs are now clueless how to go ahead with the vaccination drive. With low stock at its disposal, the UT Administration planned to vaccinate 1,000 to 2,000 beneficiaries each day. The second Covid wave has affected younger generation. The Administration should arrange vaccine doses to cover maximum people in the least time. Only proactive approach can save human lives.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhNo walk-in registrationThere is no walk-in registration for vaccination of the 18 plus group. Beneficiaries of this group have to book slot through the CoWIN portal for getting vaccinated. The Centre has given vaccines to the UT Administration for inoculating persons in 18 plus group, whose population is approximately 3.55 lakh. More inoculation centres must be opened in the UT. Walk-in registration must be provided at vaccination centres for 18 plus.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhPrefer residents over outsidersMany people from nearby towns and big cities are travelling to Chandigarh for Covid treatment. Even people from Delhi are coming to the City Beautiful due to the shortage of ICU beds in the NCR. So, it becomes more or less mandatory to scale up the vaccination drive and cover maximum 18 plus group people per day. Moreover, local residents must be given preference over outsiders for vaccination.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhShortage of doses stalling driveObviously, due to higher demand for vaccine more slots must be opened for the 18 plus group. To avoid crowding at vaccination venues, beneficiaries should register for their slot online. Complete vaccination can protect all against the third wave of the pandemic. Moreover, there is no vaccine hesitancy among the people. Only shortage of doses is stalling the drive.Anita Tandon, KhararAdd more hospitals, dispensariesTo make people immune to virus it is necessary to increase vaccination centres. More hospitals and dispensaries especially in adjoining villages, which are part of the UT, can be designated to administer vaccine. However, the drive will be successful only if there is sufficient trained staff for inoculation and adequate stock of vaccine. Retired medical professionals can be deployed for this purpose at vaccination centres.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhYouth our workforce, vaccinate themVaccination benefits all beneficiaries. More vaccination centres should be opened to cover the entire city's population. The youth are important for society. They are the workforce. So, vaccination drive should be ramped up for the 18 to 44 years group. The Administration should provide enough stock of vaccine to the Health Department.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliIncrease slots for vaccination in cityLast week, the UT Administration did not increase vaccination slots for the 18 plus group due to shortage of vaccine. This week, the authorities have received additional doses. So, vaccination slots must be increased to cover more beneficiaries per day.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaDaily target must be 5,000 personsThe UT Administration must set a minimum daily target of vaccinating 5,000 beneficiaries to beat coronavirus. This should include all above 18 years. Time is short. Slow vaccination drive might not be useful as virus might mutate significantly in the next three months if not earlier. Bulk of the population has to be vaccinated on a war scale.Dr Kushaljit Sodhi, ChandigarhGive the Go-ahead to new vaccinesNow, it's upto the Union Government and the UT to ensure availability of vaccines. The Centre should give a go ahead to manufacturing of new vaccines, both injectable and oral. Necessary regulatory approvals for new vaccines have to be expedited at all levels. Sputnik V vaccine has already been launched in Hyderabad. It will give a boost to the vaccination drive. In the present scenario, vaccination is the only saviour against Covid-19.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliDemand more vaccine doses from CentreThe Administration has opened inoculation for 18 plus, which has created shortage of vaccine in the UT. Limited vaccine doses are being provided for the city. The Administration should demand more vaccine from the Centre and open more inoculation centres in the city. There must be designated centres for the second dose. Drive through vaccination can also be started in the UT. Preference should be given to city residents for vaccination.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhIt will take years to vaccinate allAt the current pace, it may take years to vaccinate the entire population of the city unless the inoculation process undergoes a major shift, including motivating people at large. Centre-state friction due to political one-upmanship with rivals is taking a toll on universal immunisation mission. Licence to manufacture vaccine should be liberalised by the Centre. District Magistrate and Civil Surgeon must be entrusted the task of arranging enough infrastructure and trained manpower by involving government and non-government organisations/establishments for door-to-door and walk-in vaccination of all above 18 plus without prior registration. There is no dearth of resources. Only their optimal channelisation and concerted efforts are often found wanting.Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula18+ group at high riskYoungsters too are at high risk during the ongoing Covid pandemic. In this situation, immediate vaccination of maximum 18 plus group is urgent. The Administration must increase vaccination slots and ensure availability of vaccine doses in the UT.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliRemove glitches in Cowin appThe second Covid wave has caused a tremendous loss of life on account of lapses on part of the various stakeholders in the pandemic management. More vaccination slots should be opened up for the 18+ age group. Technical glitch in the CoWIN app should be removed. All major languages should be included in the app so that persons from hinterland can book their slots for vaccination. Door-to-door, along with the drive-in vaccination for all the age groups, should be initiated. Vaccines can be ordered directly from manufacturers.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhVaccine out of stockChandigarh has enough inoculation slots, but for the short supply of vaccine some centres have been closed. Some designated private hospitals are refusing inoculation due to non-availability of vaccine. Somewhere the authorities have failed to judge the situation. So, planning for the vaccination drive has failed. Chandigarh has capacity and capability for complete vaccination of its residents within four months if the supply of doses is maintained. People are keen to get vaccinated. The authorities should focus on supply of vaccine doses.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhUnlock doors for more jabsUndoubtedly, the UT Administration should unlock doors for more jabs against coronavirus. People from Mohali and Panchkula come to Chandigarh for getting vaccinated. This has created shortage of vaccine doses. Hence, the only way to curb the spread of the virus is to increase vaccination slots for the 18 plus group.Tarunjot Kaur, Greater MohaliBooking slots an uphill taskBooking slots for the 18 plus group on the CoWIN portal for vaccination in Chandigarh is an uphill task. At present, less beneficiaries for this group are inoculated in the UT. Time slots for all centres show booking for the entire week. There is a dire need to enhance the beneficiary count to at least 3,000 per day so that slots for vaccination are available for this age group.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhDouble the number of beneficiariesTo control the situation before the arrival of the third Covid wave as predicted by experts, it is imperative for the UT Administration to double the number of beneficiaries for vaccination per day.JS Saini, Greater MohaliImported vaccines can boost driveRamping up inoculation drive for the 18 plus group depends on the availability of vaccine doses. However, this means slower vaccination of the 45 plus group and frontline workers. Presently, vaccination drive for youngsters is moving at a snail's pace. Older group will suffer if the entire focus of the vaccination drive is on 18 plus group. Vaccination programme can be boosted if imported vaccine is available soon.Charu Malhotra, MohaliProcure vaccine from open marketChandigarh has been hit hard by the second pandemic wave. Vaccines play a vital role in preventing the virus infection. The UT Administration has made arrangements for more vaccination slots for the 18 plus group. However, there is shortage of vaccines at some centres. The Centre has provided only 33,000 vaccines for the population of 3.5 lakh in the 18 to 44 years age group, which are inadequate. In the coming days there might be shortage of vaccine. The UT administration should procure vaccines from the open market.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe Centre has requested state governments to send their suggestions on conducting the CBSE Class XII and professional courses’ entrance examinations by May 25. Should the board conduct the examinations keeping in view students’ susceptibility and risk of contracting the infection?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ramp-up-vaccination-for-18-adopt-multipronged-approach-257505
