25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Death and birth registration||DBU organises online webinarMohali: The IEEE Student Branch, Photonic Chapter, conducted an online webinar to mark International Light Day in collaboration with Desh Bhagat University to promote the benefits of green hydrogen. Anupma Thakur, DST-INSPIRE Senior Research Fellow at CSIR- CSIO, Chandigarh, delivered a talk on the topic "The Dawn of Green Hydrogen from Renewable Energy." TNSWebinar organisedChandigarh: To celebrate Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav 'India @ 75', as per the directions of the Ministry of Education, New Delhi, the Postgraduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, organised an online national webinar titled "IOT: A Roadmap towards a digital Evolution". The organisers will host four more events next week. TNSSGGS College libraryChandigarh: Internet and web technologies have created overall new circumstances for the delivery of information and services by Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha Library, Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26. The library has radically evolved from hybrid to digital during the Covid-19 pandemic. An institutional repository was also created on the blog, and e-lectures were uploaded to facilitate online teaching and learning. Besides, books were also made available for disadvantaged students. TNSHostellers found absentChandigarh: The Panjab University authorities issued notices to four hostellers who were found absent during a late night check on Saturday night. A total of four hostellers (one from boys' hotel no. 3, two from boys' hostel no. 5 and one from boys' hostel no. 6). "The hostellers were found absent during a surprise checking. The hostellers neither informed wardens nor took any permission before leaving the premises as per SOPs," said an official. TNSNew AeSI office-bearersChandigarh: Director, Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory, Prateek Kishore has been elected Chairman of the Chandigarh chapter of the Aeronautical Society of India (AeSI). He takes over from Air Commodore Sanjiv Ghuratia, Air Officer Commanding, No.3 Base Repair Depot. Addressing the society's annual general body meeting here, Kishore said the society had been playing a significant role in bringing together the research and development institutions, industry and academia to a common platform. Wing Commander Hare Krishna and Ranjit Kumar have been elected honorary secretary and honorary treasurer, respectively. TNSTruck overturns in mishap with busChandigarh: A truck overturned at the Sector 36/37 light point after it met with an accident with a Punjab Roadways bus on Monday morning. No one was injured. The truck, belonging to a bread company, was being driven by Ajay Kumar, who was heading from Sector 35 to Sector 38, while the bus was coming from Mohali and heading towards the Punjab Secretariat to drop government employees when the accident took place. The truck overturned and damaged the traffic light. The police reached the spot. The road got blocked due to the accident for over an hour. Later, a crane arrived at the spot to lift the truck. TNSMurder suspect in police remandMohali: A Kharar court on Monday sent Pindi (32), main suspect in the murder case of a Ranimajra realtor, to four-day police remand. Pindi’s associate Jassi is yet to be arrested. Balbir Singh (52), a property dealer, was shot dead in a clash between two groups of property dealers in Ranimajra village of Mullanpur on Saturday afternoon. Pindi shot Balbir dead and injured his partner Parminder Singh (32) in a dispute over 1.5-kanal land. The duo fled the spot after the incident. The injured persons were rushed to the PGI where Balbir was declared brought dead. Parminder is undergoing treatment. A case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the duo at the Mullanpur police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/death-and-birth-registration-258097
25-05-2021||---||4 local players in national team||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Four local players - Sandeh Jhingan, Anirudh Thapa, Narender Gahlot and Manvir Singh - have been included in the 28-member Indian team for FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 Qualifiers and AFC Asian Cup China 2023 Qualifiers. Anirudh Thapa, Narender Gahlot and Manvir Singh are former players of Minerva Academy.While Jhingan, a regular part of the Indian team, started his career in Chandigarh, Gahlot was part of the Minerva U-15 squad that won the Nike Premier Cup in 2016. Thapa, a former student of St Stephan’s School, Sector 45, was a member of the Minerva U-18 squad in 2016-17 and Manvir represented Minerva in the second division I-League in the 2015-16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-local-players-in-national-team-258092
25-05-2021||Panchkula||2 more held for setting car afire||The police today claimed to have arrested two more persons for setting a Honda City car on fire at Housing Board Colony in Kalka. The suspects have been identified as Mukesh, a resident of Tipra, and Vikas, a resident of Khatik Mohalla in Kalka.The police had earlier arrested two persons - Amjad, resident of Khera Sitaram, and Shubham, a resident of Khatik Mohalla in Kalka, - on May 17. During investigation, the duo revealed the names of other suspects.In his complaint to the police on May 12, the car owner, Vishal of Housing Board Colony, had stated that he parked his vehicle outside his house on May 11. When he went outside to check the car around 4 am the next day, he found that it had been set on fire. He said a cheque book and Rs2.5 lakh were lying in the car.During investigation, the police checked the CCTV footages of the area and identified two suspects who were arrested on Monday. A case has been registered against the suspects at the Kalka police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-held-for-setting-car-afire-258091
25-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Flesh trade racket busted, 10 in police net||The Mandi Gobindgarh police claim to have unearthed flesh trade racket at nearby Ajnali village and arrested 10 persons, including a man, who had taken house on rent, seven girls and two youths in this regard.The arrested girls belong to Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Ludhiana, Rajpura, Mandi Gobindgarh and Patiala. The arrested youths are from Bihar and Patiala.The police recovered Rs40,000 from the spot. A case has been registered against the suspects.The Amloh DSP, Sukhwinder Singh, said SHO Prem Singh got a tip-off that Jaspreet Singh of Rajpura was running a brothel at a rented accommodation in Ajnali village. A police party raided the house and arrested its owner, seven girls and two youths, the DSP added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flesh-trade-racket-busted-10-in-police-net-258089
25-05-2021||---||Illegal liquor factory busted in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 24The Panchkula police busted an illegal liquor factory and recovered equipment used for making liquor from a house at Bhareli village near Barwala on Sunday evening.The police said after receiving information, a team from the Barwala police chowki took along a house owner and raided his another house in the village. No one was present in the house at the time of the raid. The police team found a tempo (Chota Hathi) parked inside its boundary wall.Bal Krishan, Inspector of the Excise Department, also reached the spot. He checked a drum and liquid kept in the tempo. After smelling the liquid, the Inspector confirmed that extra neutral alcohol was being used for making illicit liquor.The team took along the house owner inside and recovered a machine from a room adjoining the kitchen, which was being used to seal the bottles. The team also recovered a 300-litre tank and a case in which 35 litres of liquid was kept. There were 550 pieces of bottle covers in a bag, fake 51 pages of hologram, empty bottles of ‘777 Oak Vat’ for sale in Haryana and Chandigarh only and 1,800 empty bottles without any label.The house owner told the police that his son rented the house to Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Saharanpur, on April 10, 2021, on the recommendation of his friend Deepi, a resident of Bhareli. Sanjay and his accomplice contractor Mohit Sharma took the house on rent for staying their workers.A case under Section 61(1) 4-20 of the Excise Act, Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the suspects. However, the police are yet to make any arrest in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-factory-busted-in-panchkula-258087
25-05-2021||---||Mohali hockey stadium to be named after Balbir Singh (Sr)||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 24The Punjab Sports Department has decided to rename the Sector 63-based international hockey stadium after the late three-time Olympic gold medallist and Padma Shri Balbir Singh (Senior).The formal announcement will be made during a tribute ceremony on his death anniversary at the stadium tomorrow.According to the official spokesperson for the Sports Department, Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi gave his nod regarding it.“It may be recalled that Balbir Singh Senior played an important role in the Indian hockey team to be the three-time Olympic champion as no one has been able to break his Olympic final record, till date. He scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the final of the 1952 Olympic Games. He was the manager and chief coach of the 1971 World Cup winning Indian hockey team. He served as the Director, Sports Department, Punjab, and encouraged the youth for the sports arena,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-hockey-stadium-to-be-named-after-balbir-singh-sr-258086
25-05-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Pay interest on delayed payment of retiral dues to former IAS officer: CAT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24The Chandigarh Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has ordered the Punjab Government to give interest on the delayed payment of retiral dues to former IAS officer Harkesh Singh Sidhu.Sidhu challenged the order of the Punjab Government for denying the interest on the delayed payment of gratuity and part of leave encashment. Sidhu, an Indian Administrative Service officer, was superannuated on January 31, 2014.On his retirement, he was released full pension on a provisional basis. However, gratuity amounting to Rs10 lakh and part of leave encashment of Rs99,354 were withheld. In the application filed before the CAT, he said no disciplinary or criminal case was pending against him at the time of his retirement.He said an inquiry committee, constituted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, made certain observations in its findings regarding purchase of a luxury car when he was posted as the Divisional Commissioner-cum-president, District Red Cross Society, Kapurthala. The committee was formed in 2007 on a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging misappropriation of funds of Red Cross Society by various officers in Punjab.An inquiry was marked and he submitted his defence on November 13, 2015. Finally, an order exonerating him in the disciplinary case was passed on June 20, 2019. The government also ordered to release his regular pension, gratuity and other dues in September 2019. After that, Sidhu made a request for payment of interest @18 per cent per annum on delayed payment by his representation dated September 31, 2019. The government denied his request.After hearing the arguments from both sides, CAT member Ajanta Dayalan said the applicant was entitled for interest on delayed payment of retiral dues to him, especially as there was no disciplinary or vigilance case pending against him on the date of retirement. Even the chargesheet issued after the retirement of the applicant was dropped by the respondent departments themselves and no case of misutilisation of funds or having caused financial loss to the government was proved against him.Hence, the applicant would be entitled to interest for delay in payment of retiral dues namely gratuity and part of leave encashment beyond the normal period of three months up to the date of their actual payment. It is directed that the applicant be paid interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum for the period of delay beyond three months from the time when the payment became due till the date of actual payment, the order said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-interest-on-delayed-payment-of-retiral-dues-to-former-ias-officer-cat-258085
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bar Association offers help to Covid-hit needy members||The District Bar Association (DBA), Chandigarh, has decided to help the needy Covid-infected advocates, who are members of the association.Bhaag Singh Suhag, president of the DBA, said a committee had been formed in this regard. Mobile numbers of the committee members had been sent to all advocates.The needy advocates can call the committee members for ambulance, cooked food and medicines prescribed by doctors on their doorstep for free of cost.Suhag said members who wish to avail of these facilities could send their Covid positive report, doctor’s prescription and their address on mobile numbers of clerks Sukhwinder Singh (7986871256) and Manpreet Singh (9855875363). They could also contact following committee members Ravinder Singh Jolly (9872566038), Vinod Verma (9814842989), Vikas Kumar (9988168868), Gurvinder Kaur (9988834352), Jaipal Singh (981426977) and Sandeep Gujjar (9795000006). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-association-offers-help-to-covid-hit-needy-members-258084
25-05-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Door-to-door garbage collectors to suspend work in Zirakpur, Dhakoli areas from May 27||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, May 24The Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Union in Zirakpur has announced that its workers will not collect garbage from door to door in Zirakpur, Baltana, Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla and other areas from May 27. The collectors took this decision after the Municipal Council asked them to collect wet and dry garbage in a segregated manner recently.“There is a high risk of contracting the Covid-19 virus while segregating wet and dry garbage from houses of Covid patients. In Mohali and Kharar, the municipal body is sending its own vehicles to liftthe garbage from the houses of Covid patients. It should be done here also,” said Shamsher Singh, head of the collectors’ body.There are more than 500 door-to-door garbage collectors who provide daily service in the area. Till now, door-to-door garbage collectors were picking up the waste cumulatively and depositing it at the sites designated by the civic body. With the increasing number of cases in Zirakpur area, the collectors said they fear contracting the virus as the exposure increases during the segregation.“Last year, the authorities concerned used to paste a notice outside the houses of Covid patients. Now, the exercise has been stopped. So, we do not know which house has coronavirus patients,” said Ram Pal, a door-to-door garbage collector.Zirakpur Municipal Council officials said the concern of waste collectors would be addressed and a solution would be worked out soon.Over 500 garbage collectors in areaThere are more than 500 door-to-door garbage collectors who provide daily service in the area. Till now, door-to-door garbage collectors were picking up the waste cumulatively and depositing it at the sites designated by the civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/door-to-door-garbage-collectors-to-suspend-work-in-zirakpur-dhakoli-areas-from-may-27-258082
25-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali sees 45 pc dip in active cases||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 24After two weeks of lockdown, Mohali district has witnessed 45 per cent decline in active cases in the past one week. There were 6,402 active cases in the district till Friday against 10,914 on May 14.The district witnessed 6.42 per cent increase in total cases in the past one week. There were 47,870 cases on May 14. The tally rose to 63,612 on May 21.However, the recovery rate in the district increased from 80.42 per cent to 88.62 per cent showing. The number of persons cured of the disease also increased from 47,870 to 56,376 on May 21. The number of deaths rose from 740 to 834 in the district during the same period.It is pertinent to mention here that a record number of 1,382 cases surfaced from the district on May 10. Thereafter, the number started decreasing daily. On Friday, only 336 cases surfaced in the district, which was the lowest in the past few months. Earlier, a large number of cases surfaced from Dhakoli, Dera Bassi and Kharar areas of the district.A random survey of markets in the city and other places in the district revealed that some people were still exposing themselves to the virus by not wearing a mask. The police had been challaning people for not wearing mask and moving out in various parts of the district without any motive.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “We cannot judge the trend of the pandemic with the number of cases going down with each passing day during the past few days. This downward trend could be due to the lockdown and travel restrictions imposed by the state government”.She said: “We hope the second wave of the pandemic has achieved its peak and this downward trend will continue in future also. People should not take the decline in cases lightly and continue to follow the Covid guidelines by wearing face mask and maintaining social distance. People suffering from mild cough, fever and sore throat should get themselves tested for Covid”.Second wave has peaked, says Civil SurgeonCivil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “We hope the second wave of the pandemic has achieved its peak and this downward trend will continue in future also. People should not take the decline in cases lightly and continue to follow the Covid guidelines by wearing face mask and maintaining social distance. People suffering from mild cough, fever and sore throat should get themselves tested for Covid.In figures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-45-pc-dip-in-active-cases-258079
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Staff of Chandigarh MC tax branch await their salaries||About 20 staff members of the tax branch of the MC have not got their salary for April. They met Additional Commissioner Anil Garg today.“We are employed under a contractor and he has not paid our salary. It has become difficult to run our day-to-day expenses during these Covid times,” said one of the staffers.“It was promised by the MC that all will get salary before 7th of every month. But, it has proved to be another lie. They must release our salary as we are working hard during thes Covid times, “added another employee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staff-of-chandigarh-mc-tax-branch-await-their-salaries-258075
25-05-2021||---||SHOs among 11 officials shifted in Mohali district||Mohali, May 24The Mohali police today shuffled 11 officials, including SHOs of various police stations, in the district with immediate effect.SI Amandeep Kaur, earlier posted at the Phase 1 police station, has been posted as the Airport SHO. Dera Bassi SHO Satinder Singh has been transferred to the Mullanpur police station, while Himmat Singh has been posted as the Gharuan police in-charge. SI Jatin Kapoor took charge of the Dera Bassi police station. Rajpal Singh will be the in-charge at the Balongi police station.SI Bhinder Singh will take over as the SHO of the Lalru police station. SI Simranjit Singh has been posted as the SHO of the City Kurali police station.Four SHOs - Sukhbir Singh (Lalru), Shamsher Singh (Gharuan), Yogesh Kumar (Mullanpur) and Narpinder Singh (City Kurali) - have been posted at the District Police Office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shos-among-11-officials-shifted-in-mohali-district-258072
25-05-2021||---||Panjab University extends last date for submission of examination forms||Chandigarh, May 24Panjab University has extended the last date for submission of examination forms of all undergraduate and postgraduate even semester system (2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th semester) and all certificate, diploma and advance diploma courses (regular/private & reappear) semester/ annual system (if any) for the session 2021 examinations to be held in June/July (without and with late fee) till June 1. Earlier, the deadline for submitting these forms was May 25.As per the revised schedule for submission of examination forms, students can submit the forms without late fee till June 1, with a late fee of Rs2,075 till June 7, with a late fee of Rs6,075 till June 15, with a late fee of Rs11,075 till June 21 and with a late fee of Rs22,075 till June 25. Students are also advised to visit the university’s website www.puchd.ac.in for more information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-extends-last-date-for-submission-of-examination-forms-258071
25-05-2021||---||Two firms donate 25 oxygen concentrators to Mohali administration||Mohali, May 24Under the Corporate Social Responsibility scheme, Swaraj Tractors and the TPI North donated 15 and 10 oxygen concentrators, respectively, to the district administration today.Appreciating the help and support rendered by Swaraj Tractors and the TPI North, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said there had been an immense support by the corporate sector in the fight against corona. He said the second wave of Covid-19 had been unprecedented and had shown that oxygen therapy was very useful in safeguarding patients’ health. The administration is immensely grateful to all those who have donated oxygen concentrators, he added.Arun Raghav, who heads the Corporate Social Responsibility wing of Swaraj Tractors, said these oxygen concentrators of 10-litre capacity would augment the care being given at the Covid centres.Also, under the scheme of the company, the management of Tube Products of India – Mohali and Rajpura (units of Tube Investments of India Ltd) have donated 10 oxygen concentrator of 5-litre capacity to the district administration.Shivdeep Singh Jammu, Business Head of TPI North, said 10 oxygen concentrators had been provided to the administration to extend the support to the underprivileged persons of society. He assured of such practice/support to the district administration as per the requirement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-firms-donate-25-oxygen-concentrators-to-mohali-administration-258065
25-05-2021||---||Over 3.26L tested in Panchkula, says DC||Panchkula, May 24The Health Department has collected more than 3.26 lakh samples in the district so far, of which the persons found positive have been given health benefits in home isolation as well as at Covid Care Centres and hospitals.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 29,145 positive patients had been found in the district so far, most of which have been cured. Now, only 1,686 cases are active, and of these, 1,373 patients are in home isolation. Apart from this, 313 patients are being provided health facilities at Covid Care Centres and hospitals. Health kits have been provided to 616 people who have been placed under home isolated in rural areas.He said four Covid Care Centers were running in the district at Kisan Bhawan, Nirankari Bhawan, Raipur Rani and BRS Denture College, and efforts were being made to increase the health facilities so that people could get adequate facilities at these centres.Ahuja said a committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of the DETC (Sales) to investigate cases of overcharging by the private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. As many as 1,98,453 persons have been inoculated under the vaccination campaign so far and of them, 1,10,150 people given the first dose and more than 50 thousand people the second dose.More attention is being paid to rural areas and vulnerable pockets. A separate vaccination centre has been set up in the area of Sector 20 Ashiana. Apart from this, vaccination is also being done in government buildings, said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-3-26l-tested-in-panchkula-says-dc-258060
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mucormycosis patient count 62 in Chandigarh||Mucormycosis (black fungus) patient load is now increasing in the city hospitals as 62 such patients were admitted to various hospitals till this evening.Of 62 patients admitted to city hospitals, 10 belong to Chandigarh. The city hospitals are left with only one day stock of amphotericin B, which is used to treat the fungal infection,“We have placed an order for 2,000 vials of liposomal amphotericin B injection (used for the treatment of mucormycosis) with the Mylan company costing about Rs 1.2 crore. To ensure the early receipt of medicines for mucormycosis/black fungus, we followed Punjab tender rates and placed orders for urgent supply. The city is left with only 50 vials now. We are expecting the order in a week. Till then, doctors have been advised to look for alternative drug,” said Adviser Manoj Parida. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mucormycosis-patient-count-62-in-chandigarh-258059
25-05-2021||---||Speaker, Ambala MP send another complaint against Paras Hospital, Panchkula||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Ambala MP Ratan Lal Kataria today forwarded another complaint of overcharging by Paras Hospital, Panchkula, to the district authorities and recommended appropriate action.In a fresh case, a resident of Bathinda, Arti Garg, has alleged that the hospital charged Rs 13.81 lakh for treatment of her husband, Dr Kapil Kumar. Her husband was admitted to the hospital on April 12 and died on May 3.She alleged the hospital conducted tests, kept him in Medical Intensive Care Unit and on the ventilator but didn’t provide adequate treatment.“That I was forced to deposit Rs13.81 lakh from time to time for treatment, in fact, extracting huge amounts of money at their own desired rates fixed by them, against the orders in June last year issued by the Haryana Government, capping the daily package rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals,” she said.She added that during the treatment of her husband, she along with her mother-in-law Raksha Rani also got infected with Covid in the hospital. Rani died on May 7.She said they were residing in a rented house and now didn’t have any source of income.A few days ago, Gupta had given a complaint to the Health Minister in which he said the hospital was accused of overcharging three patients.A district-level committee is looking into the allegations. Besides, Health Minister Anil Vij has also constituted another committee comprising the Director-General of Medical Education and Research Department, Dr Shaleen; the Additional Director-General of Health Department, Dr VK Bansal; and a Senior Accounts Officer of the Accounts Department to conduct further investigation in this regard.Gupta said: “I have forwarded the complaint to the DCP, Panchkula. An FIR should be registered.”According to a statement issued by Paras Hospital, "The patient expired on May 3, unfortunately and the circular was issued only on May 4, 2021, covering Covid package rates for all domicile.Since the patient expired before the date of issue of circular and was resident of Bathinda, Punjab, as per identity proof provided by him, the Haryana state package rates were not applicable. We are completely aligned with government policies and patient bills are prepared as per the guidelines issued by government authorities."In this national pandemic, we are firmly standing alongside the government in fighting it and serving the patients."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speaker-ambala-mp-send-another-complaint-against-paras-hospital-panchkula-258058
25-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||No takers for Raipur Kalan dog pound project in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Work on starting the city’s second dog sterilisation centre, which is being set up at Raipur Kalan, has got delayed as no doctor or NGO has showed interest in the sterilisation contract.The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation had floated a tender in this regard, but no one filed bids till April 30, the last date for submitting bids. The MC is now forced to refloat the tender.It also raises questions on the civic body as earlier, it had taken more than one year to restart the sterilisation of dogs at its centre in Sector 38. The contract of the previous NGO had expired and the MC had to float tenders many times.Key features of proposed poundThe state-of-the-art dog and cattle pound is being set up at Raipur Kalan. Along with sterilisation of unclaimed dogs here, their vaccination will also be done. The pound will also have a dog care unit where injured canines will be treated. It will also house a laboratory, a hospital and an operation theatre.“Our dog sterilisation programme would have got double speed, but we have not got any bid for the job. We will refloat the tender. About 300-400 dogs are sterilised per month and as many dogs will be operated on at the new centre,” said an officer concerned.The state-of-the-art dog and cattle pound is being set up at Raipur Kalan. Along with sterilisation of unclaimed dogs here, their vaccination will also be done. The pound will also have a dog care unit where injured canines will be treated. It will also house a laboratory, a hospital and an operation theatre.Around 28 dog-bite cases per day on an average were reported in the city in 2020. According to the data with the UT Health Department, 10,558 persons were bitten by dogs in the city last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-takers-for-raipur-kalan-dog-pound-project-in-chandigarh-258057
25-05-2021||---||Vax drive at spine centre in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24As many as 20 wheelchair-bound spinal injury patients were vaccinated at the Chandigarh Spinal Rehab Centre at Sector 28 here today.More than 100 other staff members from the Rehab Centre were vaccinated. The initiative was taken by the Karan Gilhotra Foundation and the Chandigarh Administration.UT Adviser Manoj Parida was the chief guest. Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, was also present.Nicky P Kaur, founder and CEO of the Chandigarh Spinal Rehab Centre, said: “It is indeed praiseworthy that city resident and philanthropist Karan Gilhotra reached out to the UT Administration and requesting them to come to the centre and vaccinate our inmates and the staff.”Neha Gera, a patient, said: “It is very important to get ourselves vaccinated so that we can fight this deadly virus.”Nicky said due to Covid, the outpatient department of the Centre had to be shut, but the in-patient rehabilitation continued against all odds.With all Covid protocols in place, Chandigarh Spinal Rehab managed to rehabilitate around 65 persons with spinal cord injury and brain injury during the pandemic. Tele-rehab sessions and tele-consultations are being conducted for those who are unable to reach the centre in person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vax-drive-at-spine-centre-in-chandigarh-258056
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||BSc grad held with Rs40-lakh charas||A 24-yerar-old BSc graduate has been arrested by the local police with 5.1 kg of charas.According to the police, the suspect, Mukesh Kumar, alias Anku, a native of Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh (HP), who was residing in Kharar, was nabbed from Sector 34 while carrying the charas on May 23.The police said the suspect had done BSc in Tourism Hospitality and Hotel Management from Punjabi University, Patiala.The police claimed that the charas recovered from the suspect was worth around Rs40 lakh. He was produced in a court and remanded in five-day police custody.The police said raids would be conducted at the addresses of the suspect’s accomplices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsc-grad-held-with-rs40-lakh-charas-258055
25-05-2021||Panchkula||Stopped from taking liquor, youths thrash cops||The Panchkula police have nabbed three youths for allegedly attacking policemen when they tried to stop them from taking liquor in a car on the road behind Tau Devi Stadium in Sector 3 last evening.The suspects have been identified as Bhim, a resident of Dhakoli, Ritvik Rathore, a resident of Mona Greens in Zirakpur, and Ankush, a native of Tayotha village in Kaithal district.A police control room (PCR) team was on a round near the stadium when they found three youths taking liquor in their Innova car. When the PCR vehicle in-charge questioned them, the three deboarded the car and started hitting the PCR vehicle with their feet and beat up the policemen. The suspects hit the PCR vehicle driver with a wooden stick, causing head injuries.After receiving information, the Sector 21 police chowki in-charge and his team arrived at the sport and arrested the suspects.The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stopped-from-taking-liquor-youths-thrash-cops-258053
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen concentrator bank for patients||The UT Administration, in association with the Indian Red Cross Society, Chandigarh, has started an oxygen concentrator bank for Covid-19 patients, who need oxygen when in home isolation or after discharge from the hospital.Patients requiring a concentrator may contact on the helpline number: +91-6280726662 from 9 am to 5 pm.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said the applicant would be required to submit a Covid positive report of the patient, doctor’s prescription for oxygen requirement and any residential proof of Chandigarh.After confirming the eligibility, the applicant would be informed telephonically regarding availability of the oxygen concentrator. A security amount of Rs5,000 would be required to be remitted in favour of the Indian Red Cross Society, UT Branch, Chandigarh. It would be refunded on return of the equipment. The concentrator will be delivered by a team of the Red Cross at the patient’s home. “This service is free of cost, but the user will have to bear the repair cost in case of any damage to the equipment,” he said.Helpline for Covid-related queriesThe Red Cross Society will start a helpline service for Covid patients. Brar said a group of eminent doctors had volunteered for the service. All queries and consultation regarding Covid-related symptoms would be answered through WhatsApp messages. No phone calls would be entertained, he said, adding that people could send their queries at +916280730090. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oxygen-concentrator-bank-for-patients-258050
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-hit Milkha in hospital, condition stable||Four days after he tested positive, 91-year-old former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali today.His condition is reported to be stable. His son Jeev Milkha Singh, a four-time European Tour champion, decided to shift him to the hospital, said Milkha’s wife Nirmal Milkha Singh.“Last night, he faced some problems and later in the morning, we decided to shift him to the hospital. His oxygen saturation level had dropped a little. However, he’s doing fine now,” said Nirmal.She said their elder daughter Mona Milkha Singh, a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Center at New York, who attends to Covid patients in emergency, would also be coming to the city.“Doctors said he was responding well to the treatment,” said Nirmal.Meanwhile, talking to The Tribune on Sunday, Milkha had said: “I am recovering well and have been in good spirits. I will definitely overcome this phase.”“He has been hospitalised. He was weak and not eating since yesterday. Though his vitals seemed alright, we thought it was safer to have him admitted,” said Jeev. “He is under good care of doctors there. He is a strong man, always positive and will recover soon,” added the golfer, who reached here on Saturday from Dubai after his father tested positive.Hospital’s statement“Milkha Singh was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali, at the ICU on May 24 with Covid pneumonia. He is stable and presently on low flow oxygen and medical management,” said one of the spokespersons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-hit-milkha-in-hospital-condition-stable-258047
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh holds back water tariff hike till March||The UT Administration has decided to hold back the hike in the water tariff till March next year.A senior official said the decision was taken keeping in view the Covid-19 conditions. However, a detailed order in this regard is awaited.In September last year, the UT Administration had notified an increase between 50 per cent and 200 per cent depending upon the category of user and water consumption level.After facing criticism from the Opposition, the MC General House passed a resolution in October last year, with request to the Administration to withdraw the notification and levy the existing charges till the pandemic was over.The MC collects Rs90 crore per annum as water charges, but spends Rs225 crore on maintaining water supply to nearly 1.8 lakh consumers. With a hike in water tariff, the MC was expecting to earn Rs60 crore.“The decision of the Administration to keep on hold the hike in water tariff till March 2022 is a victory of the people of Chandigarh,” said HS Lucky, a spokesperson for the Congress. The Congress has been constantly raising this issue and has been agitating for the past three months for the complete rollback of water tariff, he said. Asked why it was being held back till March 2022, he said it might be because of the MC poll in December this year.Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of the Opposition, MC, thanked UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for giving a breather to the residents. “In the last MC meeting, Congress councillors had objected to this agenda tabled by the BJP and we had to stage a walkout to drive home our point. This hike would have caused a burden on the public, which is already reeling under the impact of the Covid wave,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-holds-back-water-tariff-hike-till-march-258045
25-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Of lives lost & helpless kin||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Covid-19 snuffed out 231 lives this month, the highest monthly toll since the pandemic hit the city last year.Several Covid patients died because they reported late to hospitals after their oxygen levels dropped.Amit Garg, a 36-year-old resident of Sector 40, who lost his mother to Covid-19, said: “My mother had fallen ill but we did not get a test conducted as the fever lasted only a day. After four days, my mother’s oxygen dropped to 63 suddenly. We rushed her to the PGI emergency at night, while my wife was taking care of my father at home. In the meantime, my father’s sugar level spiked arbitrarily and we rushed him to a private hospital. My mother was being intubated the next day and could not be saved. I did not tell my father as he was also hospitalised. Only five of our family cremated my mother and we grieved in silence.”His father is currently undergoing Covid treatment at the private hospital.A 38-year-old resident, Amandeep Garg, lost both his parents in two days last month. His parents were under home isolation after the Covid test. After 10 days of home isolation, both of them started complaining of difficulty in breathing. “My mother was an Alzheimer’s patient, so already immunocompromised. She could not survive a day in the hospital and died of cardiac arrest. My father was gasping for breath in the hospital and despite being given the best of treatment, he could not be saved. From what I understand, he was depressed inside the hospital and wanted to come back home. I still cannot believe this happened to us.”Prateek Rishi, a caretaker, shared: “One day, I received a call from a woman residing in Australia stating that she needs immediate help. The patient was suffering from acute depression and was diabetic. His oxygen levels were brought under control at a government hospital and doctors advised the patient to go back home. After a couple of days, the patient again started complaining of difficulty in breathing. After spending a week in a private hospital, he died.”Dr Paramjit Singh, Deputy Medical Superintendent of the GMSH, Sector 16, and anaesthetist, said: “The main reason behind the increase in fatalities is that many patients report late after developing hypoxia. They treat themselves at home and by the time they seek medical intervention, it gets too late. We could not save patients who required invasive ventilation in the second wave. In the second wave, many patients who died had comorbidities also. Besides, the overwhelming of ICUs in city hospitals was also a reason behind more deaths as many could not get timely treatment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/of-lives-lost-helpless-kin-258042
25-05-2021||---||Chandigarh traders happy, want staff vaccinated||Chandigarh, May 24Welcoming the decision of the UT Administration to open all shops from 9 am to 3 pm, Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said the decision would provide relief to traders.Diwakar Sahoonja, chief spokesperson for the mandal, demanded priority vaccination of workers employed by traders. “As soon as the Covid situation improves, we will demand extension in the shop timings,” said Charanjiv Singh.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, a resident, and LC Arora, general secretary, Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, also welcomed the decision of the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traders-happy-want-staff-vaccinated-258039
25-05-2021||---||As cases dip, Chandigarh decides to open up||Chandigarh, May 24In view of a substantial reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases, loss of livelihood of daily wagers and disruption in economic activities, the UT Administration has decided to allow a few relaxations in the restrictions imposed on May 4 for curbing the spread of Covid.During a review meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, it was decided to allow all shops to open from 9 am to 3 pm from tomorrow, subject to strict observation of the Covid protocol. All shops will be sanitised. All customers entering the shops and all persons attending to them should wear a mask. The market associations concerned will have to ensure the availability of masks at shops and at the market entry points.What’s openAll shops to remain open from 9 am to 3 pmSampark centres will remain open from 9 am to 5 pmWhat’s closedAll shopping malls, cinema halls, theatres, museums, gymnasiums, libraries, spa, salons, Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden.Sports complexes will remain closed. However, special permission can be given to athletes preparing for the Olympics and the National Games.Weekend, night curfew to continueThe night curfew will continue from 6 pm to 5 am. The weekend curfew from 6 pm on May 28 to 5 am on May 31 will continue. Essential shops will be allowed to open.However, all shopping malls, cinema halls, theatres, museums, gymnasiums, libraries, spas, salons, Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden will continue to remain closed.Restaurants, hotels, cafés, coffee shops and eating joints are allowed to function only for home delivery. However, no seating arrangements will be allowed inside the premises. Orders for home delivery are allowed till 10 pm and takeaways are allowed till 5 pm.To prevent parties and gatherings, the night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am will continue. Similarly, the weekend curfew from 6 pm on Friday (May 28) to 5 am on Monday (May 31) will also continue. During the weekend curfew, only essential shops will be allowed to remain open.The Sampark Centres will remain open from 9 am to 5 pm.As far as possible, private sector employees should work from home. No action will be taken against private offices remaining open, wherever necessary.Sports complexes will remain closed. However, special permission can be given by the Secretary, Sports, to athletes preparing for the Olympics and the National Games.The Administrator also decided that the demand of the trade and industry for exemption of rent in government-owned/allotted shops would be looked into, along with the demand for relaxation in electricity, water charges and property tax.Badnore expressed concern over the number of fatalities due to Covid. He directed the Secretary, Social Welfare, that children who had been orphaned due to Covid must be looked after at government welfare homes and the cost for it should be borne by the UT Administration.The Administrator stated that restrictions would be reviewed and re-imposed if the Covid situation did not improve in the city.He expressed satisfaction over vaccination camps organised for mentally challenged patients in Sector 15 and persons under treatment at the Spinal Rehabilitation Centre, Sector 28-A.‘Chemist shops can operate 24x7’The UT Administration has clarified that salons, barber shops, spa and malls will continue to remain closed and non-essential shops such as auto service centres are allowed to open till 3 pm only. “All essential shops such as groceries can remain open till 5pm. Chemist shops can operate 24x7 during the Covid pandemic,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Home delivery up to 10 pm, takeaways 5 pmRestaurants, hotels, cafés, coffee shops and eating joints to function only for home delivery orders. No dine-in is allowed, but home delivery is allowed till 10 pm and takeaways till 5 pm.Chandigarh sees 245 new casesChandigarh: The city reported 245 new Covid cases and seven deaths on Monday. The number of active cases now stands at 4,428 and toll at 709. As many as 684 patients recovered on Monday. TNS7 succumb in Mohali, 218 casesMohali: Seven Covid deaths were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 873. Meanwhile, 218 fresh cases were reported and 687 were cured. Among the fresh cases, 70 were reported from Mohali (urban), three each from Lalru and Banur, four from Kurali, 12 from Gharuan, 15 from Boothgarh, 19 from Kharar, 24 from Dera Bassi and 68 from Dhakoli. There are 5,178 active cases in the district. TNS6 deaths, 148 cases in Panchkula districtPanchkula: Six more persons succumbed to the virus during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 320 in the district. Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, said among the fresh fatalities, there were two men, both aged 72, of Marranwala and Tipra villages and four women. As many as 148 fresh cases were reported, taking the case tally to 29,293. There are now 1,453 active cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-cases-dip-chandigarh-decides-to-open-up-258038
25-05-2021||Mohali||Covid positive Milkha Singh admitted to Fortis Hospital in Mohali||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, 91, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was admitted to the Fortis Hospital Mohali on Monday.A statement from a team of doctors treating him said he had been admitted to the hospital's Intensive Care Unit earlier in the day.“Mr Milkha Singh was admitted at Fortis Hospital, Mohali in the Intensive Care Unit on 24th May 2021 with Covid pneumonia. He is stable and presently on low flow oxygen and medical management," the official statement said. Milkha Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and he had home quarantined himself.The veteran Olympian is learnt to be having fever since Wednesday night. Earlier PGIMER had sent an attendant along with oxygen facilities to look after him. Milkha’s wife Nirmal Kaur, 82, had stated that her husband had not been vaccinated yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-positive-milkha-singh-admitted-to-fortis-hospital-in-mohali-257754
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh shops can now stay open from 9 am-3 pm on weekdays||Chandigarh administration said it would allow shops to reopen for a few hours on weekdays, a decision that comes as the Covid infection numbers begin to drop in the union territory after the devastating second wave of the virus.Chandigarh administration said after a meeting on Monday that it would allow non-essential shops to reopen from 9 am to 3 pm."It is clarified that salons, barber shops, spas and malls will continue to remain closed. All essential shops like chemists and groceries can remain open till 5:00 pm. Only non-essential to close at 3:00 pm," UT Adviser Manoj Parida said in a clarification later in the evening. Shops must be thoroughly sanitised and both staff at such shops as well as customers must wear masks. All Market Associations must ensure masks are available at the shop as well as at entry points to such markets, the order said.Malls, cinema halls, theatres, museums, gym, libraries, spa, and salons however will remain closed, the order said.Both Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden will remain closed to the public.Restaurants could continue with takeaway and home delivery services, but dine-ins will continue to be prohibited.Night curfew will continue from 6 pm to 5 am.Weekend lockdown will come into force this weekend on at 6 pm May 28, Friday, until 5 am on Monday, May 31. Only shops selling essentials will be allowed to remain open during this time.Sampark Centres will remain open but must follow Covid protocols strictly.The private sector should continue to encourage employees to work from home, but no action will be taken against offices that call back employees where necessary, the order said.Sports training centres will stay open for national-level athletes and those preparing of the Olympics later this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-shops-can-now-stay-open-from-9-am-3-pm-on-weekdays-257750
