26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 224 new Covid cases, 8 deaths||Chandigarh reported 224 new Covid-19 cases and eight more deaths in the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the UT administration said on Wednesday.The union territory’s active cases now stand at 3,573. Some 2,800 tests were conducted over the last 24 hours, the bulletin said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-224-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-258806
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh’s wife also tests Covid-19 positive||After legendary athlete Milkha Singh, his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh also tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. “Milkha Singh continues to be stable on oxygen support. However, he is weak and we are trying to persuade him to increase his food intake. Today we have stepped him down from the ICU to a room which he is sharing with his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh who was admitted earlier in the day with Covid pneumonia.  Both are being closely monitored,” the hospital said in a statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singhs-wife-also-tests-covid-19-positive-258805
26-05-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Mohali developer fined for delayed possession||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25The Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered Parkwood Glade developer, Mohali, to refund Rs 33.86 lakh to Hardesh Mehta, a resident of Faridabad, for failing to deliver the possession of a flat in time.The flat was supposed to be delivered by November 30, 2014. More than six years after the scheduled date, the project was not complete till January this year when the complaint was filed.President of the commission Justice Paramjit Singh Dhaliwal and members Rajinder Kumar Goyal and Kiran Sibal ordered the developer to refund the amount with a 12 per cent interest from the date of booking (March 22, 2012). The commission has also levied a fine of Rs 33,000 for mental agony and it is required to be paid within 30 days of the receipt of the order.Mehta had booked a two-bedroom flat in the residential project Parkwood Glade, located in Sante Majra village in Mohali. The consumer, in the complaint, also highlighted terms of the contract which were “one-sided, biased and totally in favour of the developers”. The Parkwood Glade developer did not present himself before the commission and was proceeded ex parte. There was also no response from the developer for a mail from The Tribune correspondent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-developer-fined-for-delayed-possession-258677
26-05-2021||---||Sector 38 motor market sees rush||Chandigarh, May 25 On the first day of opening of the Sector 38 motor market, a huge rush was witnessed there. Encroachments as well as haphazard parking were witnessed in the whole area. The market saw a heavy rush of vehicles as many people turned up to get their vehicles repaired or serviced. Shopkeepers encroached upon the road or verandah outside their shops, leading to a traffic jam in the market. Some people had a tough time entering the market and coming out. According to a shopkeeper, some mechanics, who sit in front of shops, pay rent to the owners of the shops and not the government, whose land they use. They encroach upon the area, causing inconvenience to visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-38-motor-market-sees-rush-258525
26-05-2021||andigarh||Milkha Singh clinically stable, say docs||Legendary athlete Milkha Singh, who is being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital here, is clinically stable with decreasing oxygen requirement, informed the team of doctors treating the 91-year-old.Desperate to return to his normal routine, the former Indian sprinter wished to take a stroll today. However, doctors advised him rest.“He is doing fine, but still under observation at the ICU. He is not eating anything, but doctors termed it fine. Our daughter Mona Milkha Singh, a doctor in the USA, will reach here tomorrow. Thereafter, she will be interacting with doctors and Milkha,” said Milkha’s wife Nirmal Milkha Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-clinically-stable-say-docs-258527
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Health Department puts private hospitals on notice for ‘fleecing’ patients||The UT Health Department issued show-cause notices to private hospitals in the city today for allegedly fleecing Covid patients during the treatment.The department has sought answers from the private hospitals treating Covid patients following complaints in writing to the Director, Health Services, and on the helpline. The hospitals have been asked why they did not follow the package prescribed by the government for the treatment of Covid patients. All hospitals have been asked to submit a reply within a week.The hospitals found overcharging are Eden, Healing Touch, Apollo, Kare Partner and Mukut Hospital.The notice seeks on what basis the patients were overcharged and why medicines were given at rates higher than the market rate.The Director, Health Services, Dr Amandeep Kang said the hospitals had been given a week’s time to respond to the notice. “We had earlier asked the hospitals to refund the excess amount charged from the patients,” she said.According to the complaints, private hospitals were allegedly found charging extra for oxygen and medicines even as these were part of the package notified by the UT Administration on April 24. — TNSFacilities found overcharging9 die, 376 test +ve in MohaliMohali, May 25Nine more deaths were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 882. As many as 376 fresh cases surfaced, while 539 patients were cured of the disease. There are now 5,019 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-department-puts-private-hospitals-on-notice-for-fleecing-patients-258528
26-05-2021||Panchkula||3 fatalities in Panchkula, 174 +ve||Three more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 323 in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a 62-year-old woman from Pinjore, a 57-year-old woman from Kalka and an 82-year-old woman from Sector 7 succumbed to Covid-19. Meanwhile, 174 more persons tested positive for the virus, pushing the overall tally of the district to 29,467.The district has achieved 93.9 per cent recovery rate as 27,678 of the total 29,467 patients have defeated the virus. There are 1,466 active cases. A total of 3,738 persons were inoculated at 25 government vaccination centres across the district, 99 of them received their second dose. As many as 2,07,460 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fatalities-in-panchkula-174-ve-258529
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration closes vax booking for 18+||The city is left with only 8,800 doses of Covishield for the 18-44 age group. This has prompted the UT Administration to go easy on opening more slots for vaccination. The UT has also stopped bookings for these beneficiaries after June 4 till new doses are received. Earlier, the UT Administration had announced opening up to 4,000 slots per day for this age group. It lasted only a day when over 3,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated. The decision was later withdrawn due to a shortage of the vaccine. Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Home, UT, said, “The Administration is not expecting any new doses till May-end. Online appointments have already been given according to the available doses. We will provide slots for booking only when new doses arrive. The average number of 18+ beneficiaries vaccinated daily is over 1,500 now.” Besides, the UT is also not going to proceed with the on-site registration of beneficiaries below 45 years of age due to the vaccine shortage. Those who cannot register online can visit a vaccination centre and seek help in booking a slot. As many as 23,521 beneficiaries in the 18-44  age group have been administered the first dose of Covishield. A total of 3,23,329 doses have been given in the UT so far. Around 70 per cent of healthcare workers and 74 per cent of frontline workers have been vaccinated so far. The wastage of the vaccine has been only 0.9 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-closes-vax-booking-for-18-258530
26-05-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Congress failed to provide Covid care, says Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today lauded services rendered by senior party leader and MLA NK Sharma for Covid patients in the Dera Bassi Assembly segment.Talking to the media during a visit to the Covid care centre set up by NK Sharma at his farm house, Badal said the Congress government led by Captain Amarinder Singh had “miserably failed” to provide Covid care facilities to people in the state and same was the condition in the Dera Bassi Assembly segment.He said when the Akali leadership witnessed the “failure of the Amarinder Singh government” it came forward to help people. What Sharma has done for people is unparalleled in the history of the Dera Bassi Assembly segment, said Badal.He has spent a huge amount of money to serve humanity. If Sharma had not taken this initiative, people of the area would have suffered a lot, Badal added.Badal also said the Punjab Government should step up testing and vaccination process in the state.Sharma said they had launched the 100-bed Covid care centre on May 1 and till date they had been successful in taking care of hundreds of patients. “Apart from other facilities, the centre has 13 oxygen concentrators and 20 oxygen beds,” said Sharma. He said his team was delivering food packets and medicines to Covid patients on their doorstep. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-congress-failed-to-provide-covid-care-says-sukhbir-badal-258576
26-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||Give garbage collection charges to staff, not pvt operators: Civic body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25Even as the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today told residents to pay waste collection charges only to civic body’s two-bin garbage vehicle drivers, there are certain areas in the city where the waste is collected by private operators through rehris.The MC in its notice told the residents that it would be their responsibility to pay to its staff as charges paid to the private collectors would not be adjusted. Thus, all should pay to the MC staff through POS machines, read the notice.However, some residents wondered how they could deny paying money to the collectors coming on rehris when the MC vehicles were not visiting their localities to collect the waste.Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation, said, “In some Sectors, like Sector 21, 43 and parts of 22, collectors are coming on rehris and not vehicles. How is it possible not to pay those who are coming to our place? I think this system is mismanaged.”KS Gill, president, RWA, Sector 21-B, said, “The old collectors are not letting the MC vehicles operate in our area. Since the vehicles are not coming how can we pay them? If the MC wants to implement the system it must ensure deployment of policemen along with its vehicles for a few days. The vehicle system is good but it needs to be managed well.”“People these days do not prefer someone coming to their house. The MC should give option to pay the charges online through e-Sampark centres. Secondly, the POS machine through which the MC is collecting the money, does not accept cash. Many old citizens, who are not friendly with the credit or debit card payments, are facing problem,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents’ Welfare Organisations.Additional Commissioner Saurabh Arora told Chandigarh Tribune there was an issue in some areas where private waste collectors were taking the monthly garbage collection charges from residents.“We have informed the people not to do that. Other small issues in few areas related to collection are being worked out,” said Arora.As per the MC plan, in about two months or so, the garbage collection charges will be taken along with water bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/give-garbage-collection-charges-to-staff-not-pvt-operators-civic-body-258578
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Accused cops face court’s wrath||Making scathing comments on their functioning, a local court has ordered that retired sub-inspector Maluk Singh and former SHO of the Sector 26 police station Poonam Dilawari will stand trial as accused on the complaint of Gunkaran Singh, an owner of F Bar restaurant.In his complaint, Gunkaran has alleged that he was falsely implicated and wrongfully confined by the officers at the police station in 2018. The court, in the order pronounced on May 3, 2021, had said that there was sufficient evidence on record to summon both accused under Sections 211 and 342 of the IPC for trial on the complaint.Gunkaran alleged that both accused had falsely implicated him in the FIR registered on November 20, 2018, under Sections 307, 506 and 34 of the IPC read with Section 25 of the Arms Act and Sections 188 and 201 of the IPC (added later on and were bailable in nature).He alleged that BJP leader Sehdev Salaria organised a party on November 19, 2018, at his restaurant/bar, F Bar, and Salaria directed the staff that all his guests were well-known persons and they should not be strictly checked. Gunkaran said when manager Rahul informed him regarding the alleged firing by Salaria’s guests, he directed him not to touch anything and asked him to inform the police about it. Rahul informed the police around 1 am on November 20, 2018. He was called to the Sector 26 police station around 3.45 pm and was arrested in the case by accused police officers without any evidence.He alleged that when he was produced before the court the next day, the police misled the court by mentioning the offences under Section 307 of the IPC and also sought his one-day police remand, which was granted by the court. He alleged that after illegally arresting him in the bailable offence and wrongfully confining him, the accused also threatened him.After hearing the arguments and examining the witness and proof, the court, in its order, said the complainant was released on bail after remaining in custody for six days, which was per se illegal custody. Hence, the gross abuse of official positions by the accused was writ large on the face of record.“The right to personal liberty, which has been granted an exalted place in the scheme of our Constitution under Article 21, has been blown to smithereens by the unscrupulous police officers who were duty bound to uphold the rule of law. The stigma of having remained in the custody will remain forever upon the complainant and mental scars will be difficult to heal. So, it is a fit case where the accused, who have violated the rule of law and have cared two hoots about fair investigation despite being duty bound to uphold the same being members of a disciplined force, should be brought to justice,” said the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-cops-face-courts-wrath-258579
26-05-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Two-wheeler firm, dealer fail to get relief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25Hero MotoCorp Limited and a local dealer failed to get any relief from the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh. It has rejected their appeal challenging the order of the Consumer Forum, Chandigarh, given in the favour of a consumer.The forum had directed the manufacturer and the dealer to refund Rs51,475, entire amount of a bike, to a consumer, Paramjeet Singh, for deficiency in service. The forum also directed the manufacturer to pay Rs17,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment and Rs7,000 as costs of litigation.Aggrieved over the order, the company, Hero MotoCorp Limited, and the dealer challenged the order of the forum before the commission.Paramjeet Singh purchased a Splendor Plus motorcycle from a dealer in 2018 for Rs51,475 after financing it from a finance company. He alleged that from Day 1, there was a problem of engine oil leakage and faulty speedometer. The engine oil seal was changed thrice, but the problem could not be resolved.The complainant demanded the refund through a legal notice, but he got no response. Paramjeet approached the forum, which termed the act of the company as deficiency in service and directed it to refund the cost of the bike.Counsel for the company and the dealer denied the allegations of the consumer. They claimed that all complaints were duly attended with utmost sincerity and repair/replacement of the defects was done to the utmost satisfaction of the complainant. He was charged within the purview of the company’s warranty policy. They even pleaded that they were still ready to attend the vehicle and repair the defects, if any, as per the terms and conditions of the warranty policy.After hearing the arguments and examining the records, the commission said appellants sold out a defective motorcycle to the respondent and did not provide proper service to the respondent. The respondent purchased the motorcycle to facilitate himself and his family, but not to visit the service centre of the appellants. Thus, deficiency in service is writ large on the face of the appellants. Therefore, the appeal deserves to be dismissed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-wheeler-firm-dealer-fail-to-get-relief-258580
26-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Sportspersons have reason to cheer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25After the UT Administration allowed players to practice at sports complexes with prior permission, local sportspersons received other good news as the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports gave a one-time six-month relaxation period to the National Federations for conducting last year’s nationals.“It has been observed that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, federations have not been able to conduct national championships for year 2020-21 till March 31. In view of this, it has been decided that National Federations can conduct national championships for year 2020-21 till September 21 (due to six months relaxation). This is one-time relaxation and the federations should ensure that the eligibility criteria will remain the same assuming that the championships will have taken place as per the original schedule,” read a circular.On May 3, the UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore had approved players, who are scheduled to participate in major championships, to practice at local stadiums after taking special permission during the partial lockdown period.“It’s a timely decision. There are many federations that postponed national championships last year due to the pandemic. This will not only give us a chance to participate in national championships, but also make us eligible to restart practising at the local sports complex,” said Anirudh, a hockey player.Sources maintained that some national federations had already started asking their affiliated state units about hosting the national championship.“There are a few national federations that have asked if local units are interested in hosting the nationals. Though at this time no one has shown interest, it will benefit players even if it happens in some other state,” said an official.Due to the partial lockdown, the sports complexes have been closed and only a handful of players were given the permission to practice here.“Several players have been scheduled to participate in the Khelo India Games, scheduled for November this year, and now that federations have been asked to conduct pending championships before September, it will be a boon for players. The Administration should ask the associations to submit their calendar and allow sportspersons, who are scheduled to take part in these events, to prepare. Last year’s lockdown period proved to be a difficult time for all sportspersons. As they were coming back on track, the partial lockdown has again disrupted their preparations,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sportspersons-have-reason-to-cheer-258581
26-05-2021||---||Court defers hearing on Chandigarh cops’ plea till June 4||Chandigarh, May 25A local court has deferred the hearing on an application of the UT police seeking the narco-analysis test of former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan in the alleged murder case of bouncer Surjeet Singh.On May 23, the UT police had moved an application in the court for Mahajan’s narco-analysis test in the case. The hearing in the case was deferred for June 4 after Mahajan’s counsel Rajesh Sharma pleaded before the court that as per the law consent for the test has to be obtained from the accused for which he needed time to meet him personally and discuss the modalities of the test also.Sharma said he would file a reply on the application after consulting the accused. Earlier, the court had rejected the application when Mahajan sought the direction for the police to conduct his lie-detector and narco-analysis tests when he was produced before the court last week.Surjit, a bouncer, was gunned down by two motorcycle-borne miscreants near his house in Sector 38 (West) in March last year. Surjit Singh is also an accused along with Sanjeev Mahajan in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37. Mahajan, an alleged associate of Surjit, was remanded in police custody after Surjit’s wife gave a statement to the police that Mahajan’s role in the murder could not be ruled out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-defers-hearing-on-chandigarh-cops-plea-till-june-4-258582
26-05-2021||---||28 micro-containment zones declared in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 25To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration today declared 28 more micro-containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said the outbreak of Covid-19 was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones.Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted. Residents have been advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene, he said.The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are in parts of Sector 7, 21, 22, 24, 26, 29, 32, 39, 40, 46, 49 and 52, Khuda Ali Sher, small flats at Dhanas, Maloya, Daria, New Darshani Bag, Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, and Kishangarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/28-micro-containment-zones-declared-in-chandigarh-258583
26-05-2021||Mohali||Man held with 2K fake sanitiser bottles||The police arrested a Panchkula resident with 2,200 fake sanitiser bottles at a naka near Diplast Chowk here today.The suspect has been identified as Yash Gupta (27). He allegedly used to sell sanitisers by pasting labels of popular brands such as Dabur and Hindustan Unilever.He was driving an SUV when the police intercepted him at a naka. The police seized cartons containing fake sanitiser bottles from the vehicle and arrested him on the spot. Phase 1 SHO Shivdeep Brar said a case was registered against the suspect under Sections 63 and 65 of the Copyright Act. The suspect was released on a bail later.5,400 tablets of Lomotil seizedThe police nabbed a Mauli Jagran resident Hukam Pal, alias Nani, with 5,400 tablets of Lomotil and 1,900 tablets of tramadol hydrochloride from Baltana today. The 25 year old, a native of Rampur, UP, used to bring pills from Roorkee and sell it in the motor market.A case has been registered under the NDPS Act. The suspect has been remanded in police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-2k-fake-sanitiser-bottles-258586
26-05-2021||---||Chandigarh-based official gets British Order of Merit||Chandigarh, May 25 Indian citizen Mohini Singh, who works at the British Deputy High Commission in Chandigarh as a consular official, has been appointed as an honorary Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (MBE) by Her Majesty The Queen.  Officials said the honour was conferred in recognition of Mohini’s services to British people during the Covid-19 pandemic. In 2020, the UK Government had arranged 66 special charter flights, running from April 8 to June 5, which brought back nearly 18,000 passengers from 32 locations across India to the UK. To meet the extraordinary demand from the region, the Amritsar airport saw the largest number of UK Government charter flights across the nation. As a consular officer, Mohini’s role was to help provide support and advice to British nationals trying to get home. “Mohini worked tirelessly to support the affected British people due to the lockdown and the ban on international travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the lockdown, over 8,000 people were successfully repatriated from Amritsar on 29 flights, one of the UK’s largest repatriation operations in 2020,” said Caroline Rowett, British Deputy High Commissioner in Chandigarh. “I’m delighted to receive the award and grateful to be a part of the UK in India network. It has been a challenging year, but my family and colleagues have been extremely supportive, empathetic and unfailingly kind,” said Mohini Singh, consular officer at the British Deputy High Commission in Chandigarh Mohini, who hails from Chandigarh, has been working at the British Deputy High Commission in Chandigarh since 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-based-official-gets-british-order-of-merit-258588
26-05-2021||---||Mohali MC gets funeral vans||Mohali, May 25Two funeral vans provided by NGO Parivartan were handed over to the Mohali Municipal Corporation by Health Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu here today.Rajiv Gupta, president of the NGO, and Vikas Kaushal, general secretary, said the funeral van was made ready within 10 days. They said the NGO, which was formed by Mohali industrialists, had already improved the infrastructure of a school in Mohali.Balbir Singh Sidhu said during the pandemic, every individual or organisation that was making efforts for public service at their level deserved applause.On the efforts made by the Health Department, Sidhu said Mohali had witnessed the highest number of vaccinations. He said the Union Government had also lauded the efforts of the Punjab Government in the fight against the pandemic.Highlighting the efforts of the Mohali Municipal Corporation, Sidhu said the MC would always be provided with funds for development works.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said he had requested industrialists to provide funeral vans for Mohali. He thanked the office-bearers and members of the NGO formed by industrialists.He said the maintenance work of the vans would be carried out by the Municipal Corporation and drivers would be immediately deployed. He said besides this, new sheds were also being constructed at the Mohali crematorium.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, MC Commissioner Kamal Garg, SE Sanjay Kanwar and Mohali Industries Association president Yogesh Sagar were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-gets-funeral-vans-258589
26-05-2021||---||Notification on water tariff out||Chandigarh, May 25The UT Administration today issued a notification to put the hike in water tariff on hold till March 2022.“In pursuance of the resolution passed by the General House of the Municipal Corporation on October 29, 2020, and to provide relief to the general public due to severe Covid circumstances, the UT Administrator deferred the implementation of the notification issued by the UT Administration on September 11, 2020, pertaining to water tariff for a period up to March 31, 2022,” read a notice issued by Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Local Government.In September last year, the UT Administration had notified an increase between 50 per cent and 200 per cent depending upon the category of user and water consumption level.After facing criticism from the Opposition, the MC General House passed a resolution in October last year, with request to the Administration to withdraw the notification and levy the existing charges till the pandemic was over.Meanwhile, Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said decision of the MC was another step in right direction which would provide some relief to the traders and the city at large.He thanked Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, a senior member of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal who had been making every effort to take up the matter with the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notification-on-water-tariff-out-258590
26-05-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration speeds up power privatisation process||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25With a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has stepped up the process for privatisation of the Electricity Department.The Administration had to put the process on hold due to a sharp rise in the coronavirus cases in the city even after submitting the progress report to the Centre nearly two months ago.The Administration had on March 23 opened the technical bids submitted by seven firms for the privatisation of the department.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the technical bids were being scrutinised and the financial bids were likely to be opened within 10 days.The technical bids were being examined by an evaluation committee and the financial bids would be opened after scrutinising all technical bids.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.As many as 20 intended bidders were issued the Request for Proposal (RFP), but only seven companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company — had submitted their bids by the last date on March 18.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.The UT Administration has proposed to give licence to a distribution company for 25 years under the privatisation of the department.However, after opening of the financial bids, the name of the successful bidder would be approved by the Union Cabinet to take over the power transmission of the city, said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-speeds-up-power-privatisation-process-258591
26-05-2021||Zirakpur||Shops burgled during curfew||Goods worth thousands of rupees were stolen from two shops near the Patiala chowk during the curfew hours last night.  The CCTV footage showed five persons committing the theft. Miscreants broke the shutters of two shops and stole goods worth thousands of rupees.  The shop owners came to know of the theft in the morning when they reached their shops. Shop owners, Happy and Ramesh, said they had closed their shop at 5 pm on Monday due to the lockdown.  “When I came to open the shops today, I saw the locks were broken. Bags, including readymade clothes, and shoes worth Rs40,000 were stolen from the shops,” said one of the shopkeepers.  Shopkeepers complained that miscreants are taking advantage of the curfew while police was nowhere to be found.  “Thefts have taken place in several shops in the market about which the police have no clue. Miscreants tried to break open shutters of other shops but could not do so,”  they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-burgled-during-curfew-258592
26-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib caps rates of ambulances||The district administration has fixed the rates for the provision of ambulance services in Fatehgarh Sahib to curb fleecing of residents.Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill said: “The minimum fare for 10 kms has been capped at Rs300 and more than 10 kms is Rs12 per km for non-AC ambulance. The minimum fare for AC Innova ambulance up to 10 kms is Rs500 and over 10 kms is Rs15.7 per km and ventilator ambulance van up to 10 kms minimum fare is Rs1000 per km and over 10 kms is Rs25 per km.”She said the cost for PPE kits would be borne by the patient and waiting charges by the ambulance owners could be charged at the rate of Rs100 per hour. She warned that if any person or organisation charged more than the prescribed rates, action would be taken against them as per the law. She said oxygen charges would not be levied separately by ambulance owners. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-caps-rates-of-ambulances-258593
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan gets threat messages||An unknown person has been booked by the UT police for allegedly sending threat and vulgar messages to Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan.According to the police, Vardhan, a resident of Sector 7, in his complaint, mentioned that he received several threat and vulgar messages on his WhatsApp on May 21. The messages were received between 10.45 am and 11.20 am.The complainant provided the phone number and the screenshots of the messages received by him to police for investigation.A case under Section 67 of the IT Act has been registered against the unknown person and the matter is being investigated by Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sector 26 police station.The police said the suspect would be traced through the phone number provided by the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-chief-secretary-vijai-vardhan-gets-threat-messages-258598
26-05-2021||---||Mohali international hockey stadium renamed after Balbir Singh Senior||Mohali, May 25After a one-year wait, the Punjab Government finally announced to rename the Mohali International Hockey Stadium, Sector 63, after triple Olympian and Padma Shri Balbir Singh Sr. The stadium will now be known as Olympian Balbir Singh Senior International Hockey Stadium. “Due to certain circumstances, the project got delayed. We had decided last year to dedicate this stadium to Balbir Singh Sr. His contribution towards promoting hockey is immense and unmatchable,” said Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who formally made the announcement on the first death anniversary of the legendary hockey player and coach.Sodhi also said a statue of Balbir Singh Sr would be built at the stadium to inspire young players. “It will be installed at the stadium entrance,” he said.The minister also announced to start a scholarship scheme in the legend’s name for meritorious hockey players of the state.“Also, once the Covid situation eases, an international hockey tournament will be held at this stadium to commemorate the stalwart’s sporting journey.”Balbir Singh Sr played an important role in making Indian hockey team a three-time Olympics champion. No one has been able to break his Olympics final record till date. He scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the final of the 1952 Olympic Games.He also was the manager of the 1975 World Cup winning Indian team.The Punjab Government had honoured the legendary player with the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award in 2019.Token of appreciationBalbir Singh Senior’s grandson Kabir Singh also presented a book, “Golden Goal”, written by Principal Sarwan Singh, to the Sports Minister as a token of appreciation. Olympians Rajinder Singh Senior, Rajinder Singh (Junior), Ajit Singh and Prabhjot Singh, Sports Secretary Raj Kamal Chaudhary, Director DPS Kharbanda and Joint Director Kartar Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-international-hockey-stadium-renamed-after-balbir-singh-senior-258606
26-05-2021||---||Narrow escape for 2 labourers in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 25Two labourers digging a pit at the Airport light point had a narrow escape after a heap of soil fell on them on Tuesday evening. The labourers, Mangal Kumar and Hitesh, who are brothers, were digging a pit when the mishap took place.The police and the Fire Department were informed following which PCR vehicles and two fire engines reached the spot.In the meantime, the traffic police at the spot, including senior constable Rahul Kumar, jumped into the pit and started making efforts to rescue the victims. Without wasting time, they removed soil from the faces of the trapped labourers so that they could breathe.Later, firefighters joined the rescue operation and within a few minutes, both labourers were rescued.The victims were not wearing any protective gear at the time of the incident and neither were any arrangements made by the contractor at the spot to avoid any mishap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/narrow-escape-for-2-labourers-in-chandigarh-258610
26-05-2021||---||Heritage items from Chandigarh to go under hammer on May 31||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25Four heritage furniture items from the city, which were designed by Swiss architect Pierre Jeanneret, will go under the hammer in France on May 31.The items likely to be put up for auction are a public bench, a committee armchair, an office table and a pair of chairs.The furniture is likely to fetch more than Rs47 lakh in the auction.In a letter to S Jaishankar, Union Minister for External Affairs, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, said the auction of Chandigarh heritage items would be conducted in Paris by auction house Artcurial on May 31 in violation of the MHA orders dated February 22, 2011.He requested S Jaishankar to look into the matter and approach the law-enforcing agencies to find out how these items reached the auction house, so that the auction of the smuggled heritage items, if any, could be stalled, after ascertaining the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heritage-items-from-chandigarh-to-go-under-hammer-on-may-31-258618
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bus driver booked for negligence||House owners’ association meetMohali: A meeting of House Owners’ Welfare Association, Sector 123, New Sunny Enclave, was held on Tuesday at a local gurdwara. The meeting was presided over by Jarnail Singh Bajwa, Managing Director, Bajwa Developers Limited. Sewak Singh, general secretary of the association, said the members had raised the issues regarding sewerage, electricity and road berms. He said Bajwa has assured the members to relove all issues in phased manner. TNSOnline meet by PU Urdu DepartmentChandigarh: Humour is a tax-free tonic amid stress, strain and strife with its evergreen impact on one’s mind, said Dr Ali Abbas, coordinator of the Department of Urdu, PU. He was speaking at the 5th online meeting of ‘Bazm-e-Adab’ organised by the department. Prof (Retd) Rehana Parveen highlighted the all-important role played by satires in the development, spread and popularisation of the Urdu literature and language in India and abroad. TNSPU declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has declared the results of BSc (Hons) Bio-Informatics 3rd semester, Master of Science (Bio-Technology) 3rd semester and Master of Arts (Philosophy) 3rd semester. TNSPb Kings to give O2 concentratorsChandigarh: Punjab Kings have joined hands with Round Table India to help provide oxygen concentrators to those affected by the Covid-19 and in need of oxygen support. Punjab Kings will fund the procurement of oxygen concentrators which will then be provided to patients for their use while Round Table India will verify whether an oxygen concentrator is to be given for use at a patient’s house or to a charitable medical institution. TNS25-yr-old found dead in MohaliMohali: A 25-year-old man was found dead in Sector 57 here on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Mani, a resident of Shahi Majra. The police found the man lying with froth coming out of his mouth. There were signs of bleeding from his nose. The police suspect he might have died due to drug overdose. TNSLunch packets distributedChandigarh: The City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO), in association with its affiliate NGO “Ek Kadam Manavta Ki Aur”, organised free distribution of lunch packets, along with coconuts and fruits, for patients and staff of “Tera Hi Tera Covid care centre” at the Bal Bhawan in Sector 23, Chandigarh. In all, 108 food packets were distributed. Vinod Vashisht, convener, CFORWO, said: “They have recently purchased five BiPAPs and awaiting the go-ahead from the Administration to put these into use.” TNS107 prisoners releasedChandigarh: Following the directions of a high-powered committee, 107 prisoners have been released so far from the Model Jail, Burail, in view of the pandemic. As per the weekly report, 77 undertrial prisoners have been released during the past two weeks. Of the 77, 50 have been released on special interim bail and 26 have been released on regular bail. The jail authorities have urged the Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, to conduct a vaccination camp in the prison. TNSMan violates guidelines, heldPanchkula: The police on Monday arrested a salon owner for opening the shop in violation of the Covid guidelines issued by the state government. The arrested accused has been identified as Mohammad Hasib, a resident of Peer Muchalla, Sector 20. The police said the government had allowed the shops to open till noon. On May 24, a police team found the shop, Arzoo Salon, opened beyond the prescribed timing. A case has been registered against the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bus-driver-booked-for-negligence-258619
26-05-2021||---||Ludhiana man befriends Chandigarh woman on FB, steals Rs 40L jewellery from her house, held||Chandigarh, May 25The UT police have arrested a 30-year-old Ludhiana resident for stealing jewellery worth around Rs 40 lakh from the house of a woman whom he had befriended on Facebook.The complainant, a resident of Sector 46, became friends with the suspect, Vishal Kumar, on Facebook. On May 15, Vishal visited the complainant’s house for some work when she was alone.Inspector Rajeev Kumar, SHO of the Sector 34 police station, said the suspect drugged the complainant by putting sedatives in her drink. The suspect then stole gold and silver jewellery from the house and escaped.The police registered a case under Sections 380, 411 and 328 of the IPC at the Sector 34 police station on May 20.The police traced the suspect through the social networking site. “The complainant just knew the suspect’s name; we traced people who were in his touch and through them, we got to know about his address in Ludhiana. A police team visited Ludhiana and found that he was in Delhi after which we nabbed him from Delhi on May 22,” the SHO said.The police said the stolen jewellery items worth around Rs40 lakh had been recovered from the suspect. Victim from sec 46The complainant, a resident of Sector 46, became friends with the suspect, Vishal Kumar, on Facebook. On May 15, Vishal visited her house for some work when she was alone. Inspector Rajeev Kumar, SHO of the Sector 34 police station, said the suspect drugged the complainant by putting sedatives in her drink. The suspect then stole gold and silver jewellery from the house and escaped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-befriends-chandigarh-woman-on-fb-steals-rs-40l-jewellery-from-her-house-held-258621
