27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid positive Milkha Singh, his wife stable; condition improving: Hospital||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Kaur are “stable and improving,” the hospital in Mohali, where the couple is currently undergoing treatment after testing positive for Covid-19, said on Thursday.“Both Mr and Mrs Milkha Singh are stable and improving,” a late evening health update issued by Fortis hospital, Mohali read.Earlier on Wednesday, Milkha (91) was shifted out of the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital where he is being treated for Covid pneumonia.His 82-year-old wife Nirmal Kaur, a former India volleyball captain, was admitted to the same hospital on Wednesday after testing positive for the deadly virus.She too had Covid pneumonia, the hospital had said in an earlier update.Milkha and his wife are sharing the same room in the hospital.Kaur had earlier returned negative when all of Milkha’s family members were tested for the virus.Milkha was admitted to the ICU on Monday after testing positive for the virus last Wednesday. He was diagnosed with “Covid pneumonia” on the same day of his admission.He is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was the fourth place finish in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-positive-milkha-singh-his-wife-stable-condition-improving-hospital-259363
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||First black fungus patients discharged from Chandigarh's GMCH-32||A 69-year-old diabetic patient was admitted at GMCH with coronavirus symptoms. He complained of having fever, shortness of breath, and blackish discharge from the nose. The investigation like CRP, D-Dimer and LDH were significantly raised pointing to Covid-19 infection.Nasal Endoscopic examination revealed blackish crusts and discolouration in the nose. After a KOH smear from the nose, it showed aseptate hyphae, suggestive of mucormycosis. He had swelling of the eye, impairment of vision and double vision. The patient was started on Amphotericin B & later endoscopic debridement was done. The surgical team was led by Prof. Surinder K Singhal. He revealed that now, he is in a stable condition, and is fit for discharge. He has been advised to continue posaconazole along with diabetes treatment. Currently, GMCH has 29 Covid patients related to mucormycosis under treatment. About 20 patients have been operated on by the ENT team. Others will be operated on as soon as they are fit for surgery. GMCH has reserved dedicated beds along with HDU & ICU facilities for both Covid positive as well as post covid mucormycosis patients. A multi-disciplinary team consisting of Physician, ENT surgeons, Ophthalmologists, Anesthetists, Microbiologists and Radiologists was constituted under the chairmanship of Director GMCH to take care of these patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-black-fungus-patients-discharged-from-chandigarhs-gmch-32-259347
27-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 200 new cases of Covid-19||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 200 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of active cases in the city to 3,129.As many as six people succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 729.The total number of cases in the city has reached 59,416 of which 55,558 people have been cured till date.A total of 2,640 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-200-new-cases-of-covid-19-259326
27-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Registering and Licensing Authority, UT, Chandigarh to open for public dealing from June 1||The Registering and Licensing Authority, UT, Chandigarh which had been closed by the Chandigarh Administration in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 has decided to be open for public dealing from June 1 with limited services only on the basis of fresh online appointments.In view of the decreasing number of cases, it has been decided to resume the functioning of Registering and Licensing Authority UT, Chandigarh.Being a highly public dealing department, the office of Registering and Licensing Authority, UT, Chandigarh had also been closed by the Chandigarh Administration in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.The services for which online appointment can be booked are registration of new vehicles, registration of other state vehicles, NOC of vehicle, renewal of registration certificate, issuance of international driving license, NOC of driving license and renewal of driving license.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registering-and-licensing-authority-ut-chandigarh-to-open-for-public-dealing-from-june-1-259300
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||19 fall prey to Covid-19  in tricity, 595 infected in Chandigarh||The tricity saw 19 Covid fatalities in the past 24 hours, while there was some reprieve on the new caseload front with 595 persons testing positive for the virus, indicating that the partial lockdown is paying off.Chandigarh witnesses eight virus fatalities, 224 casesThe city reported eight deaths and 224 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. The active cases now stand at 3,573 and the death toll 722. As many as 706 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours.Four breathe their last in Panchkula, 103 infectedPanchkula: Four more persons succumbed to the virus during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 327.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said a 38-year-old man of Chowki village, a 67-year-old man of Kalka, a 65-year-old woman of Khera Sita Ram village and a 67-year-old woman of the MDC, Sector 4, succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, 103 persons were found infected with the virus, taking the case tally to 29,570.Of the 29,570 positive cases reported so far, 27,908 patients have been cured. There are now 1,335 active cases in the district, while the death toll stands at 327.A total of 1,347 persons were vaccinated at 25 government vaccination centres across the district and of them, 91 got their second dose today. As many as 746 beneficiaries were aged between 18 and 44, 417 between 45 and 59 and 143 above 60. A total of 2,08,807 persons have been vaccinated in the district and of them, 1,59,900 have got the first dose, while 48,907 have got the second dose as well.Seven deaths, 268 fresh cases in Mohali districtMohali: Seven patients died of Covid while 268 positive cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 558 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 72 were reported from Mohali (urban), 53 from Dhakoli, 54 from Kharar, 25 from Gharuan, 35 from Dera Bassi, seven each from Lalru and Kurali, nine from Boothgarh and six from Banur. Of the 65,483 positive cases reported so far, 59,872 patients have been cured. The active case tally stands at 4,722, while the death toll has reached 889 in the district.Check real-time Covid bed data on UT websiteChandigarh: The UT Administration has started posting real-time Covid bed data on the website, chdcovid19.in. Now, patients can check the status of oxygen beds and ICU beds at government and private hospitals and Covid care centres online. The platform has been created following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court as per which the bed status of Covid-19 in all hospitals of Chandigarh was to be made available on the website on a real-time basis. The occupancy and vacant bed status will be updated on the website round the clock. Similarly, the status of ICU beds and ventilator beds can be accessed on a real-time basis. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-fall-prey-to-covid-19-in-tricity-595-infected-in-chandigarh-258835
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Black day’: Protesters burn effigies of PM Modi, Amit Shah, Tomar  in tricity||Six months on, the rage against the Central Government’s agro-market laws continues to smoulder. Pro-farmer groups, farmers and civil society members set afire effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Cabinet members, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to mark ‘black day’ in the tricity today.On a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a total of 19 such effigies were burnt in Chandigarh alone. In Mohali, hundreds toured the city with hoisting black flags on tractors, cars, tractor-trailers, scooters, cycles and motorbikes from the Sohana gurdwara to Bestech Square Mall.Public backs causeWhile the Mohali police struggled to manage the traffic, the general public remained supportive and sympathetic towards protesters. “They till the soil in this heat. They work hard. They don’t want these laws; why force them to accept? I am with farmers. I will wait here till the traffic clears. No problem,” said Simranjit Kaur, who was stuck at the traffic lights near Amb Sahib.Coming all the way from the rally in Mohali, Satnam Singh Tanda describes his experience as ‘motivating’. Showing a video, he says, “Modi’s effigy was hung atop a crane, and it was in front of the Sohana gurdwara that we hung a garland of shoes around the effigy. Then we toured across Mohali to reach the mall where the effigy was finally set ablaze.”While the Mohali police struggled to manage the traffic, general public remained supportive and sympathetic towards protesters. “They till the soil in this heat. They work hard. They don’t want these laws; why force them to accept? I am with farmers. I will wait here till the traffic clears. No problem,” said Simranjit Kaur, a resident of Mohali, who was stuck at the traffic lights near Amb Sahib.The situation at the Sector 34/33 light point in the city was, however, different. The Sector 33 road, on which the BJP office is located, was closed. The office was fortified with cops deployed on both sides of the road. Some 300 protesters raised slogans against Modi-Shah at the light point.“They are using heavy police force to monitor a peaceful protest! It only shows they are scared,” said Parteek Maan of Nojawan Kisan Ekta.Another protester, Aman, said, “If only the government had shown such preparedness in guarding its people against Covid, things would have been better. The BJP just wants to protect itself, nobody else.”Protesters burnt an effigy of Modi at the Sector 34 traffic light point at 3 pm, barely 200 metres from the BJP office. These protesters were joined by door-to-door garbage collectors as well as members of Pendu Sangharsh Commitee and Samuh Gurdwara Sangathan, Chandigarh.The effigies were burnt at many other places in the city, including Matka Chowk, the PGI chowk and Sector 39, Sector 19/27 and other traffic light points, where people have been protesting for more than five months. Protests were held at Mani Majra and Panjab University. At the university, members of the Students for Society and the Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkaar) held the protest. Most people were dressed in black and held black flags along with farmer-union flags.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/black-day-protesters-burn-effigies-of-pm-modi-amit-shah-tomar-in-tricity-258836
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||After Milkha, his wife tests positive; both doing fine||After Milkha Singh, his 82-year-old wife Nirmal Milkha Singh has been also tested positive for Covid-19.The former captain of the Indian volleyball team and former Joint Director, Sports, UT, Chandigarh, was admitted to Fortis Hospital today. Earlier, she had tested negative along with other members. Both Milkha and Nirmal have been put on oxygen support.“Milkha Singh continues to be stable on oxygen support. However, he is weak and we are trying to persuade him to increase his food intake. Today, we stepped him down from the ICU to a room, which he is sharing with his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, who was admitted earlier in the day with Covid pneumonia. Both are being closely monitored,” read a medical bulletin issued by the hospital.“Mom and dad are on oxygen. They will pull through,” said Jeev Milkha Singh.Sources said Nirmal underwent a test on Wednesday and was later admitted to the hospital following suggestions by her daughter. Earlier on Tuesday, the legendary athlete was said to clinically stable with decreasing oxygen requirement. He had wished to take a stroll.“Both are doing fine and maintaining good saturation levels. Milkha is not taking any food for two days now. He wished to take a walk. However, he is also under strict observation. Nirmal is also responding well to the treatment,” said a source.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and the 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. His timing at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. Nirmal, meanwhile, is known to be a dedicated administrator, who worked for the welfare of sportspersons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-milkha-his-wife-tests-positive-both-doing-fine-258838
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Trader loses 2 sons to Covid||As the UT fights a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, grief has gripped the family of a trader here. Within a fortnight, JPS Kalra, general secretary, Chandigarh Traders' Association, Sector 17, has lost both his sons to the virus.Harpal Singh (42) and Sarabjit Singh (38), sons of Kalra, who is in his seventies, succumbed when they were recovering from the disease, said a family friend of Kalra.Still in a state of shock, Kalra, who lost his elder son on May 9, got the bad news on May 23 that the pandemic had claimed the life of his second son too.Harpal is survived by two daughters and wife, while Sarabjit is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. Both graduated from SD College in Sector 32, Harpal had a printing business, while Sarabjit was helping his father at their shop in Sector 17.The family friend said the entire Kalra family had contracted the virus last month.Other family members recuperated at home, while Kalra and his sons were admitted to private hospitals.Kalra was discharged on May 6, but Harpal passed away on May 9. Kalra's second son, who was admitted to a hospital in Mohali, did not respond to the treatment even after testing negative a day before his death. He died at another private hospital where he was taken for a second opinion, said the friend.Meanwhile, sources said the private hospital in Mohali where Sarabjit was undergoing treatment initially had handed over a bill of over Rs20 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-trader-loses-2-sons-to-covid-258839
27-05-2021||Mohali||Rs 6-crore heroin seized in Kurali, two arrested||The police nabbed two suspects with 1.3 kg of heroin and Rs5 lakh drug money during a blockade at the Kurali bypass near Singhpura village last night.The seized heroin is valued at Rs6 crore in the international market.The suspects have been identified as Gulshan Kumar, alias Babbu, and Man Singh, hailing from Haryana. The police said they also seized Rs5 lakh drug money from their white car. The duo was booked under Sections 21, 22 and 29 of the NDPS Act at the Sadar Kurali police station on May 25. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, ‘’Gulshan Kumar has earlier been booked for heroin smuggling. The heroin seized was to be supplied in the Chandigarh, Mohali and Kharar areas. Both suspects will be produced in a court and their police remand will be sought.’’This year, the district police have seized 6.2 kg of heroin from smugglers so far. The crackdown on drug smugglers was on and the properties of drug smugglers were being attached and monitored, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-6-crore-heroin-seized-in-kurali-two-arrested-258840
27-05-2021||Mohali||Mohali sees two more cases of mucormycosis||Two new cases of mucormycosis in the district took the patient count to 22 today.All patients are those who have recovered from Covid recently. There are only two patients who belong to the district, while the rest all are from other districts and nearby states. The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “The caseload of Covid patients has come down considerably in the past few days. It is not that we are getting mucormycosis patients daily but the shortage of medicine is a big handicap. We hope things will improve in next one week.”Some respite on Covid frontOn the Covid front, after over a month, the active case count went below the 5,000-mark, halting at 4,722.The district administration’s latest bed occupancy details show the availability of 247 L2, L3 beds (25.3 per cent), including 22 ventilator beds in private hospitals.As of now, there are a total of 4,577 Covid patients in home isolation. As many as 2,971 samples have been taken in the past 24 hours, considerably less than the average 4,000 samples being taken daily. A total of 6,224 persons were vaccinated with the first and second dose in the district today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-two-more-cases-of-mucormycosis-258851
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid samples from cheeks||The PGI has found that Covid-19 can also be traced by self-collection of “buccal swab” in suspected patients. It was found the sensitivity of RT-PCR from buccal swabs was 58.9% and that of saliva 62.90%.What results of the study sayRT-PCR results from NPS samples were used as the gold standard to gauge the diagnostic capability of RT-PCR from buccal and saliva samples. The study included both asymptomatic (n=59) and symptomatic (n=14) patients whose NPS samples were found positive for Covid by RT-PCR. Of 73 buccal swabs, 43 (58.90%) were positive by RT-PCR and of 62 saliva samples, 39 (62.90%) were positive for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR. In the 30 patients whose buccal swabs were negative, 10 had positive saliva samples. Conversely, buccal swabs tested positive for six of the 23 patients in whom saliva was negative by RT-PCR. Sampling by NPS was found to be most sensitive, followed by saliva, with buccal swabs being the least sensitive.In this study conducted by doctors of the PGI, buccal swabs were self-collected by patients using sterile nylon-tipped swabs. Patients were asked to place the swab in between the forefinger and thumb and insert the flocked swab into one side of the mouth between the cheek and the upper gum. The patients exercised the same precautions as those used for saliva collection.The study assessed self-collected buccal swab samples as an alternative method for SARS-CoV-2 detection in patients.The current gold standard for detection of Covid-19 involves subjecting nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swabs (NPS) to RT-PCR. However, both sample types need to be collected by trained professionals. The intent of using this technique was that using self-collected buccal swabs as an alternative could simplify and accelerate diagnosis of Covid-19.“Although NPS sampling remains the gold standard, it must be recognised that there are specific patient groups that are not amenable with regard to this procedure. These patients require diagnostic testing as well and can benefit from alternative testing modalities such as saliva and buccal swab sampling,” the study concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-samples-from-cheeks-258858
27-05-2021||Panchkula||Farmers, AAP hold protest at Chandimandir toll plaza||Hundreds of members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and the Aam Aadmi Party today staged a demonstration carrying black flags at the Chandimandir toll plaza and burnt an effigy of the government.Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, led by its block president Karam Singh, and AAP workers, led by party’s Haryana secretary Yogeshwar Sharma, raised slogans against the Modi government. They burnt an effigy of the Central Government for its failure to withdraw three farm laws.A call for the nationwide protest was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha for observing the day as “black day” by waiving black flags as the farmers’ protest completed six months.Karam Singh said their protest would continue till the government revoked the three contentious farm laws.Yogeshwar Sharma said the party would stand with the farmers and demand that the government should shun its rigidness and withdraw the three farm laws without any further delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-aap-hold-protest-at-chandimandir-toll-plaza-258859
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Youth Congress in solidarity with farmers||The Chandigarh Youth Congress today held a symbolic protest near the Sector 17 lights in black trousers and shorts.Youth Congress leader Manoj Lubana said: “This is really shameful. Farmers have been braving the heat and cold for the past six months. Unfortunately, the government is not bothered about their plight. We will continue the fight against the government and stand in solidarity with our farmers. We appeal all to come in open support.”“We are here to support the protest of our farmers against the violence and oppression. This reasserts our faith in farmers, their demands and the spirit of the common people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-congress-in-solidarity-with-farmers-258861
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Hi-tech inspection centre for vehicles soon||The UT Administration has decided to start the construction of the Automated Inspection and Certification Centre (AICC) at Raipur Kalan within a month.It will have a training centre for drivers and will also be used to give fitness certificates to commercial goods vehicles, school and public transport buses and taxis registered in the city.Sensor-enabled machines will inspect and test the road worthiness of vehicles. The centre will test the vehicle on 24 parameters, including parts and fixtures such as brakes, steering, suspension, emissions, electrical systems and general condition as mentioned in the Motor Vehicles Act.An official of the STA said a vehicle could be denied authorisation to ply on the road if it failed to clear the mandatory checks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hi-tech-inspection-centre-for-vehicles-soon-258864
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Accused in Sector 25 firing case denied bail||A local court has dismissed the bail application of an accused, Shubham, who is facing a charge of firing a gunshot at a shopkeeper in Sector 25, Chandigarh.Shubham was arrested in the case along with other accused on a complaint filed by a trader, Sandeep Kumar.The FIR was registered on the basis of a statement by Sandeep who alleged that when he was sitting at his shop in Sector 25, Chandigarh, on October 20 last year, two persons entered his shop and fired three or four rounds at him. One gunshot hit him in the forehead and another in the left shoulder. He allegedly identified the person who fired the gunshot as Vijay while the other assailant was his friend. He alleged that Vijay and his friend tried to kill him. The police later arrested Shubham on the basis of statements given by the other accused. The police have registered an FIR against the accused under sections 307, 120B and 216 of the IPC and 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act at the Sector 11 police station. The counsel for the accused argued that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. He has nothing to do with the present FIR. He is neither named in the FIR nor complaint.The Public Prosecutor opposed the bail. He stated that the applicant was the main accused in this case and he was present with accused Vijay at the time of the incident. After hearing of the arguments, the court observed that in view of the serious allegations against the applicant and his previous antecedents, the court is of the opinion that at this stage, the applicant is not entitled to the concession of bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-in-sector-25-firing-case-denied-bail-258868
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||International lecture series concludes||The English Literary Club of GGD SD College, Sector 32, concluded its 2nd five-day international lecture series, “Unravelling the Bard: Through Global Perspectives - Part 2”.The lecture series saw participation by professors and scholars of English literature from around the world namely Dr Ronan Paterson (Teesside University, England), Dr Carla Della Gatta (Florida State University), Dr Anthony Guy Patricia (Concord University in Athens, US), Dr Kimberly Anne Coles (University of Maryland, US) and Dr Thea Buckley (Queen’s University, Ireland).The speakers gave scholarly lectures encompassing various themes related to studies in Shakespeare such as “Shakespeare on World Screens”, “Ethnicising Shakespearean Tragedies on Film”, “Queer Problematics in Shakesparean plays”, “Racial Genealogies and Women” in his plays and others. Earlier, a distinguished lecture on “The life of a Protozoal Invader: What we learn from its successes and failures” was jointly organised by the Indian Science Congress Association (Chandigarh Chapter), Indian National Science Academy (Chandigarh Chapter), Chandigarh Forum for Science and Technology Communication (CFSTC) and the college society,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/international-lecture-series-concludes-258873
27-05-2021||Mohali||60 unauthorised structures demolished near Jhampur and Gharuan||The enforcement wing of GMADA today demolished around 60 unauthorised constructions near Jhampur and Gharuan. Roads constructed through the unauthorised colonies were also dug in the process.Harpreet Singh, SDO, GMADA, said a team of GMADA demolished the illegal structures in four unauthorised colonies raised in the vacant area in front of Gharuan University. He said the foundations on various plots were demolished with the help of a JCB machine. He said the team demolished about 35 illegal structures in eight unauthorised colonies in Jhampur village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-unauthorised-structures-demolished-near-jhampur-and-gharuan-258877
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||'Assault' on ex-cop, kin: Court tells Sector 31 SHO to preserve CCTV footage||A local court has directed the Sector 31 SHO to preserve the CCTV footage of the Altius Boutique Hotel, Industrial Area, from 5 pm to 11:45 pm on April 25, 2021. The SHO has also been directed to produce the same in the court on or before June 8, next date of hearing.Complainant’s pleaA former inspector of the Chandigarh Police, Gurnam Singh, has alleged that the hotel staff attacked him and his family members but the police did not register the case on their complaints. However, the police filed the case against them on a complaint of the hotel staff.The court directed that the CD of the footage be prepared as per the provisions of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act.Renu Goyal, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), has passed the order while allowing the application of a former inspector of the Chandigarh Police, Gurnam Singh.Gurnam filed a criminal complaint in the court through advocate Munish Dewan, under section 156 (3), CrPC, for seeking the directions to the police for registration of an FIR against Assistant Sub-Inspector Kabal Singh, hotel staff and others.Gurnam alleged that the hotel staff attacked him and his family members but the police did not register the case on their complaints. However, the police filed the case against them on a complaint of the hotel staff.The court says that the status report submitted by the police reveals that they have also mentioned this fact that they have registered an FIR againstthe complainant and his relatives on the basis of CCTV footage of the hotel. A pen drive of the incident played in the court contained the CCTV footage only of a few minutes. The counsel for the complainant argued that it was not the complete footage and the police were again shielding the opposite party, who are influential persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assault-on-ex-cop-kin-court-tells-sector-31-sho-to-preserve-cctv-footage-258888
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 17 football stadium work misses deadline||Missing yet another deadline, the construction of the Sector 17 football stadium will now be delayed for a few more months.The contractor confirmed that it will take at least two more months to hand over the ground’s possession to the UT Sports Department as the technical work, ranging from the levelling of the playing field to the installation of poles, is expected to take more time.Earlier, officials were eyeing getting the possession of the stadium later this month. “The completion of work will take another two months. The Engineering Department has been informed. The department is yet to provide soil for levelling of spectators’ hill and other works are also pending,” said the contractor.The project to develop a warm-up area and five-a-side Astroturf field is yet to be started, confirmed sources. “The delay was obvious due to the pandemic,” said the contractor.The Engineering Department officials, meanwhile, remain unavailable to comment.“At this pace, it will take more than six months to complete the work. The ground is yet to be levelled and the testing of the field is to be completed. A technical run by professionals is also a must as the ground is quite open... not feasible to stop the ball from going outside the stadium and also from the point of view of security. The sports department should consider all these facts,” said a source.According to the actual plan, the new stadium is spread over nearly six acres. The direction of the football pitch is also being changed. It is for the first time after 1960 that the stadium is undergoing a major construction.“The arena is under construction since 2018 and likely to remain close till the end of this year. The stadium, spread over nearly six acres, is said to be constructed as per the international standards with pavilion, sitting arena, open space, a video screen, sprinklers and solar panel,” said an official of the Engineering Department.On water clogging, as the ground is made on a lower level to the existing road, the official claimed there is sufficient drainage provision to avoid water clogging in rainy days.No securityMeanwhile, officials on duty maintained that the construction material usually gets stolen due to the open entrance of the stadium. “There have been many incidents where construction material got stolen in the night. Though a security guard remained present at the venue, the stadium is open from all directions,” said a guard.“We cannot complain to the police or departments (sports/engineering) on a daily basis, it’s our responsibility till the time the work gets completed,” said the contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-17-football-stadium-work-misses-deadline-258895
27-05-2021||Panchkula||4 held for operating illegal liquor factory||The Panchkula police have arrested four persons allegedly for running an illegal liquor factory from a house in Bhareli village near Barwala.The suspects have been identified as Ankit, a resident of Machhroli in Panipat, Monty, a resident of Liloh village of Shamli district in UP, Kamal and Ravi, both residents of Baghpat in UP.Raid on a tip-offThe police said a team of the CM Flying Squad had received a tip-off that some people were manufacturing and selling illegal liquor from a factory, Teqnegma Electronics Pvt Ltd, in Barwala. The suspects were supplying liquor on the pretext of setting up a water filtration system in the nearby areas. The police, led by ASI Vinod Kumar and two officials of the Panchkula Excise Department, raided the factory.The police said a team of the CM Flying Squad had received a tip-off that some people were manufacturing and selling illegal liquor from a factory, Teqnegma Electronics Pvt Ltd, in Barwala. The suspects were supplying liquor on the pretext of setting up water filtration system in the nearby areas. A team, led by ASI Vinod Kumar, and two officials of the Panchkula Excise Department raided the factory. When the team entered the premises, it caught the four suspects while packing the liquor bottles.The team found 166 cartons of country-made liquor, NV Raseela Santra, seven IMFL bottles of Royal Stag, six-and-a-half drums of liquor, 145 bundles of empty plastic bottles (each bundle consists of 105 bottles), 95 empty glass bottles, 100 empty plastic bottles, half bag of bottle covers, two plastic tank of 5,000 litres filled with water, an emply 1,000-litre tank, a machine for sealing the bottles, an iron stand, a lab jar, a lab measurement instrument of 500 ML and other materials.The police said during the investigations, the suspects revealed that they prepared 250 cartons of liquor. The factory was being operated by Tarsem and Sanjeev Kumar.A case was registered under Section 61-1-14 of the Punjab Excise Act, Haryana Excise Act and Section 420, 308 and 120-B of the IPC at the Chandi Mandir police station.All suspects were produced in a court today which remanded Ankit and Monti in three-day police custody while accused Ravi has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-for-operating-illegal-liquor-factory-258899
27-05-2021||Tribune News SeviceMohali||2.5L persons screened in six days in Mohali||As many as 2,58,696 people in three health blocks of the district — Dera Bassi, Gharuan and Boothgarh — have been screened for Covid-19 by Asha workers in six days as part of the Mission Fateh-2.Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said Covid sampling, testing and door-to-door screening survey had been going on in the villages of the district since May 21. She said the target was to survey 1,24,954 houses in the three health blocks and to cover a population of 6,25,540.During the first six days, Asha workers have completed the survey for 67,322 houses and other dwelling places and reached out to 2,58,696 persons and screened them.The Civil Surgeon said that under the supervision of senior medical officers, community health officers, multipurpose health workers and Asha workers were visiting village sarpanchs and residents to motivate them for sampling. She said daily Covid testing camps were being organised in villages.So far, 6,218 rapid antigens tests and 268 RTPCR tests had been conducted, she said. “People should contact the Health Department’s helpline (104) for the expert advice,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-5l-persons-screened-in-six-days-in-mohali-258900
27-05-2021||Panchkula||Team formed to deal with stray cattle menace in Panchkula||The Panchkula Municipal Corporation constituted a team, led by Superintendent of Enforcement Wing Rajbir Singh, to keep an eye on stray animals and shifting these to cattle shed at Sukhdarshanpur village.City Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said the team had been directed to keep tabs on city roads and if any stray animal was found, it should be shifted to the stray cattle pond in Sukhdarshanpur.Goyal said from January to May 20 this year, 807 stray cattle had been shifted to different cattle ponds. He said out of these, 592 stray cattle had been shifted to Sukhdarshanpur while 215 stray cattle had been kept at Mata Mansa Devi Gaushala. He said the Panchkula city would soon be made free of stray cattle.The Mayor said there would be a decline in the deaths reported due to the stray cattle in the city. He said the enforcement wing was also lifting the injured animals from roads. He said whenever the team received a call about an animal suffering from the disease, the enforcement team immediately lifted the animal and taked it to the nearest gaushala for treatment.Enforcement Wing in-charge said owners of the stray cattle were also being fined and added that for every animal caught, they imposed a fine of Rs5,000 and Rs2,500 was being charged as fine for the calf.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/team-formed-to-deal-with-stray-cattle-menace-in-panchkula-258901
27-05-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: 3 held for violating lockdown norms||The Panchkula police have nabbed three persons, including two girls, for allegedly violating the Covid protocol by opening a spa-cum-salon in Sector 25 beyond the permitted time.The suspects have been identified as Shiya, a resident of Saketri, Deepika and Shashi Jaglan.The police said a team was making rounds of the Sector 25 market to ensure enforcement of the lockdown norms when it found Modern Spa and Salon open and arrested two girls and a boy who were present in the salon.A case under Sections 188, 269 and 279 of the IPC and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act was registered against the three.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-3-held-for-violating-lockdown-norms-258904
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents want notification on water rates, sewerage cess withdrawn||Even as the UT Administration has stayed the hike in water tariff till March 2022, city residents want the withdrawal of the notification and reduction in 30 per cent sewerage cess on the total bill.The cess earlier used to cost Rs10 per flush toilet per month in residential areas and Rs50 per flush toilet in commercial areas.The Administration has deferred the September 11, 2020, notification that had led to threefold increase in the water rates. But the June 2019 notification, which had increased the sewerage cess, was existing. The hiked bill and cess had hit the residents hard. Residents remained confused over cess.“Stopping the water tariff hike till March 2022 was a cruel joke. Only the notification issued on September 11 was put on hold. No excess payment made so far is being adjusted and there is no order on decreasing the cess from 30 per cent to 5 per cent,” said RK Garg, president of the Second Innings Association.“People will have to review the whole situation and start demanding the withdrawal of the increased tariffs once again. We demand that the notification should be withdrawn and all bills be paid at a higher rate should be adjusted in the next bills,” he added.Hitesh Puri, Chairman, CRAWFED: “There is no clarity on sewerage cess. It is the main reason that water bills increased so much. Also, water rate notification should have been withdrawn as otherwise it is only a temporary relief for residents. Even if the MC wants to increase the rates, it should be marginal.”Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC, commented: “First, they burdened us with a huge increase in water bills. Then after much pressure from all quarters, they only deferred the notification. The residents want reduced cess and withdrawal of the notification otherwise they will be in the same spot next year.”Congress president Subhash Chawla said: “Sewerage cess and water rates are not so high anywhere. The BJP-ruled MC had deferred the rates only for political gains ahead of the MC polls this year.”Meanwhile, Ravi Kant Sharma told Chandigarh Tribune: “We have given relief to people during Covid. The sewerage cess was proving to be costly only because of the increased water tariff, which has now been deferred.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-want-notification-on-water-rates-sewerage-cess-withdrawn-258905
27-05-2021||Mohali||Himanshu Aggarwal is new Mohali ADC (General)||Himanshu Aggarwal, a 2014-batch IAS officer, will take charge as the ADC (General), Mohali. He was earlier posted as the ADC (General), Amritsar.Aggarwal replaces Aashika Jain, a 2015 batch IAS, who takes over as the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development), Hoshiarpur.Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal (2006 IAS officer), Chief Administrator, GMADA also gets the additional charge of the Chief Administrator, Punjab Urban Planning & Development Authority, SAS Nagar.Komal Mittal, a 2014 batch IAS officer, has been posted as the ADC (Urban Development), Mohali.Garhshankar SDM Harbans Singh-II will replace Himanshu Jain as the Kharar SDM. Jain has been posted as the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development), Jalandhar.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Chief Administrator, Punjab Urban Planning & Development Authority, SAS Nagar, has been posted as the Amritsar MC Commissioner and CEO, Amritsar Smart City Limited.Rajesh Dhiman, GMADA Additional Chief Administrator, Mohali, has been posted as the Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), Fatehgarh Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himanshu-aggarwal-is-new-mohali-adc-general-258906
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Builder penalised over delay in handing over possession of flat||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a builder to refund Rs45,16,323 lakh with interest to a consumer after the builder failed to deliver the possession of the flat within the promised time.Holding the builder guilty of deficiency in services, the Commission has also directed the builder to pay Rs50,000 for causing mental agony and physical harassment to the complainant.Krishan Dev Vasisht, a consumer, had approached the commission through advocate Ranbir Singh Rawat after the builder, M/s Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Ltd, failed to give him the possession of the flat within the promised time.In the complaint filed before the commission, Vasisht said he paid Rs45 lakh to the builder from 2011 to 2018 for purchasing a flat at Victoria Floors, Golf Links-II, Sector 116, Mohali, Punjab.He said despite this, the builder failed to deliver the possession of the flat by the promised date — May 19, 2015.However, the builder denied all allegations on the various grounds.After hearings the arguments, the Commission noted that the builder failed to deliver the flat violating the agreement signed with the consumer.The commission says that facts of the case revealed that there had been an inordinate delay in the matter. Still, the builder was unsure as to by which date the possession of the unit can be delivered to the complainants. The complainants cannot be made to wait for an indefinite period on bald assurances given by the builder.“It is a well settled law that the non-delivery of possession of plots/units in a developed project by the promised date is a material violation on the part of a builder and in those circumstances, the allottee is well within his/her right to seek refund of the amount paid,” says commission.In view of the above facts, the commission directed the builder to refund the entire amount deposited for the flat with interest. Besides, the commission also direct the builder to pay compensation for causing mental agony and physical harassment and also litigation expenses to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-penalised-over-delay-in-handing-over-possession-of-flat-258907
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 17 zones in Chandigarh||RLA to remain closed till May 31Chandigarh: Keeping in view the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will remain closed till May 31. The office was to shut down for a week till April 30 after over 15 employees tested positive for the virus. After strict restrictions were imposed to contain the spread of the virus, the authorities had decided to keep the RLA closed till May 25, but it was later extended till May 31. An RLA official said fresh appointments would be given after opening of the office and all those who had prior appointments would be adjusted in a phased manner. Meanwhile, the Estate Office has opened the reception counter for receiving applications. The office was also closed after many employees contracted the virus. TNSCovid norms: Film crew bookedZirakpur: Thirty-three members, including four women, of a film crew were booked for allegedly violating the Covid-19 protocol during a shooting session at the Ivory Villa housing society on VIP Road, Zirakpur. The police recieved a complaint that the crew was flouting the Covid guidelines during the shooting. They were neither wearing face masks nor maintaining social distancing, the police said. The owner of the building has also been booked. A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 120-B was registered at the Zirakpur police station on May 25. TNSMentally ill woman rapedChandigarh: An unknown person has been booked for raping a 25-year-old mentally ill woman. In her complaint to the police, the victim’s mother stated that her daughter complained of stomach ache following which she took her to the GMSH-16. During a check, she was found five-month pregnant. A case has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. The police have started an investigation into it. TNSStudent unions observe 'black day' at PUChandigarh: The Panjab University unit of the SFS observed 'black day' in support of the agitating farmers. After protesting near Gate No. 2, members of the SFS also took out a march and raised slogans against the farm laws, the BJP and the RSS. They put up black flags outside the Vice-Chancellor's office and the Student Centre. The PSU (Lalkaar) also participated in the protest. TNSABVP launches campaignChandigarh: The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad units of Panjab University and Chandigarh, along with the Vidyarthi Kalyan Trust, launched "Mission Arogya" in Chandigarh on Wednesday. Under this campaign, the activists went door to door at Shahpura Colony, Dhanas and Sector 25 to check the temperature and oxygen levels of people. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-17-zones-in-chandigarh-258908
