28-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 161 new Covid-19 cases; 6 deaths||Chandigarh on Friday reported 161 new cases of Covid-19 as the number of active cases drop to 2,758.Six deaths were recorded due to the virus in the last 24 hours as the death toll reached 735.A 34-year-old woman from Ramdarbar was among the fatalities.The total number of cases in Chandigarh rose to 59,577 of which 56,084 people have been cured till date.A total of 526 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Health Ministry guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-161-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-259896
28-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh Administration issues guidelines for weekend curfew from 5 am Saturday till 5 am Monday||The Chandigarh Administration on Friday issued new guidelines for the night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am on all days to contain the spread of Covid-19.Whereas a war room meeting was held to review the Covid-19 situation in Chandigarh.In the meeting it was decided that a weekend corona curfew would be imposed in Chandigarh from 5 am on Saturday (May 29) till 5 am on Monday (May 31).No person shall leave their home or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the above said hours.The following categories shall be exempted:Those tasked with law order/emergency and municipal services/duties including executive magistrates, police personnel, military/CAPF personnel in uniform, health, electricity, fire, media persons with accreditation.Telecom services including internet, government postal services, banking and government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties on production of identity card.The shops dealing with supply of essential goods like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, meat, groceries, bakeries, etc. shall be allowed to remain open only for home delivery up to 2 pm.The manufacturing units/industry shall be allowed to remain open.The movement of employees/labour of manufacturing unit or industry and vehicles carrying them shall be allowed.There shall be no curbs on inter-state movement of essential and non-essential goods.All vehicles/persons in bona fide transit inter-state shall be allowed to pass after due verification of point of origin and destination.ATMs, hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all related medical establishments, including their manufacturing and distribution units, both in public and private sector, such as dispensaries, chemist, pharmacies and medical equipment shops, laboratories. pharmaceutical research labs, clinics, nursing homes, ambulance, etc. will continue to remain functional.The transportation for all medical personnel, nurse, paramedical staff, other hospital support services shall be permitted.The kitchens of restaurants and eating places, hotels including food joints, food courts in various malls can remain open for home delivery only up to 10 pm.Their staff shall be allowed to move on production of valid ID card issued to them by the respective establishment.Pregnant women and patients for getting medical services are exempted.Passengers going to or returning from the airport or railway station or I.S.B.T. shall be exempt.Marriages with prior permission from the SDM concerned with attendance of up to 20 persons shall be allowed.Funerals/last rites with attendance of up to 10 persons are allowed.During the weekend corona curfew period, those going for appearing in examination and those on examination duties will be allowed movement on production of admit/identity cards.Those specially issued a restricted movement pass by the officers authorized in this behalf.Persons seeking movement pass may contact at 0172-2700076 & 0172-2700341 or apply online on www.admser.chdniciNdoc.Those government employees working in city shall be allowed transit on production of valid identity cards and duty orders.All vaccination centres/testing centres/dispensaries/medical facilities shall remain open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-issues-guidelines-for-weekend-curfew-from-5-am-saturday-till-5-am-monday-259886
28-05-2021||---||HC orders uniform rates for Covid tests in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 27The state today sought the Punjab and Haryana HC’s urgent intervention for additional ventilators for paediatric use following apprehensions of a third wave.The request came as the Bench issued a slew of directions on uniform rates for Covid-19 tests and reduction in the rates for HRCT (chest) by private diagnostic centres.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh also called for setting up ICU control rooms for the relatives to remain in regular touch with patients and to be aware of their medical condition.The Bench also made it clear that fact-finding inquiries on overcharging by some private hospitals could be called for and examined by the court at an appropriate stage to see if further action was required.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda told the Bench that the positivity rate in urban areas had come down to 2.98 per cent and to 3.74 per cent in rural areas. Nanda said around 200 additional ventilators would be required. “As far as the ventilators are concerned, 55 are not working. We have written to the Centre to immediately attend to it. We are also demanding ventilators for paediatric use. If the third wave is to hit, and it is to hit the junior citizens of the state, this will be immediately required and we should be prepared for it,” Nanda added.Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain, in response, submitted the needful would be done without delay. “If any further request is received from UT Chandigarh or Haryana in this regard, it shall also be considered forthwith and necessary steps taken,” he added.The Bench also directed that the rates for rapid antigen test (RAT) and RT-PCR test in the two states and the UT were required to be uniform. Taking a cue from the rates prescribed by Punjab for private labs — Rs 350 for RAT and Rs 450 for RT-PCR — the Bench asked Haryana and UT to reconsider.The Bench also described as reasonable reduced rate of Rs 1,800 charged by private diagnostic centres for HRCT (chest) in the UT, before expressing “hope and trust” that Punjab and Haryana, too, would impress upon private diagnostic centres to reduce the rates on similar lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-orders-uniform-rates-for-covid-tests-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-259502
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||2-day Lecture series ends||Cleanliness drive heldChandigarh: A cleanliness drive was carried out under the leadership of councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali in Ward 20 to mark the completion of seven years of the BJP.MC’s Sanitation, Horticulture, Public Health and Road wings jointly performed their respective works. BJP Mandal president Satbir Singh Thakur, JE Bhupinder Singh and sanitation inspector Praveen Kumar were among those present on the occasion. Devshali said several programmes had been organised by the party under the “Seva Hi Sangathan” campaign across the country. This cleanliness campaign was carried out on Thursday, under ‘Swachh Bharat Swasth Bharat’ programme. TNSHit by car, auto driver injuredChandigarh: An auto driver was injured following a mishap with a Honda City car at the Sector 27/28 light point on Wednesday night. The police said the Honda was being driven by Sumit Kumar, a resident of Zirakpur. The auto turned turtle and its driver, Kashi Ram (46), a resident of Mauli Jagran, was injured. He was rushed to the PGI by the car driver. The police said the auto driver sustained head injuries and was under treatment. A case has been registered against Sumit at the Sector 26 police station. He was arrested and released on bail. TNSKisan Ekta members bookedChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case against unknown members of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta for assembling in Sector 34 on Wednesday allegedly in violation of the District Magistrate’s orders. The members of the union had assembled near the Dasehra ground in Sector 34 in large numbers in protest against the Centre over the farm laws. The police said the protesters violated the DM’s orders. Social distancing norms went for a toss and most of them were without masks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-day-lecture-series-ends-259587
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP to conduct blood donation camps tomorrow||On the completion of seven years of the Modi government at the Centre, the City BJP unit will organise blood donation camps at five different places on May 29 and collect more than 1000 units of blood.SEWA programmes will also be organised at more than 300 places in the city on May 30. The party will honour health and sanitation workers engaged in human service and distribute immunity boosters among them. This was stated by BJP state president Arun Sood during a semi-virtual press conference held at the party office, ‘Kamalam’, here today.Following the Covid guidelines, workers will go to people’s houses and distribute fruits, biscuits, juices, dry ration, herbs, immunity boosters, masks, sanitisers, chyawanprash, zinc and vitamin C tablets among them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-to-conduct-blood-donation-camps-tomorrow-259573
28-05-2021||Panchkula||Complete roadways workshop project: Haryana Assembly Speaker||Concerned over the delay in the construction of a workshop of the Haryana Roadways in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, here, Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta directed the Public Works Department to complete the project as early as possible.Gupta stated this after inspecting the under-construction Haryana Roadways workshop here today. He said it was necessary to increase transport facilities for the development of Panchkula. The work started in 2018, but it was going on at a slow pace. He said after the completion of this workshop, maintenance and repair work of 170 buses of the district would be done easily and transport activities would also increase.Officials said most of the work had been completed and the remaining work of electricity, poles and concrete would be completed by next month and the two-storeyed workshop would be inaugurated on August 15.Gupta warned the officials that if the work was not completed on time, then strict action would be taken against the contractor. He also sought information from the authorities about the railway overbridge connecting the Industrial Area and Sector 19.The officials said the Railways was yet to start the work. Gupta instructed the officials to seek complete information from the Railways and get the work started.He directed the Transport Department to start the bus service from Barwala and Raipur Rani to the PGI, Chandigarh. He also directed the Regional Transport Officer to check illegal plying of bus service in the district, which was causing loss to the state exchequer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/complete-roadways-workshop-project-haryana-assembly-speaker-259569
28-05-2021||Mohali||Road accidents snuff out four lives in Mohali district||Four persons were killed in road mishaps in the district during the past 24 hours.One person was killed when a rashly driven tanker allegedly hit a motorcycle on the Zirakpur-Patiala road late on Wednesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Major Singh (26).The victim’s brother, Varinder Singh, in a statement to the police, said he was working in Jaipur. He said he, along with his brother Major Singh, had come to Zirakpur on his motorcycle for some work. He was riding the bike, while his brother was riding pillion.When they were returning home, a rashly driven oil tanker hit their motorcycle. He lost control over the bike, which hit a railing on the median. His brother fell on the road and sustained serious head injuries. He was taken to a hospital in Zirakpur from where doctors referred him to the GMCH, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.Investigating officer ASI Rajesh Chauhan said a case was registered against the unidentified tanker driver.49-year-old woman killedIn another incident, a 49-year-old woman was killed on Wednesday evening when an unknown vehicle hit her while she was crossing the road in Balongi. The deceased has been identified as Hansbati, a resident of Dhanas in Chandigarh. She was a vegetable vendor. A case has been registered.Cyclist on way to pay obeisance killedIn yet another incident, a 55-year-old man, who was on his way to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan in Sector 70 on his cycle, was hit by an Innova on Wednesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Ranjit Singh, a resident of Sector 70. He was rushed to the ESI hospital in the Industrial Area, Phase 7, where he was declared brought dead.In a complaint to the police, Ravinder Singh Virdi, son of the deceased, said his father used to go to the gurdwara every day. On Wednesday, a rashly driven Innova hit his father and dragged him for a few metres. A case has been registered. Sukhdev Singh, driver of the Innova and resident of Badala village, was arrested and let off on bail.46-year-old mason dies while crossing the roadIn the fourth incident, a 46-year-old mason was killed on Wednesday evening after being hit by a Swift Dzire car while he was crossing the road near Durali village. He was taken to the Sohana hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The driver of the car bearing a registration number of Delhi fled from the spot. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-accidents-snuff-out-four-lives-in-mohali-district-259556
28-05-2021||Mohali||Attacked by Pitbull, New Chandigarh girl in trauma||Three days after being attacked by a dog, 22-year-old Ishita is yet to recover from the trauma.The law student, a resident of the IAS PCS Society in New Chandigarh, was mauled by a Pitbull while she was out with her pet, a Toy Pom.Ishita’s mother Harmeet Kaur Pal said her daughter was attacked by the “ferocious American Bully, reportedly owned by the family of an Additional District Judge, Amritsar”. “My daughter had taken our dog out. The Pitbull came running towards her as the owners had left the gate of their residence open,” said Pal.“Ishita tried to save her pet, but was bit by the ferocious dog on her knees, right elbow and right side of the stomach,” she said.Pal said they took her to a hospital. “She is so terrified that she has not moved out of the house since then,” she said. “We will file a complaint against the owner of the dog,” she said, adding that they had also decided to approach the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.In 2019, the High Court had taken a suo motu action over negligence in keeping ferocious dogs such as Pitbull.Pal said they would also file a complaint with the Governor. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/attacked-by-pitbull-new-chandigarh-girl-in-trauma-259552
28-05-2021||Panchkula||2 ask for drinking water, make off with Rs 96K in Kalka||The police today claimed to have nabbed two Batala residents for allegedly stealing Rs96,000 from a house in Kalka on the pretext of drinking water.The suspects have been identified as Satnam Singh and Lovepreet Singh, both residents of Rajinder Nagar near Batala in Gurdaspur district, said the police.The duo was arrested on Wednesday, they added.Complainant Ramesh Chander Sharma, a resident of Kalka, told the police that around 4.35 pm on April 5, a car stopped in front of his house.“A youth with beard and supporting a yellow patka came out of the car. He told me that he knew my son Majoj, who lives in the US,” Sharma told the police.Sharma said the youth asked for drinking water and followed him into the room, said the police.He said the youth told him that he needed Rs5,000, but he told him that he did not have the money.Sharma said when he went to the kitchen to fetch water, the youth told him to bring hot water. He said when he returned to the room, the youth was not there and when he checked the drawer he found Rs96,000 missing, said the police.A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered against the two suspects at the Kalka police station.They were produced in a court today, which remanded them to two-day police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-ask-for-drinking-water-make-off-with-rs-96k-in-kalka-259551
28-05-2021||---||Muddy water supply irks residents of Mani Majra's Modern Housing Complex||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27Despite repeated complaints, residents of the Modern Housing Complex (MHC), Mani Majra, continue to get muddy water.In a letter to Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, MHC Residents Welfare Association (RWA) president Col Gursewak Singh (retd), said, “The recent surge in Covid-19 infections in the MHC can be attributed, among other factors, to continued poor state of the public health system, which has two components – one, supply of muddy tap water, and second, poor hygiene and sanitation.”“During the annual function of our RWA on March 20, you (Mayor) had promised to resolve the twin issues on priority. However, things have gonefrom bad to worse since then,” he claimed.“This has resulted in resentment and anger among residents of nearly 3,000 houses in the Modern Housing Complex,” said Colonel Singh.The 30-year-old underground water pipes have outlived their life and need immediate replacement, he pointed out. “Unless thatis done, residents will continue to get muddy and polluted water,” the RWA president said.“The poor sanitation in the area is obviously due to paucity of staff in the complex,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/muddy-water-supply-irks-residents-of-mani-majras-modern-housing-complex-259550
28-05-2021||Mohali||Mission Fateh 2.0: 1.04 cr people screened so far: Health Minister||As part of the “Corona Mukt Punjab Abhiyan”, the state government has launched Mission Fateh 2.0. Under this initiative, rural corona warrior groups of youth will be formed at the village level. It will not only increase Covid testing, but also ensure 100 per cent vaccination in villages. To encourage the groups, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh also announced sports kits for these groups.This was disclosed by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu during a programme organised by the Chief Minister to interact with the youth of Punjab through videoconferencing from the District Administrative Complex.Balbir Singh Sidhu said under Mission Fateh 2.0, over one lakh samples had been collected and 1.04 crore people had been screened so far. Special healthcare was being provided to 220 Covid-infected women. In addition, 2,380 health and wellness centres in villages were playing an important role in fight against corona virus. Door-to-door testing was being conducted by ASHA workers.The Minister said the Punjab government was working day and night to address the shortcomings of Covid vaccination. Strict action had been taken against private hospitals that were overcharging Covid patients. He said the state government was also taking the help of NGOs, volunteers and private organisations to strengthen the fight against Covid.He said when the youth would visit villages and explain the importance of testing and vaccination to the people, victory over the corona was guaranteed.Talking to the Punjab Chief Minister on the occasion, Nirbhajot Kaur, a student of Government College, Phase 6, said she was a member of the NCC. She was working with other students to motivate people to undergo Covid testing and vaccination through various means. She would continue this work till the target of 100 per cent vaccination was achieved under Mission Fateh-2.0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mission-fateh-2-0-1-04-cr-people-screened-so-far-health-minister-259549
28-05-2021||Mohali||Kayakalp scheme: Mohali district hospital ranks second in Punjab||The District Hospital here has secured the second position in Punjab in a competition held under the Kayakalp Award Scheme – an extension of ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “Under the Kayakalap programme, health institutions are inspected every year on a number of criteria, including hygiene, seating arrangement, decoration, staff dress, drinking water, park, medical facilities, overall hospital environment…”“On these criteria the District Hospital scored 80.2 marks out of 100,” she said.“In the category of primary health centres, PHC Boothgarh secured first position in the district and eighth position in Punjab with 81 per cent marks,” Dr Adarshpal Kaur added.She also informed that the Kharar Sub-Divisional Hospital secured 10th position in Punjab with 81.1 per cent marks and Sub-Divisional Hospital, Dera Bassi, bagged 17th position with 76.3 marks.In the community health centre category, Dhakoli hospital has secured 34th position in Punjab with 77.30 per cent marks.Similarly, in the category of urban primary health centre, the health centers at Majat and Mullanpur Garibdas have been ranked 4th and 12th, respectively, in Punjab.Health and wellness centre at Seneta has secured fourth position in Punjab with 74 per cent marks, said Dr Adarshpal Kaur.The Civil Surgeon lauded the efforts of all the stakeholders and hoped the officers concerned would work harder and more diligently next time to bring all the institutions of the district to the No. 1 position. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kayakalp-scheme-mohali-district-hospital-ranks-second-in-punjab-259548
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 to close Covid wards in gradual manner||With a dip in Covid-19 cases, the GMCH-32 has decided to close some of the Covid wards in a gradual manner. “No new Covid patient will be sent to the Sector 48 hospital unless all beds in Covid wards and ICUs are full on the GMCH-32 campus. The Sector 32 campus will keep a buffer of 10 beds to take care of emergencies,” said Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for Covid management at the GMCH-32.He said in this way, initially one wing in the next few days and then the entire hospital in Sector 48 may be closed down in the next 10 to 15 days for Covid patients. Sood Dharamshala, and Dhanwantri Hospital have been vacated and doctors and paramedical staff have been recalled from both premises and deputed at the GMCH. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-to-close-covid-wards-in-gradual-manner-259547
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||First mucormycosis patient discharged from GMCH-32||A 69-year-old man from Ambala fought the deadly mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, for more than a fortnight and came out victorious.The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, today discharged the first Covid-19 patient detected with black fungus after undergoing treatment for 19 days.Dr Surinder K Singhal, Head of the ENT Department, said the patient, a known diabetic, was admitted to the hospital with suspected symptoms of Covid-19 in early May.He had fever, shortness of breath and blackish discharge from the nose. Investigations pointed towards Covid-19 infection and nasal endoscopic examination revealed blackish crusts and discoloration in the nose. He also had swelling of the eye, and impaired vision.The patient was put on amphotericin B and later endoscopic debridement was done to remove the affected part from the nose, he said.“The fungus impacts nose, eyes and even brain if not detected and treated on time. This patient was lucky as his condition was detected on time. There have been cases where we had to remove the upper jaw of patients,” said Dr Singhal.There are currently 29 patients with Covid-related mucormycosis under treatment at the GMCH-32. Twenty patients had been operated upon till now, he said, adding that rest of the patients would be operated on as soon as they were fit for surgery. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-mucormycosis-patient-discharged-from-gmch-32-259546
28-05-2021||---||Dairies in Panchkula city to have new address||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 27To rid the Panchkula city of stray cattle, the Municipal Corporation has decided to shift all the dairies within the city to Sukhdarshanpur village.Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal today informed that 108 dairies were currently operating in the city.“Eight acres of land has been reserved in Sukhdarshanpur village by the Municipal Corporation for shifting of dairies,” said Goyal.The civic body had conducted a survey of dairies last year and 108 were found in villages falling under the MC limits, he said, adding that a draft proposal to shift these dairies had been prepared.Drains and sewers in the city often get choked due to the waste emanating from these dairies, which poses the risk of spreading diseases, he pointed out.“Not only this, the dairy owners after extracting milk from cows let them roam in the open during the day and at late night hours, which also poses a risk of accidents,” he said.The Mayor asserted that many problems would be addressed after the dairies were shifted out of the city.Goyal also inspected the vacant land in Sundershanpur village.At present, roads are being constructed in the village. The entire blueprint for the vacant land has been prepared and sent to the Local Bodies Department. The land will be sold through e-auction after getting the approval, the Mayor informed.The sale of land will help the corporation earn revenue worth several crores, which will be used to support many big projects in the city, he said.Goyal instructed the officers concerned to complete the construction of roads in the village at the earliest.He said the Municipal Corporation had 37 acres of land in Sukhdarshanpur village. Out of which gaushalas had been constructed on 4.25 acres and kennels on 4.61 acres.A proposal has been prepared by the Municipal Corporation for the remaining 29 acres of vacant land and we are waiting for the approval from the Local Bodies Department, said Goyal.The new projects to come up at Sukhdarshanpur village include a herbal park on 3.06 acres, a banquet hall on 3.68 acres, a Gurukul on one acre, an IWS Housing Colony on one acre, a residential school on 3.55 acres, a petrol pump on 0.41 acres and a shopping centre on 2.84 acres. Besides, roads and parking will be built on 4.78 acres, said the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dairies-in-panchkula-city-to-have-new-address-259545
28-05-2021||---||No fee hike for students, recommends Panjab University panel||Chandigarh, May 27A special panel headed by the Panjab University Dean University Instructions (DUI) and the Finance & Development Officer has recommended no fee hike for students for the second consecutive year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.The recommendations have been sent to the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor for his final approval. After his approval, the suggestions will be implemented for the next session. The suggestion from the panel is likely to benefit nearly 35,000 students. However, no recommendation or decision has to be taken regarding ‘fee hike’ for colleges.Last year, the university also allowed students to pay the semester fee in instalments.“The recommendations have been made keeping in mind the financial effect of this pandemic on students and their families. Though it’s not easy for the university to take this decision amid limited resources, it has been decided to not to burden the students,” said an official concerned.Last year, the PU Syndicate had deferred the 7.5 per cent fee hike for self-financed courses and 5 per cent for traditional courses for the new session.Online examinationsFor the second consecutive year, Panjab University will conduct online examinations. This year, the authorities are planning to conduct these examinations in a more professional way. “Since last year, the authorities are planning to conduct examinations in a more professional way. Considering the need of the hour, some private ventures have shown their interest in helping Panjab University in conducting examinations,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fee-hike-for-students-recommends-panjab-university-panel-259544
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, wife  on path to recovery: Doctors||Former India sprinter Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, who led the Indian women’s volleyball team, are stable and responding well to the treatment, informed the team of doctors looking after the duo at a private hospital.“Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh’s health is stable and improving,” read a media bulletin issued by the hospital.“Both of them are on the path to recovery,” said ace golfer and Milkha Singh’s son Jeev Milkha Singh. Nirmal, 82, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and was admitted to the hospital with Covid pneumonia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flying-sikh-milkha-singh-wife-on-path-to-recovery-doctors-259537
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh RLA to resume public dealing from June 1||In view of the decreasing number of active Covid cases, the UT Administration has decided to reopen the office of the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA).The RLA will resume public dealing from June 1 with limited services only, and on the basis of new online appointments. The already booked appointments stand cancelled, said an official.The applicants can visit www.chdtransport.gov.in for booking an appointment. The booking portal will become functional from May 29, 10 am onwards. In case of any query, applicants can contact 0172-2700341 or 0172-2700076. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rla-to-resume-public-dealing-from-june-1-259525
28-05-2021||Panchkula||4 die in Panchkula, 114 infected||Four more persons succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 331 in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a 43-year-old man from Kalka, a 44-year-old man from Sector 8, a 72-year-old man from Sector 6 and a 39-year-old woman from Sector 6 died due to the disease.Meanwhile, 114 persons were diagnosed with Covid, taking the total number of cases in the district to 29,684. As many as 21 persons from Pinjore tested positive for the virus. So far, 28,062 patients have been cured of the disease and there are 1,291 active cases in the district.A total of 1,014 persons were vaccinated at 25 government vaccination centres across the district today. A total of 2,09,821 doses have been administered in the district so far. While 1,60,703 persons got the first dose, 49,118 received the second dose. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-die-in-panchkula-114-infected-259501
28-05-2021||Mohali||Four more succumb in Mohali, 278 test positive||Four Covid fatalities were reported from the district during the past 24 hours. Till Wednesday, the death toll in the district stood at 889, but the count shared on Thursday accounted for 17 more deaths. These deaths had occurred between May 6 and May 23, but the details were shared by hospitals in the district on Thursday, said a spokesman for the Health Department.Meanwhile, 278 fresh cases were reported from the district, while 659 patients were cured of the disease. Of the 65,761 cases reported so far, 60,526 patients have been cured. There are now 4,325 active cases in the district. The toll has reached 910. — TNSSeven deaths in Chandigarh, 200 new casesChandigarh: The city reported seven deaths and 200 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The active cases now stand at 3,129 and the toll 729. As many as 637 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-succumb-in-mohali-278-test-positive-259493
28-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Education Department unlikely to extend summer break||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27Amid a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Education Department is unlikely to extend summer holidays. Though there has been no official announcement in this regard, sources maintained that the schools will be reopened again on a minimum attendance basis.Keeping in view the pandemic, the department had earlier this month announced summer vacation in government schools till June 8.“The department is unlikely to extend summer holidays. However, the final call will be taken a week prior to June 8 in the war-room meeting. As far as the department is concerned, it is expected that the schools will reopen with minimum attendance,” said a source.School principals and teachers, who were looking after the work of admissions and result preparations for Class 10, were attending the school as per requirements.“Though private schools are operating, government schools will be reopening with extra precautions. The cases are on the decline and infected teachers are also recovering well. Even officials are in no hurry considering the health of students as well as faculty members,” said another source.Teachers, seeking anonymity, said the department should not take any decision in a hurry.“A total of 200 fresh cases were reported from the city on Thursday, which is good news. However, the department should not take any decision in a hurry. At least one-week report should be considered before taking the decision to reopen the schools. Teachers should also be vaccinated at the earliest so that they can perform their duties without stress. Vaccination drives should be arranged for teachers as well as students, if needed, before reopening the schools,” said a teacher.‘Visit houses of students who lost parents to Covid’The District Education Officer (DEO), meanwhile, wrote to cluster heads of government schools to visit the houses of students, who have lost their parents to Covid-19. “The cluster heads and teachers concerned are hereby directed to personally visit the houses of students, who have lost their parents to the pandemic. The report must reach the DEO office by May 29 along with the prescribed pro forma and death certificates,” stated a circular.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-unlikely-to-extend-summer-break-259487
28-05-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Coming, 60,000 doses for 18+ in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27The vaccination drive for the 18 plus category is expected to gain momentum soon as the city will receive 60,000 more doses of the vaccine in the first week of June.Left with nearly 6,000 doses for the 18-44 age group, which will last till June 4, the UT Administration will receive 36,000 doses while the remaining 24,000 doses will reach three private hospitals.The UT had to stop booking slots for vaccination for beneficiaries in this age group after June 4 for want of the vaccine.Total inoculation in city so farSo far, 27,986 persons have been administered the first dose in the 18-44 age group and eight the second doseIn the 45-60 age group, 1,04,769 have got their first dose and 13,143 the second doseAs many as 75,208 senior citizens have got the first dose and 33,140 the second doseA total of 3,29,583 persons, including healthcare and frontline workers, have been inoculated in the cityEarlier, the UT Administration had announced opening up to 4,000 slots a day for the 18-44 age group. However, bookings could not be made beyond a day after the announcement when over 3,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated. The decision was later withdrawn due to shortage of vaccines.Now, the UT will open slots only when new doses will arrive. The average number of 18 plus beneficiaries vaccinated daily is over 1,500 now.Allow use of 45+ jab quota for 18+, says UT The Chandigarh Administration has requested the Centre to reallocate at least 20,000 doses for the 18-44 age group from the vaccine quota of the 45 plus age group.An official said even after getting an additional supply of 36,000 vaccines, it would not be sufficient for the 18 plusage group.Initially, the Administration had sought 1 lakh doses for the 18 plus age group, but it got 33,000. In the second lot, the UT was allotted 33,000 more Covid vaccines for the 18-44 age group.The UT had asked the Centre for reallocation of the quota vaccine earlier too, but it was turned down, said the official.An official said, “Nearly 3,20,000 persons in the 18-44 age group are yet to be vaccinated. We are getting the vaccine in a staggered manner for this group. So, the time required to vaccinate all of them will depend on the supply of vaccine by the manufacturers. We are getting about 36,000 doses very shortly and three private hospitals are also likely to get about 24,000 doses soon.”Meanwhile, the UT has enough doses for the 45 plus category. Nearly 85,000 doses are still available with the UT for this age group. “The stock is sufficient for at least a month and a half, considering the trend of utilisation of the vaccine,” said the official.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT, said, “About 2.4 lakh persons have been administered the first dose of the vaccine. There are 6,31,338 persons aged 18 or above, according to the updated voters’ list,” he said, adding that only about 62,500 persons were left for vaccination in the 45 plus age group, considering their number as per the voters’ list. “There is no shortage of vaccine for this category and their vaccination can be completed in 10 days if the remaining beneficiaries turn up to take the shot,” he said.Gupta said a private hospital, Chaitanya Hospital, was expected to start vaccination in the first week of June and the other two, Bedi Hospital and Global Hospital, in the second week of the next month.Fortis Consultation Centre in Sector 11 was also considering starting vaccination shortly, he added.So far, 27,986 persons have been administered the first dose in the 18-44 age group and eight beneficiaries have received the second dose too. In the 45-60 age group, 1,04,769 have got their first dose, while 13,143 have got their second dose as well. Similarly, 75,208 senior citizens have been administered the first dose and 33,140 the second dose.A total of 3,29,583 persons, including healthcare and frontline workers, have been inoculated in the city. Around 70 per cent of the healthcare workers and 74 per cent of the frontline workers have been vaccinated so far.The wastage of vaccine has been only 0.9 per cent.Private hospitals to administer jab tooHow many still to be vaccinated||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coming-60-000-doses-for-18-in-chandigarh-259483
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC orders uniform rates for various Covid tests in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday ordered for having uniform rates for various Covid-19 tests, including the Rapid Antigen Tests and RT-PCR, in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The court’s directives came during a video conference hearing by a Bench of justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh on the Covid-19 situation in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The Bench gave its directions noting that though the respective governments have been taking “appropriate measures” to manage the pandemic, certain issues need its intervention.“We direct as hereunder: the rates for RAT and RT-PCR tests in the two states and the Union territory need to be uniform,” said the Bench, noting sharp differences in prices in the two states.“We feel that the state of Haryana and the UT of Chandigarh need to reconsider the rates prescribed and act accordingly,” noting the lower prices prescribed by the Punjab government for the purpose.Taking note of the Chandigarh administration reducing the HRCT (high-resolution CT-chest) to Rs 1,800 in the Union territory, the Bench said Punjab and Haryana too should ask private diagnostic centres in their areas to reduce the HRCT rates.Pointing out that patients’ relatives cannot be left to their plight in the absence of information about their medical conditions, the Bench also emphasised the need for having ‘ICU Control Rooms’ in hospitals.Senior Counsel Anupam Gupta had earlier raised the issue of the need of the patients and their relatives staying in touch with each other and pointed to the Bench that PGIMER, Chandigarh, had set up such ICU Control Room.Endorsing Gupta’s argument, the Bench asked the two states and the UT to set up similar control rooms in all hospitals to ensure that the patients and their relatives stay in touch with each other and people remain aware of their patients’ health conditions.The Bench also touched upon the issue of overcharging by private hospitals in the treatment and asked authorities to keep a report of their probe into the complaints of overcharging ready to be submitted to the court as and when they are sought by it to examine if they require court’s action.The court was also apprised by the two states regarding black fungus cases. The court felt that guidelines issued by the Centre for screening, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis be examined by the two states and the UT and necessary steps be taken.Senior advocate Rupinder Khosla, who was appointed amicus curiae by the court, had earlier raised various issues including those of overcharging patients for their treatment by private hospitals, high costs for CT scan, HRCT (Chest), the regulatory mechanism for various rates to be charged by laboratories.UT’s counsel earlier informed the court that in pursuance of its orders, the HRCT rate for private diagnostic centres in Chandigarh has been fixed at Rs 1,800 while the RT-PCR and RAT test rates have been fixed at Rs 900 and Rs 500 respectively. Haryana Advocate General Baldev Raj Mahajan earlier told the court that private diagnostic centres in the state charge Rs 2,100 for HRCT, while his Punjab counterpart Atul Nanda said his state government has stipulated that private labs would not charge more than Rs 350 for the Rapid Antigen Test and Rs 450 for the RT-PCR test.Before fixing June 28 as the next date of hearing the issue, the Bench said, “Lastly this court shall be failing in its duty if it does not recognise the work done by front line workers who have rendered their services in this need of the hour.“At the same time, those who shirk their duties in these difficult times, their particulars shall be furnished to the nodal agencies formed to deal with crises created by Covid-19 which this court shall examine at an appropriate stage.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-orders-uniform-rates-for-various-covid-tests-in-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-259361
