30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh recorded 182 new Covid-19 cases, five deaths||Chandigarh recorded 182 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths, a new health bulletin from the Chandigarh Administration said on Sunday.The UT now has 2,134 active cases. The bulletins said 3,262 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.Chandigarh’s fatality count now stands at 745.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-recorded-182-new-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-260754
30-05-2021||New Delhi||Gusty winds, lightning likely in Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh||Thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds reaching 40-50 kmph is very likely at isolated places in Delhi, Haryana and Chandigarh on Sunday, the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Meanwhile, heavy storm and rain lashed Gurugram on Sunday afternoon.Lightning and gusty winds reaching 30-40 kmph are also expected at isolated places in Uttarakhand, North Punjab, East and West Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Konkan, Goa, Telangana, Kerala and Mahe.Similar weather conditions are also expected at isolated places in Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalaseema, Karnataka,  Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and Lakshadweep during the day.The IMD also predicted heat wave conditions in isolated pockets ofWest Rajasthan, while heavy rainfall at isolated places in Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya, Kerala and Mahe.Squally weather (wind speed 40-50 kmph) very likely over Eastcentral and Southwest Arabian Sea, Fishermen are advised not to venture into areas in Arabian Sea off Kerala coast. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gusty-winds-lightning-likely-in-delhi-haryana-chandigarh-260743
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Estate Office to resume public dealing as Covid cases dip||The Chandigarh Estate Office will resume public dealing given the decreasing number of Covid cases, the department said in a statement on Sunday.Residents can take an online appointment through Admser.chd.nic.in/estateoffice.apt"Therefore, the general public is informed that the appointments already booked upto 31/5/2021 shall stand cancelled in order to avoid gathering in the office premises.For fresh appointments, the link is Admser.chd.nic.in/estateoffice.apt. The portal for booking of online appointment shall be functional w.e.f. 30/5/2021 10.00 AM onwards. No person shall be entertained without online appointment. All visitors shall have to follow the necessary COVID-19 protocol," the statement said,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-estate-office-to-resume-public-dealing-as-covid-cases-dip-260724
30-05-2021||---||Delhi Development Authority told to refund cost of flat to Chandigarh resident||Chandigarh, May 29The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to refund Rs 60,94,941 to a city resident with interest.The commission also directed the DDA to pay a compensation of Rs 1.50 lakh to the complainant for mental agony and Rs33,000 for the cost of litigation.A city resident had approached the commission after the DDA failed to deliver him the flat with all facilities as promised.The complainant said the block in which he had been allotted the flat was not in inhabitable condition. The DDA denied all claims made by the complainant.After hearings the arguments, the commission found the DDA guilty of deficiency of services and directed it to refund the deposited amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-development-authority-told-to-refund-cost-of-flat-to-chandigarh-resident-260577
30-05-2021||Our Correspondent||SAD supporters join Congress in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 29The SAD (B) suffered a major setback after a large number of supporter families from Chunni Majra in the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency joined the Congress under the leadership of Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra.Residents are reportedly impressed over the all-round development of the constituency in rural and urban areas by the MLA. They said even the critics of the MLA admitted that the area had witnessed development.Welcoming the families into the Congress party, MLA Nagra said the leaders who joined the party would be accorded full respect in the party and their presence would further strengthen the party and make the Fatehgarh Sahib team stronger. He assured them to continue to initiate the development of Fatehgarh Sahib with utmost sincerity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-supporters-join-congress-in-fatehgarh-sahib-260575
30-05-2021||---||Webinar on pharma production||Chandigarh, May 29The Indian Pharmaceutical Association (IPA), Panjab branch, in association with the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and DST funded Technology Enabling Centre, Panjab University, organised a webinar on “Pharmaceutical Production Excellence in Regulatory Scenario”.Prof OP Katare, president, IPA, Punjab branch, emphasised the need for quality production of drugs under high pressure global regulations.Prof VR Sinha, Dean University Instruction, highlighted India’s contribution to the global generics.Prof Sinha stressed upon the immense opportunity for India to take a leapfrog using the impetus provided by Covid-19 and play the role of “pharmacy of the world”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-pharma-production-260573
30-05-2021||---||Two AFPI alumni commissioned as officers, 16 others pass out from NDA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29Two alumni of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, were commissioned as officers in the armed forces today while 16 cadets passed out from the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Khadakvasla, Pune.Sub-Lieutenant Vishvajit Singh, who happens to be the grandson of Lt Gen Gurinder Singh, a former General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Northern Command, has been commissioned into the Navy from the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, where the passing out parade was reviewed by Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command.He had joined the fifth batch at the AFPI in 2015 and was thereafter selected for joining the NDA as part of 138th course, from where he proceeded to the Naval Academy for the final one year of training. His father, Vikram Singh, is a hotelier and mother, Man Mohinder, is a house wife.Lieutenant Barjot Singh Dhillon passed out from the Officers Training Academy, Chennai, on the completion of his training with the 111 Short Service Commission Course and has been commissioned into the Jat Regiment. The passing out parade was reviewed by Lt Gen YK Joshi, GOC-in-C, Northern Command.He had joined the AFPI in 2011 as part of the first AFPI course and hails from Patiala. His father, Kuldeep Singh, is a technician and mother, Gurpreet Kaur, is a teacher in a government school. He also has two sisters.Maj Gen BS grewal (retd), Director, AFPI, said with this, the total number of AFPI cadets commissioned as officers has gone up to 71. This number is expected to further increase on June 12, when the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, is scheduled to be held.At the NDA, as many as 16 cadets from the AFPI passed out on completion of their three-year training as part of the 140th Course. They will undergo another year of training at respective service academies that they have opted for before being commissioned as officers in the armed forces. The parade was reviewed by the Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh.So far, 162 alumni from the AFPI, which had commenced the two-year training of cadets in April 2011, have joined the NDA and other service academies from the first eight batches. Of these, 71 have already become officers and the rest are undergoing training.Currently, there are three batches at the AFPI. Cadets of the 9th batch are waiting to take their final Class XII board examinations for which dates are expected to be announced by the government soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-afpi-alumni-commissioned-as-officers-16-others-pass-out-from-nda-260570
30-05-2021||Dera Bassi||Daffarpur sans water supply for four days||The water supply to 2,500 housholds in Daffarpur, Guru Nanak Colony and parts of Mor Tikri village has been disrupted for the past four days.Residents said a tube well near Daffarpur developed a snag on May 26 after which the water supply was disrupted. Residents were agitated as officials concerned said the supply was unlikely to be restored in the next 24 hours.“It has been three days since our water supply was affected, but it has not been restored yet. People are forced to buy water through tankers. The tanker owners have also increased the rates. No one in the administration is taking any responsibility for it,” said Jaipal Singh of Daffarpur village.“Water supply department officials have stopped taking our phone calls,” said Vijay Ram, a Mor Tikri resident. Repeated phone calls to Dera Bassi SDO Karamjit Singh went unanswered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/daffarpur-sans-water-supply-for-four-days-260568
30-05-2021||---||Stray cattle a menace on Ram Darbar roads in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29Stray cattle menace has hit Ram Darbar residents hard as the local Municipal Corporation has failed to curb the problem.Area residents say a large number of stray cattle are seen near Singh Sabha Gurdwara, Phase 1. They come out the main road and pose a huge risk to commuters.“Several road accidents have taken place due to the stray cattle in the mornings. The authorities have not moved a bit. We have complained to the MC several times, but in vain,” said Anil Dadhwal, a Ram Darbar resident.The southern area has been specifically hit by the menace. A large number of cattle are seen entering from Sector 48 and moving to different areas.“It is a regular feature, but the police or the MC has not kept an eye on the person releasing the cattle at night and takes them back the next day. Only when a road accident happens, a challaning drive as a saving face exercise is carried out,” rued Mohanjit Kumar, another Ram Darbar resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-cattle-a-menace-on-ram-darbar-roads-in-chandigarh-260566
30-05-2021||---||Colleges to conduct online practical exams||Chandigarh, May 29Colleges affiliated to Panjab University will conduct online practical examinations for even semesters from June 15 to 26.“The university authorities have allowed to conduct the viva and practical exams for undergraduate, postgraduate, vocational and diploma courses, even semesters, through online mode in view of the Covid pandemic,” said a source.All PU-affiliated colleges have been given 11 days to prepare for the online examinations and submit awards (marks) on a portal, the source added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/colleges-to-conduct-online-practical-exams-260564
30-05-2021||---||Drive-in Covid testing facility inaugurated in Mohali||Mohali, May 29Additional Deputy Commissioner Aashika Jain today inaugurated the first drive-in Covid testing facility in the district. The facility will be run by a private lab.Covid testing was of vital importance, said the Additional Deputy Commissioner. People still had fear of getting infected at closed facilities, the Additional Deputy Commissioner added. “This kiosk will be useful in eradication of the disease in Mohali,” said the Additional Deputy Commissioner.She hoped that just like the drive-through vaccination centre, drive-in testing would also be appreciated by residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-in-covid-testing-facility-inaugurated-in-mohali-260562
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Online conference dwells on Covid-related mucormycosis in Chandigarh||The Department of Microbiology, Panjab University, organised an online conference on “Covid-19 associated mucormycosis — Are we doorstep away from next pandemic: Facts and myths” to spread awareness among people about the disease.The webinar was coordinated by Khem Raj Thakur, Assistant Professor, Department of Microbiology, PU. Chairman and organising secretary Dr Deepak K Rahi gave a brief overview of the programme and discussed how Covid-19 had become an unsolved puzzle, which was getting more complex with the advent of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus.Prof VR Sinha, Dean University Instructions, briefed on the post-Covid complications.The conference was divided into three technical sessions. The first session chaired by Prof Vijay Prabha, Department of Microbiology, was dedicated to a talk by Dr Nipun Silawat on ‘Mucormycosis and its biology’. Dr Nipun Silawat, Principal Scientist, MP Council of Science and Technology, Bhopal, highlighted that mucormycosis was not a new disease.The second technical session chaired by Prof Praveen Rishi, Department of Microbiology, PU, was devoted to “Epidemiology, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis in light of Covid-19 Pandemic”. Dr Shivaprakash M Rudramurthy, Senior Professor, Department of Medical Microbiology, PGIMER, explained complications associated with Covid and discussed its epidemiology associated mucormycosis.In the third technical session, chaired by Prof Kusum Harjai from Department of Microbiology, PU. Dr Manpreet Dhaliwal, DHR Women Scientist, Advanced Pediatrics Centre, PGIMER, delivered a talk on “Host-pathogen Interplay in mucormycosis”. Dr Dhaliwal discussed how closely mucormycosis was related to diabetes in India.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-conference-dwells-on-covid-related-mucormycosis-in-chandigarh-260560
30-05-2021||Mohali||Patwaris, kanungos protest in Mohali||The Revenue Patwar Union, the Revenue Kanungo Association and patwaris and kanungos of Mohali district protested against the alleged violation of their rights here today. The protest was held under the leadership of Ajit Singh, district president, Kanungo Association, and Jasvir Singh Dhaliwal, district president, Patwar Union.Earlier, patwaris and kanungos had gone on a pen down strike on May 6, 7, 12 and 13. There is a difference in the pay scale of patwaris recruited in 1966. Permission should be granted for sanctioning one post of field kanungo against seven patwari circles, said protesters. Patwaris should be give laptops, they added.Shri Madhurinder Rao Gautam, district general secretary, emphasised that the amendment, which was made for including 18 months training period in their probation, was not implemented by the department. Due to this reason patwaris, who were recruited in 2016, had probation period of four years and five months, he added. They were forced to work on the consolidated pay of Rs10,000, he said. This probation period was long and doesn’t match with any other department in Punjab, he added.Jasvir Dhaliwal said that if the government did not take steps to resolve their issues they would continue their protest. Jasvir Singh Khera, Jagpreet Singh Kanungo, Madhurinder Rao Gautam, Gurjeet Singh, Sohan Singh, Gurjant Singh and Satpal Kamboj were present during protest.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patwaris-kanungos-protest-in-mohali-260558
30-05-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Decision on opening Panjab University libraries after nod from Chandigarh administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29The Panjab University (PU) authorities will wait for the next set of guidelines from the UT Administration before taking any decision on the opening of the AC Joshi Library and other departments on the campus.Panjab University OfficialTo avoid any kind of protest, the decision on reopening of libraries will be taken in accordance with the UT Administration guidelines.Sources said after failing to evacuate hostels, the PU authorities were in no mood to take a step in haste.The authorities had closed the AC Joshi Library till May 31 following the UT Administration’s orders.Earlier, research scholars of the PU, with the active support from various students’ organisations, had protested the closure of libraries.“Amid the rising cases of Covid-19, the university authorities had decided to close the libraries till March 31. The decision was pulled back following protests by students. Later, in pursuance to the UT Administration order (on May 7), issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the authorities closed the library till May 31,” said an official.“To avoid any kind of protest, the decision on reopening of libraries will be taken in accordance with the UT Administration guidelines,” the official added.Meanwhile, the UT Administration is likely to extend partial lockdown restrictions by two weeks.“We will comply with the UT Administration’s order. Not only this library, but all other libraries, departments and other facilities are also shut. Students are well aware about the situation and understand the impact of the pandemic,” said another official.As per the directive, the Panjab University authorities had decided that AC Joshi Library, departmental libraries, laboratories, swimming pool, play grounds and other facilities on the university campus will remain closed till May 31.However, the online teaching was allowed to continue with staggered presence of staff as already notified by the PU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decision-on-opening-panjab-university-libraries-after-nod-from-chandigarh-administration-260557
30-05-2021||---||BJP organises blood donation camp at five places in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 29The Chandigarh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) today organised five blood donation camps in five different areas of the city.It was a part of the campaign called ‘Seva Hi Sangathan’ to mark the completion of seven years of the Modi-led government at the Centre.Party’s state general secretary Chandrashekhar said camps were organised at the Community Centre, Sector 22, Rotary Blood Bank, Sector 37, Community Centre, Sector 46, Maharaj Agrasen Bhawan, Sector 30, and Community Centre, Kishangarh village.Doctors of the PGI, GMCH-32, Rotary Blood Bank, and GMSH-16 collaborated in organising camps.Party’s state president Arun Sood, state organisation general secretary Dinesh Kumar, national executive member Sanjay Tandon and state general secretaries Chandrashekhar and Rambir Bhatti visited all camps and enscouraged people to donate blood.On the occasion five district presidents Jitendra Malhotra, Ravindra Pathania, Rajinder Sharma, Manish Bhasin and Naresh Panchal welcomed all, who arrived at camps.District office-bearers, mandal official-bearers, councillors, Yuva Morcha, Mahila Morcha, Scheduled Caste Morcha, Minority Morcha, Backward Classes Morcha, Kisan Morcha and senior workers were also present at camps.Party’s district president Ravindra Pathania and his wife Tina Pathania also donated blood and inspired people to come forward for the noble cause.While expressing gratitude to people for donating blood Arun Sood said due to the pandemic people were facing a lot of health problems. During summers, there was often shortage of blood in hospitals, he added. These camps were organised keeping in view shortage of blood, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-organises-blood-donation-camp-at-five-places-in-chandigarh-260556
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t extend Lion’s sanitation contract, demands AAP||The Chandigarh unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded that the Municipal Corporation (MC) should not extend the annual contract of Lion Services Limited for cleaning southern city roads without calling fresh tenders.“The company is paid Rs4 crore per month, which is exorbitant. Public feedback about company’s performance should be taken,” the AAP added.The AAP Chandigarh convenor, Prem Garg, demanded performance audit of the company to know how many resources were deployed by it if roads were to be washed and whether these were actually washed at the promised frequency. If so, from where and how much water was procured? said Garg.“Moreover, financial prudence demands that fresh tenders be called to allow fair competition and economy of expenditure,” Garg added.The AAP also demanded that all terms and conditions of such contracts with private contractors must be put in the public domain. This would enable citizens to give feedback on the performance of such contractors to the authorities concerned, the AAP added. The agenda regarding the sanitation contract will be tabled in Monday’s House meeting of the MC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-extend-lions-sanitation-contract-demands-aap-260554
30-05-2021||---||907 railway employees jabbed against Covid in Ambala Cantt||Chandigarh, May 29In a bid to contain the surge in Covid cases, Northern Railway, Ambala Division, organised special vaccination drive at the second class waiting hall of the Ambala Cantt railway station. The drive aimed to inoculate maximum number of eligible people at workplaces.In all, 907 staff was given Covishield vaccines at the Ambala Cantt railway station. Divisional Railway Manager GM Singh lauded the medical staff for the vaccination drive for the benefit of the staff and their families. He said the frontline staff of all departments, including coolies and vendors, working at the Ambala Cantt and nearby stations got their first dose of the vaccine.All elaborate arrangements were made at the Ambala railway station for the inoculation drive. A help desk and registration counter was also set up to enable beneficiaries register themselves for the vaccination on the occasion.Employees and their families, who were in the 18 and 45 plus age groups’ got vaccinated after registration on the CoWIN portal during the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/907-railway-employees-jabbed-against-covid-in-ambala-cantt-260552
30-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali district witnesses decline in daily Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 29In the lockdown during the past three weeks, Mohali district is witnessing downward trend in Covid cases surfacing every single day.The district has witnessed 83.14 per cent decline in positive cases during the past three weeks. The Covid cases came down to 233 today as compared to 1,383 on May 13.After the outbreak of the second Covid wave across the country Mohali district detected 254 positive cases on March 31, which gradually rose to 860 on April 15. On May 10, 1,382 Covid cases were reported, which was highest single day surge in the district. However, from then onwards the district witnessed gradual decline in positive cases. On May 17, only 889 cases were reported. Later, on May 28 the district witnessed lowest 230 cases.Sources say strict restrictions on movement during the lockdown and barring public from holding large functions, including marriages and social gatherings, led to decline in positive cases reported daily.Similarly, the recovery rate has increased by 21.61 per cent during past 18 days in the district. From 77.80 per cent, the recovery rate has gone up to 99.41 per cent. Also, there was 71 per cent decline in active cases in Mohali district. Only 3,414 active cases were reported till today as compared to 11,758 cases on May 10.On March 31, 433 Covid deaths were reported, which increased to 587 on April 29. During the corresponding period in May, the district witnessed 228.57 per cent increase in deaths as the figure went up from 595 to 947The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “We cannot judge trend of the pandemic with the number of cases going down during the past few weeks. This downward trend could be due to the lockdown and travel restrictions imposed by the state government.”“We hope that the second wave of the pandemic has achieved its peak and this downward trend will continue in the future also. People should not take decline in positive cases lightly and continue to follow Covid guidelines like wearing face mask and maintaining social distance strictly. Those suffering from mild cough, fever and sore throat should get themselves tested for Covid,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-witnesses-decline-in-daily-covid-cases-260551
30-05-2021||---||3 booked for violating Covid curfew, 64 fined in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 29The police booked three persons for violating weekend curfew while 64 were fined for not maintaining social distancing.One person was challaned for not wearing a face mask and 34 were fined or spitting in public places, said the police.A total of Rs 50,000 was collected as fine from offenders, the police added.Yesterday, police had held Kajheri resident Jagsher Chopal for violating the Covid curfew.Chopal was arrested while roaming without a valid curfew pass near KK Hotel-2 in Kajehri village, Chandigarh, said the police. However, he was later released on bail.A case under Sections 188 of the Indian Penal Code and 51(A) of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against him at the Sector 36 police station, said the police.The police also informed that Burail resident Ranjit Singh was arrested while roaming without pass/permit near the ISBT, Sector 43, during the Covid curfew on May 27. He too was later released on bail.A case under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Ranjit Singh at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-booked-for-violating-covid-curfew-64-fined-in-chandigarh-260550
30-05-2021||---||Drive-through vaccine camp in Panchkula today||Panchkula, May 29The second drive-through vaccination camp in Panchkula would be held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 on Sunday from 8 am to 5 pm.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said a maximum number of people should take the benefit of the drive.Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, Deputy Commissioner, PanchkulaAll persons above 18 years will be eligible to get the vaccine during the programme. People will not be vaccinated on an empty stomach.“All the persons above 18 years will be eligible to get the vaccine during the programme,” said Ahuja.He also urged the people to come for vaccination after having proper breakfast. “People will not be vaccinated on an empty stomach,” he said.The DC said a team comprising Dr Vikas, Dr Anuj, Dr Bhawna and Dr Sanju would ensure verification of people at the vaccination site.Besides this, duties have been assigned to the officials from different departments for the success of the event, he said.“Assistant Commissioner of Police Ramesh Gulia will ensure the smooth movement of vehicles at the entry and exit gates of the stadium,” Ahuja informed.He said the police team would also check the registration of the beneficiaries before allowing them into to the stadium.He advised people to register for the vaccination before coming to the venue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-through-vaccine-camp-in-panchkula-today-260549
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh stable, wife under observation||Counselling for MBA admissionChandigarh: The University Business School (UBS), Panjab University, will conduct counselling-cum-admission session through online mode on Google Meet for MBA programme (s) for the 2021-22 academic session. The counselling will be held as per the provisional merit list displayed on the UBS website on June 2 for general category and on June 3 for all reserved categories (except sports). TNSCovid helpline launchedChandigarh: Bhavans Old Students’ Society (BOSS), the alumni arm of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, under the supervision of school Senior Principal Vineeta Arora has launched a Covid helpline to enable people of the tricity find essential coronavirus-specific medical supplies. The service helps callers procure medicines, food, injection, oxygen cylinders and other essential supplies. TNSMan held with illicit liquorChandigarh: Hallo Majra resident Paryanshu was allegedly arrested with 240 bottles of illicit liquor near the Zirakpur barrier, Raipur Khurd, on Friday. The police said a case under Section of 61-1-14 of the Excise Act had been registered. TNSHonour for late SSGI ChairmanMohali: Prof Avtar Singh, founder-chairman of the SSGI, was awarded with 'Lifetime Achievement Award' (posthumously) for his contributions to the field of higher education by the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC). TNSCurbs imposed in 10 more UT areasChandigarh: The UT on Saturday declared 10 more micro-containment zones in the city. The affected areas are parts of Sector 21, 28, 41, 46 and 49, Pipliwala Town and Modern Housing Complex in Mani Majra, Raipur Khurd and Mauli Complex. TNSTwo POs land in police netMohali: The Mataur police nabbed two proclaimed offenders, Raju, absconding since August 2011, and Ram Chander, wanted since December 2014, in theft cases. The police said Raju was nabbed from Phase 6 while Ram Chander was arrested from near Phase 3A on Saturday. TNSTandon attends bcci meetingChandigarh: The BCCI on Saturday announced to hold the remaining matches of the 2021 IPL season in the UAE. The matches will be held during September-October this year. During an online special general meeting (SGM) convened by the BCCI, UT Cricket Association chief Sanjay Tandon, along with the members of other state boards, agreed to streamline the IPL 2021. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-stable-wife-under-observation-260546
30-05-2021||Panchkula||3 of family take loan on fake gold, held in Pinjore||The Pinjore police have arrested three members of a family, including a woman, for defrauding a bank by taking a gold loan of Rs1.58 lakh by giving fake yellow metal.The accused have been identified as Seema Bansal, her husband Purshotam Bansal and Vishal Bansal, residents of Sukhomajri village in Pinjore.On May 20, the police had arrested Manjit Kaur (40), a resident of Pinjore, in this case. During investigation, Manjit revealed the names of the trio. She was later sent to judicial custody.In his complaint to the police, Saurabh Jain, branch manager of Federal Bank, Kalka, stated that the woman applied for a gold loan on May 21. They got suspicious about the gold and asked the valuer of M/s Sai Jewellers, Kalka, to visit the bank to check it. He said the valuer found the ornaments, including a bangle and two chains, fake.Jain said the woman had also taken a loan of Rs1.58 lakh on March 27, 2021, by depositing two gold bangles, weighing 53.3 grams, which were also found to be fake.During investigation, the woman told the police that the fake gold belonged to Seema Bansal, her husband and son Vishal, who had asked her to take the loan from the bank by depositing it.A case under Sections 420, 468, 511 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against Manjit Kaur and other three accused. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-of-family-take-loan-on-fake-gold-held-in-pinjore-260543
30-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||Woman officer from Mohali shines at OTA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29A newly commissioned woman lieutenant from Mohali has stood third in the overall order of merit in her course which passed out from the Officers Training Academy (OTA), Chennai, today.Lieutenant Mani Mehtab Dhaliwal was awarded the bronze medal at the passing out parade that was reviewed by Lt Gen YK Joshi, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Northern Command.She has been commissioned into the Corps of Signals. According to OTA sources, Mani had excelled in marksmanship, cross-country and sports during the training period. In the academy, she held the appointment of Battalion Cadet Adjutant.Earlier, she had stood second in the order of merit among women candidates in the Combined Defence Services Examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission for entrance in the OTA.She has studied in Chandigarh and represented her school as well as Panjab University in a number of state and national-level swimming championships, winning several medals.She is among the seven cadets from the tricity who became Army officers today. The others are Mantash Singh, Amarbir Singh Bajwa, Sahiljeet Mann, Pooja, Aneesha Mann and Saloni Kasana.A total of 167 gentleman cadets of the 111th Short Service Commission Course and 31 woman cadets of the 25th Short Service Commission (Women) Course were commissioned into the Indian Amy today in addition to five gentleman cadets and seven woman cadets from Bhutan.The Sword of Honour and Gold Medal for standing overall first in the order of merit was bagged by Lt Abdesh Katoch from Palampur in Himachal, who has been commissioned into the Armoured Corps. The Silver Medal for standing second went to Adarsh Pratap Singh from Allahabad who has been commissioned into the Rajputana Rifles.The parents of the cadets were not able to attend the event because of restrictions imposed due to the pandemic and the ceremony was live streamed on the social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-officer-from-mohali-shines-at-ota-260542
30-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||Congress leaders write against Pradeep Chhabra||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29In a fresh trouble for the city Congress, around 25 Congress executive members and councillors have signed a letter being sent to party in-charge Harish Rawat against their previous chief and former Mayor Pradeep Chhabra.Pradeep Chhabra, former Mayor‘Launched forum to raise people’s voice’I had floated a non-political forum only to raise people's voice as I was not being invited to the party meetings.The letter is reportedly being signed at the behest of a “senior Chandigarh Congress leader.” In the letter, the issue of “indiscipline” by the ex-party president has been raised.“By now, 25 executive members and councillors have signed this letter. The letter, at present, is with current party president Subhash Chawla and may be sent to the in-charge today or tomorrow,” said a leader who signed the letter.Sources said it has been stated in the letter that Chhabra has floated his own forum, Chandigarh Progressive Front. He has allegedly been involved in anti-party activities.It has been further alleged the three-time Congress councillor has been posting anti-party posts on the social media through his close associates. He has also been speaking against party leaders in the media.When contacted, Chhabra said: “Yes, I have also come to know about this letter. Some of those who signed or did not sign the letter admitted this with me. The copy has alleged indiscipline by me as a reason to sack me from the party.”“It is unfortunate that after spending 35 years in the party starting from the NSUI, Youth Congress and the Chandigarh Pradesh Congress, such steps are being taken against me. I had floated a non-political forum only to raise people’s voice as I was not being invited to the party meetings.”However, the incumbent party president Chawla denied any such development happened in the party. “No such letter signed by the party men has been prepared and also there is no plan to remove him from the party as being rumoured around,” he told Chandigarh Tribune.Since the time Chhabra was replaced with Chawla in February, things have not been smooth between the two. Ahead of the MC elections this year-end, the infighting between the top leaders may dent the party’s poll prospects, which has only five councillors in the 26-elected councillors’ House of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leaders-write-against-pradeep-chhabra-260541
30-05-2021||Panchkula||Panel to check Covid bills by private hospitals in Panchkula||Concerned over the complaints of overcharging by private hospitals for Covid treatment, the administration has constituted a nine-member committee to check the bills. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said it had been constituted as per the instructions of the Additional Chief Secretary, Health.Ahuja said the committee included ADC Mohammad Imran Raza, DETC Sales Sanjeev Rathi, IMA president Rajiv Arya or his nominated representative, Deputy Civil Surgeon Rajiv Narwal, SMO Anjela Dhingra, SDS Shivani Hudda, RMO Archana Aggarwal, AO Zila Parishad Narender Kandola and volunteer BB Singhal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-to-check-covid-bills-by-private-hospitals-in-panchkula-260539
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Five fatalities, 163 more infected in Chandigarh||Mohali sees 5 deaths, 233 fresh casesMohali: Five more persons died of Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, 233 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced till Saturday evening. As many as 617 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. The death count shared by private hospitals on Saturday added 11 more fatalities to the toll. The total number of deaths rose to 947. TNSFour succumb, 71 test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: Four more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 341. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said a 67-year-old man of Kalka, a 48-year-old man of Sector 9, a 68-year-old woman of Raipur Rani and a 54-year-old woman of Sector 17 succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, 71 persons were found infected with the virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-five-fatalities-163-more-infected-in-chandigarh-260538
30-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Over 40 govt school students in  Chandigarh lost either parent to Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29More than 40 children studying in UT government schools lost either of their parents to Covid-19.The city has so far witnessed 262 deaths in the month of May. A total of 740 persons have succumbed to the virus in the city since the beginning of the pandemic.A schoolteacherA tale of woeI had visited a family. A father of two had died of a heart attack and tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously. He had purchased a tempo on loan. We told his children that we will pay their school fee.A government schoolteacher, who went to visit a Covid-affected family, said: “I visited a family in which a father of two succumbed to Covid. He died of a heart attack and tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously. He had purchased a tempo on loan. The family’s source of income is now affected. We counselled both children, who study in Class 10, that we will pay their fees.”The Apex Court had recently ordered the authorities across the country to immediately fan out and identify the children who were orphaned by Covid and were in need of care, and provide them with basic needs such as food, shelter and clothes.Consequently, the UT Education Department asked schoolteachers to visit the homes of the affected students and take their details.“We are just collecting realistic data about such children as of now. We will examine a proposal by weekend,” said an official of the UT Education Department.The Government of India has also proposed financial assistance for Covid-affected children. Under the PM Cares for Children, such children will get a monthly stipend once they turn 18 and a fund of Rs10 lakh when they turn 23.As per the latest announcement of the Central Government, free education is to be ensured for children who lost their parents to Covid. The children will be assisted in getting an education loan for higher education and PM Cares will pay interest on the loan.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said a decision on assistance for such children would be taken in the war-room meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-40-govt-school-students-in-chandigarh-lost-either-parent-to-covid-260536
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||16-year-old lends a helping hand||With oxygen shortage a reality in many parts of the country, 16-year-old Garv Singh Khurana, a resident of the city, took it upon himself to arrange oxygen concentrators for those in urgent need. “We set up a fundraiser over 10 days ago,” shares Garv, who is behind the OxygenAid initiative. As many as 11 oxygen concentrators have been procured and the goal is of getting 100 concentrators. “I go and drop concentrators at home for Covid-19 patients as they cannot step out.” On being asked what encouraged him to take up the initiative, Garv says: “The past month, I have been inundated with stories of Covid-19 patients gasping for oxygen. So, I started OxygenAid, to raise money and lend oxygen concentrators to those who cannot afford one. We all need help and we need it now.” The patients can contact at phone numbers: 7341191183, 9910417197 and 9811198762. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-year-old-lends-a-helping-hand-260535
30-05-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||PGI, Chandigarh to carry out sero survey in city soon, awaits Administration nod||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29To detect the prevalence of Covid-19 among residents, the PGI will soon carry out a sero survey in Chandigarh.Recently, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had stated that permission would be given to the PGI to carry out the survey in the city to know the level of infection among the local populace.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIWhat PGI Director saysThe survey will find out how many people from the general population (those vaccinated or infected) have developed antibodies. On starting the survey in the city, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “Once we receive a formal approval from the UT Administration, we will start the project”.On benefits of the survey, he said: “The survey will be carried out to find out that how many people from the general population (those vaccinated or those infected with the virus or those asymptomatic) have developed antibodies. It will also reveal whether herd immunity has been achieved or not.”It would also help us in postulating the magnitude of the third wave, he said, adding that the survey, once started, would take two and a half to three months and the sample would be collected from city residents.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said a formal approval to conduct sero survey in the city would be granted to the PGI on Monday so that it could be started at the earliest.Experts said the sero survey aimed at identifying the sero prevalence of Covid-19 at the community level and monitoring the transmission trends. The survey will reveal antibodies developed against the virus in the samples tested amongst a sizeable population of the city.What is sero survey?Sero survey examines how many people in a population have been infected with Covid-19 and recovered from it. It is done to identify the prevalence of the virus in a particular area. The survey is conducted by using an antibody test, also known as a serology test. It examines if an individual’s immune system has responded to the infection. It is important to carry out the survey to know the prevalence of the disease in the population as only cases reported to the authorities are known. But, there are several cases that don’t come to the notice for various reasons such as asymptomatic or people didn’t report. So, the sero survey gives a rough idea of the population exposed to the virus. The sero survey also helps in knowing what percentage of a population has developed immunity against virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-to-carry-out-sero-survey-in-city-soon-awaits-administration-nod-260534
