31-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 124 new Covid-19 cases as total crosses 60,000||Chandigarh on Monday reported 124 fresh cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of cases past 60,000 and eight deaths due to the virus.Of the eight new deaths, three patients were brought dead to the hospital as per the bulletin.The total number of cases in the city reached 60,046 of which 1,767 are active cases.The death toll in the city reached 753.A total of 483 patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-124-new-covid-19-cases-as-total-crosses-60-000-261256
31-05-2021||Mohali||Housing department halves non-construction penalty||Punjab’s Department of Housing and Urban Development has announced it would halve its non-construction penalty—a move it hopes would encourage people to begin construction on their plots.A non-construction charge is a penalty charged by housing authorities for not starting construction on plots developed by government and development authorities within a specified period.The department also replaced its previous half-yearly method of calculating these penalties with a monthly one. It hopes these new changes would encourage people who were forced to sell their properties because of the high penalties to begin construction.These new changes are applicable to plots of residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial nature as well as to housing societies and private builders.  A spokesperson from the department said an amendment was made in the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act, 1995.Owners of residential and other properties must pay the penalty on the prevalent reserve price of plots or sites in the vicinity without any interest. For commercial sites, however, this penalty would be charged on the basis of the auctioned or the allotment price.Any delayed payment would attract compounded interest at 7 per cent per annum. The new penalties will come into force retrospectively from April 16, 2021. Old charges will continue to apply before this date, the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/housing-department-halves-non-construction-penalty-261236
31-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Railon murder case cracked in 4 hrs||The Bassi Pathana police today claimed to have solved the murder of Railon village resident within four hours and arrested his neighbour, who tried to pass off the crime as suicide. Addressing mediapersons, Sukhminder Singh Chauhan, DSP, Bassi Pathana, and Manpreet Singh, SHO, said Satnam Kaur of Railon village lodged a report with the police that her husband, Amrik Singh, had committed suicide by hanging himself from a fan. The DSP said the police examined the body and found two types of sign, one of the hanging and the other “u-shaped” one, which indicated strangulation.  The police suspected that the victim’s immediate neighbour, Hari Ram, might be involved in the crime. The police grilled him and he admitted that he had murdered Amrik and hanged his body from a ceiling fan to pass it off as suicide. Hari Ram said he murdered Amrik as he kept a bad eye on his wife. The police registered a case and arrested the killer.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railon-murder-case-cracked-in-4-hrs-260775
31-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Vax rates vary at tricity pvt hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 30With no capping on the price of Covid-19 vaccines by the Central Government, there is no uniformity in the amount charged from beneficiaries by private healthcare institutions in the tricity.While Covishield is being bought from the Serum Institute of India (SII) at Rs600, it is being administered to people for Rs850-Rs900 per dose (Rs300 extra from the selling price) at private hospitals here.Covaxin is being administered at Rs1,250 per dose here, whereas the selling price from the manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, is Rs1,200.How much is charged and whereAs per the rates displayed on the CoWIN portal, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, is charging Rs850 per dose for Covishield, while Max Medcentre and Cloudnine Hospital, Industrial Area, Chandigarh, are charging Rs900 each per dose.Fortis Hospital, Mohali, is charging Rs1,250 per dose for Covaxin, whereas Matsya Hospital, Zirakpur, is charging Rs1,200 for Covishield.Max Hospital charges Rs900 per dose for walk-in with appointment through CoWIN portal and Rs1,100 per dose for onsite in societies and RWAs.RS Bedi, past president, IMA, Chandigarh, said: “Private hospitals are being provided vaccines including 5 per cent GST cost. There are administering charges, cold chain maintenance, wastages, staff cost and reasonable profit cost. Another way is to put it on MRP, which will cover the purchase cost and other costs, plus administering charges to unify the rates.”During the earlier phase of vaccination, the Government of India had capped Rs100 as service charges. At that time, Rs250 was the ceiling - Rs150 per dose of vaccine and Rs100 as service charge. However, no such capping exists now after the vaccination was made open for all.This has led to vaccine inequity as people who cannot afford Covid vaccines at private hospitals are left in the lurch due to poor supply in government hospitals. Due to the poor supply of vaccines with state governments, the momentum of vaccination for 18 plus category has not picked up the pace. Chandigarh, for instance, has halted the booking of slots till new doses are received.It is pertinent to mention here that the SII has reserved its 50 per cent capacity for state and private hospitals, while Bharat Biotech has reserved more than 50 per cent of its capacity for the Central Government.Chandrakant Lahariya, who is an expert in vaccine and public policy, said: “The liberalised vaccine policy of India has resulted in a situation where the rich have access to 25 per cent of the total vaccine supply and the rest have to scramble for the leftover. The approach of sale of vaccines to private sectors on quota system needs to be revisited till there is a sufficient supply in the country. There should be a single vaccine price for all sectors – Union, state and private. Then, capping makes sense.”“This time, the prices were negotiated by the government for both vaccines. Once we have more indigenous manufacturing, then it will be more competitive and the prices will come down,” said Dr Suneela Garg, member, Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force.“We are charging Rs1,250 per dose for Covaxin, which includes 5 per cent GST on Rs1,000 making it Rs1,050 (landed cost) plus service charge, which makes it Rs1,250. For Covishield, we are charging Rs850 per dose, which includes 5 per cent GST on Rs600 making it Rs630 (landed cost). With service charge, it comes to Rs850,” said a spokesperson for Fortis Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vax-rates-vary-at-tricity-pvt-hospitals-260776
31-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Four-laning of Pinjore-Baddi Highway to see light of day||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 30Four-laning of the 36-km-long Pinjore-Baddi Highway announced by the Central Government in 2014 is likely to see the light of the day as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will float tenders for the project soon.The cost of the project has now increased from Rs510 crore to Rs731.67 crore and it will be completed in two and a half years. The project is likely to start in the month of August and the new road will give respite from traffic woes to lakhs of people of Himachal Pradesh as well as Haryana who visit the industrial town of Baddi.This information was disclosed by Suresh Kumar Sharma, project director of the Shimla unit of the NHAI, to a RTI filed by advocate Vijay Bansal, president of the Shivalik Vikas Manch. He said the tender process had been started by the main office of the NHAI in New Delhi and the project was proposed to be completed in 30 months.It is pertinent to mention here that Vijay Bansal had been pressing hard for starting the project and had even written to Central ministers and the Haryana Chief Minister.Bansal said he had submitted a memorandum to the Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Nitin Gadkari, on June 5, 2020, demanding the four-laning of the Pinjore-Baddi Highway. He said at the present, the road was in a deteriorated condition and it takes hours for motorists to cross the 36-km stretch. He said due to heavy rush on the road, several lives have also been lost on the road.Bansal said the four-laning of the road from Pinjore to Swarghat in Himachal Pradesh was approved by the Central Government and the road was to be widened up to 45 meters. A total of 54.9 hectares of land was to be acquired by the government. Of this, 28 hectares of land was to be provided by Himachal Pradesh. About 16 small and five large bridges were proposed to be constructed on the 36-km stretch. There are about 2,500 companies in the Baddi and Nalagarh areas of Himachal Pradesh and more than 35,000 vehicles, including staff buses of the companies, ply on this road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-laning-of-pinjore-baddi-highway-to-see-light-of-day-260777
31-05-2021||---||Justice Chauhan given warm send-off||Chandigarh, May 30When Justice Jitendra Chauhan of the Punjab and Haryana High Court upheld the conviction of Haryana’s former top cop SPS Rathore in the infamous molestation case, his judgment was dubbed as path-breaking. Among other things, Justice Chauhan held momentary lapse of morality “shuts down the reasoning ability of a man” and the “consequences are disastrous”.This was not the only verdict that brought Justice Chauhan extolment. Justice Chauhan’s ruling that a husband cannot compel his wife to conceive and give birth to his child — delivered about nine years ago — was lauded as one of the most progressive judgments and was reported nationally and internationally. In one of the cases, Rs15 lakh deposited with the Bar Association Advocates’ Welfare Fund on Justice Chauhan’s order was utilised for the welfare of its Class IV employees.During his tenure of nearly 13 years, Justice Chauhan delivered more than 31,000 substantive judgments and trudged the hitherto unexplored grounds of law meandering through technicalities. The judgments Justice Chauhan came out with laid down the path for new interpretations and analysis.His immense contribution to the law emerges not only from the pages of his judgments, but also from his out-of-the court activities and behind-the-scenes work in encouraging egalitarianism and diversity across a range of ideas and opinions.Born on June 6, 1959, and elevated as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in July 2008, Justice Chauhan is retiring on June 5. He was given a warm send-off on his last working day on Friday. The pandemic may have succeed in masking up to a certain extent the usual celebrations by the Bar and the Bench associated with the retirement of a Judge, but Justice Chauhan’s work evoked words of appreciation from the lawyers as they bid him adieu despite the lockdown.Those who have appeared in his court say Justice Chauhan will be remembered for his “watchful progression of the law in a way that synchronises with the fundamental objectives of the legislation”.His ability to take a drone-like outlook, analysing the legal background from a height and pulling incongruent and distinct threads together before summarising what the law is and what it should be will always be valued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/justice-chauhan-given-warm-send-off-260778
31-05-2021||---||Water woes for Baltana residents||Zirakpur, May 30Residents of Shagun Enclave, Ward No. 7, and nearby areas in Baltana complained that they are facing acute water shortage for the past one week. They alleged that the MC disconnected the water supply after Neha Sharma, Congress councillor from Ward No. 5, intervened to ensure uninterrupted supply to her ward as the pipeline for Ward No. 7 was “illegally” drawing water from their share.“They took connection from the Wadhwa Nagar tube well without taking permission from the MC. They are not paying any fee to the MC. They may be facing problem, but residents of Ward No. 7 are suffering too,” Neha said.“NK Sharma claims to have built Baltana from scratch. It is his own doing for which people are suffering,” she said.Municipal Engineer Mukesh Rai said no permission was sought for the connection from the Municipal Council.SAD leader and Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma today met Shagun Enclave residents and alleged that Congress councillors were depriving them of basic amenities.“Till colony residents get water supply, it will be supplied to them through private tankers and I will bear the entire cost,” he said.SAD councillors claimed that a tube well each in Ward No. 19 and Ward No. 20 and two in Ward No. 21 were installed last year, but these were deliberately not being made functional due to political interference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-woes-for-baltana-residents-260779
31-05-2021||---||Ceiling leaks, residents protest against builder||Zirakpur, May 30Residents of Metro Town Housing Society in Peer Muchalla today held a protest against the builder for allegedly using substandard construction material and deficiency in service in the housing society.One of the society residents alleged that water started leaking from the ceiling of one of the rooms of his house on Saturday night.A minor scuffle broke out between residents and employees of the builder this morning. Later, some of the staff members fled from the society office.Eyewitnesses said the ceiling of one of the roofs started leaking from an under-construction terrace on the upper floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ceiling-leaks-residents-protest-against-builder-260780
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Divya shines in declamation||Interactive session heldChandigarh: After conducting three back-to-back events, Think India, Chandigarh, conducted an interactive session on “Discussion on Farm Laws and Challenges Ahead” with an aim to talk, discuss and understand the objects and reasons behind them along with analysing the impact of the three farm laws on various sections of society. Advocate Sarthak Gupta, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Kaushlesh Rai, founder, Hindu Café, were the main speakers. TNSPUTA writes to engg wingMohali: The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has written to the Engineering Department of the campus for the maintenance of residential area ahead of monsoon. “The situation may get grim with the onset of monsoon. Earlier also, residents on the campus had a terrible time with choked sewers and leakage in roofs. The PUTA requests to screen sewerage in all residential areas on the campus and do the needful for the maintenance of roofs,” stated a PUTA official. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/divya-shines-in-declamation-260781
31-05-2021||Mohali||Over two months on, new cases below 200 in Mohali||Over two and a half months after a surge in the second wave of Covid-19, the district witnessed less than 200 cases for the first time during the past 24 hours.The district reported 182 cases. Before this, it was on March 16 that the district had witnessed less than 200 cases when 192 persons were found infected. Meanwhile, seven more fatalities were reported from the district, taking the toll to 954, while 450 patients were cured of the disease.Among the new cases, 48 were reported from Mohali (urban), four from Gharuan, six each from Lalru and Boothgarh, nine from Kurali, 17 from Banur, 29 from Dhakoli, 31 from Kharar and 32 from Dera Bassi. Of the 66,406 positive cases reported so far, 62,311 patients have been cured. There are now 3,141 active cases in the district.Meanwhile, warning residents, the Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said though the number of new cases was steadily declining on a daily basis, precautions were still needed as before. She said as top health experts had predicted a third wave, there was a need to be more vigilant.“The lifting of curfew or relaxations in the lockdown do not mean that the disease has been eradicated. If we adopt a careless attitude, it can strike us again in a more dangerous way,” she warned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-two-months-on-new-cases-below-200-in-mohali-260783
31-05-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||In parts of Mohali, power restored after 14 hours||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 30Gusty winds, accompanied by heavy rain, that lashed the region late last night, disrupted power supply in most parts of the city for about 14 hours. More than 100 electricity poles, several trees and glow signboards were uprooted in various markets of the city. While in some parts, the power supply was restored by 1.30 pm on Sunday, in others, including Phase 10, it could be restored only after 6 pm. Internal roads in various sectors and phases were blocked as tree branches fell.Due to the disruption in power supply, the water supply was also affected.Five cars were damaged after trees and branches fell on these. Trees were uprooted in Phase 5, 3A, 3B2, Phase 1 and the Industrial Area, Phase 8.Anil Sharma, a resident of Phase 10, said the power supply in his area was restored at 6 pm, almost 20 hours after the winds lashed the city. He said there was no water supply in the morning. Mohit Sood, Superintending Engineer, PSPCL, Mohali, said 37 electricity poles were uprooted and in most parts of the city, they restored the power supply at night only. He said in some parts, the power was restored after 1 pm today.Kamal Kumar Garg, MC Commissioner, rushed to supervise the rescue operations in the affected areas. With the help of JCB and tree-pruning machines, fallen trees and electricity poles were cleared from roads.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said firefighters and medical teams were put on a high alert due to the high-velocity winds. “The fire brigade was asked to be on stand-by as information regarding vehicles getting stuck under fallen trees was being received from various parts of the city, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-parts-of-mohali-power-restored-after-14-hours-260784
31-05-2021||---||Cars damaged, 13-hr outage in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 30The high-velocity winds with heavy rain that lashed the region on Saturday night disrupted power supply in the city, besides damaging cars and uprooting trees.Power supply in the city was disrupted for about 13 hours while in some areas, electricity was restored after 18 hours. Electricity Department officials said the district suffered loss worth lakhs as electricity poles, transformers and power cables were damaged. Old trees in the city witnessed the maximum damage.The City SDO of the Electricity Department said a transformer was damaged in Sector 7 and several power cables had fallen near Command Hospital. Another transformer hung on a wall for about 22 hours near Topiari and the Haryana Mandi Board office. The official said the transformer would be installed on Monday. Similarly, two poles were broken in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, electricity wires were damaged in Sector 8 and it took about five hours for employees to restore the power supply in the area. The power supply was also disrupted in Sector 10 as tree branches had fallen on electricity cables. The power supply was restored after 15 hours in the sector. Residents of Sector 10 raised slogans against the Electricity Department as the power supply from house numbers 240 to 260 and 451 to 464 was disrupted yesterday at 10.30 pm and could be restored at 5.30 pm on Sunday. Vinod Kumar, a resident, said despite several attempts made to contact the XEN and SDO, no one responded to the calls.Flood lights in the cricket stadium at the Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex also fell and their poles got twisted. The stadium is one of the main venues for hosting the U-18 Khelo India Games. “The damage will be assessed and will be soon repaired,” said a senior official.More than eight cars parked at Sector 9 were damaged as a boundary wall of the Andale Public School fell on the vehicles. The front glass, bonnet and roof of the vehicles were damaged as people had parked their vehicles along the wall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cars-damaged-13-hr-outage-in-panchkula-260787
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha back home, but wife in ICU||After six days, 91-year-old Covid-hit former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh was discharged from a private hospital on a request of his family members, said doctors.He returned to his Sector 8 residence this afternoon. However, his wife, 82-year-old Nirmal Milkha Singh, was shifted to an ICU after her oxygen saturation level dropped. Nirmal, who had led the Indian women’s volleyball team, recently tested positive.“On a request from the family, Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support. Nirmal Milkha Singh, meanwhile, had to be shifted to the ICU last night due to increasing oxygen requirement. She continues to be stable,” read a medical bulletin.Discharged on family’s request“On a request from the family, Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital on Sunday in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support. Nirmal Milkha Singh, meanwhile, had to be shifted to the ICU on Saturday night due to increasing oxygen requirement. She continues to be stable.” — Medical bulletin||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-back-home-but-wife-in-icu-260788
31-05-2021||Mohali||Covid patient gets ‘antibody cocktail’||An ‘antibody cocktail’ therapy was administered to a 72-year-old Covid positive patient at Fortis Hospital in Mohali today. The patient suffering from diabetes and a chronic disease had tested positive two days ago. He was administered one dose of the cocktail intravenously and is reportedly stable post-infusion.The ‘antibody cocktail therapy’ is for those above the age of 65, who are isolating at home, have an SpO2 of 93, require no oxygen support, but are at a risk of developing a severeform of the infection on account of their comorbidities such as obesity, diabetes, liver disease, heart ailments and chronic lung disease.Dr Zafar Ahmed, Senior Consultant, CriticalCare, Pulmonology and Chest and Sleep Medicine, said: “The cocktail has casirivimab and imdevimab, which are monoclonal antibodies that specifically block the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, preventing the coronavirus attachment and entry into human cells.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-gets-antibody-cocktail-260791
31-05-2021||OPEN HOUSE||A tough call — Life precious, so is students’ career||Nation’s future at riskThe youth are nation's future. If the CBSE conducts examinations it may expose youth to the virus. Besides teachers, invigilators and checkers may also fall prey to coronavirus. Everything can wait. Considering the risk factor, the board should take decision accordingly.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaTake more precautionsThe virus has come to stay for a while. It seems we have to live with it till it subsides or loses its strength. Sooner or later, the CBSE will have to come to terms with it. Although reports are pouring in about impending danger of the third Covid wave, the board should evolve strategies to conduct examinations while taking more precautions and exhorting students to follow these religiously as it concerns their career and lives.Sunil Khanna, ChandigarhConduct exams for professional coursesIn view of no respite from Covid cases across the country, student's susceptibility to new variant, warnings of third wave looming large and shortage of vaccination, the CBSE must not put students' lives at risk. All students should be promoted to next class based on their submitted assignments. However, entrance examination for professional courses should be conducted while strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behavior.BS Dhillon, MohaliExams for major subjects onlyThe CBSE must go ahead with the Class XII examination for students without any delay. However, examinations should be conducted only for major subjects in view of the current pandemic situation. These examinations are important as it prepares students and determines their eligibility for higher studies and professional courses. The CBSE should ensure social distancing, wearing of face masks and maintenance of proper hygienic conditions and provision of safe drinking water at exam centres.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaOnline exams carry no meritIt's important that Class XII board exams and entrance tests for professional courses be conducted through offline mode. Students get admission in universities and higher education institutes on the basis of mark obtained in these exams. Online exams carry no merit. The whole education system will lose credibility if online examination mode continues.Sikander Singh, ChandigarhAre exams more important than life?Covid forced the authorities to introduce online mode of studies for students. This has somewhat reduced physical interaction. It has become difficult for people with limited income to provide education to their wards. Besides, students have not been able to study due to lack of resources. Exposing students to deadly disease is foolishness. Therefore, Class XII and other entrance examinations should be cancelled as life is more important than materialistic sources of the world.Charvi Tyagi, ChandigarhThe show must go onThe annual exams for Class XII should be held by June end while strictly following Covid protocol. Schools are closed and sufficient space is available to maintain social distancing while appearing in exams. All staff and students can get Covid negative certificate before exams. Cancellation or deferment of exams will have far reaching consequences for students in their lives. The show must go on. Political compulsions of opposing everything should be set aside.KC Rana, Chandigarhrule out mass gatheringsStudents preparing for board and competitive examinations have been adversely affected during the pandemic. They are less focused on their studies. There is no surety about the future progression of the pandemic or whether there will be a third wave or not. Till majority of population gets vaccinated and Covid cases are minimal, mass gathering at any place should be ruled out. Experts in the field should explore alternate methods to hold Class XII examinations.Vaibhav Garg, ZirakpurNo risk of infection during examsThe Class XII and entrance exams for professional courses should be held at the scheduled time. The plea that there is risk of infection does not hold water. With uncertainty about exams most youngsters spend time roaming with friends, driving around, watching and making videos and generally cocking a snook at Covid protocols. With the announcement of exam dates at least they will stay home and study. Of course, the authorities will have to ensure strict adherence to safety guidelines at exam centres.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhLife goes onNo one knows when Covid will subside. There are many risks and dangers, but the life doesn't stop. The youth have to appear in Class XII and entrance exams. All students must be vaccinated on priority before exams. Covid protocols must be strictly followed in examination halls.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliSuspense has left students in traumaAll stakeholders were dismayed to find that Union Ministers could not take much awaited decision on holding the CBSE Class XII exams. Surprisingly, they left the vital issue hanging fire. The killing suspense fueled by raging pandemic has created traumatic conditions not only for students, but their parents too. It is adversely affecting their mental well being. In these challenging times when danger of third Covid wave is lurking, it will be imprudent to wait for replies from states. The exams can either be conducted online or results compiled on the basis of pre-board exams held in February. Any delay will harm everyone.SC Luthra, ChandigarhInoculate, provide safety kitsNo doubt board exams will prepare students to crack competitive exams. But safety is utmost important. Students, who are 18 plus, must be inoculated. The examination staff must be vaccinated. The CBSE should provide safety kits to students and the staff. The board must ensure that all follow Covid guidelines strictly in examination halls.Nitin Sud, PanchkulaExams for all subjectsEligible students should be vaccinated first and then allowed to appear in exams. They should be asked to appear in exams for all subjects.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhIncrease exam centresConducting Class XII exams is mandatory as it is matter of students' career. The CBSE should conduct examination of main subjects while following safety protocols. The number of exam centres should be increased so that students and staff maintain social distance. Each student and staff member on duty should wear PPE kit to avoid contracting infection.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliExtra time for preparationStudents are future of the nation. The government should pay special attention towards their health. Class XII examination and entrance tests can be postponed for some more time. Coronavirus is at its peak. It can spread from places of gatherings. Students are upset due to the pandemic. The CBSE should give them extra time for preparation of their exam.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohalipresent Situation not conducive for examsConducting CBSE Class XII and entrance examinations for professional courses in the present situation will pose a serious threat to students' health. It will be appropriate for the CBSE to postpone all such exams till the situation becomes normal.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliStudents’ safety first, exams laterConducting Class XII examination will put students and teachers' life at the risk contracting infection. Already many teachers have succumbed to Covid. Students have also been infected with virus. It is not possible to follow safety norms despite best possible arrangements in examination halls. Instead of physical mode an alternative for examination can be explored. Pre-board tests or internal assessment can be considered to give marks to students for the Class XII exams. First priority should be students' safety not examination.BS Cheema, Mohalistudents’ Future depends on examsThe CBSE in a fix whether to conduct the Class XII and professional courses entrance exams or not. Keeping the current situation in mind, it seems that majority of parents will not be willing to send their wards for exams. It will be a futile exercise if the parents are not ready. Class XII exams decide student's future. Parents must understand that if their child passes without appearing in examination, it will be symbolic. How will they compete? Their future will be bleak. Reluctant parents can send their children for exams after the situation improves.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhCan govt put young lives at risk?The country is witnessing peak of the second Covid wave. Can any civilised government afford to risk lives of the next generation? All medical experts are warning of the third Covid wave, which might affect the younger generation and infants. Students appearing in exams without any vaccination will certainly get exposed to Covid. The board should have conducted online examinations regularly. Last three years assessment of students can be taken into consideration to evaluate their results.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhConduct only entrance examsKeeping in view the present scenario the board should cancel the Class XII exams and conduct only professional courses entrance exams in August-September. Also, if the board is adamant on conducting exams, then it should be for all subjects.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhWait till covid threat reducesExams play a crucial role in student's life. Keeping in mind the importance of Class XII exams, these should be held once the threat of coronavirus reduces in the country. All students must be vaccinated before exams.Ryan Sood, PanchkulaLive today, fight tomorrowEntrance or CBSE Class XII examinations cannot be conducted at home. Proper infrastructure and management along with appropriate Covid behaviour at examination centres can't guarantee safety of students and teachers. The government should postpone exams till situation normalises. Live today, fight tomorrow should be the sole mantra of the government and the CBSE.Bharti, ChandigarhDon’t keep students waitingClass XII is a gateway to higher studies. Cancellation of Class XII exams might give a wrong message to students. It will affect students' morale. Students should be inoculated against coronavirus before beginning of the board exams. They should not be kept waiting for a long time as it is affecting their mental health.Sonia Sood, PanchkulaTake all precautionsExperts opine that the next Covid wave might hit students. Utmost precaution must be taken to conduct offline exams. Students should be vaccinated before exams.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhExplore other optionsIn view of the present Covid situation, it is not advisable for the board to conduct Class XII examinations offline. Exams should either be postponed or some other options can be explored for admitting students to professional courses. Previous year result can also be considered for the present assessment.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliEducationists and stakeholders dividedEducationists and stakeholders are divided on conducting Class XII and professional courses’ entrance examinations as they believe it could become a super spreader event. Others opine it will spoil students’ career as there is no option other than holding exams. Class XII exams are the gateway to higher education. The government should explore other options to protect students and enhance their career. Exams should be scheduled when infection subsides.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaDifficult to decideIt's difficult to decide whether to conduct Class XII and entrance exams for professional courses physically as the country is facing the threat of pandemic. Parents are worried about their wards contracting virus if exams are held offline. Better option is online examination as it involves safety of pupils.MR Bhateja, NayagaonLife more importantLife of students is more important than the CBSE Class XII exams. It'll not be wise if the board goes ahead with examination without vaccination of students and the staff. As far as career is concerned aptitude test can be conducted by the UGC or the NTA to admit all candidates to higher courses.PK Patpatia, AmbalaScenario scary, unpredictableEvery parent wants his/her child to be a genius. They will never say no to examinations. But, in such an unprecedented pandemic situation everyone is going through some trauma. Infection rate is high. There is prediction of the third Covid wave, which might infect children. Keeping this in view there should not be offline exams. Life is more important. Students should be assessed on the basis of internal and online exams.Rashmi Sharma, Chandigarhmake Covid test mustClass XII and entrance exams to professional courses should be conducted with proper Covid measures. These exams are important keeping in view admissions to colleges and foreign universities. Moreover, Covid cases are decreasing with each passing day. Covid test should be mandatory for students, who want to appear in exams.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDon’t buckle before protestersA campaign has begun demanding postponement of the medical and engineering entrance exams. However, no one knows for how long pandemic will continue. Keeping qualifying examinations in abeyance is not in the interest of nearly 2.5 million enrolled candidates. The National Testing Agency has announced social distancing, more centres, fewer students per room, extra shifts for the JEE (main) computer test and staggered entry and arrival. NEET and JEE are the culmination of two years intense study by higher secondary pass outs. Never ending delays will blunt their preparedness. The government must not buckle before protesters, who want exams postponed.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliInordinate delay in taking callThe CBSE should conduct Class XII and professional entrance examinations in online mode. Inordinate delay in taking a call on conducting examination has kept students and their parents on tenterhooks. Offline examination is not possible in the present circumstances.Adish Sood, AmlohNo substitute for Class XII examsMost states and UTs are in favour of conducting exams of a shorter duration in offline mode. The CBSE should ask students their preference for the offline/online mode of examination. Class XII is a career defining standard. So its exams cannot be scrapped altogether. There is no substitute for the Class XII exams, which must be conducted while following all SOPs strictly.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhDo not consider pre-board assessmentThe CBSE must conduct exams for Class XII. Exams can be conducted in shifts on different days and in batches to reduce the risk of Covid infection. This will help bright students show their capability and knowledge. Giving certificates to all students based on the pre-board exams cannot be justified. Coronavirus guidelines must be followed strictly while conducting exams. Syllabus, pattern, exam timing and clubbing of subjects can be considered to reduce the risk.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliPromote students only on meritConducting the CBSE Class XII and professional courses’ entrance exams in haste will invite third Covid wave. However, the future of Class XII students is also important. Students are the future of the country. They should be promoted to higher classes or given admission in professional courses on merit and not on internal assessment.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhRipe time to conduct examsAll-round reduction is being noticed in Covid cases. The time to open up has come. In this light, the authorities should notify dates for exams giving sufficient time to students for final preparation. Students are anxious and have started fearing about their future. Psychological problems are creeping amongst students. Keeping all these facts and safety of students in mind the authorities must take an early decision on holding exams.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhOpen vaccination slots for studentsAs Class XII decides students' career so its exams are vital. Conducting exams and neglecting health of children is not justifiable. So, the CBSE should wait for some more time till the situation normalises to some extent or the government can open slots for the vaccination of Class XII students.Tarunjot Kaur, ChandigarhStudents are not preparedThe pandemic situation is depressing. Students are not physically, mentally and emotionally ready to appear in offline mode exams. Students' life is more important than exams. The board should either cancel or postpone exams till majority of students and teachers are vaccinated. Other option is evaluating Class XII students on the basis of internal assessments and pre-board exams. No risk should be taken. An open book system online examination can also be considered with moderation mechanism in evaluation.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhNo escape from examsCBSE Class XII and professional courses’ entrance examinations are gateway to higher education. There is no escape/alternative to conducting exams. Any non-examination route would have unjust and unfair ramifications. Options on methodology, process, duration and timing of exams can best be decided by experts and stakeholders. Nature ordains that life has to go on. Man has the gumption to devise proper ways and means to safely move on. Onus for the safety of examinees lies with the government.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaConsider Punjab’s proposalUmpteen suggestions were given by state governments regarding alternatives to conduct CBSE Class XII exams. But Punjab's proposal of reduced duration exams of only few selective subjects should be considered. It is more suitable in comparison with other suggestions. As far as professional courses entrance exams are concerned, these should be cancelled and admissions in colleges should be purely on merit basis.JS Saini, Greater MohaliGateway to careerCovid cases are declining. Lockdown curbs are being relaxed in most states. Class XII examination, gateway to career building in diverse fields, must be held in traditional manner after assessing the situation. In order to minimise the risk of virus transmission candidates may be allowed to appear only in half subjects selected randomly case to case by the board. Candidates should be informed about date sheet 15 days prior to conducting exams. This will help them prepare better for exams.RPS Chopra, Chandigarhmarks obtained in Class XII hold valueMarks obtained in Class XII exams are considered by educational institutes offering professional courses. Class XII exams decide students’ career. Exam should be conducted for all subjects. Students may be allowed to appear in exams from their respective schools. Those suffering from Covid may be given a chance to appear on other dates or take online exams. Protocols should be followed at examination centres.Charu Malhotra, MohaliStudents must not be in a quandaryEducation is important, but health is more important. If health is lost, everything is lost. Students cannot be made to suffer due to uncertainty in the midst of an unprecedented crisis posed by the pandemic. Last year, the apex court had asked boards to declare Class XII exam results on the basis of earlier grading. Students should not be in quandary for an unspecified duration. Their exams should be cancelled.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONDuring these tough times, private hospitals are overcharging Covid patients. The UT Administration received various complaints in this regard during the peak of the pandemic. What measures should the UT take to ensure that private hospitals don’t fleece people?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-tough-call-%E2%80%94-life-precious-so-is-students-career-260792
31-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||Storm wreaks havoc on tricity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 30Residents were inconvenienced due to heavy rain and high-velocity winds last night. Some areas remained without power for as long as 22 hours, while the water supply also remained affected in most parts of the city. The rough weather damaged 60 electricity poles, 75 trees and a number of parked cars.It all started around 10 pm when the city was lashed by gusty winds followed by heavy rain. It led to power outage. In some parts, the power supply was restored in the middle of night or in the wee hours of today.The electricity supply was not restored in parts of Sector 33, 34, 37, 38 and other areas till the filing of the report.22-hour Blackout in City areas75 Trees uprooted60 poles damagedWater supply disrupted“There is no electricity and water supply in Sector 38 (A and B). All complaint numbers are busy. We don’t know what to do,” said local resident Joginder Singh.Tarsem Sharma, president, MIG Duplex Welfare Association, Sector 40-B, said: “In our area, tree branches have fallen on roads and the electricity and water supply has been disrupted.” “As the damage is too much, extra task force should be engaged so that rescue operations are carried out at full swing. Trees have fallen everywhere in Sector 38 (West), 38 and 37. Thankfully, no loss of life was reported,” said another resident.AC Dhawan, president, Welfare Society, Sector 45-D, said: “The Horticulture Department had the tree branches removed from electricity poles. Later, the SDO told us that the contractor had been asked to carry out repair work. Our inverters stopped working as the power has been disrupted for 22 hours already. The power supply has not been restored while the SDO has now switched off his phone. At least, he should update us, even if the issue has not been resolved.”A resident of Sector 46-A, Raj Kumar Goyal, said: “The electricity complaint numbers remained busy. Kids at home are disturbed and crying.” At some places, dead birds were seen lying on the ground.“Normal water supply will be restored from Monday morning. Our waterworks could not operate due to the power supply issues. Generators were not enough for it,” said Shailender Singh, MC Chief Engineer. Hitesh Puri, chairman, CRAWFED, said: “People were inconvenienced due to the power and water issues. Even the power helpline remained engaged. We raised the issue with the authorities, who told us that it was a major thunderstorm and will obviously take them time to fix all wires and poles.”Several road stretches were full of tree branches in the morning and some were even broken31.8-mm rainfall, brace for moreFrom Saturday night till 8.30 am on Sunday, 31.8 mm of rainfall was reported in the city. According to the Met forecast, generally cloudy sky with light rain is expected on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/storm-wreaks-havoc-on-tricity-260793
31-05-2021||Zirakpur||Trees, 30 power poles uprooted in Zirakpur||Residents had to endure a hot Sunday afternoon as power poles were damaged and trees uprooted due the storm that jolted the region last night.“Many parts of Zirakpur, Baltana and Kishanpura were without electricity till noon today. Water supply was affected in most parts of the city. There was large-scale destruction as hoardings and temporary structures were blown away by high-intensity winds,” said Sahil Khanna, a Preet Colony resident.Khushwinder Singh, PSPCL Executive Engineer, said: “Close to 30 power poles have been uprooted in the Zirakpur area. The exact damage will be known later. There are 40 feeders in the Zirakpur area and all have been made functional now. PSPCL employees are now attending to individual complaints in different areas.’’In Dhakoli alone, nine power poles were uprooted. The uprooted trees and power lines obstructed the movement of vehicles on roads.Sarabjot Singh, PSPCL Junior Engineer, said: “Trees along roads fell on power lines, leading to disruption. We are re-routing the power distribution.”Dera Bassi residents had to spend the night without electricity, but power was restored on Sunday morning.Public and private property, including vehicles parked outside homes, bore the brunt of the storm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trees-30-power-poles-uprooted-in-zirakpur-260795
31-05-2021||Panchkula||Some reprieve, only 48 cases in Panchkula||Six persons succumbed to the virus in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 347. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said an 84-year-old man of Pinjore, an 85-year-old woman of Sector 16, a 79-year-old woman of Sector 15, a 55-year-old woman of Sector 21, a 64-year-old woman of Barwala and a 45-year-old woman of Sector 17 succumbed to the disease. Meanwhile, 48 persons were found infected with the virus, taking the total case tally to 29,901. The maximum 10 cases surfaced in the Pinjore area on Sunday.1,970 get jab at drive-through campA total of 1,970 persons were vaccinated at a drive-through camp held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3. The police had made elaborate arrangements. They had allowed entry of cars till 12.30 pm and no car was allowed to enter the lane, which started from IT Park behind Nada Sahib Gurdwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/some-reprieve-only-48-cases-in-panchkula-260796
31-05-2021||---||3 Covid patients die during power disruption at Chandigarh's GMCH||Chandigarh, May 30The death of three Covid patients during a disruption in the electricity supply at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, led to a panic situation with attendants blaming the hospital authorities for the deaths.The hospital authorities enquired about the disruption of electricity supply and management of Covid patients admitted to the GMCH and the South Campus, Sector 48, during this period and found no link between the power failure and the deaths that occurred in the Covid ICU.In a clarification issued by the hospital, there were a total of 116 patients on oxygen and 38 patients in four Covid ICUs at the GMCH on Saturday night. The electricity supply got disrupted around 10.30 pm after which the JE (Electricity) was immediately contacted by the Medical Superintendent to ensure that the electricity supply to all critical areas was maintained. The hospital said at that time, electricity generator sets were already switched on and electricity was being provided to all critical areas, including the ICUs, on both campuses. Dr Sanjeev Palta, looking after the ICUs, confirmed it.Dr Palta called three additional consultants and 10 anaesthesia residents to deal with any eventuality. Once the thunderstorm settled down, Dr Palta reached the hospital (around 11.45 pm) and assessed the situation in all Covid areas, especially the ICUs. “All ventilators connected to Covid patients were functional. However, four critically ill patients died in two different Covid ICUs during night at different times — 12.20 am, 1.15 am, 1.30 am and at 2.00 am — whereas the electricity supply through the generator sets was restored around 10.30 pm. Ventilators were functional in the case of all four patients. Attendants were aware of the clinical condition of these patients,” read hospital statement. The hospital has clarified that generators installed on both campuses automatically switch on in case of electricity disruption. The ventilators installed in three ICUs supplied through the PM CARES Fund have a battery back-up of 30 minutes. To deal with any further unforeseen circumstances in Covid ICUs, a High Dependency Unit in C Block with 12 ventilator beds has been vacated and prepared for receiving these patients, if required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-covid-patients-die-during-power-disruption-at-chandigarhs-gmch-260801
31-05-2021||---||Milkha Singh discharged from hospital in stable condition||Chandigarh, May 30Legendary athlete Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital on Sunday in a stable condition days after being admitted to a hospital with Covid-19 infection.“On request of the family Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support,” Fortis hospital where he was admitted said in a statement.His wife Nirmal Mikha Singh had to be shifted to the intensive care unit last night due to increasing oxygen requirement. She continues to be stable, it added.While Milkha, 91, was admitted to the hospital on Monday, his 82-year-old wife got admission in the same facility on Wednesday after testing positive for the virus.The couple's son and ace golfer, Jeev Milkha Singh, flew down to Chandigarh from Dubai on Saturday and his elder sister, Mona Milkha Singh, who is a doctor in the United States, also reached here a few days ago.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-discharged-from-hospital-in-stable-condition-260753
31-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Veteran Punjab Congress leader Surjit Kaur Kalkat passes away at 91||Veteran Congress leader and two-time MLA from Hoshiarpur’s Tanda, Surjit Kaur Kalkat, passed away following prolonged illness in Mohali. She was 91.Kalkat had won from the Tanda assembly constituency in 1980 and 1992.She was a cabinet minister in the Harcharan Singh Brar-led government in Punjab. Her husband Dr Amir Singh Kalkat had also won from the Tanda constituency twice in 1969 and 1972.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled the death of Surjit Kaur Kalkat. “Sad to learn about the demise of veteran @INCPunjab leader Surjit Kaur Kalkat from District Hoshiarpur. She died a natural death yesterday. My condolences to the family and supporters. RIP!, “said Amarinder Singh in a tweet. — PTISad to learn about the demise of veteran @INCPunjab leader Surjit Kaur Kalkat from District Hoshiarpur. She died a natural death yesterday. My condolences to the family and supporters. RIP! pic.twitter.com/sLVtTTwpKr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veteran-punjab-congress-leader-surjit-kaur-kalkat-passes-away-at-91-260751
31-05-2021||Sandeep Rana||In photos: Power outages, trees uprooted across Tricity after rain, high-velocity winds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 30Several parts of Tricity reported power outages, no water supply, damaged cars, uprooted trees and electricity poles after rain and thunderstorm lashed the area on Saturday night.In several parts of the city, the electricity supply could not be restored till Sunday morning.Also read: https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/storm-rain-batter-punjab-as-power-outages-reported-from-several-districts-260695No electricity and water in sector 35, please get the information regarding water  Several electricity poles and trees were damaged. Residents complained that the power supply helpline number did not respond.Several of them had a sleepless night. Some areas, including Sectors 38, 40, 41 and others did not get proper water supply in the morning."No electricity and no water supply in 38 A and B. All electricity complaints numbers are busy. We don’t know what to do," said resident Joginder Singh.Tarsem Sharma, president, MIG duplex welfare association, said in Sector 40-B, "Trees branches are there all over roads. Neither water is there nor power."In sectors 20 and 38, several trees fell on the road. One of the cars in Sector 38 was seriously damaged. There were reports of cars getting damaged from other sectors of the city also."As the damage is too much and it's a Sunday so an extra task force should be engaged so that a rescue operation is done in full swing. Sectors 38 West, 38 and 37—everywhere trees have fallen. Thankfully, there is no loss of life," said a resident.No electricity in sector 44 or any response from the redressal department of electricity board. Its been almost 4hrs  Residents continued to make calls in the wee hours on Sunday but got a poor response from the helpline numbers."What is the use of electricity department's centralised number when it will not solve the purpose. It seems just a burden on the government," lamented another resident Umesh Gupta.Not in mohali...badly affected. Water supply too affected  Sector 46-A resident Raj Kumar Goyal said, "While there was no electricity, the electricity complaint number remained busy. Children are crying."At some places, dead birds were also seen.Meanwhile, 30mm rain was reported last night. Light rain is expected on Monday and Tuesday as well, as per the weather department.Zirakpur residents had to endure a hot Sunday afternoon as power poles were damaged and trees uprooted in the storm that wrecked the Tricity on Saturday night.Many parts of Zirakpur, Baltana, Kishanpura, Panchsheel area, were powerless till noon Sunday. There was largescale destruction as hoardings and temporary structures were blown away by high-intensity winds.PSPCL Executive Engineer Khushwinder Singh said, ''Close to 30 power poles have been uprooted in Zirakpur area. The exact damage would be assessed later on. There are 40 feeders in the Zirakpur area. All have been made functional now. The PSPCL employees are now attending individual complaints in different areas.''In Dhakoli alone, nine power poles were uprooted. The uprooted trees and power lines obstructed the movement of vehicles on the road.PSPCL junior engineer Sarabjot Singh said, ''Trees alongside the road fell on power lines, leading to disruption. We are re-routing the power distribution and the supply would be restored in the afternoon. By evening, all the roads would be cleared of power poles.''Dera Bassi residents had to spend the night without electricity but power was restored in the morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-photos-power-outages-trees-uprooted-across-tricity-after-rain-high-velocity-winds-260544
