03-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala civic body fails to recover tax from PSPCL||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 2Already low on tax collection and funds, the Patiala Municipal Corporation has failed to recover municipal tax on consumption, use or sale of electricity from PSPCL for the past three years.The revelation has come in the office’s response to an RTI application. The tax collection, which started in 2017, stopped after August 2018. The MC also does not have details of the current pending amount.Pending since September 2018As per the documents with The Tribune, the MC wrote to the PSPCL several times over the matter, but to no avail. As per the MC response, it collected Rs 1.44 crore as municipal tax in five instalments from December 2017 to August 2018. It also does not have the exact details of pending municipal tax as the same is supposed to be calculated and submitted by the PSPCL on the basis of sale of electricity to consumers, it said.The low collection of tax amount, meanwhile, repeatedly reflects in its yearly budget. A senior MC official, on the condition of anonymity, said the MC had failed in collecting enough funds through its heads last year.As per the MC’s recent budget document passed in March as well, it was expecting submission of Rs 11.60 crore municipal tax from the PSPCL but failed to do so.MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the corporation had collected around Rs 2 crore from the power department. “We are holding meetings with the officials of the PSPCL over the matter. We have managed to collect some amount, while the rest will be collected after deliberations.”PSPCL superintending engineer SM Chopra said: “A number of meetings have been held at the level of XENs and by the Finance Department of the PSPCL with the Municipal Corporation. There were a few disputes in relation to pending amounts and surcharge levied due to pending payments. Regular meetings are now being held and our accountants are consolidating the amounts in order to resolve the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-civic-body-fails-to-recover-tax-from-pspcl-305617
03-09-2021||Patiala||Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, 5th best pvt institute||Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, gets Rs1.98-cr grantBathinda: The Central University of Punjab, Bathinda (CUPB), received the second instalment of grant-in-aid of Rs 1.98 crore from the Ministry of Food Processing Industries for setting up a quality control/food testing laboratory on the campus under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana. TNSDate for scholarships extendedChandigarh: The Education Department has extended the date for application under various scholarship schemes to September 16. Disclosing this on Thursday, a spokesperson of the department said the districts would approve the online applications and send online data to the state by October 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/thapar-institute-of-engineering-and-technology-patiala-5th-best-pvt-institute-305623
03-09-2021||---||Patiala: 3 UP natives arrested with 2.15L tablets, 76K capsules of tramadol||Patiala, September 2The police have arrested Uttar Pradesh-based alleged drug suppliers identified as Raj Vikram Singh, Sharad Awasthi and Rajat Gogia, all from Shahjahanpur, and recovered 2.15 lakh tablets and 76,800 capsules of tramadol and 4,000 pentazocina injections from them.Sharing details, the Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Sandeep Garg said Rajpura Sadar police had arrested two persons identified as Swaran Singh of Ferozepur district and Gurwinder Singh of Tarn Taran district on August 28 along with 22,000 tablets of tramadol.During investigation, it had come to light that the supply was coming from Uttar Pradesh (UP). A special police team was sent to UP to bust the drug supply chain, the SSP added.The SSP further said that their team managed to arrest all the three accused from UP. During preliminary investigations the police found that all three operatives had been working as wholesale suppliers, the SSP added.“We are trying to locate the drug manufacturer. The Punjab-based two accomplices of the drug supplier gang used to work as driver and cleaner,” said the SSP.All the five accused were in the 18 to 26 age group and the trio arrested from UP had good knowledge about pharmaceutical work, the SSP added.“Raj Vikram Singh (18) is pursuing his DPharma, besides has a Chemist shop, while Sharad Awasthi (20) is Matriculate and works at a medical agency as supplier. Third accused Rajat Gogia (25) is a graduate in humanities and pursuing his postgraduation in accounts,” said the SSP. “Further investigation is on. Soon, the drug manufacturer will also be arrested. A case has been registered under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Rajpura Sadar police station,” the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-3-up-natives-arrested-with-2-15l-tablets-76k-capsules-of-tramadol-305738
03-09-2021||---||Couple duping jewellers, electronic goods dealers in Patiala lands in police net||Patiala, September 2The police have arrested a couple for allegedly deceiving various shop owners. The couple used to order jewellery and electronic items on some pretext from various shops. After receiving goods at another address other than mentioned at the time of placing order the couple used to vanish.Divulging details the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Patiala, Sandeep Garg, said, “The police have received some complaints from jewellers and shopkeepers selling electronic good. They complained that a couple used to order jewellery and electronic items to be given as gift for some personal occasion. They took delivery of goods at another location other than mentioned at the time of placing order.”Modus operandiThe couple used to order jewellery and electronic items on some pretext from various shops. After receiving goods at another address other than mentioned at the time of placing order the couple didn’t pay bill. Instead they used to switch off their mobile phone and vanish.“After taking delivery the couple didn’t pay bill. Instead, they switched off their mobile phone,” the SSP added.In order to locate the accused, a team headed by SP (Investigation) Mehtab Singh was formed to monitor the investigation, said the SSP. The team traced the con couple, who were identified as Sukha Singh and his wife Arshpreer Kaur, alias Priya, both residents of Chalhedi village falling under the Rajpura Sadar police station, the SSP added. They were defrauding shopkeepers, said the SSP. Both were arrested from Amritsar on August 30,” the SSP added.“The police have recovered gold ornaments and a laptop from the couple. A case has been registered under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code against the accused at the Sabzi Mandi police station,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/couple-duping-jewellers-electronic-goods-dealers-in-patiala-lands-in-police-net-305737
03-09-2021||---||Punjabi University restructures departments at South Campus in Talwandi Sabo||Patiala, September 2As part of reforms, Punjabi University has now restructured various departments at its South Campus in Talwandi Sabo. The university Vice- Chancellor (VC), Prof Arvind, visited South Campus today. The university has also deputed heads of departments and in-charges on the campus.“The university has been carrying out reforms at its South Campus. We merged the three institutions that were running from there. Now, the institutions have been academically organised. It will help us utilise our academic resources more efficiently,” said the VC.“The university will start new courses in the coming year. Some of these courses could be offered at South Campus. Chapters related to new initiatives at the university will also be connected with South Campus,” the VC added“The admission count at South Campus has increased. We have also formed a common admission cell there,” said the VC.The university has deputed Dr Anand Bansal, associate professor, as head, the Business Studies Department. Similarly, Dr Preeti Bansal, associate professor, has been deputed as head, Yadavindra Sciences Department.Meanwhile, the university has extended the term of Dr Jagtar Singh, professor (ECE) while Amandeep Singh, assistant professor (history), has been deputed as in-charge, Guru Kashi Social Sciences Department. Also, Dr Sushil Kumar, assistant professor (English), has been deputed as in-charge, Guru Kashi Languages Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-restructures-departments-at-south-campus-in-talwandi-sabo-305736
03-09-2021||---||Health Dept team collects samples from dairies in Patiala||Patiala, September 2Ahead of the festive season, a food safety team of the Health Department, led by District Health Officer (DHO), raided milk dairies and eateries, here on Thursday.The team inspected popular Sandeep Dairy in the YPS Market area. The team also collected samples of paneer, curd and milk from the dairy. Thereafter, the team inspected Sharma Dairy in Tej Bagh Colony.The team collected samples of mixed milk, paneer, cream and desi ghee from there, informed the DHO, Dr Shelly Jetly. The team also inspected Himalayan Creamery in Nabha. However, the team did not collect any sample from there.Besides, the team also inspected a popular shop in the Quila Chowk area. The team visited Bombay Maharashtra Paav Bhaaji and collected samples of paav, bhaaji and red chillies from there.Later in the evening, the team raided many ice cream carts in the city. It has been learnt that many ice cream carts in the city were selling eatables at a higher price after tempering the maximum retail price (MRP).A Health Department doctor said, “Many cart owners in the city are selling ice cream at price higher than the MRP after tempering it right under the nose of food inspectors. People are being looted every day.”However, Dr Shelly Jetly said they did not find any such tampering with price tags during raids. When asked about reports of sample testing, She said, “We have sent samples to a lab in Kharar. We can take action only after results of samples are out.”The Health Department has no power under the provision of the law to take immediate action even if samples turn out to be unfit for human consumption. The department has power only to issue notice. Officials of the department don’t have power to stop food handler from selling eatables even if these are unfit for human consumption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-dept-team-collects-samples-from-dairies-in-patiala-305735
03-09-2021||---||Contractual staff seek regularisation of services, hold protest march in Patiala||Patiala, September 2The contractual, outsourced and part-time staff of the Health, Medical Research Education and other government departments, along with Class IV employees, today held a protest in the city for regularisation of jobs, equal pay for equal work and other demands in the city. The Health Department staff wore PPE kits during protest.Around 100 employees took part in the protest, which was led by Punjab Subordinate Services Federation and the Class IV Government Employees Union Punjab.Earlier, the staff gathered at the Rajindra Hospital Complex. They held a march, which started from Rajindra Hospital and passed through Chhoti Baradari, the TB Hospital road and Lahori Gate before reaching the Mata Kaushalya Hospital complex. Later, employees held a protest march at Sheranwala Gate too.The protesters threatened to burn effigies of the state government if their demand for regularisation of jobs was not raised in the Assembly session.The workers have been protesting for revival of government posts, along with reimplementation of the old pension scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contractual-staff-seek-regularisation-of-services-hold-protest-march-in-patiala-305734
03-09-2021||Patiala||NCC cadets visit Aviation Club in Patiala||NCC cadets of Model School, Punjabi University, visited Aviation Club under the supervision of ANO Satvir Singh Gill. During visit, students flew in an aircraft piloted by Group Capt Rajesh Sharma. Cadets enjoyed flying and were guided by Group Captain while onboard aircraft.The experience revived morale of cadets, which had diminished due to the Covid-19 pandemic. School Principal SK Nirmal Goyal congratulated cadets.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ncc-cadets-visit-aviation-club-in-patiala-305733
03-09-2021||Aman Sood||Capt Amarinder’s hometown Patiala sees over 1K protests in past six months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 2Non-stop protests by government teachers, farmers, doctors, patwaris, contractual employees and several others have adversely impacted life in Patiala. A number of unions have been protesting and demanding a meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh or threatening to march towards his official residence in Patiala, troubling common residents.While the Chief Minister has not visited his hometown even six times in past six months, hundreds of agitations have troubled residents of his constituency umpteen number of times.According to the data collected by The Tribune, as many as 1,153 dharna or agitations were held in Patiala from March 1 to August 31. Of these, 57 were state-level dharnas, for which the district administration had to call additional force from other districts and even reserve battalions. Several cops and agitators have been injured many times; some have jumped into canal or climbed mobile towers.Ensuring locals are not troubledWe always appeal to agitators to ensure their dharnas do not harass people. Also, we make sure there’s adequate security during agitations and residents face minimum trouble. —Sandeep Garg, SSP PatialaIn other instances, protesting teachers, farmer union members and others have been injured and hospitalised following a lathicharge.Agitators from across the state have made Patiala as their favourite sit-in point. On an average, the district police and locals have been troubled by around 200 agitations per month, hitting normal life. “We are living opposite to the CM’s official residence and there is hardly a day when one can reach our house without trouble,” said an elderly resident.Meanwhile, various unions stressed they had been left with no choice but to hold such agitations to make sure their demands are met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/capt-amarinders-hometown-patiala-sees-over-1k-protests-in-past-six-months-305603
