04-09-2021||Patiala||No check on betting in Patiala, says AAP||District leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) youth wing on Friday claimed at a press conference that the illegal practice of betting was going unabated in the city.AAP leaders said they had various videos of the illegal practice, going on in the city. They alleged that people were indulging in betting on the direction of political leaders of a rival party.Simranpreet Singh, vice-president, AAP youth wing, said they would protest if the illegal practice was not stopped immediately. DSP Hamant Sharma said the police would not allow any crime. Officials had discussed all such issues and cases criminals were being booked, he said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-check-on-betting-in-patiala-says-aap-306527
04-09-2021||---||Diesel auto-rickshaws adding to Patiala’s pollution||Patiala, September 3In the absence of proper check by the administration, diesel auto-rickshaws are adding to traffic congestion and rising pollution levels in the city.Besides, diesel auto-rickshaws create chaos in the city because they violate traffic rules frequently. These auto-rickshaws usually have high emission levels.It has been learnt that majority of diesel auto-rickshaws are bought from Delhi at low price after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned plying of 15-year-old vehicles in the National Capital. This has led to increase in number of auto-rickshaws in the city. Besides, many old auto-rickshaws from other districts are plying in Patiala as there are no restrictions here.As per the norms, auto-rickshaws can operate only within the limits of the Municipal Corporation of the city where they are registered. However, a large number of auto-rickshaws are seen plying on roads without following any traffic norms.In most cases overloaded auto-rickshaws are driven by underage drivers, who cock a snook at the traffic rules.Meanwhile, Paramjit Singh, Regional Transport Authority, said, “We issue challans to those auto-rickshaw drivers, who violate traffic rules. However, we will look into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/diesel-auto-rickshaws-adding-to-patialas-pollution-306526
04-09-2021||---||Villagers, societies, Agriculture Department join hands to stop stubble burning in Patiala district||Patiala, September 3Ageti and Mandaur villages in Patiala district have been playing leading role in achieving zero stubble burning. Farmers of both the villages have set an example by reducing stubble burning and minimising their input cost incurred on purchasing pesticides, weedicides and urea used for their crops by mulching paddy stubble into the soil.To oversee the method adopted by both villages to dispose of the crop residue in the field without burning stubble, Shomita Biswas, Joint Secretary (M&T), Department of Agriculture, Government of India, visited Mandaur and Ageti villages, along with Manmohan Kalia (Nodal Officer CRM), and Dr Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal, Chief Agriculture Officer, Patiala.The officer during her visit to both the villages interacted with farmers, cooperative society members and youngsters, who are playing a pivotal role to achieve the target of zero stubble burning through awareness and providing machinery to small and marginal farmers for the purpose.Shomita Biswas said, “We are passing through a tough time. We should not only look after environmental benefits, but also take care of health benefits. As the situation has been worsening due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the smoke generated due to stubble burning will increase respiratory diseases.”Manmohan Kalia highlighted the usage of machinery for the management of paddy stubble. He also stressed on management of machinery during the off season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/villagers-societies-agriculture-department-join-hands-to-stop-stubble-burning-in-patiala-district-306525
04-09-2021||---||Potholed road near Urban Estate, Phase II, Patiala, irks residents||Patiala, September 3The road adjoining Urban Estate, Phase II, and near Punjabi University and Meritorious School has been in bad condition for nearly two years Earlier, the Patiala Urban Planning And Development Authority (PDA) had claimed that the work for repairing road was pending because heavy vehicles plied on it. Meanwhile, Urban Estate, Phase II, residents have raised concerns over bad condition of the road.Dr Ritu Lehal, a Punjabi University professor, said, “Every day, hundreds of resident commute on the road, which is teeming with potholes.”“Many times, even cars get stuck on the road. Residents of the Urban Estate, Phase II, have complained about bad condition of road and sought its repair, but there is no progress,” the professor added.Mohinder Singh, president, Elite Welfare Society, PDA Urban Estate Phase II, said, “We raised the issue with officials of the PDA over six months ago and demanded repair of the road, but the work is still pending.”“The road has been in bad condition for the last three years. Many members of our association have met senior officials in this regard. Big potholes have come up on the road as during the construction work of Urban Estate, Phase IV, heavy vehicles plied here. Also, sewer lines in the area are broken,” he added.“Residents will meet officials of the PDA on September 6 to apprise them about their grievance,” he said.Meanwhile, the SDO, PDA (Civil division), Rajiv Kumar, said, “The office has already floated road repair tenders worth Rs1.5 crore. Tenders will be opened on September 9. The work of recarpeting roads will begin soon after allocation of tender.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/potholed-road-near-urban-estate-phase-ii-patiala-irks-residents-306524
04-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala: Ragho Majra sabzi mandi opens after over 6 months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 3A sabzi mandi at Ragho Majra in the city, which remained closed after the Municipal Corporation (MC) action in February, today opened after a gap of over six months. The mandi opened after a local court in Patiala allowed an application of various shop owners. The court restrained the Corporation from interfering, dispossessing and resuming shops from owners till final disposal of the suit.The court said, “Vegetable sellers have been successful in turning a prima-facie case in their favour.” The court allowed them to “carry on their business within shops owned by them without blocking public passage till the final decision of the present case”. The matter is subjudice and will come up for hearing on November 8.Shopkeepers, who sold vegetables from many shops at Ragho Majra Sabzi Mandi, had gone to court against the Corporation while stating that it was trying to resume possession of their shops since last year. This year, the MC shut the mandi on February 11.Vegetable sellers claimed ownership of shops in the court. The MC had de-notified sale of vegetables on wholesale basis and shifted the work to Sabzi Mandi at Sanaur, but the retail business continued at the site, said vegetable sellers. They were not encroaching any area, but the Corporation was threatening to resume possession of shops from them, vegetable sellers added. So, they had sought a restraining order from the court, said vegetable sellers.The Corporation in its response stated that only vacant land had been purchased by predecessors of vegetable sellers. The old mandi was de-notified in October 2015 and as per notification of the Punjab Mandi Board its occupants were shifted to Sabzi Mandi at Sanaur, the MC added. The civic body claimed that vegetable sellers were operating from both the new and old shops side by side.The MC also argued that the site in the old city created traffic congestion after which the District Mandi Officer, Patiala, issued notices to stop wholesale and retail business at shops.The court in its order stated that documents submitted by vegetable sellers showed possession of shops in question. The court said, “The Corporation has not put on record documents related to de-notification of the Old Sabzi Mandi or allotment of shops at the new mandi.”“The Corporation’s claim that running Sabzi Mandi at the disputed site creates traffic congestion is not sufficient to refrain vegetable sellers from doing their retail business,” the court added.Meanwhile, Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta on Friday said they had decided to file an appeal against the present court order. “The case is subjudice. We will comply with the court orders,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-ragho-majra-sabzi-mandi-opens-after-over-6-months-306498
04-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Doctors seldom show up at Patiala rural centres||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 3Despite Covid, many doctors of the Health Department, who are posted at health centres in villages, have reportedly been missing from the ground. On Friday, The Tribune visited many health centres in the Shutrana block of the district. Without any check, many doctors in the countryside were found missing from the centres during duty hours.Must be caught upThe post at the first health centre is lying vacant. The doctor at the other centre must be busy in some work as the medical officer there has been appointed as the nodal officer for court cases. — Dr Darshan Kumar, SMO, ShutranaAt one such centre, officials said the doctor rarely came for duty. He hadn’t showed up today. When asked about his duty roster, they said they had no idea about it. Similarly, there was no doctor at one more health centre in another village. The health officials at that centre said the post of medical officer was lying vacant. However, the department had appointed a doctor on deputation for three days a week, but he rarely showed up.Dr Darshan Kumar, Senior Medical Officer, Shutrana block, said, “The post at the first health centre is lying vacant. The doctor at the other centre must be busy in some work because the medical officer there has been appointed as the nodal officer for court cases of the department.”He said they had shortage of staff and had to depute doctors from the centres for the supervision of vaccination and Covid sampling.Sources in the department said doctors themselves opted for the rural postings to get a quota (30 per cent marks in NEET PG) in the postgraduation (MD/MS) selection process. However, some of them did not perform duties and such a practice was rampant across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doctors-seldom-show-up-at-patiala-rural-centres-306115
04-09-2021||Tokyo||Punjabi University economics scholar Harvinder wins India’s first ever Paralympics medal in archery||In a sport where precision matters the most, it was Harvinder Singh’s research in economics that gave him the competitive edge, said the para-athlete after winning India’s first ever Paralympics medal in archery on Friday.Instead of bowing to the pressure of three shoot-offs in five matches, the 31-year-old’s analytical mind saw each tie-break an opportunity to beat the odds with his single shot as he won a bronze with a perfect 10 against Korean Kim Min Su.“Economics is all about calculations and I applied that in my game and my thinking process. It really helped me in winning the medal,” Singh, who is pursuing Ph.D. at Punjabi University Patiala, said after his 6-5 (10-8) win in the shoot-off.Last year’s nationwide lockdown meant that Singh had to stay put in his village but as it continued he converted his family’s farmland into an archery range.“We had already reaped crops and the farmland was free so my father arranged a proper, plain land where I set up targets and trained twice a day. That way I also stayed safe and practice also went on smoothly,” he said.Singh was stretched to the full in the first two rounds but he remained calm and composed to defeat Stefano Travisani of Italy and former world number one Bato Tsydendorzhiev of Russia in the shoot-offs.“In a shoot-off, you have to put all your practice and training together and deliver in that one single arrow. You have to give all your energies and deliver in about 10-15 seconds,” he said.Drawing parallel with examination, the economics scholar said: “It’s very much similar to an examination, where in two-three hours you have to put in the year round effort.”          Asked how he manages study with the gruelling practice sessions, Singh said: “An idle mind is devil’s workshop, so I keep studying in my free time, it keeps me away from the negative thoughts.”  Singh rued his semifinal loss to world number 10 Kevin Mather of the USA 6-4 in an intense five-setter. The duo were locked four-all before the American sealed the win in the fifth set.“It rained before the match and afterwards there was wind from different directions and I failed to gauge it properly. You may call it pressure, but I’m happy that at least I won a bronze. I will practice harder and do better next time,” he said.On his mental preparation, he said he was off the social media since arriving in Tokyo.“People always keep remembering you of winning a medal once you are on phone. I always knew if I stay focus and keep working in the direction, result will come. So I was off social medal and my phone was off, today I will switch it on,” he signed off. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-economics-scholar-harvinder-wins-indias-first-ever-paralympics-medal-in-archery-306026
