05-09-2021||Patiala||Orientation programme at MM Modi College||Multani Mal Modi College organised three days orientation programme for newly admitted students. The objective of the programme was to introduce students to academic traditions, ethos, culture, various departments and facilities of the college.The College Principal, Dr Khushvinder Kumar, inaugurated the programme and welcomed new students on campus. In the first session, College Vice-Principal and head, English Department, Prof Shailendra Sidhu, discussed with students the policies of anti-ragging cell, women cell and college magazine ‘The Luminary’. She said students should maintain decorum and not get involved in unlawful activities.Dr Gurdeep Singh, Head, Punjabi Department, gave information about different cultural activities and competitions, which students could join.Prof Ved Prakash Sharma, Dean, Student Welfare, also addressed new students. He discussed time table and other administrative arrangements at the college with students.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/orientation-programme-at-mm-modi-college-307016
05-09-2021||Harkanwar Kaur||Afghan students pursuing studies in India worried about their future||Patiala, September 4As the Taliban have taken over the control of Kabul, citizens of Afghanistan, who are presently living in Punjab are tense. Afghan students said the situation was under control, but there was no guarantee for how long it would remain so.In all, 40 students from different provinces of Afghanistan are studying in Punjabi University, Patiala. They are pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses.At present, 30 students are pursuing studies at university and the rest have completed their degrees this year.These students are studying in India under the scholarship offered by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations in which their fee is deposited by the Government of India and they get Rs20,000 per month as sustenance allowance. Students residing outside the university also given accommodation allowance of Rs5500.“After the Taliban overtook control in Afghanistan, our dreams came to an end,” said Abdul Hadi Sharifi from Panjshir province in Afghanistan, who is pursuing Phd (Management) since 2019-20 at Punjabi University, in a depressing tone.He mentioned that families were facing both mental and financial stress as they had lost all their earnings.An Afghan student from Punjabi University, who did not wish to be named, said, “The Taliban did not impose any restrictions on people living in Kapisa province. People are free to go anywhere. Some complaints have poured in from residents of Kabul province, Mazar-i-Sharif district and Herat city about Taliban imposing a curb on wearing western clothes.”“Also, the Taliban have told women workers to stay at home till the situation gets better. After that they can resume their work again,” he added.Sebghatullah from Kapisa province in Afghanistan completed his postgraduation in public administration from Punjabi University recently. He said, “I am looking forward to placements and the university faculty and administration support in these bad times.”“As of now, I have completed my degree. So, I will stop getting scholarship. There is an urgent need of an earning source to make both ends meet,” he added. “Now, to fulfil the aim we have to work harder than before,” he stressed.Many students and their families are still in a state of shock due to the devastating situation in their parent country. Till now, they were behaving normally, but couldn’t assure what would happen in the future, said students.Noor Ahmad, who is pursuing Masters in Business Administration (final year) at Punjabi University, said, “After the Taliban captured Kabul I talked to my family twice or thrice in a day. They are asking us to stay in India in a safe and peaceful environment.”“The Taliban have intensified its attacks to take control of the Panjshir area where they are facing stiff resistance from Masood faction. People are scared and worried about their safety and future,” said another Afghan student, studying in Punjabi University.“Our families will have to start from scratch to earn their living. Many members of our families have lost their jobs. Prices of eatables have increased. It will worsen the situation in the coming days,” said students.Ranjit Kaur, Director, Department of Electronics, Punjabi University, is handling international students. She interacts with Afghan students regularly.“We are trying our best to provide medical and financial aid to students from Afghanistan. We have requested the authorities of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) to extend their scholarships till the situation gets better in their country,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/afghan-students-pursuing-studies-in-india-worried-about-their-future-307015
05-09-2021||Patiala||Administration yet to act  tough against persons defacing public property in Patiala||Defacement of public property with posters and paint continues to irk city residents as the administration is yet to act tough against violators, majority of them English language training centres. Not only government properties, violators are not even afraid of pasting bills on private properties, specially commercial.Besides, signboards on major roads outside the city have also been defaced by miscreants. They have written names of cities falling in Punjab in Punjabi, while the English translation has been covered with black paint.“This is inconveniencing commuters coming from other states. Suppose you go to Mizoram and don’t know their language. What will you do if all signboards are in their native language? The authorities must wake up from slumber and shoulder their responsibilities,” said SP Singh, an advocate at the district courts in the city.The situation is no good in the city as majority of walls and buildings are turning into poster walls. People said posters and pamphlets pasted on walls of hospitals, offices of the administration, underpasses and other unregulated paintings in various areas tarnished the beauty of the city.“The administration says they would take immediate action against violators. They remove posters, but these appear again after some time. We want the administration to impose hefty fines on violators to check the menace. Even police should act tough against them,” said Arjun Kapur, a law student.Senior officials said they imposed fines on violators every month and this exercise would become regular feature. “Checking defacement in the city is a continuous process. We have held a number of meetings with officials of the Municipal Corporation in this regard. Separate instructions will be issued to police stations in order to take action against violators defacing public and private properties in the city.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/administration-yet-to-act-tough-against-persons-defacing-public-property-in-patiala-307014
05-09-2021||---||Students, medical faculty of Government Medical College, Patiala, eyeball to eyeball over hike in retirement age||Patiala, September 4Students and teachers of the Government Medical College here are stated to have come face to face over the issue of increasing the retirement age of medical professors in medical colleges of the state.In fact, senior doctors have continually been demanding an increase in the retirement age from 62 to 65 years while their students, senior residents (SR), are opposing the same.The Union of Resident Doctors, Punjab, has already rejected the demand for any increase in the retirement age of the medical faculty. Resident doctors said their teachers should at least care about the future of their students.The union said the demand for the increase in retirement age would block employment avenues for three years.Resident doctors said the increase in retirement age was antithesis of the state policy of ‘ghar ghar rozegar’.One of the resident doctors said, “At least two or three new recruits can be hired against the salary of one senior professor. Besides, new recruits will be more updated and efficient. They have taught us, but they should also think about our future.”The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA) demanded that the retirement age should be 65 years in accordance with the National Medical Commission Rules.Meanwhile, continuous efforts are being made by vested interests to increase the retirement age of the medical faculty from 62 to 65 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-medical-faculty-of-government-medical-college-patiala-eyeball-to-eyeball-over-hike-in-retirement-age-307012
05-09-2021||---||Student, teacher test positive in Ghanaur||Patiala, September 4A student and a teacher of the Government School in Ghanaur, on Saturday, tested positive for coronavirus. Officials of the Health Department said they had taken around 65 samples, including that of students and staff members, of the said school during special sampling of government schools. Of 65 samples, two tested positive for the Covid.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said both positive cases had already been isolated. Besides, contact tracing of positive patients had been started, Dr Sumeet added.Notably, one positive case from the same school was detected a few weeks ago.“We will close school for 14 days after finishing sampling of contacts of the positive patients and other staff. The school has reported one case last month,” said Dr Sumeet.Meanwhile, the Health Department informed that the district reported seven positive cases on Saturday, including two from Government School, Ghanaur. With this, the positive case count stood at 48,823 while the active case load was 25 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/student-teacher-test-positive-in-ghanaur-307011
05-09-2021||---||Covid update: New variant prompts Health Dept to screen international travellers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 4Following reports of new Covid mutations across the globe, the Health Department has once again started screening international travellers.Officials of the Health Department said they would be screening travellers coming from the United Kingdom, South Africa, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe. Besides, travellers from Europe and the Middle East would also be screened by the Health Department, they added.The Health Department has mandated 14 days home quarantine for travellers coming from the listed countries.Dr Prince Sodhi, Civil Surgeon, Patiala, said travellers would only be home isolated. However, health officials would remain in constant touch with travellers during the quarantine period, he added.“We will be taking samples of travellers on the seventh day of their arrival. Until now, six travellers from the UK have been under surveillance,” he said.Notably, a new variant of Covid, C.1.2., which was first reported from South Africa, has now spread to China, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mauritius, England, New Zealand Portugal and Switzerland. Following this, health officials after receiving directions from the state Health Department have started screening travellers from these countries.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said steps to quarantine and test travellers were taken after cases of new variants were reported from these countries.“The decision to screen and test travellers has been taken as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of new variants. However, as of now there is no need to panic,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-update-new-variant-prompts-health-dept-to-screen-international-travellers-307009
