07-09-2021||---||‘Lack of political will cause of economic crisis’||Patiala, September 6Multani Mal Modi College, Patiala, in collaboration with College Alumni Association, organised a lecture on ‘Economic Problems and Prospects of Punjab’. The lecture was delivered by Dr Kesar Singh Bhangoo, a former professor and dean, faculty of social sciences, Punjabi University, Patiala.College Principal Khushvinder Kumar welcomed the expert and said that the economic conditions of Punjab were in crisis and it was important to discuss and debate these issues on public platforms as well as in academic circles.In his lecture, Dr Kesar Singh discussed the historical construction of the present economic crisis and root causes of developmental problems. He said the lack of political will, lack of industrial policies and investment and administrative failures has pushed the economy of Punjab in a state of inertia. He discussed the different aspects of development models which were implemented in Punjab. He said the present economical failure was a multi-dimensional problem with various socio, political, cultural and developmental repercussions.A lively session followed the lecture. A large numbers of students and faculty teachers participated in this event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lack-of-political-will-cause-of-economic-crisis-307808
07-09-2021||---||Taekwondo workshop organised for girl students||Patiala, September 6The Women Studies Centre of Punjabi University, Patiala, in collaboration with the Department of Physical Education conducted a workshop to impart training in self-defence to the girl students of university hostel. The workshop was held on the occasion of World Taekwondo Day.Dr Arvind, Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, said that self-defence techniques improved the morale of girls and freed them from fear by improving their confidence. He said girls need to brace up and fight their own battles and safeguard themselves. This workshop was organised with a view to empower girls and make them self-dependent.Dr Ritu Lehal, Director, Women Studies Centre, said the scenario of crime against women required that every girl should equip herself with the techniques of self-defence to protect herself.“The present scenario of crime against women necessitates that. No longer is she expected to be a damsel in distress, waiting for someone to protect her”, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/taekwondo-workshop-organised-for-girl-students-307807
07-09-2021||---||Rani Rampal donates hockey sticks to players at Punjabi University||Patiala, September 6Rani Rampal, captain, Indian women hockey team, on Sunday donated 50 hockey sticks to young students at Punjabi University here. The sticks were given away by officials of the university’s sports department to those undertaking training at the university’s hockey training centre.They said the number of students seeking training in hockey at the centre had increased after the Indian team’s performance in the Tokyo Olympics.The officials said the hockey sticks were required for young players as their numbers had increased and thanked the Indian captain for providing the same.Dr Dalbir Singh Randhawa, assistant director, sports department, said Rani Rampal had paid a visit to the university and desired to donate to the centre a few days ago. “Therefore, the sticks have been given away to young beginner students”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rani-rampal-donates-hockey-sticks-to-players-at-punjabi-university-307806
07-09-2021||---||RGNUL launches faculty research incentive scheme||Patiala, September 6The Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) has come up with a faculty research incentive scheme for publications of its faculty in Scopus indexed journals. The announcement was made by University Vice-Chancellor (VC) Dr GS Bajpai during the celebration of Teacher’s Day on September 6.The university said an incentive of Rs 21,000 will be given to faculty members who publish their works in such journals.The university VC said the scheme would promote academics and research on the campus. “To incentivise faculty publication in the journals we have declared an award of Rs 21,000. The RGNUL will edit/publish the UGC CARE listed CCV journal”, he said.He said, “A teacher has to evolve, explore potential, generate alternative ideas and create turbulence in the minds of students to dispel darkness and ignorance.” He added, “Every challenge and malady pervading the educational system can be efficiently encountered by teachers.”Registrar Professor Naresh Kumar Vats said the faculty should deploy innovative pedagogy while teaching students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rgnul-launches-faculty-research-incentive-scheme-307805
07-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council clears projects worth Rs 7 crore||Fatehgarh Sahib, September 6The Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council (MC) in a meeting held here today passed 62 development works worth Rs 7 crore, out of which Rs 1 crore has been earmarked to purchase mini tempos for door-to-door garbage collection. The meeting was attended by all councillors.Ashok Sood, President, Municipal Council The contract of fire engine drivers and 15 fire personnel has been extended for another six months and Rs1 crore has been earmarked to purchase mini tempos for door-to-door garbage collection.Ashok Sood, president of the council, said 16 proposals were presented in the meeting and all proposals were passed unanimously by the members. He said the contract of the fire engine drivers and 15 fire personnel working on contract was extended for another six months. He said Rs 1 crore was earmarked to purchase new tempos for door-to-door garbage collection in the city. He said a community hall would be constructed in Talania village at the cost of Rs 22 lakh, a new park at the cost of Rs 33.73 lakh in Sirhind city, Rs 25 lakh have been earmarked for the cleaning of ponds. Interlocking tiles will be installed in various streets and bazaars of the town. He said the development works would be carried out in all wards irrespective of the party affiliation of the councillors without any discrimination.Meanwhile, three councillors of the Aam Aadmi Party and one from SAD (B) alleged that the council president was biased towards their demands and not initiating any development projects in their wards. They alleged that there was no arrangement of cleanliness in their wards and the work was being done through defeated Congress candidates by ignoring them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sirhind-fatehgarh-sahib-municipal-council-clears-projects-worth-rs-7-crore-307804
07-09-2021||---||Punjabi University, Patiala, to develop language tools for Dari, Kashmiri, Pashto||Patiala, September 6The Research Centre for Technical Development of Punjabi language, Punjabi University, Patiala, will now develop language processing tools for Kashmiri, Dari, Balochi and Pashto. The department had earlier provided IT solutions for Punjabi, Hindi, Urdu and Sindhi languages. The university is also expected to rope-in students from Afghanistan studying at the university.Gurpreet Singh Lehal, professor and director of the centre, said this would bridge the scripts and language barrier between communities in the Indian sub-continent.He said, “Under the initiative language processing tools and linguistic resources such as corpus, typing tools, word predictors, generic font and storage code converters, digital dictionaries and transliteration tools will be developed for these languages.”Vishal Goyal, professor at the Department of Computer Science, said: “A few research scholars from Afghanistan studying at Punjabi University and neighbouring institutes will be roped in and involved in development of these linguistic resources.”The university had earlier facilitated electronic and written communication between Punjabi, Sindhi and Urdu speaking communities living in India and Pakistan through the development of bi-directional web-based transliteration tools with help of international grants by Pan Asia ICT (Singapore) and ISIF Asia (Australia).Officials said their resources for languages including typing tools, font and storage code converters, text corpus and optical character recognition systems are also very popular among writers, newspapers and publishers in India and Pakistan for composing and transliterating articles, news, and digital online content.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-to-develop-language-tools-for-dari-kashmiri-pashto-307803
07-09-2021||---||PhD holders of Punjabi University, Patiala, sell veggies, demand regular jobs||Patiala, September 6Alleging that 1,609 regular posts out of 1,873 post of faculty members in 47 government colleges were lying vacant in the state, PhD holders of Punjabi University today sold veggies and fruits outside the university campus as a mark of protest against the government’s failure to fill vacant posts. The scholars, who had gathered under the banner ‘save government colleges’, said there were no teachers in some of the colleges and the government was running the institutions with the help of contractual teachers.Holding placards in their hands, students from various organisations, including DSO, PRSU, PSU, AIRSA and others, gathered in protest and raised slogans against the state government. Ravi Ditt Singh, a PhD holder of Punjabi University, said the scholars are selling veggies and fruits because the government had not filled posts of teachers that were lying vacant. “Many of us have completed PhD, MPhil, while others are MA and NET qualified but are unemployed. We are being forced to resort to such protests. Although, over 1,600 posts of lecturers in the colleges are lying vacant. In fact, there are only 18 regular teachers to teach Punjabi in all colleges. This is because regular teachers have not been hired in government colleges in the last 26 years.The government has been holding classes in these colleges with the help of contractual teachers for long. Qualified aspirants are eligible for the posts but the government has not recruited them. Many posts are also lying vacant in the state’s aided colleges as well,” Gursewak Singh, a NET qualified PhD scholar of the university said. The scholars have now decided to hold protests against the state government at job fairs organised by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/phd-holders-of-punjabi-university-patiala-sell-veggies-demand-regular-jobs-307802
07-09-2021||---||Patiala district vaccination figure crosses 10-lakh mark||Patiala, September 6The vaccination figure crossed the 10-lakh mark in the district with 13, 961 people getting inoculated here on Monday. The Heath Department informed that 2.5 lakh beneficiaries in the district had fully been vaccinated while 7.61 lakh received the first dose.“If the vaccination drive continues at the same pace, the department will be able to vaccinate the target population of 14 lakh at least with a single dose by the end of this month,” Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said.The Civil Surgeon said, “Response of beneficiaries is overwhelming. If the supply continues in the same manner, I think, we will be able to vaccinate the entire target population with a single dose very soon.”“The response from the rural population is improving with each passing day, earlier which was not visible,” Dr Sodhi said.The Health Department claimed that online registration of the beneficiaries had also given the impetus to the vaccination process. Notably, the registration process of beneficiaries for the vaccination was slow earlier because the online portal for registration often had technical glitches.Meanwhile, Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said only 2.5 lakh beneficiaries were fully vaccinated, therefore, the beneficiaries, who had received only a single dose, should get their second dose soon. “Both the doses are important for the complete protection against Covid-19. We have already dedicated Sundays for administering the second dose only,” he said.She further informed that 1,039 pregnant and lactating women had received a single dose despite the fact that vaccination was safe for them. Dr Veenu said, “It is very important for pregnant and lactating women to get vaccination for the safety of the newborns. Vaccination is safe for them, therefore, they should come forward.”Three test positive in distThe district reported three more Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the toll to 48,827 since the outbreak of the disease last year. The Health department informed that the number of active cases in the district was 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-vaccination-figure-crosses-10-lakh-mark-307801
07-09-2021||---||PRTC staff protest: 70% buses off road, travellers hit||Patiala, September 6Bus travellers in the state were at the receiving end following the protest of contractual employees of PEPSU Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), here today.Around 70 percent of the buses remained off road owing to the indefinite strike by the employees that started on Monday.Passengers had to wait for hours at the bus stands due to limited number of buses for various routes. Consequently, buses were overloaded, and many passengers were seen sitting on the roofs of the buses. One of the passengers at the Patiala bus stand said, “The government should have made some arrangements for the passengers’ ease. Being a working day, many office going people had to face a lot of inconvenience.”AAP: Employees’ demands justMeanwhile, the protesting contractual employees, demanded regularisation along with an increase in the number of buses by 10,000 in the state. They said they had given several ultimatums to the government, however, the government did not pay any heed to their demands. They said they had started an indefinite strike and the government was solely responsible for the harassment of passengers.Managing director Bhupinderpal Singh said only 30 per cent of the buses plied. He said, “Efforts are on to convince the protesting employees to join their duties. I hope around 50 per cent of the 1,000 PRTC buses would run across the state soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/prtc-staff-protest-70-buses-off-road-travellers-hit-307585
07-09-2021||Karam Prakash||No vaccination certificate, RT-PCR checks at Punjab entry points, commuters have free run||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 6Though it is mandatory for those entering the state to show an RT-PCR negative report or a vaccination certificate, there is reportedly no check on the ground.The Tribune visited three interstate border entry points, including the biggest at the Shambhu barrier of Haryana, and found no officials checked the required documents to control the movement.However, the health department claimed that they had screened state-owned buses coming from other states and were conducting rapid antigen tests of travellers who did not have a negative test report or vaccination certificate. Officials said majority of the staff was busy in the vaccination drive and they were not getting enough support from other departments.In the wake of a dip in Covid-19 cases, health experts said the departments had been complacent and not taking the government's order seriously.Harpalpur Senior Medical Officer Dr Rishi said: “Our teams visit Shambhu barrier once a day to conduct tests of travellers because the teams are busy with vaccination and testing of government schoolchildren. Besides, we need more support from the administration to screen travellers.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said: “I have already directed my officers to hold regular screening at all three checking points. I will re-check with my officers in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-vaccination-certificate-rt-pcr-checks-at-punjab-entry-points-commuters-have-free-run-307605
