09-09-2021||---||13 contract virus in Patiala district||Patiala, September 8After almost 40 days, Patiala, on Wednesday, reported the highest Covid cases in a single day. The district reported 13 positive cases of coronavirus.The rise in the number of positive cases, said health experts, might be a forewarning of a potential third wave. Though officials of the Health Department said they did not find any clustering of cases, it could be early signs of further rise in positive cases in the coming days.Of 13 positive cases, five were reported from Patiala city, four from Nabha town and two from Shurtrana block. Besides, one case each was reported from Bhadson and Harpalpur.Health officials informed that nine cases were reported from the urban areas while four were reported from the rural areas.With this development, the district count of positive cases stands at 48,841. The active case count in the district was 31, added officials of the Health Department.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said there was no clustering of cases. Some cases were reported from one family while others were contacts of already positive patients, he added. “The cases have been reported from different blocks as there is no clustering. Of the 13, two positive cases are interstate travellers,” he said.Most positive patients reported here today are stated to be unvaccinated. “Majority of the positive cases reported on Wednesday are not vaccinated. Therefore, it is important to get vaccinated at the earliest,” said a senior health official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/13-contract-virus-in-patiala-district-308645
09-09-2021||---||Applicants hold demonstration outside commission office in Patiala||Patiala, September 8Feeling harassed over the state government’s failure to conduct various notified exams, many applicants held a demonstration outside the PPSC office premises here today.Applicants said they had applied for various posts, including that of junior engineer (JE), SDO and Naib Tehsildar, but till date only exam for the recruitment of SDO was held.Lovejeet Singh, one of the protesters said, “Posts of Naib Tehsildar were notified in 2020. But its exam has not been conducted till date. Similarly, exam for the posts of junior engineer in various departments have also not been conducted.”“Earlier, the commission had notified a particular month for conducting various exams. We have been waiting for exams for the last over two years. This has caused much resentment among applicants,” he added.Applicants had come to the PPSC office from Mansa, Amritsar, Abohar, Rajpura and other locations.They said over 80,000 candidates had applied for the posts of Naib Tehsildar while thousands were preparing for junior engineer exam.GDS Soni, who runs a training institute in Chandigarh, accompanied students. He said, “We met officials at the PPSC office, but they also said that exams will be held after the appointment of new chairman. The last chairman retired in July. The department is yet to hold interviews for the posts of junior engineer for which exams have already been conducted.”“The exams for various posts were announced in 2020. The commission failed to conduct exams. This has left many applicants harassed as they have been preparing for exams for over two years. Also, before this, the exams for junior engineer posts were held in 2019,” said applicants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/applicants-hold-demonstration-outside-commission-office-in-patiala-308644
09-09-2021||---||Health Dept sets up 76 dedicated beds for dengue at hospitals in Patiala district||Patiala, September 8Amid the ongoing dengue season, officials of the Health Department, on Wednesday, said they had already set up 76 dedicated beds for dengue patients in the district.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, who inspected one of the dengue wards here on Wednesday, said the Health Department had already set up dengue wards at Government Mata Kaushalya, Government Rajindra Hospital, Nabha Civil Hospital, Rajpura Civil Hospital, Samana Civil Hospital and Community Health Centres in Ghanuar, Model Town, Tripuri, Patran and Dudhan Sadhan.“People should get themselves tested for dengue at government testing centres for free as soon as its symptoms appear,” Sodhi added.“The district is well prepared for dengue. However, we need community participation to curb the spread of dengue,” said Sodhi.“The people should be alert and drain out water from discarded utensils at least once a week,” Sodhi added.Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said so far the district had reported only four cases and one death due to dengue in the current season.They had conducted around 300 dengue tests in the district this season, Dr Sumeet added.Dr Sumeet further informed that positive patients, who required blood platelets, would be given treatment at Rajindra Hospital, which had the facility of blood transfusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-dept-sets-up-76-dedicated-beds-for-dengue-at-hospitals-in-patiala-district-308643
09-09-2021||---||Police recruits awaiting joining letters block road in Patiala||Patiala, September 8Applicants selected as constable in 2016, who have yet to get appointment letters, today blocked the Passi road connecting Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib Gurdwara with Thapar Institute here today.Over 40 applicants spent the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday on an overhead water tank to mark their protest for delay in appointment letters. These protesters also include those, who were employed, but were relieved over claims of faulty merit list.Jagdeep Singh, one of the candidates, said they were selected in the Punjab Police in 2016 and had been awaiting appointment letters since then.“In all, there are 1,835 candidates, who have been selected for various posts. Our medical examination has also been conducted. We have been awaiting recruitment letters till date,” he added.The protesters said they had met many officials, including Punjab Congress committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu, DGP and ADGP, but to no avail.Ashok Kumar, another protester, said many selected candidates were recruited, but relieved. The government claimed that a faulty merit list was prepared, he added. As such, they removed around 13 recruits a year after they were in service, he said.They want the government to complete the recruitment process at the earliest and rehire those, who were relieved, said protesters.“We will continue protest till our recruitment process is not completed and appointment letters are not given. We also want that any new recruitment for police posts should start only after the completion of the previous process,” protesters added.The SP, Palwinder Singh Cheema, also reached the protesting site to listen to grievances of protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/police-recruits-awaiting-joining-letters-block-road-in-patiala-308642
09-09-2021||Patiala||Federation seeks recruitment, promotions for SC, BC staff||Members and office-bearers of Gazetted and Non-gazetted SC, BC Employees’ Welfare Federation, Punjab, during a press conference here today said they want that the 85th amendment of the constitution, notified by the Centre Government, should be implemented in the state from 1995.Also, a letter issued by the Punjab Personnel Department in October 2014, that goes against the mandate of the 85th amendment should be revoked, they added. The federation held press conference, along with SCBC Pensioners’ Welfare Association, Punjab, and Ambedkar Mission Club, Punjab.They said employees associated with the SC, BC categories were not given promotions as per mandate of the 85th amendment of the constitution from 1995, which was discriminatory.Jasbir Singh Pal, chairman of the federation, said, “Our ratio in promotion and recruitment has remained the same as it was in 1971 despite increase in our population. We want that the reservation in recruitment should be as per percentage of the population. Therefore, SC category should get 40 per cent reservation. Similarly, BC and OBC categories should get 27 per cent reservation,” he added.Office-bearers said one-third of the village shamlat land for families belonging to reserved categories, should be properly allocated as per the law.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/federation-seeks-recruitment-promotions-for-sc-bc-staff-308641
09-09-2021||---||Sit-in by contractual employees leaves commuters stranded||Patiala, September 8A road blockade by contractual employees of various departments of the state at the Sewa Singh Thikriwala roundabout has completely disrupted traffic movement in the Chief Minister’s hometown. Residents owing to traffic jams since yesterday morning continue be at the receiving end due to the ongoing protest.Notably, protesters have already erected tents in middle of roads and have been staging a sit-in therein. Residents are complaining that the district administration, along with the traffic police, has not done any planning for alternative routes to avoid protesting sites.Residents complained that they had been left to their own fate amid traffic chaos in the city. One of the doctors at Government Rajindra Hospital said, “I had to travel five kilometres extra to reach hospital due to the ongoing protest. The traffic police have not come up with a plan of alternative routes to avoid the protesting site.”Plying of public transport buses on the Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway has also been affected because protesting sites are on highways.Moreover, shopkeepers surrounding the Thikriwala roundabout are facing financial losses due to protest.Meanwhile, later in the evening, the district administration announced that heavy vehicles would not be allowed in the city from 8 am to 8 pm. The administration also said the movement of heavy vehicles was causing traffic jams in the city.The Patiala Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Charanjit Singh, said, “We have not given any permission to protesters. They (protesters) are causing inconvenience to city residents. We have been requesting them for a dialogue. However, they are adamant on their demands. If need arises, we will take action against them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sit-in-by-contractual-employees-leaves-commuters-stranded-308640
09-09-2021||Patiala||Diploma engineers hold protest march||The Council of Diploma Engineers, Punjab, held a state-level protest rally here today over the Punjab Government’s Sixth Pay Commission recommendations.They said the government should revise pay scales as per their suggested multiplication factor and demanded re-implementation of the old pension scheme. Nearly 3,000 protestors gathered at the new grain market on the Patiala-Sirhind road. They also stopped at the PSPCL headquarters and submitted a memorandum to officials.Sukhminder Singh Lovely, chairman of the council, said, “Engineers working in different departments, boards, corporations and institutions are perturbed over the recommendation of the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission according to which pay scales and allowances of the JE cadre has been lowered. Fixed travel allowance of 30 litres paid to JEs has also been withdrawn.”“We want the government to provide the 3.1 multiplication factor in increment of pay and reduce probation period of new recruits,” protesters added. They also demanded enhancement in the initial pay of power JEs from existing Rs17,450 per month to Rs19770 per month from December 2011.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/diploma-engineers-hold-protest-march-308639
09-09-2021||Patiala||Road in Patiala closed||Issuing an advisory, the administration has stated that the Patiala-Rajpura road from Urban Estate Chowk to Choura Road Chowk would be closed for traffic from tomorrow for the construction of flyover in front of the new bus stand.Commuters coming from Chandigarh/Rajpura side had been advised to divert from Urban Estate Chowk to the Sirhind bypass road, reads the advisory. Meanwhile, commuters from Patiala to Rajpura/Chandigarh side were advised to adopt route via Sirhind bypass/Baddi Nadi road.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/road-in-patiala-closed-308638
09-09-2021||Patiala||International Literacy Day||Nat’l award for college teacherPatiala: Dr Ajit Kumar, Registrar, MM Modi College, Department of Computer Science, has brought laurels to the institution and Punjab by winning I2OR (ELITE Teachers) National Award 2021. Dr Sumeet Kumar also from the college has got a patent for his innovative research on “The system and method of visually impaired people for voice conversion speech to text communication”. Dr Sumeet Kumar is a part of the team in whose name patent has been registered. The Principal, Dr Khushvinder Kumar, congratulated teachers . TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/international-literacy-day-308637
