12-09-2021||Patiala||Fit India Run 2.0 organised in Patiala||NCC cadets of The Paradise International School organised Fit India Run 2.0, planned by the 5th Battalion of the NCC, under ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ campaign.The NCC wing also organised fitness activities and physical exercises on the occasion. The run was flagged off by Principal Parminder Kaur from the school campus and it ended at Daftriwala village. She said such activities kept students and NCC cadets motivated and enthusiastic. Therefore, everyone should participate in such activities. Kiranjeet Kaur, Abhinav Sharma and other staff members were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fit-india-run-2-0-organised-in-patiala-310059
12-09-2021||---||PRTC staff strike enters 6th day in Patiala, passengers hassled||Patiala, September 11Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Patiala Bus Stand on Saturday, as the indefinite strike by contractual employees of Pespu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) entered the sixth day.Passengers were left stranded at the bus stand as only 32 per cent of PRTC buses were on roads, owing to the strike. As a result, passengers were seen overloading private buses and even sitting on their roofs.A passenger, who had to board a bus for Sunam, said, “Even after so many days of the strike, the government has not been able to make any alternative arrangements. The passengers are a harried lot.”Meanwhile, the protesting employees alleged that private operators, taking advantage of the ongoing strike, were running school buses as regular buses from inside the bus stand.Harkesh Ricky, a union leader, said the PRTC management was threatening to throw them out of jobs if they did not join back their duties. Apart from regularisation, their demands included increasing the number of buses. “We are not only fighting for ourselves, but also for the people of Punjab, to provide them better services,” Ricky said.Bhupinder Pal Singh, managing director, PRTC, said the corporation was facing financial losses due to the ongoing strike as only 32 per cent buses were running. He said, “The government will hold a meeting with the protesting employees on September 14. I am hopeful that the situation will normalise soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/prtc-staff-strike-enters-6th-day-in-patiala-passengers-hassled-310057
12-09-2021||---||24 Benches settle 4,000 cases at National Lok Adalat in Patiala district||Patiala, September 11Rajinder Aggarwal, District and Sessions Judge, Patiala, said a total of 24 Benches were set up at the district courts of Patiala, Nabha, Samana and Rajpura on Saturday as part of National Lok Adalat. The courts have been working consistently with the help of lawyers to resolve the cases pending due to Covid restrictions, he stated.Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Parminder Kaur, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), said the Lok Adalat remained successful as over 4,000 cases, out of the 6,600 taken up for hearing, were resolved.Earlier, Justice UU Lalit, Supreme Court Judge and Chairman of the National Legal Services Authority, reviewed the National Lok Adalat through video-conferencing. He lauded the efforts made by the bench of Additional District and Sessions Judge Shiv Mohan Garg to settle a criminal dispute amicably during the Lok Adalat.20-year-old civil dispute settled in Fatehgarh SahibA National Lok Adalat was held at sessions court division Fatehgarh Sahib and sub-division Amloh and Khamanon to ensure speedy and hassle-free dispensation of justice, under the guidance of Nirbhow Singh Gill, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA). Ten Benches were constituted to facilitate the litigants.Gill said a 20-year-old civil dispute was settled and four estranged couples were reunited with the efforts of the members of the Lok Adalat. Approximately 1,200 cases of the 1,437 presented were settled in the Adalat. An amount of Rs 1.18 crore was awarded as compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/24-benches-settle-4-000-cases-at-national-lok-adalat-in-patiala-district-310039
12-09-2021||---||Dengue threat looms, poor public participation to blame||Patiala, September 11Lack of community participation is obstructing the anti-dengue drive in the district and has already become a cause of concern for the Health Department. Despite repeated awareness campaigns, dengue larvae are continuously being detected inside households. The recent rainfall in the district is also said to have played a spoilsport in controlling the dengue outbreak. In some of the houses, dengue larvae have been found three times consecutively.Dr Sumeet Singh, District EpidemiologistAs of now, the situation is under control. However, the lack of community participation can increase the threat of rise in dengue cases, especially after the recent spell of rain.Health officials said they had found dengue larvae inside a house at Bishan Nagar for the third time in a row. Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “We have already inspected around 3.75 lakh households. During the Dry Day Friday campaign, dengue larvae were detected at some households again. Challans are being issued to repeat offenders.”He said “Our teams can’t visit every household every week. Therefore, people should drain out water from discarded items at least once a week.”The Health Department has already found dengue larvae at about 4,000 households in the season so far. Besides, around 31 challans have been issued to residences where dengue larvae were found more than once.Sumeet said dengue outbreak could be controlled only if its breeding was controlled. And to stop breeding, community participation was must.Notably, the district has already reported five positive cases this season.“As of now, the situation is under control. However, the lack of community participation can increase the threat of rise in dengue cases, especially after the recent spell of rain,” Sumeet added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dengue-threat-looms-poor-public-participation-to-blame-310038
12-09-2021||Aman Sood||Commuters brave traffic snarls as agitators block Patiala roads||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 11Local commuters and the ones passing through the city are facing a harrowing time with traffic snarls being reported on almost all roads. Agitators have blocked some roads permanently.Last night, traffic jams stretching up to 5 km were witnessed on the Sirhind road where traffic coming from Chandigarh and Sirhind side was diverted.Agitators have erected tents at two protest sites while the district administration has turned a blind eye to the encroachment. Contractual employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), contractual employees of various departments, police recruits awaiting joining and teachers are on strike in Patiala.“It took me three hours to reach from Chandigarh to my house in Patiala. To cover the last 6 km in Patiala, it took me around two hours. There was no policeman to manage the traffic. Even buses and trucks were using that narrow Sirhind road,” said a former IAS officer.“People in the hometown of the Chief Minister are suffering every day due to regular blockades by various associations. It is high time the government starts bothering about the common man on road,” he said.Another commuter, Ashim Gupta, told The Tribune that earlier, it would take 15 minutes to reach the bank from his house. But these days, it took him an hour to reach there. “Fuel prices are rising and it is sheer harassment being faced by the public in Patiala. The government is not acting tough and agitators block roads at will,” he said.“The agitators come to Patiala since they want to be heard in the CM’s home constituency. But since the CM is not here, only residents of Patiala are being troubled,” he added.The police are under pressure regulating traffic and ensuring law and order at dharna sites in the city. Owing to inability on the part of the government to take decisive action against agitators, all major roads stand blocked.“A majority of agitators are demanding regular jobs or are upset with the government on some pretext or the other. If we get clear directions, we can stop all such agitations,” said a police officer, preferring anonymity.Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh said: “We have asked the traffic police to put up more traffic signage boards on the Sirhind bypass. Moreover, we are planning to deploy more traffic marshals on the stretch to manage traffic movement. Besides, people, who want to go to Chandigarh , should use the Sangrur bypass.”Traffic advisoryThe administration has stated that the Patiala-Rajpura road from Urban Estate Chowk to Choura Road Chowk would be closed to traffic from Sunday for construction of a flyover in front of the new bus stand. People coming from Chandigarh/Rajpura side are advised to divert from Urban Estate Chowk to the Sirhind bypass. Those coming from Patiala and going to Rajpura/Chandigarh side can take route via Sirhind bypass/Baddi Nadi road.Royal City protesters’ favouriteAccording to the data collected by The Tribune, 1,153 dharnas or agitations had been held in Patiala from March 1 to August 31. Of these, 57 were state-level dharnas, for which the district administration had to call additional force from other districts and even reserve battalions. Several police personnel and agitators were injured during protests. On an average, the district police and local residents are troubled by around 200 agitations per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/commuters-brave-traffic-snarls-as-agitators-block-patiala-roads-309908
