16-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Cath lab yet to start functioning at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 15Though the Catheterisation Laboratory at the newly built super-specialty wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital is ready to function, yet it could not be started because of the non-availability of the VIP for its inauguration.The facility, commonly referred to as a Cath Lab, was to be inaugurated by the Patiala Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur and Medical Education Minister OP Soni on September 14. The hospital authorities informed that as the Patiala MP was not available, therefore, the inauguration had to be postponed.Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College Patiala, said, “The lab is ready. However, its scheduled inauguration on September 14 had been postponed. As soon as the government announces another inauguration date, we will start the lab.”When asked about whereabouts of the Patiala MP, the district administration refused to comment. According to sources the availability of the lab services for the needy, unfortunately, rests on a VIP. Senior doctors told The Tribune that the lab was ready. However, the only reason why lab had not started functioning was non-availability of any politician to inaugurate it, they added. A doctor on the condition of anonymity said, “The Assembly elections are round the corner. Therefore, politicians want to take credit for the lab. The state government did not bother to start the lab for many years despite the availability of machine as there was staff shortage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cath-lab-yet-to-start-functioning-at-government-rajindra-hospital-patiala-311856
16-09-2021||---||Patiala: Union protests delay in decision on development works in villages||Patiala, September 15The Sarpanch Panchayat Union, Punjab, today held a protest at YPS Chowk here over their concern of being ‘neglected’ by the state government in taking decisions regarding development works in villages.Leaders of the union demanded that the state government should clear their pending payments. While talking to the media they said, “The government has failed to provide us any facilities. Also, during the Covid-19 pandemic, many sarpanches died after contracting the disease, but the state government did not compensate their families.”Various government officials failed to cooperate with them, including sanctioning grants for their villages, sarpanches added. The state government did not provide them grants for developments in villages, said sarpanches.“We will inform people in villages that the state government did not provide any facilities,” said union leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-union-protests-delay-in-decision-on-development-works-in-villages-311855
16-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Paralympian Harvinder sets sights on Dubai Senior World Championship||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 15Paralympic bronze medallist Harvinder Singh Dhanju, who once contemplated quitting archery over low performance, now has his eyes on the Senior World Championship, scheduled to be held in Dubai in February next year. He is the first Indian to bag a medal in archery in Paralympic Games.The archer today reached Punjabi University campus where a felicitation ceremony was organised to welcome him. A rally was held from Gurdwara Sahib, Bahadurgarh, which reached the university campus with all pomp and show.While talking to The Tribune Harvinder said he was elated at his achievement and aimed to perform better in the future. “I am happy that I have won a medal for my country. This was possible with the support of my family, coaches, university and the government. Soon, I will start training for the World Championship, which will be held in Dubai,” said Harvinder.He had started practising archery on the university campus in 2013, Harvinder added. “Since then we faced a number of challenges. Initially, my performance was not upto the mark. I planned to quit the game, but my coaches decided to change my event from compound to recurve. Thereafter I started performing better. Also, my coaches arranged costly equipment from the university for me, which gave me much needed boost,” said HarvinderTalking about the Tokyo Paralympics Harvinder added, “Indian players managed to win 19 medals in Paralympics this year. This number is more than all medals Indian players won in earlier Paralympics. It shows that the government has invested in sports during the last few years.”The young medallist had once decided to leave the sport during his training days.His coach Gaurav Sharma said, “We instead changed his event from compound and started training him for the recurve category. Later, he competed in the International Paralympic Games 2017 held in China. Later in 2018, he became the first player to win gold medal for India in Asian Para Games. Now, he has made history by bagging India’s first ever medal in archery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/paralympian-harvinder-sets-sights-on-dubai-senior-world-championship-311854
16-09-2021||---||Punjabi University to hold youth festivals||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 15Punjabi University will hold the regional and inter-regional youth festivals through offline mode this year. The decision was taken by the executive committee of the university’s Department of Youth Welfare here on Wednesday.University officials have decided dates for the youth festival. They said the inter-regional youth festival would be held on the university campus between November 15 and 18.The state government would also hold a youth festival in which only those teams, which bag the first place in inter-regional competitions, could participate, they added.The university had bagged the over-all champion trophy at the state-level Inter-University Youth Festival in 2019-20, they said. The university also bagged second place in group folk songs and classical dance in the 23rd National Youth Festival, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-hold-youth-festivals-311853
