19-09-2021||---||Contractual employees take out march to press for regular jobs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 18Contractual employees and workers getting honorarium in various government departments held a protest march here today on the second day of their three-day agitation.The march began from the PUDA ground and culminated at the bus stand chowk. The protesters, who then blocked the crossing for a while, demanded that the provision of minimum wages should be implemented for ASHA workers, ASHA facilitators and mid-day meal cooks, who had been getting honorarium for years.They said contractual and outsourced employees of the Forest Department, health workers under the National Health Mission, and non-permanent staff of the Education Department should be regularised without any condition.Parveen Sharma, convener, Honorarium and Contractual Mulazam Morcha, said they had been protesting against the government for exploiting thousands of workers being paid honorarium. He said they had been assured by the government that they would increase the honorarium of the employees, but nothing was done in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contractual-employees-take-out-march-to-press-for-regular-jobs-313173
19-09-2021||Patiala||Patiala medical college gets  new principal||Dr Rajan Singla has been replaced by Dr Avnish Kumar as the Director-Principal of Government Medical College here. The former is said to have been removed for administrative reasons and in the public interest.The new head of the college took charge today in the presence of his predecessor. Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, was also present.Dr Singla, in a Facebook post, thanked his colleagues for their support during his tenure as the college principal. He wrote, “I might have been unruly and harsh to someone, but it was all for the welfare of the institute, patients and students.” Dr Singla had suspended over 300 students for skipping a Covid-related meeting last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-medical-college-gets-new-principal-313174
19-09-2021||---||Over 28,000 jabbed in a day in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 18The Patiala Health Department administered as many as 28,399 doses of the Covid vaccine during a mega vaccination drive in the district on Saturday.With this development, around 11.94 lakh doses of the vaccine have been administered in the district. While around 9 lakh people have received the first dose, 2.9 lakh have received both the doses.The Patiala Civil Surgeon said they would be holding a mega vaccination drive tomorrow, which would be exclusively for the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-28-000-jabbed-in-a-day-in-patiala-district-313175
19-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Doing office duty, Patiala doctor promoted as teacher||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 18A senior resident doctor of Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, doing office work as a nodal officer (office work) at the office of the Director Research and Medical Education (DRME) in Mohali since her joining, has already been promoted to assistant professor rank.GMC doctorDid nothing wrongThe selection committee made the decision. I didn’t do anything wrong. I can’t be discriminated against for being the wife of an IAS officer.The assistant professor is a teaching job and as per the Punjab Medical Education Service rules, a candidate will be eligible for the post only after having got a minimum teaching experience of two years as a senior resident, which she allegedly does not possess. However, the doctor claimed she used to work at the GMC twice a week, and the rest of the days she worked at the DRME office. The doctor further admitted she was full-time deployed at the DRME office for Covid preparations. The promoted doctor happens to be the wife of an IAS officer in Punjab. Though she had been working as a nodal officer at the DRME office, her original department was the paediatric unit.Dr Baljinder Kaur, head of the Paediatric Department of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, wherein the promoted doctor was supposed to work to gain experience, said, “Since my joining as the head of department in 2019, the promoted doctor did not show up in the department because she was posted at the DRME office as a nodal officer.”A senior professor of the pediatric department said, “She (the promoted doctor) never did duties in the paediatric ward. Besides, no teaching class was taken by her.” However, the promoted doctor, while talking to The Tribune, said, “I had applied for the assistant professor job and the selection committee made the decision. I didn’t do anything wrong. Therefore, I can’t be discriminated against for being the wife of an IAS officer.” She said she had taken classes before she was posted at the DRME office.Dr Akashdeep, joint DRME, said, “I am not aware of the promotion. However, I will look into the issue.” Dr Sujata Sharma, DRME, was not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doing-office-duty-patiala-doctor-promoted-as-teacher-313054
