20-09-2021||---||Current site most appropriate for shifting dairies, says Patiala MC||Patiala, September 19The local Municipal Corporation has issued a speaking order to dairy farmers in the city as per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The court had recently directed the MC to consider the legal notice sent by the dairy farmers and pass a speaking order by dealing with each and every aspect highlighted in the legal notice.The MC said it had discussed all points raised in the legal notice and that the shifting of dairies was required for the benefit of the public at large.The MC said, “Of the 257 dairies, 120 are in the internal city. Of these, 84 dairy owners have sent a representation to the corporation to allot them a plot in the newly developed scheme, of which 42 have deposited 5 per cent of the total value of the plot. Meanwhile, 24 dairy owners in the outer city have paid the said amount.”It said the current site was the most appropriate place found for shifting the dairies. “The layout plan of the dairy complex has been approved by the Chief Town Planner, Local Government, Punjab, by considering the high tension wires. Not even a single plot comes under high tension wires and all the wires are above streets/ open spaces,” the MC said.The MC said in the first phase it was supposed to lay water/sewerage lines, earth filling, construction of roads, street lights and boundary wall around the project. “The basic infrastructure services and amenities have already been provided at the project. The process for issuing tender for the second phase of the project is underway.It said each dairy owner has been allotted a plot in the ratio of animals kept by him at the time of survey in 2018. It stated that most dairy farmers were maintaining their dairies in lesser space than allotted to them at the new scheme.On its decision of shifting the dairies outside the city, the MC said the National Tribunal has given several directions to the state not to discharge untreated dairy waste into the sewer lines. It said, “The dairy owners have no such facility of affluent treatment plant at their premises. Therefore they have to shift at the new dairy complex or to shut down their business.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/current-site-most-appropriate-for-shifting-dairies-says-patiala-mc-313619
20-09-2021||Patiala||Following Capt’s resignation, protesters turn to Navjot Singh Sidhu’s house in Patiala||After the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh from the post of Chief Minister, contractual employees working on small honorarium in various government departments on Sunday turned to Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu and gheraoed his residence. Today was the concluding day of the three-day protest of the employees in Patiala.The protesters, after holding a march from the PUDA ground to the residence of the PPCC president, staged a sit-in there and raised slogans against the Congress. The protesters had earlier announced to gherao the residence of Capt Amarinder Singh. However, they changed the venue after his resignation yesterday. The protesters said though the Congress had removed Capt Amarinder Singh from the Chief Minister’s post to hide the government’s “failures”, they would continue their protest until their demands were met. The protesters are demanding minimum wages for workers, who have been working on a small honorarium for years. Besides, the protesters are also demanding regularisation of services of the contractual employees.Vikram Dev, a union leader, said, “Now, Capt Amarinder Singh is not the Chief Minister. Therefore, we decided to hold a protest outside the residence of PPCC president Navjot Singh. The Congress thinks it can divert focus from issues of the state by merely changing the Chief Minister. There is resentment among contractual employees against the Congress and it will reflect in the coming Assembly poll if the government doesn’t fulfil their demands.”Meanwhile, earlier in the day at the PUDA ground, women protesters, as a mark of protest, mourned the alleged “political death” of Capt Amarinder Singh after his resignation.The protesters called off the sit-in outside the residence of PPCC president after a written assurance of a meeting with Sidhu on September 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/following-capts-resignation-protesters-turn-to-navjot-singh-sidhus-house-in-patiala-313597
20-09-2021||---||Vax boost: Nearly one lakh inoculated in Patiala district in a week||Patiala, September 19With 7,752 beneficiaries inoculated on Sunday, the vaccination figure has already crossed the 12-lakh mark in the district. Around 1 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated over the past week.Officials of the Health Department said that sufficient supply of Covid vaccine from the state headquarters had spurred the pace of vaccination in the district.Of 12.01 lakh doses, around 9 lakh beneficiaries have received the first dose while 3 lakh have received both the doses. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said, “Over the last six days, we administered over 1 lakh doses in the district. Almost every day, we are holding mega drives to vaccinate as many people as we can.”He further said that beneficiaries, who have already received the first dose, should get their second dose immediately on completion of the vaccine gap period between two doses.Meanwhile, NCC Air Wing of Senior Secondary Model School Punjabi University Patiala organised 13th vaccination camp here today. The camp was conducted at Guruduara Nanaksar Sahib, Phase1, Urban Estate, Patiala. District Immunisation Officer Dr Venu Goyal and Senior Medical Officer Dr Vikas Goyal were present to oversee the smooth functioning of the camp. In all, around 200 doses of Covidshield were administered to the beneficiaries. ANO Satvir Singh Gill, along with Harpal Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Dinesh, Manvir Singh Gill and other prominent personalities of the area, played a valuable role to make the vaccination camp a success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vax-boost-nearly-one-lakh-inoculated-in-patiala-district-in-a-week-313582
20-09-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University panel to look into   finances of publication bureau||Punjabi University, Patiala, has formulated a committee to look into financial transactions of university publication bureau. Officials said the university is also formulating a publication policy for publication of its books in-house.Dr Arvind, Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, said the varsity is looking into finances of the bureau to reduce its expenditure. “Earlier all publication work was done in-house. It then gradually shifted to issuing quotations and tenders to publication houses outside the university. But now we have decided to study the costs incurred in the process in the last many years to find out how much money we can save by doing the same on-campus”, said VC Arvind.He said the university is looking at the publication house’s expenditures including bills incurred in the past. He clarified, “We have not received a complaint in regard to the functioning of the bureau in the past. Though, if we come across any misappropriations we will initiate action as per process”, and added that the university will also formulate a policy for publication of books. “The university’s publication bureau is prestigious and many senior writers will definitely like to publish their books from here”, he said. The university will also open book shops in different locations, including abroad, to sell its books. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-panel-to-look-into-finances-of-publication-bureau-313581
20-09-2021||---||Patiala: Rare surgery performed on 10-year-old||Patiala, September 19Padma Shri Dr RL Mittal, a renowned club-foot surgeon, performed an unprecedented corrective surgery of world’s first S-shaped foot deformity on a 10-year-old kid. Dr Mittal informed that the patient was referred to him and he accepted the challenge of correcting his deformity free of cost. He said that special X-rays were taken to delineate the position of various bones in the foot, for realigning them in normal position during a surgery at a private hospital.Dr Mittal is Emeritus Professor Orthopaedic Department Government Medical College Patiala.Dr Mittal said, “It was a painstaking two hours long unprecedented surgery, correcting the deformity to its normalised position with a number of stiff wires to fix the loosened bones. The foot has been put in plaster cast after the surgery.”He was confident that the child would walk normally after the surgery. He said that plaster cast would remain in the foot for 10 weeks to let the bony and soft tissue heal and consolidate. “Feet are an essential part of the human body, therefore, it is necessary to correct the foot deformities,” said the 84-year-old surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-rare-surgery-performed-on-10-year-old-313580
