21-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Prime accused in Punjabi University UGC funds scam held in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 20The police have nabbed a prime accused in misappropriation of the UGC funds scam at Punjabi University. The accused has been identified as Nishu Chaudhary. He was arrested along with two others after over a month-long struggle.We arrested Jatinder from Patiala. After extracting information from him, Nishu, Ashu and Sonu were nabbed from Kangra. They were presented in a local court, which sent them to five-day police remand. — Ronnie Singh, SHO, Urban Estate , PatialaOfficials said the accused were nabbed from Kangra in Himachal Pradesh (HP). They were presented in a local court here, which sent them to five-day police remand.Till now, the police have managed to nab five accused in the case. Nishu Chaudhary, Ashu Chaudhary and Sonu Kumar were arrested on Sunday while Jatinder Singh and Vinay were nabbed earlier.The Station House Officer (SHO), Urban Estate, Ronnie Singh, said, “We arrested Jatinder from Patiala. After extracting information from him, Nishu, Ashu and Sonu were nabbed from Kangra. They were presented in a local court and sent on five-day police remand.”Ashu was identified as part of the investigation while Nishu and Sonu had been named in the FIR, the SHO addedThe matter revolves around misappropriation of university funds related to UGC grants in which the police had registered a case against seven individuals on August 1 after carrying out a preliminary investigation upon complaint of the authorities concerned.As per the university complaint, many employees on the campus had prepared fake scholarship bills in the name of at least seven research fellows, wrongly verified them and passed them for payment.The university accused employees of forging signatures of a head of the department and later, fraudulently misutilisation of the released amount after withdrawal from various bank accounts for personal use.While the police were trying to locate the accused, the university, which was conducting an inquiry into its bank accounts, also found involvement of 10 others, including its seven regular employees last week.The police said they had managed to nab five out of seven accused, who were named in the FIR. “The remaining accused will also be arrested soon,” the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/prime-accused-in-punjabi-university-ugc-funds-scam-held-in-himachal-pradesh-313974
21-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Dept indicts Rajpura pvt hospital for overcharging Covid patient||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 20An inquiry committee of the Health Department has indicted a private hospital in Rajpura for overcharging from a patient for the Covid treatment. The committee has ordered the private hospital to refund patient an amount of Rs1.92 lakh.The Health Department in its notice to the private hospital stated that they had clearly violated the government guidelines while charging from the patient for treatment. The patient, a 75-year-old resident of Mohali district, had to pay Rs3.95 lakh to the hospital on discharge.The hospital has been found guilty of charging for medicines beyond the stipulated package, along with other excess charges. The hospital was found guilty of charging beyond the capping by the government. However, the hospital authorities claimed that they had given special room for Rs8,000 per day on patient’s demand.Satya Paul Bansal, the complainant, said, “Hospital charges were exorbitant for the Covid treatment despite strict guidelines of the government. There could be many more patients, who must have been overcharged by the hospital for their treatment.”“The government should conduct an audit of private hospitals to stop fleecing of patients,” he added. The Health Department said legal action would be taken against hospital, which is located on the Rajpura -Chandigarh Highway, if it failed to refund the amount to the patient.Meanwhile, sources informed that many more private hospitals in the city minted money by overcharging Covid patients for their treatment during the second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dept-indicts-rajpura-pvt-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-patient-313975
21-09-2021||Patiala||Cancel allotment of Verka booths, SAD asks civic body||Local Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders today met Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur and demanded that allotment of Verka booths to Congress leaders on the public land should be cancelled. They said booths were being allotted in order to encroach public land.The development comes days after protest at Sheranwala Gate on September 13 as leaders and workers of the Youth Congress and SAD entered into a verbal duel over allotment of a Verka booth on public land, adjacent to the gate. The booth was allotted by the Municipal Corporation (MC).In a written statement to thethe MC Harpal Juneja today said the government land was being encroached under the garb of allotting Verka booths in the city. “Many residents are unemployed. Some employees of the MC lost their lives while other people died after contracting Covid. The MC should allot Verka booths to such people,” he said. SAD leaders have also threatened to go to the High Court if allotments are not cancelled. Juneja said the party leadership would approach court in this regard.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cancel-allotment-of-verka-booths-sad-asks-civic-body-313976
21-09-2021||Patiala||Manav Seva Sankalp Diwas at Punjabi University||Bhai Ghaniya Health Centre, Punjabi University, organised Manav Seva Sankalp Diwas (death anniversary of Bhai Ghaniya ji) here today. The university also released a presentation on the “Journey of Covid”, including decisions taken regarding it on the campus.The Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor, Prof Arvind, appreciated measures taken by the health centre during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Dean (Academics), Dr BS Sandhu, said, “The university has started physical classes. Six Covid vaccination camps have been held on the university campus.”Dr Regina Maini said, “The centre has faced many problems since March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown and curfew and after opening of university.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/manav-seva-sankalp-diwas-at-punjabi-university-313977
21-09-2021||---||Sidhuwal village residents hold dharna outside Patiala law university||Patiala, September 20Residents of Sidhuwal village held a dharna outside Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) here on Monday. They demanded that the university should admit a candidate on the basis of documents, which show his/her residence at the village. The dharna and commotion continued outside university till 3 pm.The development comes after a village resident alleged that documents of an applicant, who was given admission in the university, were fake. As such he should not have been allotted seat, he added. The applicant was allotted seat reserved for a candidate from the village.Tarsem Singh, village sarpanch said, “The concern about fake documents of the applicant, who has been given a seat in the LLB course on the campus, was raised by one of the villagers. The university then marked an inquiry into the matter. It’s yet to take a decision in this regard. We want that another candidate from the village, whose documents are legitimate, should be allotted seat instead.”When contacted, the University Registrar, Dr Naresh Kumar Vats, said, “The applicant has been given provisional admission subject to verification of documents. We marked an enquiry when the matter was brought into our notice. We have given student a chance to prove that his documents are legitimate by Wednesday. After this a decision will be taken regarding allocation of the seat.”“The university will take all decisions as per validity of documents,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sidhuwal-village-residents-hold-dharna-outside-patiala-law-university-313978
21-09-2021||---||Punjab University releases project report on ‘Phulkari’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 20The Womens’ Studies Centre, Punjabi University, here on Monday released a project report on “Phulkari : Reviving and sustaining the traditional handicraft of Punjab”.The project was sponsored by the Centre for Women Development Studies, New Delhi, and completed by the Director, Women Studies Centre, Prof Dr Ritu Lehal, and other teaching faculty.Officials said they went to a number of villages and discussed issues and problems faced by artisans. The team has also given recommendations for the survival and sustenance of ‘Phulkari’. During release ceremony, centre officials also shared past major projects and plays in recorded form.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-university-releases-project-report-on-phulkari-313979
21-09-2021||Patiala||Lecture dwells  on Dr Ambedkar||Multani Mal Modi College in collaboration with the College Alumni Association organised the sixth lecture of the series titled, “The multifaceted contribution of Dr BR Ambedkar to Indian society”.The lecture was delivered by Satnam Singh Chana, historian and CEO, Pritam Film Production. In his lecture Chana discussed ideas and political era of Dr BR Ambedkar and demonstrated how he envisioned a new modern nation, devoid of class, caste, religious and other discriminations. He said his life and works were metaphors of true humanism and reflected core values of the democratic system. Dr Ambedkar followed path of saints, gurus and social reformers and fought battle for social change, he added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lecture-dwells-on-dr-ambedkar-313981
