23-09-2021||---||DMW flags off 200th electric locomotive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 22The Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW), Patiala, has flagged off 200 3-phase 6000 HP IGBT based WAP-7 electric locomotives in a span of three years. The WAP-7 locomotives are the most powerful passenger locomotives of Indian Railways and are capable of hauling 24 coaches trains at a maximum speed of 140 kmph.The 200th electric locomotive was flagged off on Wednesday by SN Dubey, Principal Chief Administrative Officer, DMW.Officials said the DMW had discontinued the manufacturing and rehabilitation activities of diesel locomotives and transformed itself to an electric loco manufacturing unit to comply with the make in India policy of the Central Government. “The series production of 3-phase electric locomotives started in 2018-19 and the first electric locomotive was flagged off in July 2018. We have manufactured 200 WAP-7 locomotives since then”, SN Dubey said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dmw-flags-off-200th-electric-locomotive-314938
23-09-2021||---||Punjabi University, Patiala, yet to declare results, students at the receiving end||Patiala, September 22Eight months after holding examinations, Punjabi University, Patiala, has not yet declared results for several courses. The students who are eligible to apply under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme to carry on their studies are in a state of melancholy as the last date to apply for the same falls in a week. University authorities said they would release the pending results within a week.The students, accompanied by Dr Jatinder Singh Mattu, a university employee and president of the Dr Ambedkar Employees Federation, said they would not be able to apply for the scholarship if the results were delayed.Mattu said, “Thousands of students who are eligible for the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme are in doldrums. This is because results of odd semesters of BA and MA courses of December 2020 and of May 2021 are pending.”He said, “The state government has opened online portal for such students to apply for the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme. They can apply till September 30. They are supposed to upload their previous year results, failing which they will not be able to avail the benefits of the government scheme.”When contacted, University Controller Examinations Dr JIS Khattar said the university would declare the pending results within a week. “We do not want the students to suffer. The students had come to the administration over the matter today,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-yet-to-declare-results-students-at-the-receiving-end-314934
23-09-2021||Patiala||Six city taekwondo players win medals||Six players from the city won medals in taekwondo at National Youth Games-2021 held in New Delhi recently. All six players, who won medals in the National Youth Games, were taking training at Chi Taekwondo Academy in Patiala. Harsh Vardhan, Sagar Rana and Stuti won silver medals, while Britean, Pranav and Adesh won bronze medals in the youth games which was organised by the Talent Search Federation of India. Around 400 players across the country participated in the event.Surya Parkash Pandey, coach, said, “ It is a matter of proud that six players from our academy participated in the event and all of them won medals.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/six-city-taekwondo-players-win-medals-314931
23-09-2021||Patiala||Punjab Safe School Vahan Policy: Child rights panel inspects school||The Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (PSCPCR) on Wednesday conducted an inspection at DAV School, Samana, to check the compliance of the Punjab Safe School Vahan Policy. The private buses used for ferrying schoolchildren parked at the school premises were found short of expected standards of safety for school children during the checking. Violation challans were issued by the traffic incharge Samana. Besides, the instructions were given for compliance to the Punjab Safe School Vahan Policy.Ravee Singh Ahluwalia, member, PSCPCR, said, “ Such monitoring is required to be done regularly to ensure that all transport vehicles used for children are in accordance with the policy.” Besides, Ravee Ahluwalia visited anganwadi centres in Samana on the directions of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to check the ongoing celebrations of ‘Poshan Maah 2021’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-safe-school-vahan-policy-child-rights-panel-inspects-school-314929
23-09-2021||---||Panel wants Land Ceiling Act implemented||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 22Activists of the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC) today took out a protest march to the Deputy Commissioner’s office here demanding implementation of the Land Ceiling Act. The activists assembled at the PUDA ground, near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, and later carried out a protest march to the DC office. They also held a sit-in outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner.Gurwinder Singh Boran, Patiala zone president of the committee, said the government had introduced land reforms in 1952 and 1972 for distribution of land. “As the state has about 35 per cent SC population, but we have only 1.5 to 2 per cent of the land share,” he said.Paramjit Kaur Longowal, zonal secretary of the committee, said according to the Land Sealing Act, one family can own only 17 acre of land.“Due to lack of land holding we are unable to get loans from the government. As such, landless farmers and SC category people are forced to seek private loans at a much higher interest. Women, who are landless, are left at the mercy of microfinance companies”, the leaders said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/panel-wants-land-ceiling-act-implemented-314927
23-09-2021||---||Punjabi University organises interactive session for freshers||Patiala, September 22Punjabi University has enrolled over 800 students in its multidisciplinary five-year integrated programmes. The university started the teaching process by holding an interactive session today.Officials said the university had started courses in physical and chemical sciences, biological sciences, mathematical and computing sciences, languages, social sciences and performing and visual art.Vice-Chancellor professor Arvind said the students should explore their interests in varied subjects offered by different streams. The students interacted with the Vice-Chancellor and different co-ordinators and inquired about the choices offered by different disciplines.The university said the courses had gained huge response from the students as about 800 students have enrolled under various disciplines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-organises-interactive-session-for-freshers-314926
23-09-2021||---||Women lagging behind in vaccination drive in Patiala district||Patiala, September 22Though Covid-19 vaccination has picked up pace in the district, women seem to be lagging behind in the inoculation drive. The Health Department informed that around 12.20 lakh doses of the vaccine had already been administered in the district. Of 12.20 lakh doses, around 6.66 lakh are men, while 5.53 lakh are women. There is a gender gap of around 1.10 lakh. The health experts believed that the gender gap was higher in the rural area.Experts informed that women, especially in the rural areas, were hesitant to go to the vaccination centre and stand in queue along with the men. A senior official of the Health Department, who is overseeing the vaccination process, informed that they had to start door-to-door vaccination in the rural areas to vaccinate women. Besides, they also took help from self-help groups to motivate women for the vaccination, officials said.Rumours of side effects of vaccination on reproductive organs are said to be the reason for the vaccine hesitancy among women. Besides, pregnant and lactating women were given go ahead for the vaccination by the government at very late stage of the drive which also contributed to the gender gap.Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunization Officer, said, “The gap of gender difference has already narrowed down. Special efforts are being made to give vaccination thrust in the rural areas. Special awareness camps are being organised for women to bring them forward for the vaccination.”Meanwhile, it has been learned that Covishield is the most preferable vaccine among the beneficiaries. Around 91 per cent beneficiaries have received doses of Covishield while the remaining received Covaxin.Patiala, on Wednesday, administered 1,972 doses of the Covid vaccine. The Health Department said they would be holding a mega vaccination drive on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/women-lagging-behind-in-vaccination-drive-in-patiala-district-314924
23-09-2021||Aman Sood||Charanjit Singh Channi to replace Capt Amarinder Singh on posters||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 22The state government has ordered that the posters listing the government’s achievements, schemes and photos of ex-Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on state highways, government buildings and state-owned buses be immediately updated with the new CM’s face.The orders come just four days after Capt Amarinder quit and Charanjit Singh Channi was made the CM.With polls just few months away, the government is in an overdrive. “We hope to replace the photos from almost all buildings and buses by this month-end. Even suwidha centres and government buildings will get new posters,” said a senior Congress MLA privy to the developments. “It is nothing new. We have every right to showcase the face of our government to people,” he added.“Usually, the CM’s photos are printed to remind people of the schemes initiated by the government and it is done at the government expense,” sources said.In a letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the Director, Public Relations, has ordered the Punjab Roadways to update the posters. “Since Capt Amarinder has been replaced as the CM by Channi, all general managers be ordered to remove the pictures of Capt Amarinder pasted on all buses,” it read. A visit to the local bus stand today revealed that the buses with Capt Amarinder’s posters were still parked there, two days after the letter was shot to the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/charanjit-singh-channi-to-replace-capt-amarinder-singh-on-posters-314777
23-09-2021||Aman Sood||Stubble-burning in Majha, likely to rise after wet spell||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 22Despite over 10,000 officials being posted on the ground, farm fires have started in the Majha belt. As many as 24 cases have been reported in the past few days and more are expected after the rains are over.A majority of cases have been reported in the Majha belt in the past week, as the first phase of harvesting of paddy, primarily basmati varieties, started in the state.Last Thursday, it started from two farm fires in Amritsar and ever since, the number is growing. “The next fortnight is crucial and will determine if awareness drives and warnings have affected farmers,” said officials.Poll impact on government mindExperts warn the worse is yet to come because the state leadership is busy due to the political upheaval and farmers feel no stern action will be taken in the wake of the upcoming poll. “District-level officers are monitoring the situation and creating awareness against farm fires, but the farmers are reluctant to ensure scientific management of paddy straw,” said experts.The Majha belt is considered good for growing basmati and already such varieties have started reaching the grain markets of Amritsar and Tarn Taran. “This year, it was sown early and it needs less days as compared to other varieties,” say officers.Experts say the cases may rise this year as farmers are angry over the farm laws and the government not paying the Supreme Court-ordered financial incentive. “Despite best efforts, Punjab can manage only 50 per cent of the produced stubble, leaving no option but to burn it. Any action against farmers is challenged by unions,” said a top official attached with the anti-stubble burning drive. As per a PPCB report, 24 farm fires have been reported — Amritsar (19), Patiala (3), Tarn Taran and Faridkot (1 each). Karunesh Garg, PPCB member secretary, said: “Only nine of these are confirmed cases of farm fire and spot visits are pending in the rest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stubble-burning-in-majha-likely-to-rise-after-wet-spell-314782
23-09-2021||London||3 British Sikhs freed in Rulda Singh murder case in Patiala||A UK court on Wednesday discharged three British Sikhs — Piara Singh Gill, Amritivir Singh Wahiwala and Gursharanvir Singh Wahiwala — held in connection with the 2009 murder of RSS leader Rulda Singh, who was shot in Patiala, due to insufficient evidence. The arrests followed early morning raids on Indian extradition warrants executed by the West Midlands Police in December last year.They were held in connection with the 2009 murder of Rulda Singh, a senior RSS member, who was shot in Patiala and died a week after the attack. District Judge Michael Snow presided over an appeal hearing at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London. He ruled: "The accused have been discharged,” said the UK's Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which appears in court on behalf of the Indian authorities.Crowds of supporters of the so-called “West Midlands 3” gathered outside the court in support of the accused. An investigation into the case by the West Midlands Police dates back to 2011, with the judge noting that the issue had been a “long running saga” for the three men.Their lawyer described the allegations against them as "wholly unjust". The prosecution conceded that the evidence was "not sufficient to make out a case" against them. Two men, aged 37 and 40, were arrested in Coventry and a 38-year-old man was arrested in Wolverhampton last year. They were granted bail under “strict conditions”. —PTINot enough proofPiara Singh Gill, Amritivir Singh Wahiwala and Gursharanvir Singh Wahiwala — held in connection with the 2009 murder of RSS leader Rulda Singh were — freed due to insufficient evidence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-british-sikhs-freed-in-rulda-singh-murder-case-in-patiala-314813
