25-09-2021||---||Patiala: COVA glitches give health officials tough time||Patiala, September 24The hiccups in the state government’s Covid application — COVA — continues to give health officials a tough time.Following the frequent technical glitches, officials are said to have been working overtime to upload the data of Covid sampling. Officials say the higher authorities have been informed about the problem, but to no avail.Doctors told The Tribune that since the app didn’t function for hours one day, they could not upload the sampling data. Consequently, there were problems in generating unique IDs and sending samples to lab.A medical officer in Patiala said: “Work continues to suffer due to frequent glitches. We have to note down patients’ details and wait for the application to work. This makes sampling cumbersome.” Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said: “There is some issue at the backend of the application. It will be resolved in a day or two.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-cova-glitches-give-health-officials-tough-time-315678
25-09-2021||---||From Patiala, protests shift to CM Channi’s hometown||Morinda, September 24With the appointment of local MLA Charanjit Singh Channi as Chief Minister, dharnas and protests rallies are also shifting from Patiala, the hometown of his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh, to Kharar and Morinda.Members of the Water Supply and Sanitation Department’s Motivator and Master Motivator Workers’ Union have started a sit-in in front of the Chief Minister’s residence at Morinda. BEd-TET pass teachers, who had announced to gherao Channi’s Kharar residence, today postponed it after an assurance from the authorities to look into their demands. Protesters at Morinda said they had been staging protests in Gurdaspur, Malerkotla and Patiala for the past five years, demanding a fixed pay as per the minimum wages decided by the Deputy Commissioner. Hardev Singh, a protester, said they were deployed under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan by the department in 2015. Initially, there were over 1,100 persons working as motivators, but their number had dwindled to 216, he said.They said they had been rendered without work as the Chief Minister waived drinking water supply bill in villages. They had been earning Rs 2,500 a month as remuneration against collecting water supply bills charges in villages and for motivating people to construct toilets in their houses, Hardev Singh said.The protesters said their dharna would continue until they were provided job security and minimum wages. Amanjit Singh, a BEd-TET Union member, said they had suspended their plan to protest outside the Kharar residence of Channi after an assurance from authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/from-patiala-protests-shift-to-cm-channis-hometown-315683
25-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||15 challans issued during drive against dengue in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 24The Municipal Corporation (MC) has finally woken up from slumber and started issuing challans for dengue larvae in the city. This is after the Health Department has identified dengue larvae from over 2,000 places in the city alone since the beginning of the drive in April. The office of the local body (MC), is otherwise primarily responsible for tackling the spread of dengue larvae in the city, but has issued only 40 challans till now. Officials said the municipal councils had issued only 12 challans across the district.Officials of the Municipal Corporation said they had issued 40 challans till now. “Today we issued 15 challans where dengue larvae were found,” an insider said.Health Officer Dr Jasvir Kaur said, “Teams of the MC issue challans when health officials report identification of dengue larvae. Teams of both the offices go to places together. There has been some delay on part of MC, but we are ensuring that inspectors carry out the process as per norms.”“The numbers of identified larvae and issued challans differ as challans can’t be issued when larvae are found in open places. There is political pressure as well. So, no challans are issued for larvae found at government offices. Sometimes people also misbehave with our officials,” she pointed out.As per official record shared by the District Health Department in a press note on Thursday, the department has inspected about four lakh households across the district to spread awareness among people regarding dengue fever. “As many as 5,000 larvae of dengue have been destroyed and reports of 27 people confirmed with dengue fever have been received. Out of these, seven belong to urban population while 20 to rural”, the office said.Since April, the health officials have destroyed dengue larvae from over 2,000 places in the city alone.The MC Commissioner said powers to challans for dengue had also been delegated to the MC’s land branch. Land branch superintendent Surjit Singh Cheema said the branch was not issuing challans for dengue larvae.Meanwhile, 12 challans have been issued in local urban bodies in the district. Gautam Jain, ADC, Urban Development (UD), said, “ As many as 10 challans have been issued in Sanaur, while one each in Nabha and Ghanaur councils.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/15-challans-issued-during-drive-against-dengue-in-patiala-315844
25-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Despite CM’s orders, doctors reach late at Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 24Though Chief Minister Charanjit Channi had directed the government officers and employees to reach office by 9 am, doctors at Government Rajindra Hospital seemed to be cocking a snook at the orders. Tribune’s investigation on Friday found that doctors, who were supposed to reach the OPD wing by 8 am, were reportedly not present in their OPD rooms even by 9 am.The Tribune reporter visited the hospital on Friday morning and found that many of the OPDs were not functioning by 9 am because there were no doctors, however, patients were waiting outside the OPDs. Doctors’ room at some OPDs were locked.Patients, who were sitting outside room number 12, said despite the CM’s orders, doctors were not coming on time. The sweeper was directing the patients there to wait for half an hour for doctors to arrive.A patient, who had come to get a medical done before the operation, said, “The time for OPD is 8 am to 2 pm, however, the doctor is yet to come. Patients dare not ask the doctors and authority is not bothered.”Similarly, there were no doctors at other departments. An attendant outside the surgery ODP said the doctor was not available.Some of the doctors at the hospital informed that the majority of the doctors reach OPD after 9.30 am and leave the hospital before 2 pm. However, some of the OPDs at the hospital were functioning at 9 am.Meanwhile, HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “The doctors must be taking rounds in their respective wards. However, I will again ask the doctors to report on time as directed by the Chief Minister.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-cms-orders-doctors-reach-late-at-rajindra-hospital-315843
25-09-2021||Patiala||Patiala district reports 17 new dengue cases, tally rises to 46||With these 17 new cases detected on Friday, the overall tally of dengue cases increased to 46 in the district.The detection of new breeding sites, due to fresh spell of rains, has made the situation worse.The Health Department informed that fresh cases were reported from Patiala City, Kallon Majra and Rajpura block of the district.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said the district was witnessing a sudden rise over the past few days. He said, “We need more community participation to curb the spread. Dengue larvae are being detected from households regularly. During the Friday dry day campaign, officials found dengue mosquito larvae at 485 sites.”He said that a team of health officials had already been on the ground to stave off the dengue breeding near the residence of the positive patients.Health officials further informed that they had directed the health centres to set up fever-counters to screen the suspected dengue patients.Meanwhile, Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said, “The Health Department is all geared up to tackle any kind of situation.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-reports-17-new-dengue-cases-tally-rises-to-46-315842
25-09-2021||---||Illegal colonies: NOC mandatory for property registration, says Patiala revenue official||Patiala, September 24With many residents facing difficulty in registration of sale deeds of their properties in authorised and unauthorised colonies, the tehsildar offices now want people to furnish ‘no objection certificates’ issued by offices of the Urban Planning and Development Authority and MC for properties falling in unapproved colonies. Earlier, many registrations were done without the requisite ‘no-objection-certificates’. But the same orders were revoked after a public interest litigation regarding the same was heard by the Punjab and Haryana High Court recently.Officials clarified that no extra documents need to be submitted for registration of sale deeds of properties falling in approved colonies.Jeevan Garg, Tehsildar, Patiala, on Thursday said, “We do not require applicants to submit additional documents, including copies of licenses or lay-out plans for registration of properties, in approved colonies. Our offices have the list of approved and regularised colonies.”He added, “The owners, however, need to submit NOCs issued by the respective authorities for their properties falling on agricultural land and in unapproved colonies.”He said, “The earlier permission to carry out registration without the requisite no-objection-certificates has been withdrawn by the government. Therefore, NOCs for registration of properties in unauthorised colonies are required.”People also complained of delays in getting dates for registrations. But the tehsildar office said any delay was on the part of PDA in issuing NOCs only.PDA Additional Chief Administrator (ADA) Gautam Jain when contacted responded, “Some delay in issuing NOCs has occurred due to restructuring of the department. Earlier, we had designated an ATP but now separate district town planners have been designated for all districts. The powers have been shifted. The process will be streamlined by Monday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-colonies-noc-mandatory-for-property-registration-says-patiala-revenue-official-315841
25-09-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University organised Professor Tara Singh Simrati Samaroh on Ragas in Guru Granth Sahib||Punjabi University organised Professor Tara Singh Simrati Samaroh on Ragas in Guru Granth Sahib. The event was dedicated to the 103rd birth anniversary of renowned musician and scholar Tara Singh.Officials said Tara Singh was the first lecturer of music in Punjab. Head, Department of Music, Nivedita Singh, said Tara Singh was pioneer in the musicological study of Ragas of Guru Granth Sahib and devoted his life to research, teaching, promotion and propagation of Gurmat Sangeet.Students of the Music Department presented Guru Tegh Bahadur’s Shabad followed by a composition of Trivat and composed by Tara Singh. The Simrati lecture was delivered by Gursharn Singh Randhawa, Director, Punjabi University South Campus, Talwandi Sabo. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-organised-professor-tara-singh-simrati-samaroh-on-ragas-in-guru-granth-sahib-315840
25-09-2021||---||Ill-effects of stubble burning highlighted||Patiala, September 24Students of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, Patiala, observed anti-stubble burning day on Friday. The students spread awareness about the harmful effects of stubble-burning in the neighbouring village of Sheikhpura.Farmers were educated and motivated to install the I-Khet application. They were requested to make periodic visit to Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, to keep themselves abreast of the latest technological updates and schemes launched by the government for their benefit.As many students of the school had agricultural background, NCC cadet Jatin addressed the students as well. ANO Satvir Singh, Gagandeep Singh and other teachers were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ill-effects-of-stubble-burning-highlighted-315839
