26-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Patients fall prey to touts at Mata Kaushalya Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 25Touts at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital continue to allure patients into buying medicines from specific chemist stores situated outside the hospital premises. Also, the touts allegedly guide the patients on behalf of their respective doctors to undergo tests at the recommended labs.No doctor at the hospital is allowed to keep any private person in their OPD room. I will conduct a check in the hospital on Monday — Dr Sandeep Kaur, Medical Superintendent, Mata Kaushalya HospitalMoreover, specialist doctors, despite repeated reminders by the authorities, have been prescribing expensive brands instead of generic medicines. And certain brands are available only at certain chemist shops only.Notably, generic medicines have the same salts as do the brands and are very cost effective for the patients. The hospital also has Jan Aushadhi Medical Store where generic medicines are available at subsidised rates.When The Tribune reporter visited one of the specialist doctors at Mata Kaushalya Hospital, it was found that doctor wrote only branded medicines, and the private attendant there asked to buy medicines from outside the hospital. He said the prescribed medicines were not available at the hospital. The private attendant, thereafter, guided the reporter to a specific chemist shop outside the hospital.With no strict check by the authorities at the hospital, the specialists are brazenly fleecing the poor patients, say the experts. The authority, seemingly, is seeing the practice as normal one, and, therefore, is not bothered in this regard, add the experts.Meanwhile, Dr Sandeep Kaur, Medical Superintendent, Mata Kaushalya Hospital, said, “No doctor at the hospital is allowed to keep any private person in their OPD room. I will conduct a check in the hospital on Monday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patients-fall-prey-to-touts-at-mata-kaushalya-hospital-316247
26-09-2021||---||PGI to test samples of 3 kids for Japanese encephalitis||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 25In the wake of suspected cases of Japanese encephalitis, the Patiala Health Department has sent samples of three children, who are admitted at Government Rajindra Hospital here, to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, for testing. The disease is said to be a viral brain infection that’s spread through mosquito bites.The samples were sent after the paediatric ward of the hospital sounded alert because four children at the hospital had reported symptoms of viral meningoencephalitis with a travel history of Uttar Pradesh (UP). Notably, UP has already reported several deaths of children due to viral fever over the last few weeks. Not to take the chances, the Health Department has sent the samples to ascertain the deadly disease.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “As the patients had a travel history of UP where encephalitis had already been reported, therefore, we have sent the samples to ascertain Japanese encephalitis. Only concern is to stop the spread if they are found positive.”The four kids, who had symptoms of high-grade fever, gastrointestinal illness and convulsions, have already been tested for dengue, Covid and malaria and have been found negative. However, no testing for Japanese encephalitis is available at the hospital premises.The Health Department said the test report of the children would be available in the coming week. Further action would be taken only after test results, said district health officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pgi-to-test-samples-of-3-kids-for-japanese-encephalitis-316249
26-09-2021||---||Patiala teams win silver in rugby tourney||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 25Patiala district had won second position in men and women section in the 5th senior inter-district rugby championship held in Amritsar recently.The Patiala Rugby Association congratulated both the teams for winning the silver medals. The association further informed that nine girls and seven boys of Patiala had n selected for the national camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-teams-win-silver-in-rugby-tourney-316250
26-09-2021||Patiala||NSS foundation day celebrated||The National Service Scheme (NSS) department of Multani Mal Modi College here today organised a programme to celebrate the foundation day of NSS in collaboration with Maruti Driving School, Patiala. The programme was aimed at ‘Sadak Suraksha, Jeevan Raksha’. NSS programme officer (PO) Harmohan Sharma introduced the theme of the day.College Principal Khushvinder Kumar inaugurated the programme and congratulated the PO and volunteers for the NSS day. Chief guest Palwinder Singh Cheema, SP (Traffic), an aluminous of the college, recalled the days spent in the institution. While discussing his sports career with the students, he told how he reached to achieve the title of Rustam-e-Hind. He further emphasised on the need of maintaining discipline on roads by obeying traffic rules. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nss-foundation-day-celebrated-316251
26-09-2021||---||Farmers take out bike rally  for Sept 27 bandh call||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 25Ahead of the ‘Bharat bandh’ call on September 27 by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers, especially youngsters, took out a motorcycle rally in the city to garner support for the bandh. Hundreds of farmers marching through streets of the city did canvassing for the upcoming bandh on Monday. The march was organised by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Ugrahan.Manjeet Singh, district president, BKU, said the march was organised in various villages, markets and residential areas of the district to gather support from all walks of life. He said that 1,696 farmers and 614 self-motivated youngsters from around 98 villages participated in the march. Manjeet Singh said they had made an appeal to support ongoing farmers’ stir. He added that the Modi government had refused to repeal three ‘black’ farm laws, therefore, they needed more support to put pressure on the Central Government. Around 700 farmers had already lost their lives during the ongoing agitation, claimed the district president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-take-out-bike-rally-for-sept-27-bandh-call-316252
