27-09-2021||---||Work suspended at Patiala’s sabzi mandi, railway station; Punjabi University students, teachers hold protest||Patiala, September 27Offices and private establishments in Patiala remained shut on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. From the sabzi mandis in the city to the district courts and Punjabi University campus, work remained suspended throughout the city.Vendors at the old sabzi mandi at Raghomajra and new sabzi mandi at Sanauri Adda kept the mandis closed. Binder Singh Nikku, one of the vendors, said the vendors decided to shut all work in support of the call. "The mandi will be functional only after 4 pm,” he said.Work at the city's railway station also remained suspended. Though commuters reached the railway station to board trains, they had to return dejected.Students, along with teaching and non-teaching staff of Punjabi University, also closed the university gates as a mark of protest against the farm laws.PUTA secretary Avneet said representatives of the PUTA along with non-teaching employees and students of various organisations were holding a protest at the university gates.There was hardly any activity in various markets. Shops remained shut and roads remained largely deserted.Commuters harassedPatiala: Commuters were at the receiving end of the Bharat Bandh as all national and state highways in the state were blocked. Commuters were seen walking in search of conveyance on the Patiala-Bathinda national highways. People had been waiting for buses at the bus stops. All state-run bus services remained suspended.Government employees were inconvenienced in reaching their offices owing to the roadblocks. Army vehicles were also not allowed by the protesting farmers. However, farmers allowed ambulances, doctors and patients to pass. Farmer leaders have appealed to the fellow protesters not to bully the commuters, and instead, convince them and win them over for the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-suspended-at-patialas-sabzi-mandi-railway-station-punjabi-university-students-teachers-hold-protest-316875
27-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University to hire guest faculty at monthly stipend of Rs 15K||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 26Punjabi University will hire NET-qualified guest faculty to teach at its constituent colleges on a monthly stipend of Rs15,000. While the notification has received flak from different sections of society, especially NET-qualified and PhD holders, the university claims the notification is aimed at bringing uniformity in hiring guest faculty for constituent colleges who will be paid from the parent teacher association (PTA) fund.The new direction has been issued from the office of Director, Constituent Colleges. It states that the guest faculty will be hired at a monthly stipend of Rs 15,000 in case they are NET qualified, while it will be Rs 13,000 in case they are not. The hiring will be carried out for one semester only at a time.Gursewak Singh, a NET qualified and PSU student organisation leader, said, “Students on the campus have decided to protest against the reduction in payments to teaching faculty to be hired afresh. The payment is too low.”Students also pointed out that earlier the university was paying Rs 21,600, including dearness allowance, to such guest faculty. “Now they have changed the terms”, the student pointed out and said, “We will hold meetings on Tuesday and start a process to protest against the decision.”When contacted, University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind said the notification was aimed at bringing uniformity in the process. “Earlier the principals and heads were hiring the faculty members on their own terms. At times, non-NET qualified individuals were preferred over NET qualified individuals. Therefore, this notification is aimed at ensuring uniformity.”He said, “It is being represented as a measure to reduce the salary. But it is not so.” The university otherwise has four categories of teaching faculty— regular staff, contractual, lecture-based teachers and those guest faculty at constituent colleges who are being paid from the PTA funds.He said, “The payment being made to such individuals is very low. We understand that, but we have to work as per the modal which is already in place. Also, we will hire very few people in this category.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-hire-guest-faculty-at-monthly-stipend-of-rs-15k-316755
27-09-2021||Patiala||Over 14K kids get polio drops in Patiala district on Day 1||On the first day of the three-day migratory pulse polio round, a team of the Health Department administered polio drops to 14, 372 children in the district on Sunday. The drive was kicked off by Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi by administering the polio drops to the children at Rauri Kut slums. District Immunization Officer Dr Veenu Goyal, Medical Officer Dr Priyanka, ANM and ASHA workers were also present there.Dr Prince Sodhi said the department had a target of giving polio drops to 26,091 children up to the age of five years within three days. The Civil Surgeon informed that 202 teams and 18 mobile teams had been constituted to administer polio drops. As many as 20 health officers will supervise the process.The team of the officials today visited all brick-kilns, colonies of labourers, factories and slum areas. Dr Sodhi said the health teams would be going door-to-door on the remaining two days of the drive.He said, “The health workers have been carrying out the polio drive with all Covid precautions. I am hopeful that the teams will be successful in covering the target population in the next two days despite Covid restrictions.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-14k-kids-get-polio-drops-in-patiala-district-on-day-1-316750
27-09-2021||Patiala||Cardiology camp at Patiala hospital||With an alarming rise in the number of people suffering from heart ailments in India, Columbia Asia Hospital here is holding a healthy heart campaign with youth of Patiala and a heart screening camp to mark World Heart Day. Dr Deepak Katyal, consultant cardiologist, Columbia Asia Hospital delivered a talk on how to keep heart healthy. The camp started on September 16 and will continue till October 3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cardiology-camp-at-patiala-hospital-316745
27-09-2021||---||No check on illegal submersible pumps in Patiala||Patiala, September 26Illegal installation of underground submersible pumps has become common in Patiala even as the city gets clean drinking water provided by the Municipal Corporation. The menace leads to over-exploitation of underground water. Meanwhile, the state project to provide Patiala city canal-based clean drinking water is underway.The installation of submersible pumps at houses has gone unchecked for long. While the Municipal Corporation does not initiate a drive to stop it, residents install and run the motors freely.A number of illegal connections have been installed at the Chhoti Baradari shopping complex as well.The water pumps run throughout the night at times, leading to wastage of ground water.Similarly, such submersible pumps have been installed at houses in the city’s areas where Municipal Corporation has provided water supply.A resident of Preet Nagar here said, “People have installed submersible pumps at their houses despite they are getting supply of clean drinking water from the Municipal Corporation. People don’t tend to complain and as such the violation goes unchecked.”An office-goer at Chhoti Baradari pointed out, “The water supply from the MC is not provided at a sufficient speed. When we complain of low water pressure, MC officials themselves suggest us to install pumps.”Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “No special drives are launched to check illegal installation of submersible pumps. We, however, issue challans if we get complaints. We have also removed such motors from private places.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-check-on-illegal-submersible-pumps-in-patiala-316743
27-09-2021||---||Punjabi University to set up environment cell to combat climate change||Patiala, September 26Punjabi University, Patiala, will set up an environment cell on the campus to help combat climate change. University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind made the announcement during the university’s one-day webinar on “accelerating actions to combat climate change implications in Punjab’’, funded by Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, Chandigarh. The webinar was oganised by the university’s environment society.The VC said there was a need to conserve biodiversity of Punjab including fishes and birds.Officials, who were part of the event, elaborated upon various government schemes initiated to stall climate change caused by stubble burning, discharge of industrial effluents and plastic waste. They also encouraged sustainable use of agricultural waste.Meanwhile, Dr Rahesh Jalota, senior environmental officer, Department of Environment and Science, Queensland, Australia, delivered a talk on ‘Land Management and Carbon Sequestration’ by rehabilitation of wasteland. He explained the use of simple technologies to deal with soil erosion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-set-up-environment-cell-to-combat-climate-change-316741
27-09-2021||---||3.9 lakh doses administered this month in Patiala district||Patiala, September 26The District Health Department has administered 3.9 lakh doses in September month alone. With a mega vaccination drive every second day, the department had administered around 13 lakh doses of Covid vaccine so far.Health officials said they had inoculated 2.67 lakh beneficiaries in August and 1.5 lakh in July.They said the sufficient supply of vaccine from the state headquarter had provided the much needed impetus to the jabbing. As the vaccination drive picks up pace, around 70 per cent of the population have already received the first dose, while 25 per cent of the target population get double. Sources informed that around 8.22 lakh doses, of a total of 13 lakh, have been administered in the last 90 days. Senior medical officers informed The Tribune that their staff had to work day and night to make vaccination camps successful.NCC Air Wing’s 14th campThe NCC Air Wing of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, Patiala, organised the 14th vaccination camp at Gurudwara Nanaksar Sahib, Phase-1, Urban-Estate, here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-9-lakh-doses-administered-this-month-in-patiala-district-316739
27-09-2021||Aman Sood||Patiala down from three ministers to 1||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 26The royal city is the biggest loser in today’s Cabinet expansion, down to just one minister from three during the Capt Amarinder Singh government.Back high commandIt is sad Patiala has lost more representation in Cabinet. However, the 2022 polls are important and we support the high command’s decision. — KK Malhotra, District Congress ChiefThe New Moti Bagh Palace, the official residence of the former CM, has been wearing a deserted look ever since the change of guard.With the exit of Patiala (Urban) MLA and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Nabha legislator Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Patiala (Rural) MLA Brahm Mohindra was the lone minister from the district to take oath in the Channi Cabinet today. He was the Local Bodies Minister in the outgoing Cabinet.After having lost out on the Deputy CM’s post, the adjustment of Mohindra in the new Cabinet has left people worried over the fate of ongoing projects, including construction of bus stand, shifting of dairies, heritage street and canal drinking water supply for city.“While Mohindra will now hold the key to Patiala as he is the lone face in the Cabinet, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to announce a new team in the Patiala Congress before the 2022 polls,” said a source.“The only saving grace could be a possible patch-up between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu. If that doesn’t happen, a complete reshuffle in the district Congress is not ruled out with more Sidhu supporters finding a place,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-down-from-three-ministers-to-1-316554
