28-09-2021||---||Bharat bandh: Roads, markets in Patiala wear deserted look, offices shut||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 27Members of the Beopar Mandal today held a protest against the three contentious farm laws in the city. Roads and markets remained deserted while work at the vegetable market, government establishments, including the railway station and the Punjabi University campus, remained stalled. Offices and private establishments in Patiala remained shut today in support of the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The activists carried out a protest march throughout the city for over two hours. Rakesh Gupta of the Beopar Mandal said, “We support the cause against the farm laws and stand in solidarity with the protesting farmers. The mandal activists went to the farmers’ protest sites on Devigarh and Rajpura roads and showed sympathy with them.” Supporting the bandh call, fruit and vegetable vendors also kept the sabzi mandi in the city closed. Binder Singh Nikku, one of the vendors, said the retailers had decided to stop all work in support of the call.Students, teachers and non-teaching officials shut gates and held a protest outside Punjabi University campus. Members of the District Bar Association (DBA), Patiala, also came out in solidarity with the agitating farmers.Jatinderpal Singh Ghuman, president, DBA, said all advocates today suspended work in solidarity with the agitating farmers.Similarly, train services remained suspended at the city railway station. People who reached the railway station had to return back.The agitating farmers forced the Bank of India (Sirhind branch) and another bank branch at Sheran Wala Gate to shut its offices in view of Bharat bandh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bharat-bandh-roads-markets-in-patiala-wear-deserted-look-offices-shut-317172
28-09-2021||Patiala||Farmers block road, rail traffic in Patiala||Farmers today blocked national highways and railway tracks in the district by holding protests at over 60 sites as part of the Bharat bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The protesters staged a sit-in on railways tracks at Dhablan, Kakrala, Shambhu and Daun Kalan villages while roads were blocked at Passiana police station on Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway, Shambhu barrier on Delhi-Amritsar national highway, Dhareri Jattan toll plaza on Patiala-Chadigarh road, Dhabi Gujran toll plaza on Patiala-Patran road, near Kalyan village on Nabha road and at many other places.Traffic movement was completely hampered on the highways. The roads were opened to traffic at 4 pm.Many vehicles were stuck on the roads. However, ambulances, doctors and patients were given way.Manjit Singh, district president, BKU (Ugrahan), said the bandh was successful in the district as people from different spheres supported the call. He said, “The success of today’s bandh has sent a clear message to the Modi government that farmers have support from all walks of life. ”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-block-road-rail-traffic-in-patiala-317173
28-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Food adulteration: Two more paneer samples fail test in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 27Ahead of the festive season, two paneer samples collected by the Health Department have once again failed the quality standards. One paneer sample has been found ‘unfit for human consumption’ while another paneer sample has been declared substandard by the State Food Testing Laboratory. With this, four paneer samples have already failed quality tests over the past 14 days.District Health Officer (DHO) said that one sample of Sharma Dairy had foreign fat — other than milk fat — in the paneer sample, therefore, the sample was declared unfit for human consumption. Meanwhile, the second sample, collected from Sandeep Dairy, has been found substandard. DHO Dr Shelly Jetly said that paneer samples of Sandeep Dairy had higher moisture content and low fat content from the prescribed norms of FSSAI.She further said that both the milk dairies had been served notice. The sources have informed that both the milk dairies were producing paneer on their own.Dr Shelly said that majority of the paneer samples, collected over the last two months, had been found unfit for human consumption. She said, “We are very much alert, and regular inspections are being conducted to check adulteration, especially in paneer. For the coming days, we have already planned to curb the adulteration.”The Health Department, under the existing law, has no power to immediately stop the suspected owner from selling the items. Only power they have is just to issue the notices for further actions. Fines are imposed on the food handlers by the court of Additional Deputy Commissioner which takes months together. Until then, food handlers continue to sell the products and put the lives of the consumers at risk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/food-adulteration-two-more-paneer-samples-fail-test-in-patiala-317174
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala beat Nawanshahr in cricket, enter final||Patiala lads registered an eight-wicket win over Nawanshahr in the Punjab State Inter-District Senior One-Day Limited Overs Tournament today. Batting first, Nawanshahr scored 112 runs before getting all-out in 37.3 overs.Karan Bhatti (34), Ravi Sharma (32) and Amandeep Ghuman (25) scored for the side. Akul Pandove (4/15) was the pick of the bowlers, followed by Aryaman Singh (3/30), Kuljit Singh (2/17) and Karan Kaila (1/12) were the other main wicket takers. In reply, Patiala scored 116/2 in 16.2 overs.Sanvir Singh (64) and Jiwanjot Singh (43) were the two main scorers for the side. Jatinder Kumar and Ujjwal Thapiyal claimed one wicket each. In the second match, hosts Amritsar defeated Mohali by nine wickets. Batting first, Mohali scored 240 runs before getting all-out in 49.2 overs. Vishvanath Partap Singh (118) topped the score chart with the support of Prabhnoor Bhalla (35), Abhijeet Garg (27) and Anshul Chaudhary (24). Kamal Passi (4/45) claimed maximum wickets, while Abhinav Sharma, Rohit Kumar, Vinay Chaudhary and Ashwani Kumar took one wicket each. In reply, Amritsar chased the target in 40.4 overs with the help of Abhay Chaudhary (101 off 118 balls) and Sharad Lumba (100 off 115 balls). Barinder Sran claimed the only wicket. The final will be played on October 7 at IS Bindra PCA Stadium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-beat-nawanshahr-in-cricket-enter-final-317169
28-09-2021||Patiala/Bathinda||Malwa: Blockades bring rail, road traffic to grinding halt||Commuters in the Malwa belt on Monday were at the receiving end of the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) as national and state highways were blocked by protesters.In Patiala, offices and private establishments remained closed, while farmers forcibly entered banks and asked them to shut down.Commuters were seen walking in search of conveyance on Patiala-Bathinda national highways as all state-run buses remained off road. Government employees scrambled to reach their offices. Army vehicles were also not allowed by protesters at some places, though union leaders had appealed to protesters not to cause any problems to commuters.From the mandis to the district courts and Punjabi University campus, work remained suspended throughout the city.In Fatehgarh Sahib, a complete bandh was observed in the district and all commercial establishments, shops and schools remained closed. Industrial units operated as usual.Farmers protested at 19 places in Bathinda and nine places in Mansa. In Bathinda, farmers staged protest on Bathinda-Chandigarh NH-7 and Bathinda-Amritsar NH-54. Besides, farmers blocked rail tracks at Rampura Phul and Maur. Traders, arhtiyas, lawyers and all political parties, barring the BJP, supported the bandh. Employee unions also joined the protesters in Bathinda and Mansa.In Faridkot, the bandh call got a good response with mass participation from the rural areas. In Ludhiana, farmers completely blocked Ladhowal Toll Plaza on National Highway 44. Passengers remained stranded at the Ludhiana Railway Station and Bus Stand. In Muktsar district, protests were held at 19 places. In Ropar, the bandh passed off peacefully. The blockades were lifted at 4 pm at all places. — TNS(With inputs from Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Faridkot, Muktsar & Ropar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/malwa-blockades-bring-rail-road-traffic-to-grinding-halt-316979
