07-02-2021||Chandigarh||2 more Covid deaths, 207 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Sunday reported 207 fresh coronavirus cases, bringing the infection count to 1,74,646.Two more deaths took the toll to 5,642, according to a medical bulletin.There are 2,176 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now.SBS Nagar reported 51 new cases, Ludhiana 23 and Jalandhar 21 among fresh COVID-19 cases witnessed in the state.A total of 185 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of those recovered to 1,66,828, as per the bulletin.Five critical patients are on ventilator support, while 97 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 45,94,107 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-more-covid-deaths-207-new-cases-in-punjab-209220
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||What can be bigger offer than suspending farm laws for 18 months: Som Parkash||Union minister Som Parkash on Sunday said the government is ready for talks with the agitating farmers and asked whether there can be an offer bigger than suspending the contentious agriculture laws for 18 months.He said the government was making sincere efforts to resolve the issue.“The government is ready for talks,” Parkash said addressing a press conference here.“We offered to suspend the laws for one-and-half years and constitute a committee with farmers’ representatives on these laws. What can be a bigger offer than this?” he added.His statement comes a day after protesting farmer unions said they were ready to resume talks with the government, but asked it to come up with a fresh proposal as the existing offer to put the three farm laws on hold for 12-18 months is not acceptable to them.Parkash, the Union minister of state for Commerce, was part of the three-member ministerial team which held several rounds of negotiations with the farmers’ leaders.Parkash, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Punjab’s Hoshiarpur parliamentary constituency, said the farm legislations were passed by Parliament and a due process was followed.“The law is not framed by raising hands. There is a system in the country,” he added.The union minister said the government enacted the laws keeping in view the interest of the whole country.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.To a question on the upcoming municipal polls in Punjab, Parkash said the farmers’ agitation should not be linked with the elections.The government had brought these laws in the interest of the farming community, he said.The minister slammed the ruling Congress in Punjab, accusing it of “orchestrating” the protest against the BJP leaders in the state.“The police is acting at the behest of the state government,” he alleged.A group of farmers in Hoshiarpur on Saturday had shouted slogans against the BJP outside a venue where party leaders, including Parkash, had come for a public meeting.Elections to the eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/what-can-be-bigger-offer-than-suspending-farm-laws-for-18-months-som-parkash-209207
07-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||MC polls: Facing farmers’ ire, Bathinda BJP president contesting on ‘tractor’ symbol||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 7Facing ire of farmers over the issue of farm laws, BJP’s Bathinda Urban president Vinod Kumar Binta is contesting as independent on the symbol of tractor from ward number 2 in Bhucho MC in the district. Meanwhile, a photo of Vinod Kumar Binta’s son is going viral on social media where he is seen with Congress MLA from Bhucho Pritam Kotbhai and senior Congress leader Harmander Jassi, reportedly filing his nomination papers as a covering candidate. Sources in the BJP state committee indicated that party is in mood to take action against Vinod Kumar Binta for ‘anti-party’ activities. It is learnt that action would be taken after MC polls are over on February 14. Even party high command has also looking for new district party president, it is learnt.Vinod Kumar Binta said he is contesting as an independent on the symbol of tractor.On the controversy pertaining to his son filing papers with Congress leaders, Binta said it is just a coincidence as he had gone alone to file his papers. Farmers are protesting against BJP leaders in the region and BKU Ekta-Ugrahan had already announced that they would not allow any BJP candidate to hold public meetings in run-up to the elections. It is learnt to escape the wrath of farmers, Binta filed his papers as an independent candidate and got ‘tractor’ as his symbol in order to get support from the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mc-polls-facing-farmers-ire-bathinda-bjp-president-contesting-on-tractor-symbol-209186
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab achieves 100% door-to-door collection of solid waste: Chief Secy||Punjab has achieved almost 100 per cent door-to-door collection and segregation of municipal solid waste, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said on Sunday.Besides, the state has prepared 14 district environment plans to address the problem of pollution at the district level.The Chief Secretary said she has assured the NGT-appointed monitoring committee for the Sutlej and Beas rivers, under the chairmanship of Justice Jasbir Singh (retd), that the state was committed to provide clean and potable water to the residents.Mahajan also assured that the state would intensify its efforts for the management of solid waste, comprising biomedical and plastic.The panel, comprising former Chief Secretary S.C. Aggarwal, environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal (both members) and technical expert Babu Ram, briefed the Chief Secretary about environment related issues concerning the state with specific reference to improving the water quality in the rivers and waste management in urban and rural areas.The committee was constituted on the behest of the National Green Tribunal to specifically look into various environmental issues in 2019.The most significant achievement in the last two years was the improvement in the water quality to the desired level (Class-B) in two stretches of the Beas river, which has become the only river in the entire country to achieve such standards, an official statement said.Apart from this, the work to the tune of Rs 500 crore, pertaining to setting up of sewage treatment plants and effluent treatment plants for dairy waste to address the problem of pollution in the Budha nullah, one of the dirtiest tributaries of the Sutlej river, passing through most parts of Ludhiana.It is expected that after commissioning of these plants, the river water quality of the Sutlej will improve significantly.Besides, 105 MLD capacity common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) have been set up to check industrial pollutants entering into Sutlej river. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-achieves-100-door-to-door-collection-of-solid-waste-chief-secy-209173
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||SAD demands re-election at all places where Congmen elected unopposed by rejecting nomination papers of opposition candidates||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday demanded municipal elections be annulled at all places where the nomination papers of opposition candidates had been rejected en masse even as it called for immediate deployment of para-military forces ensuring free and fair elections at remaining places.Addressing a press conference, here, former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said nomination papers of opposition party candidates had been rejected en masse in Zira where all seventeen Congress candidates had been elected unopposed.He said similarly Congressmen had been declared elected unopposed in eight out of fifteen seats in Guruharsahai, seven out of 11 seats in Maluka, five out of 13 seats in Mehraj,  four out of 13 seats in Bhai Roopa, six seats in Mandi Gobindgarh and eight seats in Ferozepur.He said similarly nomination papers of SAD candidates had been rejected in seven seats in Gidderbaha.Demanding re-election in all these seats, saying the nomination papers had been rejected even after the end of the scrutiny period at the instance of Congress legislators, Dr Daljit Cheema said it was now clear that the municipal elections had become one in which the State was contesting against the people.“Even Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has become party to this and gone back on the promise to ensure free and fair elections made during the All Party Meeting recently”.Stating that the SAD was not left with any choice except to approach the courts as well as Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, the SAD leader said: “It is a sad day for democracy that a constitutional authority like the State Election Commissioner has also abrogated its responsibility and is allowing the Congress party and the State government to murder democracy in the State. Never before has the SEC been so ineffective. It is refusing to even take note of summary rejection of nomination papers of opposition members and has not taken any action against civil and police officials who have actively colluded with Congressmen indulging in violence against the opposition”.Giving instances, Dr Cheema said there was video evidence of Congress councillors attacking residences of Akali candidates, vandalizing vehicles and even brazenly shooting at them.“The SEC, however, has acted in a spineless manner by refusing to take note of this evidence which is in public domain. We will bring this collusion of the SEC with the Congress party and the State government before the Governor as well as the courts during the coming days”, he added.Asserting that the atmosphere in the State had been vitiated by the free run given to Congress goons, Dr Cheema said only deployment of para-military forces can check widespread rigging on election-day. He said the SEC should also take note of the volatile situation and give permission for videography inside polling stations to safeguard against malpractices. He said similarly the SEC should take note of the start of transfers in the education department which he said could be used to influence voters.“The SEC should also look into complaints of how government departments like the food and civil supplies, drug inspectors and pollution control board are being misused to intimidate opponents by Congressmen. Separate cases should be registered into cases of violence like attack on the residence of the Akali candidate with pistols at Bhikhiwind, stoning of the SAD President’s vehicle at Jalalabad and violence at Guruharsahai and other places”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-demands-re-election-at-all-places-where-congmen-elected-unopposed-by-rejecting-nomination-papers-of-opposition-candidates-209158
07-02-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot deaths: Gidderbaha MLA’s brother-in-law booked for abetting suicide||Faridkot police on Sunday booked the brother-in-law of Gidderbaha Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for abetment of suicide after a man, who allegedly killed his two children before turning the gun on himself, named him in the suicide note.A 35-year-old private contractor, Karan Kataria, allegedly killed his two children and injured his wife before shooting himself at Narain Nagar here on Saturday morning.On the complaint of Ankit Kataria, the brother of the deceased, the Faridkot police have booked Dimpy Vinayak, Warring’s brother-in-law. The police have mainly relied upon a five-page suicide note left behind by Kataria.While Karan Kataria and his two children had died on Saturday, his wife, Sheenam, was struggling for her life at a private hospital in Ludhiana.In his statement to the police, Ankit Kataria alleged that his brother had some lifting contracts in Gidderbaha and Vinayak was interfering in the work due to Warring’s influence.“The accused had extorted Rs 1.22 crore from my brother last season and was demanding more money in lieu of contractual works of PSPCL,” alleged Ankit Kataria.“Two days ago, when my brother approached Dimpy Vinayak, demanding that he return some money out of the Rs 1.22 crore, he refused and asked my brother to commit suicide,” he added.Karan Kataria used his licensed revolver to shoot his two children—a seven-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son—and wife at around 5 am in the morning while they were asleep.Kataria later shot himself. While the children died on the spot, his seriously injured wife was admitted to the local Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital and later shifted to a private hospital in Ludhiana.Kataria died on the way to the hospital in Ludhiana.Faridkot police took over 19 hours to register a case against Dimpy Vinayak.The police have also registered a criminal case under Section 302, 307 (murder, attempt of murder) against Kataria for killing his children and attempting to kill his wife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-deaths-gidderbaha-mlas-brother-in-law-booked-for-abetting-suicide-209151
07-02-2021||Tribune Reporters||Farm unions choke highways across Punjab‘||Chandigarh, February 6On a nationwide call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha for ‘chakka jam’, various farmer unions along with farm labourer organisations on Saturday protested across the state, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws and a new law guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP). While the normal traffic remained suspended on several roads and highways from 12 noon to 3 pm, no untoward incident was reported from anywhere.In Bathinda, farmers protested at eight places and blocked the Bathinda- Amritsar National Highway at Kanhiya Chowk and Bathinda-Chandigarh National Highway at Lehra Bega toll plaza. Besides, protests were held on the Bathinda-Badal road near Ghudda village, and Maur road at Rampura Phul.A large number of people from non-farming community, including sanitation workers, also participated in the protest. Condemning the FIRs against protesters in Delhi, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Harjinder Singh Baggi demanded the release of ‘innocent’ farmers at the earliest. The farmers in large numbers were seen carrying the Tricolour along with kisan union flags. Commuters plying on the roads had a tough time as they had to take link roads through villages in the region.In Mansa district, protesters blocked the Sirsa-Barnala highway and resorted to sloganeering against the central government, demanding the restoration of Internet services and basic amenities at the protest sites onDelhi borders. They also demanded cancellation of cases registered against farmers after Republic Day violence and their release.Union leaders unanimously decided to boycott BJP candidates in the upcoming municipal council elections.Farmers of the Punjab Kisan Union, various factions of the BKU and the Krantikari Kisan Union participated in the ‘chakka jam’. They blocked the Mansa-Patiala highway near Bhikhi and Mansa-Ratia highway at Budhladha.In Amritsar, farmer unions received a huge response from public as roads were blocked at over a dozen places. The events also witnessed participation of students, shopkeepers and other sections of society. In Sirhind, farmers blocked the main Delhi-Amritsar GT Road, Sirhind-Patiala road near Kharodi village, Sirhind-Chandigarh road at Chuni, Badali Ala Singh and Bhaironpur. Similarly, the Ludhiana-Chandigarh road was blocked at Khamano. Farmer leaders said a family member from each home in every village would go to Delhi borders.In Moga district, highways were blocked at 17 places. Protesting farmers demanded the implementation of Swaminathan report, guarantee on MSP and the rollback of the three controversial farm laws.The Ludhiana-Ferozepur road was blocked by the BKU (Ekta) near a corporate giant’s silo at Dagru village, while the BKU (Dakaunda) blocked the Moga-Barnala road at Bilaspur village. Protests were also held on the Moga-Ferozepur road, Moga-Barnala road (Badhni Kalan village), Kotkapura-Moga road (Baghapurana) and the Moga-Ludhiana road at Ajitwal. Local villagers on the Moga-Ludhiana road protested in front of the Moga Deputy Commissioner’s residence.Similar protests were organised in several towns of Sangrur and Barnala districts.In Abohar, the BKU (Lakhowal) and (Qadian), and Kisan Ekta Manch blocked the Abohar-Dabwali-Delhi highway.(With inputs from Bathinda, Mansa, Amritsar, Moga, Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib & Abohar)Women take leadWe are not terrorists"Even though we have been protesting peacefully since November 26, we are being repeatedly called terrorists, Naxals and whatnot. We all are farmers." — Harjinder Singh Baggi, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-choke-highways-across-punjab-208943
07-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers protest: Commuters stranded||Ferozepur, February 6Members of various farm unions blocked the national highway and other roads as part of the ‘chakka jam’ against Union Government’s three agricultural laws today.The farmers blocked traffic on the Amritsar-Bathinda National Highway (Near Bangali Bridge), Ferozepur-Fazilka National Highway besides protesting at the Mallanwala-Ferozepur road, Khai Pheme Ke in Mamdot block, Octoroi Number 7 in the Ferozepur Cantonment area, Golu ka Mour village in Guruharsahai and at Mudki in Ghall Khurd block.Due to protest, thousands of commuters had to suffer. However, the emergency service vehicles were allowed to move. A heavy police force was deployed to prevent any untoward incident. SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said the protest by the farmers remained peaceful.Traffic disrupted near AboharAbohar: Farmers blocked highways at about 50 places in Sriganganagar near Abohar, disrupting the interstate movement of vehicles for three hours. Businessmen and labourers by and large supported the ‘chakka jam’. State-owned and private buses couldn’t ply during the ‘chakka jam’. Military vehicles, ambulances and school vans, however, were not stopped. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-commuters-stranded-208944
07-02-2021||---||Punjab govt not helping jailed youth: SAD||Amritsar, February 6 Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal flayed the state government for not taking up with the central government the issue of Punjabi youth being allegedly locked up in Delhi jails without filing of FIRs.  She and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal were at the Golden Temple to attend a religious ceremony today. Taking a jibe at the CM, she said he must camp at the national capital with his ministers instead of sitting at his farmhouse.  Sukhbir claimed the SAD and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee were jointly tracking those protesters from Punjab who had gone missing in Delhi. In this regard, they were also holding discussions with the Delhi Police.  He accused the state government for using state machinery to intimidate the MC poll candidates of Opposition parties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-not-helping-jailed-youth-sad-208945
07-02-2021||Patiala||Stars, doctors join protesters||On the call given by farmers’ unions for a nationwide three-hour “chakka jam” today, Punjabi actors, singers, doctors, and teachers came out in large numbers and participated in the roadblocks at various places in the district.Farmers held protests at 24 places, including the Shambu barrier, in the district. The transgender community also participated in the protest.Actor Dev Kharoud, Binnu Dhillon and singer Pammi Bai protested near Urban Estate on the Patiala-Chandigarh Highway, while teachers and doctors blocked the road near Passiana village.Kharoud said: “I am an actor, but my entire family is into farming. The youth should not fall prey to the divisive tactics. Don’t get distracted from our ultimate aim — repeal of farm laws.” Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Pammi Bai said: “The PM is still silent on 175 farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. This insensitivity of the PM is shameful for the country.”Appealing to the youth, he said: “Farmers’ agitation is peaceful. So, you shouldn’t indulge in any violence at all.” Reacting to the tweets by the Bollywood in response to pop star Rihanna’s post, Binu Dhillon said: “They should have some conscience. It appears that Bollywood stars were pressurised by someone to tweet.”Meanwhile, government doctors under the “Doctors for Farmers” banner also participated in the protest. Dr Diwan Bhullar at Passiana said: Government schoolteachers under the “Democratic Teachers Front” also took part in the protests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stars-doctors-join-protesters-208946
07-02-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Muktsar lad comes out with emotive short film on farmers' struggle||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 6“Dukhad khabar Singhu border toh saamne aa rahi hai ki kisani sangharsh dauran ik hor kisan andolan di bheint chadheya hai” — the voice of a journalist runs in the background while a jawan posted at the border cries listening to the news, thinking and worrying about his father who is fighting for farmers’ rights at the Singhu border.This is the starting scene of short movie ‘Jang Jittange Zarur’, written and directed by Kudrat Bajaj, a Muktsar-based filmmaker, who wanted to contribute to the farmers’ movement. The movie is getting widely appreciated.The nine-minute movie is full of emotions. It shows while the son is fighting for his country at the border, his father fights against the three farm laws at the border while his mother looks after the fields back home. It covers every aspect of the movement — the protesters being called Khalistanis and terrorists, the farmers’ sentiments, the unity of religions and the role of women in the movement.The film is produced by RRupaali Gupta and Deepak Gupta under their production house Friday Russh Motion Pictures.A passout from Panjab University, Chandigarh, Bajaj (32) has done Masters in Theatre. He said he had been directing short films but this film and the topic were close to his heart. “I have stayed with farmers at the Singhu border for five days. I have seen their pain. I am supporting the movement since the beginning,” the director said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-lad-comes-out-with-emotive-short-film-on-farmers-struggle-208947
07-02-2021||Bathinda||YouTube pulls down songs on farm protest||Singer Kanwar Grewal’s Ailaan, a song critical of the farm laws, has been pulled down by YouTube. Himmat Sandhu’s Asi vaddange has also been removed from the popular video-sharing platform. The central government has filed legal complaints against the songs.Since September 25 last year, several Punjabi celebrities have come out in support of the agitation, and have released songs to that effect. Songs like Kisan anthem, Punjab by Sidhu Moosewala, Zaalam sarkaran by Gippy Grewal have helped keep the spirits high.Another such hit is Asi vaddange by lyricist and singer Himmat Sandhu. The song was released four months ago in support of the farmers’ protest. The song talks about the government’s insensitivity towards farmers and warns it not to enter the fields, or it would be butchered.The song had over 13 million views since its release and had become an anthem for the protest, and is often played by the youth on tractors marching towards the capital city. Another number which has been deleted is Ailaan. Kanwar Grewal has been actively participating in the stir and has emerged as a leader. His song has over one crore views. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youtube-pulls-down-songs-on-farm-protest-208948
07-02-2021||---||Critics of Red Fort plotters get threats||Chandigarh, February 6After the Republic Day violence, some of the leaders who had drawn line against those who had allegedly attempted to “sabotage” the ongoing farmers’ movement are reportedly getting threats calls from foreign numbers.Those who mainly came under attack include Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal)’s Balbir Singh Rajewal and Kirti Kisan Union’s Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala. Incidentally, both the leaders had strongly condemned the incident of hoisting of a flag at the Red Fort in their speeches and also criticised the alleged planners of Republic Day kisan parade sabotage.Rajewal had even given a call for social boycott of those who planned the march to Red Fort. Those who came under criticism of farmer leaders were gangster-turned-social worker Lakha Sidhana and Deep Sidhu.The threats are mainly coming from foreign or ‘private’ numbers. Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala said 10 days had passed but he was consistently getting calls hurling abuses to threats of physical harm. He said he was being targeted for exposing the people behind the ‘sabotage’ attempt.“Over the years, I have become habitual of all these tricks, so I avoid engaging with them. But this time, even my wife who is also part of this agitation is being threatened over phone and Facebook messages,” he said.A new trend, which has been witnessed over the last four days, was a large number of videos specifically targeting Rajinder Singh and Rajewal shared by individuals who are known sympathisers of Khalistan movement. They are flaying the Left activists for hijacking the ongoing movement.Suspect foreign role||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/critics-of-red-fort-plotters-get-threats-208949
07-02-2021||---||Contractor shoots 2 kids, self; injures wife||Faridkot, February 6 A 35-year-old private contractor with the PSPCL allegedly killed his two children and injured his wife before turning the gun on himself at Narain Nagar here today. The contractor was apparently under financial distress. Preliminary investigation by the police suggested Karan Kataria opened fire at his two children — a seven-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son — and his wife from his licensed revolver around 5 am while the victims were asleep. Karan then turned the gun on himself. While the children died on the spot, his seriously injured wife was admitted to the local Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, from where she was later shifted to a private hospital in Ludhiana. Karan, too, died on the way to the hospital in Ludhiana. A suicide note, purportedly written by Karan, was recovered by the police. Faridkot SSP Swarndeep Singh said the police were verifying the facts and were in the process of registering an FIR. Sources close to the family said the contractor had attached copies of transaction details of his bank accounts with the suicide note. The name of a Congress leader also allegedly figured in the suicide note. “We are verifying the contents of the suicide note,” the SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contractor-shoots-2-kids-self-injures-wife-208950
07-02-2021||Gidderbaha||SAD to boycott Gidderbaha poll||A day after Gidderbaha Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring publicly dared the Akalis, the latter today decided to boycott the municipal council elections in the town, saying they did not want to indulge in violence and disturb peace. Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon, SAD’s Gidderbaha constituency in charge, alleged: “Civil and police officers are acting at the behest of the Congress. They first rejected the nominations of two of our candidates without a valid reason. Last evening, the nominations of three of our candidates were withdrawn when no one had even visited the SDM office for the purpose.” SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had yesterday visited Gidderbaha and addressed party workers during a protest outside the SDM office. He asked Warring to mend ways. Later, Warring and Congress workers assembled at the venue, and dared Akalis on a number of points. SDM Om Parkash could not be contacted for a comment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-to-boycott-gidderbaha-poll-208951
07-02-2021||---||Web portal for transfer pleas open till February 13||Chandigarh, February 6School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday said the Education Department had opened the online portal to receive transfer applications of teachers, computer teachers, education providers and volunteers under the notified Teacher Transfer Policy-2019.The Cabinet Minister said the online portal would remain open till February 13 for the transfers which would be applicable from April 10, 2021, or starting of the next academic session. He said to date, as many as 7,300 teachers had already received the benefits of the online transfer policy.Singla said during session 2020-21, the transfers of the teachers did not take place due to closure of schools in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the teachers who had already applied in session 2020-21 need not to apply again but if they wanted to rectify any data, they would be allowed to do so. He said for the session 2021-22, apart from regular teachers, computer teachers, education providers, EGS volunteers, STRs and AITs had also been made eligible to apply online for the transfers.Singla said this year, teachers working in the border areas would also be getting benefits of transfers as fresh recruitments had been done by the government, especially in border areas.Another chance for class xi studentsSchool Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said due to Covid, the entrance test for admission to meritorious schools for students seeking admission in Class XI could not be conducted last year. “The government has decided to provide an opportunity to Class XI students, who enrolled for the entrance test for admission to meritorious schools, to take the examination this year. They will be admitted to Class XII,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/web-portal-for-transfer-pleas-open-till-february-13-208952
07-02-2021||---||Former minister passes away||Ropar, February 6 Senior SAD leader and five-time MLA from Chamkaur Sahib Bibi Satwant Kaur Sandhu passed away at Fortis Hospital in Mohali yesterday. A two-time minister, she was to complete 81 years of age on February 22.Her son, former AIG (Personnel) Harmohan Singh Sandhu, who left his job to enter politics and joined the SAD in February 2019, said she was admitted to the hospital a fortnight ago after she was found suffering from Covid-19. She breathed her last at 10.40 pm yesterday, he added.Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal mourned the demise of Bibi Satwant Kaur Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-minister-passes-away-208956
07-02-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||‘Chakka jam’ affects Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan||Amid stepped up security, protesters on Saturday blocked key roads in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan while scattered demonstrations were held in several other states during the three-hour ‘chakka jam’ called by farm unions agitating against the Centre’s new farm laws.Punjab observed a near-total bandh with traffic blocked at 350 places. In Haryana, toll plazas emerged as key protest sites. In Rajasthan, farmers at Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on highways.Will stay put till Oct 2: TikaitOur protest on Delhi’s outskirts will continue till October 2. Farmers will return only after the govt repeals the laws and makes a law to ensure guarantee for MSP. In Ghazipur, farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait declared the protest on Delhi’s outskirts would continue till October 2 and efforts made to “connect every village” with the agitation. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana parked their tractor-trailers or squatted on roads. Some perched atop tractors hoisted the Tricolour at the KMP Expressway. Commuters were politely requested to turn back.In Punjab, ambulances and other emergency services were unimpeded. Protesters at roundabouts, including Chandigarh, carried placards, posters and flags of kisan unions as well as the national flag.Farm unions along with Khet Mazdoor Union members blocked the Sirsa-Barnala highway in Mansa. The Mansa-Patiala highway near Bhikhi and the Mansa-Ratia highway at Budhlada too were blocked.The protesters raised slogans, demanding that Internet services and basic amenties at the protest sites on Delhi borders be restored, police cases against farmers cancelled and youths arrested post Red Fort incident be released. In Amritsar, the “chakka jam” call received a huge response with students and shopkeepers in large numbers expressing solidarity with the farmers.InJind district, roads were blocked at 50 sites. Highways connecting Rohtak to Delhi, Panipat, Jhajjar, Jind, Bhiwani and Sonepat were blocked at more than 10 places. In Karnal, the farmers blocked roads at 12 points while in Kaithal 10 roads were blocked. In Ambala and Kurukshetra, farmers from Haryana and Punjab held a joint protest near the Shambhu toll plaza.Protests were also held in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kolar, Koppal, Bagalkote, Tumakuru, Davangere, Hassan, Mangaluru, Haveri, Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur in Karnataka besides parts of TN and Maharashtra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chakka-jam-affects-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-208941
07-02-2021||New Delhi||Punjab, Haryana, HP allowed to borrow additional Rs 5,034 crore post ease of doing biz reforms||The Finance Ministry has granted permission to four states of Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab to borrow an additional Rs 5,034 crore for undertaking ease of doing business reforms. In a statement, the ministry said four more states namely, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have undertaken ‘Ease of Doing Business’ reforms stipulated by the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. “Thus, these States have become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources and have been granted permission to raise additional Rs 5,034 crore through Open Market Borrowings,” it said. With this, 12 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, have undertaken the stipulated reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. On completion of reforms facilitating ease of doing business, these 12 states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 28,183 crore, the statement added. In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government of India had in May last year enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP.  Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the States. The four citizen-centric areas for reforms identified were implementation of One Nation One Ration Card System, ease of doing business reform, Urban Local body/ utility reforms and power sector reforms. Till now, 17 states have carried out at least one of the four stipulated reforms and have been granted reform-linked borrowing permissions.  Of these, 12 states have implemented the one nation one ration card system, 12 states have done ease of doing business reforms, five states have done local body reforms and 2 States have undertaken power sector reforms.  Total reform linked additional borrowing permission issued so far to the states stands at Rs 74,773 crore, the ministry added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-hp-allowed-to-borrow-additional-rs-5-034-crore-post-ease-of-doing-biz-reforms-208830
07-02-2021||Karnal/Bathinda/Palwal||Farmers block roads in Punjab, Haryana as part of ‘chakka jam’||Farmers on Saturday parked their tractor-trailers in the middle of roads and raised slogans against the Centre during a three-hour-long "chakka jam" agitation in Punjab and Haryana.Women took part in the stir in a sizeable number at several places.The call for the nationwide "chakka jam" was given by the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions protesting the Centre's farm laws at the Delhi borders.Farmers blocked 11 points in Karnal district. Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 was the main site where farmers gathered.HIGHLIGHTSAmbala: Congress, INLD, and Haryana Democratic Front leaders reach the dharna site near Shambhu toll plazaYamunanagar: Farmers block road in Chhachhrauli town of Yamunanagar districtFarmers block Sonepat-Gohana road near Badwasni villageMembers of 52 Khaps (Pals) are also staging a sit-in on the National Highway 19, near Antola village of Palwal district as part of the Chakka Jam. Traffic on both sides of the highway and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway has been halted.Also read: Farmers block Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Panchkula-Zirakpur border pointsMeanwhile, farmers in Bathinda blocked eight places in the district.All national and state highways in the district have been blocked.Farmers are protesting at Kanhiya Chowk, the Bathinda-Amritsar highway, Lehra Bega toll plaza and Rampura on the Bathinda-Chandigarh national highway among other places in the district.A large number of farmers are carrying the Tricolour along with the union flags at the protest spots.Emergency and essential services such as ambulance and school bus will not be stopped, the protesters have said. However, there was no report of violence from anywhere in both the states.Heavy police presence was seen at various places in Haryana and Punjab to maintain law and order in view of the protest by the farmers.Meanwhile, Delhi Police are all geared up to tackle any surprise element, including ‘flash mob’ tactics and ‘protest call on social media’ in view of the ‘chakka jam’.Security has been tightened at strategic locations and the police are keeping an eye on the protest build-up in the bordering states and the protest sites close to Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. — With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-roads-in-punjab-haryana-as-part-of-chakka-jam-208734
