08-02-2021||Amritsar||SGPC delegation to meet U’khand CM to seek reconstruction of Gurdwara Gian Godri in Haridwar||A delegation of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will soon meet Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat for reconstruction of historic Gurdwara Gian Godri Sahib in Haridwar, associated with Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev.This was stated by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur after a meeting of the sub-committee on Gurdwara Gian Godri Sahib at Amritsar on Monday.Kaur said, “The sentiments of the sangat (devotees) are connected with Gurdwara Gian Godri Sahib in the remembrance of Guru Nanak’s visit to Haridwar. Efforts are being made by the SGPC to reestablish the gurdwara at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar. For this, a delegation of SGPC will be meeting the chief minister of Uttarakhand.”Guru Nanak Dev had visited Gurdwara Sri Gian Godri Sahib at Har Ki Pauri. It was demolished in 1979.Kaur said a letter will be sent to the Uttarakhand chief minister in order to seek time for a meeting. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-delegation-to-meet-ukhand-cm-to-seek-reconstruction-of-gurdwara-gian-godri-in-haridwar-209652
08-02-2021||Balwant Garg||Behbal Kalan firing case: No interim relief to former DGP Saini, IG||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, February 8Four days after former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal approached the court of District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, seeking anticipatory bail in apprehension of their arrest on February 9 here, the court deferred the hearing on their application for February 11.Accused in a murder and attempt of murder case, the former DGP and IGP have been summoned by the court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Faridkot for their presence before the court on February 9.Fearing them being arrested on February 9 during their appearance before the court here, both accused police officers want to avail the benefit of anticipatory bail. However, as the court has deferred the decision on the anticipatory bail application for February 11, so the threat of arrest will keep looming large on the accused on February 9.Both Saini and Umranangal are accused in a criminal case registered under Section 302, 307, 34, 201, 218, 166A, 120B, 34, 194, 195, 109 of IPC and 25, 27 of Arms Act at Bajakhana police station of Faridkot. This case was registered on October 21, 2015, a week after two protesters were allegedly killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015 in the aftermath of sacrilege incidents at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.In this case, Saini and Umranangal were chargesheeted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Punjab police on January 15 and they were summoned by the Court for February 9.Saini has already approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking the quashing of this chargesheet.The public prosecutor today opposed the anticipatory bail to Saini, claiming the Punjab and Haryana High Court had already granted blanket bail to Saini in October 2018 and it was challenged by the state government. The court has summoned the record of this blanket bail to Saini for February 11.In the October, 2018 blanket bail order it was mentioned that “in case the petitioner (Saini) is sought to be arrested in Kotkapura sacrilege case or in case involving Aman Skoda of Moga or in any case pertaining to an incident of the period while the petitioner remained as State Vigilance Head or Inspector General of Police, Intelligence, Punjab or Director General of Police Punjab, then one week's advance notice shall be afforded to the petitioner before effecting his arrest so as to enable him to have recourse to remedies available to him”.Further, in November 2020, High Court had allowed the continuation of this order till pronouncement of the judgement in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-firing-case-no-interim-relief-to-former-dgp-saini-ig-209643
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab SC Commission asks ACS home to intervene to ensure relief to Nodeep Kaur||Taking suo moto notice of a news published in a section of media highlighting the matter of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes on Monday asked the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) to intervene in the matter to ensure relief of the victim at the earliest, a press release said on Monday The Commission has also sought a report in this regard by February 23.Punjab Schedule Castes Commission Chairperson Tejinder Kaur said that commission has taken the suo moto since the victim is a resident of Muktsar Sahib. In a communiqué to the Additional Chief Secretary Home Affairs and Justice, the commission has written to intervene besides ensuring the relief to the victim as the matter was very serious.Ab English daily has published a news item that claimed 23-year-old Nodeep Kaur who was sexually assaulted in police custody. Nodeep Kaur, who was part of the ongoing farmers’ protest, was arrested on January 12 and has since been in police custody. She has been denied bail by a sessions court in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sc-commission-asks-acs-home-to-intervene-to-ensure-relief-to-nodeep-kaur-209628
08-02-2021||New Delhi||Punjab govt supporting 'gangster' Mukhtar Ansari, SC told||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday unleashed a barrage of charges against the Punjab government for providing shelter to gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is accused in several heinous cases in Uttar Pradesh.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court that Ansari is getting five-star treatment in a Punjab jail, and questioned why the state government was supporting a gangster. Mehta, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, did not mince words in criticising the Punjab government before a bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy."He (Ansari) is happy in Punjab jail and he is enjoying," Mehta said.The Solicitor General added that Ansari is being vociferously defended by the Punjab government. He said the Punjab government claims that he (Ansari) is suffering from depression, but in reality he is enjoying his time in jail. "The Punjab government is supporting a gangster. There are very serious cases pending against Ansari and the trials of the same are pending in Uttar Pradesh," Mehta contended before the top court. The Uttar Pradesh government has moved the top court seeking Ansari's transfer from Punjab to UP. However, the Ropar jail authorities have refused to hand him over citing medical grounds.Mehta added that summons were issued against Ansari, but then he got an FIR registered against himself in Punjab and did not even file for bail, rather he is enjoying his time in Punjab. The Uttar Pradesh government has termed the FIR as a complete sham and a design to help Ansari escape the law in Uttar Pradesh.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Ansari, said that his client can appear through video conferencing in cases in Uttar Pradesh. Mehta rebutted that Ansari cannot choose a forum and he cannot sit in five-star accommodation and then appear for trial in Uttar Pradesh. Mehta told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing the Punjab government, "You are supporting Ansari." In an affidavit, the Uttar Pradesh government said that Ansari has been sheltered in Punjab for the past two years on the basis of two FIRs filed against him. "The respondent state of Punjab has made a mockery of the federal structure of the Constitution by seeking to defend an accused who is a gangster and a history sheeter," said the affidavit.The Uttar Pradesh government added that more than 30 FIRs and over 14 criminal trials, including for heinous crimes like murder, are pending against Ansari in various MP/MLA courts, where his personal appearance has been sought.Slamming the Punjab government, the Uttar Pradesh government said that its response is an attempt to gloss over and draw a veil over its true intent to not produce Ansari before a court in Uttar Pradesh. "The state of Punjab has not proceeded with the investigation of the FIR No. 5 of 2019 or filing of the chargesheet for two years even after arresting the accused on January 22, 2019, and lodging him in jail since January 24, 2019," said the UP government.Earlier, the top court had directed the Punjab government to file a detailed reply on the pending case against Ansari, including the status of trial along with a report on his medical condition.— IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-supporting-gangster-mukhtar-ansari-sc-told-209623
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress to hold protest against rising petrol, diesel and kitchen gas prices on Feb 11||Punjab Congress will stage a statewide protest on February 11 against incessant hike in Petrol, diesel and kitchen gas prices by Modi regime, the party announced in a press release on Monday. The protests will be carried out across all cities from 11 am till 1 pm. This was disclosed by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Sunil Jakhar here today in a press statement.PCC Chief Sunil Jakhar, who would lead the protest march from Abohar said that due to oppressive policies of centre each segment of society is distressed.“On one side while centre's ego is forcing farmers to protest against, it is putting undue financial burden on common man by hiking prices of petrol, diesel and gas,” the press note quoted him as having said.“A gas cylinder used to cost Rs. 438 in 2014 when Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji was the Prime Minister, Jakhar pointed out underlining that the same cylinder cost has crossed Rs 750. This too when prices of crude oil is almost half than what it used to be in 2014,” he said, accusing the Modi regime of looting the public.The prices of oil and gas should have reduced as a result of decrease in crude prices but centre is deliberately spiking prices each time to break the back of common man, Jakhar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-to-hold-protest-against-rising-petrol-diesel-and-kitchen-gas-prices-on-feb-11-209607
08-02-2021||Raj Sadosh||BSF foils Pakistan drug smugglers’ infiltration in Sriganganagar, firing exchanged||Our CorrespondentAbohar, February 8The Border Security Force (BSF) thwarted an intrusion bid of Pakistan-based smugglers in Sriganganagar sector late on Sunday night.Official sources said suspected Pakistani smugglers moved close to the wire fence with a consignment of heroin. Seeing the movement across the fence, the smugglers started firing.As soon as the BSF opened fire in retaliation, the smugglers fled.A polythene packet of about one kg of heroin was later recovered in a field during a search operation.Senior BSF officers have reached the site. A search operation is under way.According to sources, in Dullapur Keri village on the Sriganganagar-Hindumalkot road, an intrusion bid was reportedly made in front of the Madanlal border — outpost of the BSF — when soldiers were patrolling at about 12:15.Two suspects were noticed crossing the Zero line as they approached the wire fence.When the soldiers challenged the suspicious persons, the latter ran away. While returning, they fired two rounds which the BSF soldiers promptly responded by firing four rounds.There was, however, no casualty reported.A packet covered with yellow tape was found in a field and it carried about one kg of material, suspected to be heroin valued at Rs 5 crore in the international market.As of now, no footprints of the suspected persons were spotted on the Indian side. Combing operation to find whether any stranger with vehicles had visited the village in the past two to three days was going on, official sources said.Area near Hindumalkot have been noticing activities of drug smugglers from Punjab, most of them from Tarn Taran, in the past few years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-foils-pakistan-drug-smugglers-infiltration-in-sriganganagar-firing-exchanged-209601
08-02-2021||Patiala||Poor response to Covid vaccination drive from frontline workers of Punjab’s health dept||Frontline workers such as police personnel have shown a much better response to the COVID-19 vaccination drive than workers from the health department in Punjab.Around 7, 477 frontline workers have already received the vaccine in the second phase over five days. Among frontline workers, police personnel were the ones who received the maximum Covid jabs in the second phase, said the Health Department.Dr GB Singh, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said that in terms of frontline workers, police personnel’s response was better as compared to health workers.“The response of others is better than the frontline workers of health.” He added no major side effect of the vaccination had been reported so far.When asked about poor response from health workers, Dr GB said: “If they don’t want to get a vaccination shot, it is their loss.”Meanwhile, the state health department said that 68,376 health workers had already received vaccine shots since 16 January — when the nationwide vaccine drive was kicked off.Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said that they had already asked the Civil Surgeons — of the districts that showed poor responses — to motivate health workers.“As it has not been declared mandatory, We, therefore, can’t force them. However, we have asked the civil surgeons to motivate their workers for vaccination.”Due to the poor response from health workers, state health department informed that 7 per cent of vaccine wastage had already been reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-response-to-covid-vaccination-drive-from-frontline-workers-of-punjabs-health-dept-209550
08-02-2021||BS Dahiya||Farmers need a reliable shield against risks||THough the contribution of agriculture to the national GDP (gross domestic product) has gone down from 50 per cent to 16 per cent, India’s economy continues to be agrarian because agriculture employs around 60 per cent of our population. In the near future, agriculture will continue to be the main sector to provide livelihood to our population. Therefore, agriculture needs modernisation and investment to curb post-harvest losses and make it competitive at the international level. This can be achieved by framing a viable and dynamic agricultural policy. This policy will determine what to produce, where to produce and how much to produce. Animals are an integral part of our farming system. Depending on the agro-ecology of the area, we must decide whether it has to be buffalo, cow, goat/sheep, poultry or piggery.Consistent net exporter in recent decadesIndia has consistently been a net exporter of agro-food products in recent decades. Agro-food exports grew at an annual average rate of 11%, from $6.3 billion in 1995 to $47.1 billion in 2013; exports then decreased to $32.9 billion in 2016 due to a mix of lower global commodity prices, sluggish foreign demand, increased domestic consumption, and adverse climate events affecting the domestic production base. Agro-food imports increased from $2.2 billion in 1995 to $24.3 billion in 2016, growing at an even higher annual average rate of 14%. With a higher growth rate of agro-food exports in 2009-13, the trade surplus widened considerably until 2013. It then started to narrow, in line with exports’ decrease versus the consistent increase in imports.The country has been divided in15 broad agro-ecological zones and 127 agro-climatic zones. There was a time when agricultural production technology was being developed zone-wise, but experience showed that a small village with a landholding of 300-400 hectares represented three to four types of soil. Therefore, there is a need for location-specific technologies.The time has come for the policy-makers to frame farm policies which are product- and production-oriented rather than market-oriented like the recent farm laws. Since the MSP regime played a key role in achieving the feat of transforming the nation from a net importer to a net exporter of food, it has to be an integral component of the new policies.Due to various uncontrollable factors, the farmers’ produce gets damaged and they get low prices. Contracting companies can exploit farmers in such a situation. The bulk of our farmers (86 per cent) are small and marginal who can’t survive in a free market situation. Therefore, the government-controlled purchase centres (mandis) need to be upgraded and modernised; the management of these centres should be in the hands of efficient and honest people so that these can compete with the private/corporate markets.The time is ripe to shift production priorities from wheat and paddy to millets, pulses and oilseeds in a phased manner. Millets are rich in nutrients, require less agri-inputs, lesser exploitation of natural resources, eco-friendly and climate-resilient. The per capita and per-day requirement of food intake to meet the daily calorie needs (2,000 approximately) will be met from three-fourth quantity of wheat/rice. The government should create a favourable environment attractive to the farmers to shift to the coarse cereals through production subsidies, better MSP and total procurement. Let the PDS (public distribution system) make available only those grains which will have a long-lasting impact on national food and nutritional security. There is an argument put forth by some experts that these millets are low-yielding compared to wheat and paddy, so there is a possibility of food shortage. But there is a counter-argument that since we are wasting about 20 per cent of the food produced due to various reasons and if the reduction in production is of the same magnitude then food shortage is ruled out.Reduce technology gapAmong oilseeds, mustard oil is a major edible oil. The import of edible oils is a big burden on our foreign exchange; it needs concerted efforts to cut down the import by reducing the technology gap. Take mustard: the national average yield is 700-800 kg/acre, where as Rewari district of Haryana produces more than 1,800 kg/acre. The factors limiting production can be identified and the requisite inputs made available in time to the farmers. The outcome of these efforts will have a huge impact on the economy of the farmers and the nation as well. We can learn a lesson from China. China became surplus in wheat, rice and sugarcane; it cut down the production of these crops. It is cheaper to buy these grains from the international market (China wants to buy rice from India). It has preferred production of other crops which are in demand in the international market. We are also surplus in wheat, rice and sugarcane, so it is the right time to change our production priorities. The government can utilise these surpluses by aggressively feeding the PDS and targeting 190 million people under the National Food Security Act who are malnourished, as per the World Hunger Report (2020), without violating the international agreement for support to the producer. The other predominant practice in our system where there is exploitation of both the producer and the consumer is the gap between what a producer gets and the consumer pays. This is heavily loaded against the producer and affects the market prices. Take the example of moong dal. The producer farmer gets Rs 55/kg against the MSP of Rs 72/kg. But the consumer pays Rs 110/kg. Who is making profit at the cost of the farmer? The trader. Also, the MSP fixed by the government is a mockery of the prices. This is why the farmers are on the path of agitation. The world over, experience has showed that the farmers can’t take on the corporates in a free market. That is why they are seeking protection from the volatility of market prices.Support producersIndia is a signatory to the World Trade Organisation (WTO), so there are some obligations which have to be honoured. Across the world, particularly in the rich countries, agriculture is heavily subsidised by the governments. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an inter-governmental organisation, there is significant backing for agriculture through producer support as percentage of gross farming receipts. During 2019, it was around 12 per cent in the US; in EU countries, the support was above 20 per cent, and in countries like Japan and South Korea, it was about 50 per cent. But in our country, what the government pays as a percentage of farming receipts is on the negative side (-5 per cent). Moreover, our agriculture is dominated by small and marginal farmers. The developed countries are finding new ways to support their farmers such as factoring in climate change risks and adopting eco-friendly practices for sustainability. Farming is becoming costlier because of increasing cost of all inputs, including labour, and increasing risk because of weather aberrations due to climate change, hence our farmers need to be paid for to cover these risks.The author is former Director of Research, Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-need-a-reliable-shield-against-risks-209511
08-02-2021||---||Row erupts as century-old trees axed at Amritsar's Urban Haat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 7A controversy erupted after nearly century-old trees were chopped in the Urban Haat area here a few days ago.Urban Haat came on the 125-year-old British Colonial era building of Victoria Jubliee Hospital established in 1891The incident drew the ire of several environment and heritage lovers. Earlier, too, an age-old Peepal tree was axed by negligent authorities. At that time as well, much hue and cry was raised, but it proved to be futile as authorities turned a blind eye to this.Environmentalist Deepak Babbar said it pained him to see the green heritage of the city being plundered by people for their vested interests while authorities preferred to look the other way rather than taking action.Urban Haat came on the 125-year-old British Colonial era building of Victoria Jubliee Hospital established in 1891. The SAD-BJP government had restored and revamped the building in consultation with the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage in 2015 after spending huge amounts with an aim to boost the tourism in Amritsar. The building, which was lying abandoned, is located on the prime location near the Historical Company Bagh, around 1.5 km from Golden Temple.Initially, the government had decided to develop the replica of the famous Lahore Food Street to boost the city’s tourism. Now, the project has been given to a private firm which is now reportedly converting the building into a hotel. The Amritsar Development Authority had sublet it to a Bathinda-based firm Food Library in November 2018.Amarjit Singh, marketing head of the firm, said a thorough process was followed and an auction was conducted by the PUDA in this connection. “We have followed the due process and took the requisite permission from the authorities in this regard. We are developing the structure in a phased manner. The trees would have blocked the entrance of several shops being constructed as a part of the project,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/row-erupts-as-century-old-trees-axed-at-amritsars-urban-haat-209503
08-02-2021||---||MLA Raja Warring’s relative booked for abetting contractor’s suicide||Faridkot, February 7The police today booked the brother-in-law of Gidderbaha Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for abetment of suicide after a man, who allegedly killed his two children before turning the gun on himself, named him in the suicide note. Warring too demanded money: complainantExtorted Rs1.22 croreThe accused had extorted Rs1.22 crore from my brother last season and was demanding more money in lieu of contractual projects of the power corporation. — Ankit Kataria, ComplainantA 35-year-old private contractor, Karan Kataria, allegedly killed his two children and injured his wife before shooting himself at Narain Nagar here on Saturday morning.On the complaint of Ankit Kataria, the brother of the deceased, the Faridkot police booked Warring’s brother-in-law Dimpy Vinayak almost 19 hours after the crime. The police have mainly relied upon the suicide note left behind by Kataria. While Karan Kataria and his two children had died on Saturday, his wife, Sheenam, was struggling for her life at a private hospital in Ludhiana.In his statement to the police, Ankit alleged his brother had some lifting contracts in Gidderbaha and Vinayak was interfering in the work due to Warring’s influence. “The accused had extorted Rs 1.22 crore from my brother last season and was demanding more money in lieu of contractual works of the PSPCL,” claimed Ankit in the FIR.The deceased had contractual work for providing call agents for fuse off centres (power failure redress services) at Malout, Jalalabad, Gidderbaha, Abohar, Kotkapura, Faridkot, Bariwala, Jalandhar, Mohali and Muktsar. The complainant alleged in the FIR that besides the accused, Raja Warring was also demanding money from his brother, which he had already paid to the accused.“Two days ago, when my brother approached Dimpy asking him to return some money out of the Rs 1.22 crore he had given, he refused and askedmy brother to commit suicide,” claimed Ankit.“On Friday night, Karan got a phone call from Dimpy asking him why he hadn’t committed suicide yet. He threatened my brother to give more money,” alleged the complainant in the FIR.Raja Warring said: “My deepest and sincere condolences to the family and friends of the deceased. I stand with the family in hour of grief. Throughout my political career, I have stood for truth and practised fair politics.”Karan used his licensed revolver to shoot his two children — a seven-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son — and wife around 5 am while they were asleep. The police have also registered a criminal case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt of murder) against Karan for killing his children and attempting to kill his wife. All three deceased were cremated here today after a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mla-raja-warrings-relative-booked-for-abetting-contractors-suicide-209398
08-02-2021||---||SAD: Scrap election where papers rejected en masse||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Bathinda, Feb 7The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today demanded the municipal elections be annulled at all places where the nomination papers of Opposition candidates had been rejected en masse even as it called for immediate deployment of paramilitary forces to ensure free and fair polls at remaining places.CM hasn’t kept his promiseCM Capt Amarinder Singh has gone back on the promise to ensure free and fair elections. We are left with no option but to approach courts as well as Governor VP Singh Badnore. — Daljit Singh Cheema, SAD LeaderEC can have relook at nominationsThe SAD seems to have deliberately filed wrong nominations. The EC can take a relook at their papers. If provisions allow, they may be allowed to contest even if it means postponing election for a day or so.— Sunil Jakhar, PPCC ChiefAddressing a press conference here, former minister and SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said the nomination papers of Opposition party candidates had been rejected en masse in Zira where all 17 Congress candidates had been elected unopposed. He said Congressmen had also been declared elected unopposed in eight of 15 seats in Guruharsahai, seven of 11 in Maluka, five of 13 in Mehraj, four of 13 in Bhai Roopa, six in Mandi Gobindgarh and eight seats in Ferozepur. He said similarly, nomination papers of SAD candidates had been rejected in seven seats of Gidderbaha.Demanding repoll in all these seats, Cheema said the municipal elections had become one in which the state was contesting against the people. “Even Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has become party to this and gone back on the promise to ensure free and fair elections made during the all-party meeting recently,” said Cheema.“Never before has the State Election Commission been so ineffective. It is refusing to even take note of the rejection of nomination papers of opposition members and has not taken any action in cases of violence against them,” he said.In Bathinda, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Congress government had murdered democracy by supervising the cancellation of more than 500 nomination papers of party candidates.He too attacked the SEC for becoming a mute spectator to all this. “While the police force is dissuading candidates to withdraw from the fray, health and drug inspectors are carrying out raids on the premises of businesses of SAD candidates to intimidate them. If we return to power, we will punish such officers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-scrap-election-where-papers-rejected-en-masse-209400
08-02-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Disallowed, nominees protest||Prominent leaders of Mandi Gobindgarh whose nomination papers were rejected have joined hands to protest the alleged arbitrary attitude of Amloh SDM and Congress MLA Kaka Randeep Singh.Annoyed over the cancellation of their papers during the scrutiny, 28 Opposition candidates led by senior AAP leader Jagmeet Singh Sahota, who contested as an MLA twice from Amloh and had remained Mandi Gobindgarh MC chief, interacted with people. They narrated the sequence of events leading to the cancellation of their nomination papers in an “arbitrary” manner by Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma allegedly at the behest of the Congress legislator.Sahota called upon the residents to teach Congress candidates a lesson by voting against the conspirators in all wards.The AAP leader, who has been a councillor in Mandi Gobindgarh for the past 30 years, said his wife’s and his nomination papers were rejected on flimsy grounds.Similarly, the papers of SAD leader-cum-former councillor Sukhvinder Singh Bhambri and his wife Rajinder Kumar Titu, along with Balwinder Khatra, Rakesh Pappu Sofat, Tejinder Rehal, Amit Sandal and Paramjit Walia among others, were rejected.Refuting the allegations of political interference, the SDM said all decisions were taken after getting reports from the MC executive officer as per law. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/disallowed-nominees-protest-209401
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP canvasses in Dera Bassi, Ropar||State Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) co-in charge Raghav Chadha on Sunday organised a roadshow in support of the party candidates in Dera Bassi and Ropar for the MC election.During the roadshow, Chadha appealed to the people to vote for the AAP candidates to end corruption in the local bodies and for urban development. He said the people of Punjab had given multiple chances to the SAD-BJP and the Congress for the development in their region, cities and villages but the parties had backstabbed them. “These traditional parties have betrayed the people and filled their own coffers. People have lost faith in these parties and now they trust the AAP,” he added.Chadha said the poor policies of Badals and Capt had drowned Punjab. He said people would oust the SAD, BJP and the Congress in the coming election. “After the formation of the AAP government in Punjab, the model of Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi will be implemented here,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-canvasses-in-dera-bassi-ropar-209402
08-02-2021||---||Sangrur protester dies at Tikri border||Sangrur, February 7A farmer, Lakha Singh, died today in the wee hours at the Tikri border. The son of freedom fighter Baza Singh, 65-year-old Lakha Singh always told his fellowmen that he would prefer to die protesting rather than go back without getting the farm laws repealed.He along with other farmers, under the banner of the BKU (Rajewal), had been at the Tikri border since the protest began. He had visited his house just once to attend a religious function related to the death of his niece at his Kalaudi village.“My uncle was highly influenced by the ideology of my grandfather Baza Singh, who was a freedom fighter. He had been participating in protests at various places. He was adamant that he would only return from Tikri once the farm laws are repealed,” said Mandeep Singh, nephew of the deceased farmer.On January 12, Lakha Singh was quoted as saying in The Tribune at Tikri that he had told his family not to wait for him as he would only come back after the farmers’ demands were met. “After he did not wake up in the morning, we took him to a Bahadurgarh hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. We are waiting for the elder son of the deceased farmer,” Sarvjit Singh, a protester, said from Tikri.BKU (Rajewal) district president Gurmeet Singh Kapial said they would take up the case of deceased Lakha Singh with the Punjab Government for financial compensation to his family.“He always remained in high spirits despite being old. He kept motivating others to remain calm during protests,” said Kapial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-protester-dies-at-tikri-border-209403
08-02-2021||Bathinda||Will resolve waterlogging issue in Bathinda: FM||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today said Punjab was the frontrunner for a pharmaceutical park, which would be set up in Bathinda by the Union Government and this would be a game-changer for the economy of the state.Talking to The Tribune, Manpreet hit out at the Centre alleging that it was punishing Punjab over the farmers’ stir by withholding the rural development fund (RDF) to the tune of Rs 800 crore.Manpreet is actively campaigning for his party candidates for the Bathinda MC poll. He said, “Major issues that we are already working on are drainage and waterlogging in the city. We had identified three points — Power House Road, Kamla Nehru Colony and Sirki Bazaar — which were prone to waterlogging during rains. New pipes have been laid and soon, people will get relief from the waterlogging issue.”Addressing a public meeting, he said, “For three years, the SAD was in power in Bathinda MC but it blocked development works by not giving approval to the projects, so it is important that we have a Congress Mayor in the Bathinda MC this time.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-resolve-waterlogging-issue-in-bathinda-fm-209404
08-02-2021||---||Free labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, demand unions||Bathinda, February 7Members of farmer unions, Khet Mazdoor Union and Association for Democratic Rights in the state have raised pitch for the release of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, who was arrested on January 12 by the Haryana Police near the Singhu border for protesting against a firm. She remains lodged in a jail in Karnal since then.Kendri Singh Sabha Extends SupportPolice deny assault chargesThe Sonepat police, meanwhile, have denied that Nodeep Kaur was assaulted by them. They alleged Nodeep and her associates had resorted to violence and attacked a police team which had gone in connection with the gheroao of the unitLawyer Meena Harris, the niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, had also recently tweeted about Nodeep’s alleged assault in the police custody and demanded her release. After Harris’ tweet, the matter has suddenly got the international attention and many other renowned figures on social media have condemned the incident and demanded her release.Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days. pic.twitter.com/Ypt2h1hWJz  Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU (Ugrahan) Bathinda unit, said: “We condemn the arrest of Nodeep Kaur who is a fierce activist of labour class and Dalits and fights for the protection of their rights. We demand her immediate release and want strict punitive action against those who framed her.”Jora Singh Nasrali, state president, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, said: “We have extended full support to the farmers’ agitation. We condemn any sort of atrocities on the labour class or for that matter anyone. We strongly condemn the arrest of Nodeep and demand her release.”Nodeep Kaur, an advocate for Dalit & Worker rights from Punjab, was picked up by police 21 days ago for supporting farmers. She's been tortured & sexually assaulted in custody. She was denied a medical exam & bail. Calling on leaders to raise their voice for her. #FreeNodeepKaur pic.twitter.com/B96nJOV1Zl  Professor AK Maleri, state president, Association For Democratic Rights, said: “Her arrest and assault is nothing but a clear attempt at suppressing the voice of dissent.”The Sonepat police, meanwhile, have denied that Nodeep Kaur was assaulted by the police. They alleged Nodeep and her associates had resorted to violence and attacked a police team which had gone in connection with the gheroao of an industrial unit and manhandling of the staff or management by certain members of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan. They claimed seven of the police personnel, including a woman constable, sustained injuries.My Sister Nodeep Kaur has been kept in jail since January 12 and Shiv Kumar from January 23. They were tortured. Because nodeep, Shiv kumar and the worker organization have shown the courage to expose the loot of farmers and laborers.#ReleaseNodeepKaur #ReleaseShivKumar pic.twitter.com/SUztBeE7jl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-demand-unions-209405
08-02-2021||Nawanshahr||6 more Nawanshahr students infected||Saloh village in the district has been declared a micro-containment zone after six more students studying in Government High School of the village testedpositive for Covid-19.Till Friday, 28 students had tested positive, and the number has now gone up to 34 in the school. As per information from the Health Department, three students from Government Senior Secondary School, Nawanshahr, had also tested positive. The number might go up, sources in the Education Department said.Muzaffarpur Senior Medical Officer Geetanjali Singh said health teams were conducting a house-to-house survey at the village to examine other students and those in their contact.“A doctor is following up with the students on a daily basis and has been visiting their homes. We are taking all precautionary measures,” she said.She further said sampling was conducted at Government Primary School, Saloh, and reports of all students had come out negative. District Epidemiologist Dr Jagdeep Singh said random sampling was being undertaken in various schools of the district on a regular basis. District Education Officer Jagjit Singh said the department was in touch with the Covid-19 positive students and their parents to counsel them for physical, mental andemotional well being.“I have been asking parents not to panic and ensure proper testing to help combat Covid-19,”he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-more-nawanshahr-students-infected-209407
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sharp drop in cases, Covid impact wanes in Punjab||Though the state has launched Covid vaccination for police personnel and frontline healthcare workers, the virus seems to have lost its sting in Punjab.The number of cases in January came down to just 6,754 and there were 274 deaths, which is less than half of the cases reported in December.The cases reported in January were just a little more than 11 per cent of the cases reported in September, when it was the peak of the viral disease. In September, around 60,000 cases and around 2,000 deaths were reported. Following that, the cases started declining and over the next two months. December onwards, the case count came down to around 14,500. Experts said the decline would continue in February. The state reported 207 cases and two deaths — one each from Hoshiarpur and Faridkot — in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sharp-drop-in-cases-covid-impact-wanes-in-punjab-209408
08-02-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Fiscal crisis due to falling GDP growth over 30 yrs: Expert||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7“Punjab’s financial crisis may be attributed to the deceleration of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for over 30 years, under mobilisation of resources, misplaced development priorities and the shifting of successive governments’ orientation from growth to just maintaining law and order and meeting other committed liabilities,” says Dr RS Ghuman, an eminent economist.These observations were made by Dr Ghuman during an exercise on mobilising additional resources in the state for the 6th Punjab Finance Commission headed by former Chief Secretary KR Lakhanpal. In the report submitted to the commission recently, Dr Ghuman pointed out that there was a dire need to address the issue both from revenue generation and expenditure side.The report says the state has the potential to raise its revenue receipts by Rs 15,000-Rs 18,000 crore per annum. So far, during the ongoing financial year, Punjab’s total receipts are just 54.8% of its budget estimates (Rs 48,251. 59 crore against the target of Rs 88,004.31 crore).It has been pointed out that the excise collections can go up by Rs 4,000-Rs 4,500 crore — an increase of 65 to 70% — by checking pilferage and evasion of the duty imposed on the sale of liquor. The fact has also been established this year, as strict enforcement in liquor business has seen the state make up for the revenue shortfall it would have faced considering the two-and-a-half months of the lockdown period. Punjab has already managed to earn Rs 4,800 crore as excise collections till January 2021. The study has also pointed out that there was large-scale evasion of the Goods and Services Tax amounting to almost 50-60%.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fiscal-crisis-due-to-falling-gdp-growth-over-30-yrs-expert-209409
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Treatment plants being set up to curb pollution, NGT committee told||After being asked by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to personally monitor the pollution control measures in the Sutlej, Beas and its tributaries, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan held discussions with the tribunal-appointed monitoring committee under the chairmanship of Justice Jasbir Singh (retd).‘Beas cleaner now’The NGT panel members were informed that in the past two years, improvement in the water quality to the desired level (Class-B) in two stretches of the Beas had been achieved, which had become the only river in the entire country to achieve such standardsThe panel members were informed that in the past two years, the improvement in the water quality to the desired level (Class-B) in two stretches of the Beas had been achieved, which had become the only river in the entire country to achieve such standards. It was informed that work to the tune of Rs 500 crore, pertaining to setting up of sewage treatment plants and effluent treatment plants for daily waste to address the problem of pollution in Buddha Nullah, was going on.With the commissioning of these plants, the river water quality of the Sutlej will improve significantly. Besides, 105 MLD-capacity common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) have been set up to check industrial pollutants entering into the Sutlej. The state has prepared 14 district environment plans to address the problem of pollution at the district level.The panel, comprising former Chief Secretary SC Aggarwal, environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal (both members) and technical expert Dr Babu Ram, highlighted various environment-related issues concerning the state with specific reference to improving the water quality in the rivers and waste management in urban and rural areas.Recently, the NGT, while dismissing review petitions filed by the government against a 2018 order requiring the state to pay environmental compensation of Rs 50 crore, asked the state to deposit the amount with the Central Pollution Control Board forthwith for eco-restoration of the Sutlej and Beas rivers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/treatment-plants-being-set-up-to-curb-pollution-ngt-committee-told-209410
08-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||No right to move CJ for case transfer, rules HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a writ petitioner does not have statutory right to submit representation on the administrative side to a Chief Justice (CJ), seeking transfer of his/her case from one Bench to another.The Bench says…The ruling by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came in a case where an appellant submitted a representation expressing apprehension that a single judge hearing criminal matters pertaining to her matrimonial disputes was biased. As such, she was seeking the transfer of all her cases from the judge to any other judge of the High Court.After hearing arguments, the Bench asserted no statutory provision was brought to its notice, which gave a writ petitioner any right to move a representation to the CJ of a High Court for transfer of cases on the administrative side.The Bench said: “Once that is so, we agree with the findings of the single judge when he held that the writ petition is not maintainable, as writ of mandamus can be issued only if enforcement of a statutory/constitutional right has been sought.”The appellant had filed the appeal challenging order dated November 11, 2020, passed by a single judge, whereby her writ petition seeking direction for decision on her representation pending before the CJ on the administrative side was dismissed.Referring to a Supreme Court judgment in the matter of “Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms versus Union of India”, the Bench observed it was held that a CJ was the master of roster and he alone had the prerogative to constitute Benches and allocate cases.The prerogative could not have been exercised by any other Bench, be it on the administrative or the judicial side. As such, asking a CJ to decide a representation would amount to interfering with his prerogative to take a decision on his power to assign roster/ cases to a particular judge.It would also amount to asking the CJ to decide a representation, which was not even maintainable at the first instance. This would certainly set a wrong precedent, which it was disinclined to lay down, the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-right-to-move-cj-for-case-transfer-rules-hc-209412
08-02-2021||---||Jobless teachers, police clash in Sangrur; 4 hurt||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, February 7Members of unemployed teachers’ unions, including those who have cleared ETT and TET, on Sunday tried to break the police barricade near the local residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla while cops pushed the protesters back, causing injuries to four protesters.After a struggle of around 10 to 15 minutes, 19 protesters succeeded in crossing the barricade while cops denied using sticks on them.Computer staff take out state-level rallyComputer teachers, under the banner of Computer Adhyapak Union, Punjab, held a state-level rally in Sangrur. They took out a protest march to Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla’s house, seeking merger with the department. “After regularisation, we’re still working under a society. Our meetings with Singla and other authorities have failed to get the desired result,” said a protester.Members of the unions first gathered in front of the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner’s office and then marched towards the residence of the minister. When they tried to break the police barricade, both sides pushed each other.“The Punjab Government has been considering Bed-pass aspirants also for ETT posts. This is injustice with us and we will not tolerate it at any cost. The government must consider only ETT-pass youth for ETT posts,” said Deepak Kamboj, president of the ETT and TET Pass union.The protesters also rejected the offer of the Sangrur administration to organise their meeting with the government authorities on February 24. They left for Bhawanigarh to organise a ‘poll khol’ rally to convince residents to vote against the Congress in the forthcoming nagar council elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-police-clash-in-sangrur-4-hurt-209413
08-02-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sunny Deol, Congress ministers spar over NSG centre project||Tribune News ServicePathankot, February 7Gurdaspur Member of Parliament (MP) Sunny Deol’s allegation that the Punjab Government was stalling the establishment of a training centre of the National Security Guard (NSG) in his parliamentary constituency has triggered strong reactions from senior Congressmen, who claimed “he was creating a mountain out of a molehill”.Ever since the local airbase was infiltrated by four Pakistan-based militants on January 2, 2016, residents and politicians, cutting across party lines, have been steadfast in their demand of setting up such a venture in the city. Deol, immediately after becoming an MP in 2019, had taken up the matter with Nityanand Rai, Minister of State for Home Affairs.Notably, when the airbase came under attack, officials had to airlift an NSG unit all the way from New Delhi thus wasting precious time in their fight against the militants.The minister, in turn, had acceded to the MP’s request but with a rider that the state government should provide land free of cost.“It is high time that the Punjab Government clears the project,” said Pankaj Joshi, the MP’s personal secretary.On February 3, Deol had shot off a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh reminding him that “progress in the matter has been held up for over a year now in view of the inordinate delay in provision of free land”.The MP’s missive has evoked a strong response from Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, both of whom represent Assembly seats falling in the MP’s constituency. Randhawa said, “The problem with the actor is that he lives in a world of fantasy. I’ve checked the facts. The Pathankot SDM has already submitted a report to the DC pertaining to the availability of land. Once the same is forwarded to the state government, things will start moving.”Bajwa, too, trained his guns on the MP. “There is an adage in English that ‘think before you speak.’ The process of allocating land has already commenced and Deol should not create a controversy where none exists,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deol-congress-ministers-spar-over-nsg-centre-project-209414
08-02-2021||Tarn Taran||ASI, 2 others booked for taking Rs 7L bribe||The City police have booked ASI Gurdial Singh, in charge of the local Anti-Narcotics Cell, and two others for allegedly taking Rs 7 lakh in bribery after threatening to implicate a civilian in a drug trade case.The other two have been identified as Gurbinder Singh Gill, proprietor of GS Gill Hotel and Restaurant, Kajikot, and Bholu of Van village. The three suspects are at large.An inquiry in the case was conducted by DSP Sucha Singh Bal on the instructions of SSP Dhruman H Nimbale.The case had been registered on the statement of Satnam Singh of Miani village, who was detained by the ASI on December 23, 2020, for allegedly indulging in drug trade.Satnam claimed he told the ASI he was not involved in the drug trade and was only an addict. The ASI, while threatening to implicate him in a false case, demanded Rs 10 lakh gratification to let him off the hook. Satnam gave Rs 7 lakh to ASI’s contact Gurbinder Singh Gill. After taking the money, the ASI allegedly pressured him to give the remaining amount.He brought the matter to the notice of the SSP, who marked an inquiry to DSP Bal. After inquiry, the three had been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Surprisingly, the case was just registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act when its sections do not apply to civilians. Extortion sections, too, have not been included in the case.The DSP said it was likely that more persons were involved in the case. The SSP could not be contacted for comment. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-2-others-booked-for-taking-rs-7l-bribe-209415
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||5 lakh toilets built in rural houses at Rs860 cr||The Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation Department has provided 5.75 lakh individual household toilets in all villages at Rs 862.5 crore.As per the department, as many as 7,152 toilets had been built at schools in rural areas at Rs. 32.99 crore.Meanwhile, as many 1,330 toilets will be constructed at anganwadi centres at Rs.4.66 crore and water supply for sanitation in 467 schools will be arranged at Rs 5.77 crore.To maintain the status of Open Defecation Free (ODF) state in 2021, the department has set a target to manage solid and liquid waste in seven blocks with the help of the Rural Development and Panchayat Department, under the Swachh Bharat Mission, phase-II.The department has also released Rs 3.31 crore to 79 gram panchayats for management of solid waste and Rs 21.02 crore has been released to 904 gram panchayats for liquid waste management, besides releasing Rs 32.70 crore for construction of 1,557 community sanitary complexes in 1,545 villages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-lakh-toilets-built-in-rural-houses-at-rs860-cr-209416
08-02-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Hockey player, kin held for murder||The district police today claimed to have solved the murder mystery of a young Bassi Pathana resident with the arrest of a woman national hockey player along with her father, mother and two brothers within 24 hours of the crime.Addressing mediapersons, SSP Amneet Kondal said owing to personal enmity, two neighbours of Jarkhelan mohalla in Bassi Pathana had a brawl in which one person was killed. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC was registered at the Bassi Pathana police station.She said a team headed by DSP Sukhminder Singh Chauhan and SHO Manpreet Singh Deol was constituted and after investigation, it arrested hockey player Gaganpreet Kaur along with her family members.Deol said the families of Soma Singh and Swarn Singh, alias Katti, had on February 3 engaged in a scuffle in which Satpal Singh, son of Soma Singh, was seriously injured and died at the PGI during treatment.He said Soma lodged an FIR with the police alleging Swarn, his wife Gurinder Kaur, alias Soni, his daughter Gaganpreet, his sons Amrit Pal Singh and a juvenile assaulted his son with sticks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hockey-player-kin-held-for-murder-209417
08-02-2021||Ropar||IIT scientists map Ropar floods, estimate run-off||A team of researchers from the geomatics laboratory in the department of civil engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, have carried out a run-off estimation of the 2019 floods, from the high-resolution digital elevation model (DEM) generated from the satellite data.The team headed by Reet Kamal Tiwari, and comprising Akshar Tripathi, a PhD scholar, and Luvkesh Attri, a BTech student, had also carried out flood mapping using space-borne active microwave remote sensing. On August 18, 2019, the district had witnessed one of the most devastating floods and water-logging that submerged thousands of acres of land and displaced a large number of people.Tripathi said since floods in India occured mostly in monsoon months when there was a dense cloud cover, active microwave remote sensing, with its all-weather data availability and cloud penetration ability, was an inevitable and reliable method for flood-related studies. Tiwari said synthetic aperture radar remote sensing helped in high-resolution DEM generation, flood inundation mapping and surface run-off estimation modelling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-scientists-map-ropar-floods-estimate-run-off-209418
08-02-2021||---||9,222 left in the fray: Election Commission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7The State Election Commission, in a statement, has said a total of 9,222 candidates are in the fray after the last date of withdrawal of nomination papers for the February 14 civic body elections.The elections are scheduled in 2,302 wards of eight municipal corporations, and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats.Earlier, 15,305 candidates had filed nomination papers. After the withdrawal of papers, the commission said 2,037 candidates of the Congress, 1,606 of the AAP, 1,569 of the SAD, 1,003 of the BJP and 160 of the BSP were in the fray.Two candidates of the CPI, two of the SAD (Amritsar), four of the NCP and one of the Sarv Sanjhi Party were also in the fray. As many as 2,832 candidates are contesting the elections as Independent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-222-left-in-the-fray-election-commission-209419
08-02-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Bhagwant Mann : Will take up farm issues  in House debate||State AAP president Bhagwant Mann on Sunday said the farmers’ agitation had spread at the international level and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should shed his arrogance and accept their demands by repealing the three agricultural laws.Interacting with mediapersons, he said AAP would put forward the case of farmers forcefully during the debate to be held in Parliament tomorrow. He participated in the roadshow being organised by the district AAP unit to garner support for party candidates in the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council.Stressing the BJP and certain sections of the media had been terming protesters “terrorists, anti-national, etc.,” he said farmers didn’t need a certificate from anyone as every month a body wrapped in Tricolour comes to their residences in the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-will-take-up-farm-issues-in-house-debate-209420
08-02-2021||Jalandhar||Defend arrested youths, Sukhpal Khaira urges parties||Former Leader of Opposition and MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira today called upon political parties and farm leadership to unite and defend those being persecuted on the pretext of insulting the national flag and other Red Fort-related incidents.Khaira said hundreds of youths had been picked up by the Delhi Police, tortured, arrested and jailed under serious sections of the law.Khaira said the police had not even spared women activists such as Nodeep Kaur and senior farm leadership, which were not even present at the site of the January 26 incidents.Khaira claimed the youth at the Red Fort had committed no acts of violence or arson. He implored the Punjab leadership to collectively urge the BJP government to release all arrested youth and withdraw false cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/defend-arrested-youths-sukhpal-khaira-urges-parties-209422
08-02-2021||Abohar||Rahul to address farmers’ rally in Sriganganagar||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will address two “Kisan Sammelan” one each in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts on Friday in support of the farmers’ movement.Hundreds of farmers from these districts have been camping at the Shahjahanpur border on the Jaipur highway since December 16.Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra confirmed the programme at a meeting held at the Hanumangarh residence of Congress legislator Vinod Chaudhary on Sunday. Dotasra said Rahul would address two farmers’ rallies, which have been named “Kisan Sammelan”, on February 12. One rally will be held at Peelibanga in Hanumangarh and the other at Padampur in Sriganganagar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-to-address-farmers-rally-in-sriganganagar-209423
08-02-2021||Ludhiana||Repeal laws, ensure MSP: Rights body||The International Human Rights Organisation (IHRO) has called upon the Centre to repeal the farm laws and bring another legislation to ensure the purchase of all agricultural products at the pre-announced minimum support price (MSP) throughout the country.In a meeting organised jointly with Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Sarabha Nagar here, the IHRO observed that these farm laws were not in line with the Constitution.IHRO chairman DS Gill and general secretary Mohindr Singh Grewal said the meeting also demanded adequate compensation for family members of all those who had lost their lives or those who suffered injuries during this farmers’ agitation. The arrested persons must also be released forthwith unconditionally.“These laws affect not only the farmers, but all sections of society. Therefore, this struggle should not be seen as only for the rights of the farmers but for the welfare of all people,” they said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repeal-laws-ensure-msp-rights-body-209424
08-02-2021||Bathinda||Welcoming the victory flame||‘Rickety’ car centre of attractionGurdaspur: Days before the ‘chakka jam’, a ‘rickety’ car was seen making rounds of the border villages. Some farm unions, led by Amarjit Shastri and Amar Kranti, had purchased the vehicle from a Moga dealer for Rs 4 lakh, following contributions made by peasants. This was then converted into a ‘farmers’ car’ and a logo of the Indian Farmers’ Trade Unions (IFTU) was affixed atop the bonnet. Before the tractor march, it covered 35-40 villages every day, drumming up support for the farmers protesting in Delhi. Contributions flowed in, which were later used to build a stage during the ‘chakka jam’ and also meeting other miscellaneous expenses, including purchase of drinking water pouches and bottles. The vehicle has become a centre of attraction in villages, and will remain so till the protests are on.Training youth for a causeFatehgarh Sahib: Gaurav Sood, a wrestler, is training the youth aspiring to get recruitment in police, paramilitary and military forces. He gathers them every morning, runs with them and gives them tips on clearing physical competitions. He tells them to abstain from drugs. His efforts are bearing fruit, as about 200 youth trained by him have been appointed in police and paramilitary forces, and as many as 500 new trainees from far-flung areas have approached him. His selfless services was recently recognised by local leaders. He was honoured by Dr Kashmir Singh, principal, Mata Gujri College, Fatehgarh Sahib; AS Dharni, an advocate; and Jagdeep Singh Cheema, district president, SAD. Sood said he envisioned a drug-free society and wanted the youth to have a bright future.Welfare activities unaffected by campaigningAbohar: The poll campaign did not affect welfare activities in Abohar. The ‘Apna Abohar, Apni Abha’ team organised the 20th cleanliness camp on Saturday at Government Senior Secondary Boys’ Smart School and removed tonnes of waste that had accumulated after reopening of schools. The team gave a call to shun single-use plastic. The Manav Sewa Samiti organised camps to distribute winter-wear to labourers and provided for essential items required during a wedding ceremony of a girl in a slum area. The Bahawalpur Panchayat Sabha on Sunday organised a camp and collected 40 units of blood.Remembering ghazal maestroAbohar: Fans of Sriganganagar-born ghazal maestro Jagjit Singh organised ‘Jhuki jhuki si nazar’, a musical extravaganza, on Sunday, a day before his 80th birthday. Artistes Vicky Sharma, Arun Kumar, Tarun Anand and Aastha Ahuja, music teacher Gurmukh Singh, Shivani Kashyap, and police officer Habib Khan, among others, enthralled the audience with ghazals, at a function held near Ramlila Ground in Sriganganagar. Paintings of Jagjit Singh prepared by Savita Lalgarhia and artist Tarun Kumar were released by the guests. Shyamsunder Goswami, president, RD Burman Fans Club, thanked everyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/welcoming-the-victory-flame-209425
08-02-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Two DSPs, 4 SHOs among 13 officials indicted||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7A magisterial inquiry into the Majha hooch tragedy, which had claimed the lives of more than 110 villagers last year, has indicted six police and seven excise officials.It has sought the registration of a case against these officials for neglecting their duty and allowing the sale of illicit liquor. It has also sought a strict disciplinary action against them by the departments concerned.Most victims were from Tarn TaranThe report, prepared by the Divisional Commissioner (Jalandhar), has been submitted to the Chief Minister’s Office, sources said. It will be forwarded to the Financial Commissioner (Taxation) and Additional Chief Secretary (Home) for further action.The accused were suspended immediately after the Chief Minister ordered an inquiry into the incident on July 31 last year. Among the erring cops are two DSPs and four SHOs. The probe officer has told the Excise and Taxation Department to initiate a mechanism for strict compliance of rules to avert such tragedies in future. “The government will ensure exemplary action against the officials found guilty,” said a senior government functionary. The deaths were reported largely in Tarn Taran, Amritsar (rural), and Gurdaspur districts. The illicit liquor was allegedly manufactured by a Ludhiana-based paint shop owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-dsps-4-shos-among-13-officials-indicted-209406
08-02-2021||---||Three more farmers die at Tikri||Sonepat, February 7Three more farmers died at the Tikri border on Sunday during the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. A farmer from Singwal village in Jind district reportedly hanged himself.Heart attack was suspected to be the reason behind the death of two farmers from Punjab.Karambir (52) of Singwal village in Jind district reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree near the Sector 9 bypass. He was a part of the protest since the last week of November.One of them was BKU leaderFellow farmers said they played cards till 11 pm last night, after which they went to bed. They said they found his body hanging from a tree in a park this morning.The police reached the spot after getting information. The police recovered a suicide note from a pocket of the deceased, in which he blamed the three agricultural laws and the Centre.The police handed over the body of the deceased to his kin after postmortem.A large number of villagers and farmer activists attended his cremation. ‘Kisan ekta zindabad’ slogans reverberated as his body was being taken for cremation. The deceased is survived by his wife and three daughters.Two farmers from Punjab also died at the Tikri border today. One of them was identified as Sukhjinder Singh (57) of Dhulkot Ransi village in Moga district. He was president of the Nihal Singhwala block of the BKU (Qadian).He was part of the first group which reached the Tikri border on November 26 and had been putting up in a trolley near pillar number 75.Another farmer, Lakha Singh of Kalondi village in Sangrur district, died today. He had arrived at the Tikri border on February 3 and had been putting up with a group of farmers near the Sector 9 bypass.He went for a morning walk today and lay down after coming back. When other farmers called him for tea, he did not respond. They took him to the General Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-more-farmers-die-at-tikri-209258
08-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Meham MLA disrupts Balbir Singh Rajewal’s speech at mahapanchayat||Tribune News ServiceBhiwani, February 7Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu today disrupted the speech of Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal while he was addressing the gathering during a mahapanchayat at the Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani.He was objecting to a khap panchayat’s decision to honour INLD’s Abhay Chautala, who had resigned from the Assembly in support of farmers, at the historical chabutara of Meham Chaubisi on February 11. Since Kundu is MLA from Meham, he sees the event in political terms.When Rajewal was speaking, Kundu rushed towards the dias and took hold of the mike.Without naming Abhay, Kundu alleged he had resigned from the Assembly at the instance of the BJP. “I want to tell you what this person, whom you are going to honour with the “Kisan Ratan award”, has done,” he said while refusing to leave the dais when the moderator asked him to calm down and let Rajewal continue his speech.Rajewal returned to his seat without concluding the speech.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meham-mla-disrupts-balbir-singh-rajewals-speech-at-mahapanchayat-209267
08-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||At Sector 17, Chandigarh, art on farmers’ resistance takes centre stage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7Armed with oil paints, canvas, pastel colours, charcoal blocks and brushes, several artists gathered in the support of farmers near the Rooster Fountain at the Sector 17 Plaza today.Artists painted portraits of 24-year-old Dalit activist Nodeep Kaur, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and a bloodied face of protester Jagseer Singh after the R-Day violence.Some of the supporters took to performance art. One Hardev stood blindfolded and barechested, portraying the plight of farmers near the Delhi border, while Vijay held fresh green plants in his hands and stuffed dry, papery ones in his mouth. “This is what farmers look like. They sell their best crop to feed people and consume ‘sookhi roti’ themselves,” said Vijay. Hardev invited people to write on his body.One of the supporters, Jashandeep Kaur, said: “There’s no mention of Nodeep Kaur in the media, that’s why I made her portrait. She has been arrested by the Haryana police for no apparent reason and has reportedly been sexually assaulted too.” Sania, a postgraduate in fine arts, painted farmers as warriors fighting for their rights and Tarun Kumar painted a portrait of Rakesh Tikait.Another artist, Sarabjeet Singh, painted a portrait of a farmer with a slogan: ‘I am a farmer, not a terrorist’. He said, “I’m making this portrait to show the real image of a farmer. This is not a fight about Khalisthani and Hindus or Hindus and Muslim; it’s a fight between India’s farmers and its government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-sector-17-chandigarh-art-on-farmers-resistance-takes-centre-stage-209236
08-02-2021||Moga||Moga farmer dies of cardiac arrest at Tikri border||A 55-year-old farmer identified as Sukhmander Singh, block president of Nihal Singh Wala BKU (Kadian), resident of Dhurkot Ransih village of Nihal Singh Wala sub division of Moga district, died of cardiac arrest at Tikri border in Delhi on Sunday.Family sources said Sukhmander Singh was stationed at Delhi for the past over a month protesting against the three farm laws enacted by the Union government.The process of post-mortem was under process and after that the body will be brought from Delhi at his native village on Monday.Local MLA Manjit Singh Bilaspur of Aam Admi Party has expressed condolences with the aggrieved family members and demanded from the prime minister to repeal the farm laws immediately because Punjab was losing its precious work force each passing day.It is high time for the Modi government to relook at its decision and repeal the farm laws, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-farmer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-at-tikri-border-209227
08-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||‘Farmer on tractor’ most desired symbol||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 6The most sought-after symbol in the upcoming civic body elections in Punjab is “a farmer riding a tractor”.Given the huge support the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws is getting from the state, a large number of Independent candidates have opted for “farmer on tractor” as their poll symbol.They are of the view that seeing a symbol where a farmer is riding a tractor, many undecided voters are likely to press that button to express their solidarity with the farmers.In Mohali, the entire group of 28 candidates backed by former Mayor Kulwant Singh has chosen the “farmer on tractor” as its symbol, said Surinder Singh Roda, a candidate from Ward No. 3.In Adampur, 12 candidates have opted for it. A group of Congress-backed candidates, including rebel Akali brothers Darshan Singh Karwal and Harjinder Singh Karwal, too, have taken this symbol.Darshan Karwal said: "At least two wards in Adampur have a very high number of voters from the farming community.We expect more support using this symbol in our campaign."In Hoshiarpur, 25 candidates from 50 wards have taken this symbol. Adding up candidates from Mukerian, Talwara, Tanda, Garhdiwala, Hariana, Sham Churasi, Dasuya and Garhshankar, there 53 candidates who have opted for this symbol. In Kapurthala, four candidates have taken the symbol. Independent candidates from Ward Nos. 34, 36, 37 and 39 have gone for it. In Phillaur, two communists-backed candidates and three others have taken the symbol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-on-tractor-most-desired-symbol-208975
