09-02-2021||Vibha Sharma||Harsimrat Badal attacks Modi govt, alleges intelligence failure on January 26||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 9Launching a fierce attack against the Narendra Modi Government of which she was a part of when it passed the three contentious farm Ordinances, Akali leader Harsimrat Badal on Tuesday said she constantly requested her Cabinet colleagues for wider consultations before bringing the laws, apprising them of growing unrest among the farming community.“But you did not listen to us, your oldest ally since times when you had just two MPs in the Parliament,” she told members of the Treasury Benches speaking on the motion of thanks on the President’s address in the Lok Sabha today.“It is a fact that Working Group on Consumer Affairs headed by then Gujarat CM (Prime Minister Modi) recommended protection of farmer interest by ensuring there was no farmer-trader transaction below MSP. What has changed since then,” she questioned.Demanding a probe, she also accused the Modi government of “intelligence failure” ahead of January 26. “Violence should not have happened. But when you (the Modi government) could lock down the country in four hours, announce demonetisation in a few hours, when you knew a day before (January 26) about what had been announced from a (farmers) stage why you could not block roads on the day,” she questioned.She also slammed the BJP leadership for “vilifying” the “Kesri Nishan”, questioning “why those who sacrificed most for national flag are being targeted”. Amid objections from BJP MPs, she said “those who called the farmers first ‘bicholia’ (middlemen), then Maoists, then naxalites, then ‘atankwadi’ (extremists), then Khalistanis are all sitting here. Tell me which farmer does AK-47 ki kheti”.Regarding the hoisting of ‘Kesri” flag at the Red Fort on January 26, Harsimrat said a lot has been said about “insult” of Tricolour to protect which “70 per cent of blood that has been shed has been from the (Sikh) community”. “This is the same ‘kesri’ PM Modi wears. For us (Sikh community) the Red Fort is a seat of oppression and tyranny, it is from here martyrdom of our ninth Guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur was announced. He chose martyrdom to save your ‘janaeu’ and ‘tilak’,” she said.She also slammed PM Modi for giving names like “andolajeevi” and “parjeevi” to the agitators.Meanwhile, RLP’s Hanuman Beniwal from Rajasthan warned saying that the BJP should not be under any misconception that the agitation is limited to Punjab and Haryana. “You may have to sit in the Opposition next time,” he warned, claiming that “many BJP MPs have expressed fears to him in confidence that if laws are not taken back they may have to face problems in next elections”.“If the laws are so good why have you agreed to amend them…You should leave your ‘zid’ (stubbornness) because you have to go back to people. If you think that farmers will forget, you are wrong, they will not forget. When they see the (EVM) machine and see your button (Lotus symbol), they will remember,” Beniwal said demanding a law on MSP and repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-badal-attacks-modi-govt-alleges-intelligence-failure-on-january-26-210086
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab will prove to be BJP's nemesis: Amarinder||As a cornered Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has failed to muster candidates to contest on even 50% of the civic body seats in the state, tried to shift blame for the farmers' wrath on the Congress, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said Punjab would prove to be the party's nemesis.The BJP should start preparing itself for political oblivion, said the Chief Minister, adding the party's fate is now sealed, not just in Punjab but also at the Centre, where its despotic rule is all set to end."The farm laws will spell the death-knell for this repressive, despotic and autocratic party. For nearly seven years they have trampled over human rights, as well as the dignity and aspirations of Indians in every possible way, and now it is the people's turn," said Singh.If the so-called urban party could not find candidates to field in more than half of the state's civic body seats, one can only imagine what they will face in rural Punjab if they ever decide to contest there, said the Chief Minister in a statement."What you see on the roads, and which you allege to be the Congress handiwork, is the spontaneous anger triggered among farmers by your arrogant anti-farmer attitude," he said, rejecting as 'hilarious' Punjab BJP's claims that the protesters it is facing on its campaign trail for the upcoming municipal polls are not farmers but Congress workers."Did you really think you could get away with abusing the farmers, and violating their democratic and Constitutional rights, as you have been doing for the past so many months, without any consequences?" the Chief Minister asked BJP's Punjab leadership.It was unfortunate that even now, the power-drunk BJP was refusing to look the truth in the eye, and was taking refuge in nonsensical excuses to hide its own shocking failure to address the concerns of the farmers, he added.No political leadership anywhere in the world has ever survived for long by ignoring the interests of its own citizens, and the BJP scripted its own destiny in the shape of those draconian farm laws, he added."You (BJP), along with your allies and ex-allies like the Akalis, conspired to snatch the last morsel of food from those very farmers who keep you well-fed and satiated. And now you want these farmers to welcome you with garlands of flowers?" quipped Singh.Naturally, the farmers are angry with the BJP and are looking for every opportunity to vent their anger on their leaders, he said, adding that were it not for the excessive police deployment during the visits of these leaders, things could have really got out of hand.Given the threat perception due to the farmers' ire against the BJP, Punjab Police is deploying unprecedented number of personnel wherever their leaders are going for campaigning, he said, adding that senior police officers are themselves supervising the arrangements.Scorning BJP's charge of the police being mute spectators while they are being stopped from entering constituencies for electioneering, the Chief Minister said this was ridiculous in the extreme, considering that the protestors themselves were complaining of being subjected to lathi-charge by the police.In any case, had that been the case, BJP's Manohar Lak Khattar, who controls the government and the police in Haryana, would not have faced similar protests at his meeting venue, he pointed out. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-will-prove-to-be-bjps-nemesis-amarinder-210072
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Will not budge from fighting for farmers, says Lakha Sidhana after Deep Sidhu’s arrest||Within hours of the arrest of actor Deep Sidhu, another most wanted accused of Republic Day violence, Lakha Sidhana has in a video message stated that he will not budge from fighting for farmers and will lay down his life if needed.He asked farmers’ union leaders to bury their differences, egos and become united again to lead the agitation.Also read: Deep Sidhu arrested in connection with January 26 violence; police seek 10-day custody“It is good to see farmers and organisations from other states taking lead and spearheading the campaign but Punjab started it and we should not play second fiddle now. We should regain control of the agitation otherwise government can settle some compromise deal with those heading the agitation now,” he said.He also sought release of labour rights activist Nodeep alias Navdeep Kaur and immediate withdrawn of cases against other persons.“We were part of a movement not an individual quarrel.” He was referring to statements earlier by kisan leaders that they had nothing to do with Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-not-budge-from-fighting-for-farmers-says-lakha-sidhana-after-deep-sidhus-arrest-210036
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||SAD requests Governor to countermand municipal polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday requested Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore to direct the Punjab government to countermand the election at all places where nomination papers of opposition candidates had been rejected en masse even as it asked him to intervene, and ensure deployment of para-military forces ensuring free and fair elections to the municipal bodies.A senior delegation of the SAD including Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema and Surjit Singh Rakhra called on the Governor and apprised him of the total collapse in the law and order machinery in the State and requested him to intervene to restore the rule of law.The delegation informed the Governor about the murderous attack on the SAD President and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal at Jalalabad recently and apprised him that the State government was yet to proceed in the matter as per the complaint submitted by the SP, Security of the SAD President.The delegation members said the Governor could realize that when a ‘Z plus’ protectee was not secure what would be the fate of the common man.It requested the Governor to direct the government to take action against the Congress legislator and the latter’s son as per the complaint filed by the SAD President’s security detail.A four member delegation of SAD met the Hon’ble Governor of Punjab Mr VP Singh Badnore at Raj Bhawan today submitted detailed memorandum on violence and election malpractices & failure of SEC in civic elections in Punjab. pic.twitter.com/cdjKtjWDwdProf Prem Singh Chandumajra also informed the Governor that the State Election Commission (SEC) has abrogated its responsibility towards the people and he should intervene to restore the confidence of the people in the democratic process.He said the nomination papers of opposition candidates had been rejected en masse in Zira, Guruharsahai, Maluka, Mehraj, Bhai Roopa, Mandi Gobindgarh and Ferozepur.“A SAD delegation led by Dr Daljit Cheema requested the SEC to countermand the elections at these places and hold them afresh but the SEC expressed its helplessness to do anything in the matter”.Prof Chandumajra requested the Governor to direct fresh elections on these seats besides directing deployment of para-military forces, allowing videography inside polling booths and ensuring votes were polled on the same day itself and there was no delay on this score.The SAD delegation also requested the Governor to direct the State government to take action against Congress goons who had resorted to violence at many places including Bhikhiwind where the residence of an SAD leader was attacked by armed assailants in the present on the local police.It said there were also instances of vandalizing of vehicles of Akali supporters at some places and other irregularities including changing of wards of many votes in Batala municipal committee.He said the wards of several hundred voters were changed in Batala after the allotment of the election symbol to the candidates.The delegation members including Prof Chandumajra, Grewal, Dr Cheema and Rakhra also informed the Governor that the recent incidents of violence had the propensity to spoil the peace and communal harmony in the State and emergent action was needed to ensure this did not happen.They said it was on utmost importance for the Governor to intervene because Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had been informed about the situation at the All Party meeting but did not do anything in the matter.Later Maheshinder Grewal told newsmen that the party delegation had also brought the video put out by Congress legislator Amarinder Singh Raja Warring in which he threatened the SAD President to the notice of the Governor.He said the delegation asked the Governor to direct the State government to take action against Warring to ensure no one was allowed to take the law in his own hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-requests-governor-to-countermand-municipal-polls-210030
09-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar gets a special gift from Rohanpreet Singh on Rose Day; she shares a mushy post on Propose Day||Newlyweds Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh are celebrating Valentine’s week with mushy posts. The two shared glimpses of their Rose Day celebration on their social media accounts.Not only this, the two even wished each other on Propose Day.The 'Kaala Chashmah' singer took to Instgram and shared loved-up video alongwith a post on Rose Day and wrote: "You complete me, Rohanpreet Singh. Happy Rose Day! Rohu and all my #NeHearts."A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)  ures and captioned it: "Happy Rose Day my beautiful Nehu ji.'Besides this, Rohanpreet also surprised Neha with a bouquet of roses. Neha shared the pictures on her Instagram story. Along with that, she wrote: "This man. My Rohu baby is the best."A post shared by Rohanpreet Singh (@rohanpreetsingh)  Next in line came Propose Day on which Rohan shared a picture form the day when he proposed to Neha.Alongside he wrote: "Happy Propose Day my love. Thank you so much for marrying me. Thank you so much for making life so beautiful like you."On the work front, the couple recently made an appearance on Indian Idol's Valentine's Day special episode. Not just them, even, host Aditya Narayan and his wife Shweta Agarwal appeared on the show.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-gets-a-special-gift-from-rohanpreet-singh-on-rose-day-she-shares-a-mushy-post-on-propose-day-210012
09-02-2021||Aurangabad||Punjab Police arrest man accused under UAPA from Maharashtra’s Nanded||A man accused in a case of unlawful activities has been arrested from Nanded in Maharashtra by Punjab Police with the help of their local counterparts, an official said on Tuesday.Gurpinder Singh, 40, a native of Punjab’s Muktsar district, was accused under provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the Nanded police official told PTI.The police did not divulge any other details of the case.The accused had fled from Amritsar and was working in Nanded for some time, the official said.Punjab Police with the help of their counterparts in Nanded caught the accused on Sunday, he said.On Monday, he was produced before a Nanded court which handed him over to Punjab Police, he said.No prohibited material was seized from him, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-arrest-man-accused-under-uapa-from-maharashtras-nanded-209974
09-02-2021||New Delhi||Red Fort violence: Deep Sidhu arrested by Special Cell||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu who was “a prominent player” behind the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day has been arrested by the Delhi Police, officials said on Tuesday.Later in the day, a city court sent him to seven-day police custody after police alleged that Sidhu was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort on January 26.The arrest was made by a team of the Delhi Police’s Special Cell, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.Sidhu was arrested from the Karnal Bypass at 10.40 pm on Monday, Yadav told PTI, adding that he was wanted in connection with the case of instigating the crowd at the Red Fort on Republic Day.“The Crime Branch will investigate his role in detail,” the DCP said.Asked where he was hiding after the January 26 violence, Yadav said the investigation at in an initial stage.Taking to Twitter, the Special Cell claimed that Sidhu was “a prominent player” behind the Republic Day violence and he was instigating youngsters with his provocative speeches and stardom even when he was hiding from the law.Police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu’s arrest.After the January 26 violence, which had left over 500 security personnel injured and one protestor dead, the 36-year-old actor-activist was posting videos on social media.Also read: Will not budge from fighting for farmers, says Lakha Sidhana after Deep Sidhu’s arrest“Sidhu was in contact with a woman friend who lives in California. He used to make videos and send it to her, and she used to upload them on his Facebook account,” a police source said.Sidhu kept changing his locations to evade arrest, sources said, adding that several teams are working to arrest other persons who were involved in the violence.Sidhu was sent to seven-day police custody by Metropolitan Magistrate Prigya Gupta.However, Sidhu’s counsel claimed that he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time.The violence took place when tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on January 26 during their tractor parade to highlight their demand for repealing the new agri laws.However, their parade dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India’s tricolour.Thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where the religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protesters died.At the Red Fort on January 26, several police personnel had fell or jumped tens of feet down a wall after being pushed to the edge by a marauding mob.In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protesters who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.“The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance on the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the into Red Fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells,” police had said in the FIR.“They damaged a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gears—cane stick, shields, body protectors, helmets etc from the police personnel,” it had also said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/red-fort-violence-deep-sidhu-arrested-by-special-cell-209952
09-02-2021||---||Now, a 5-yr-old girl is victim of banned Chinese kite string||Jalandhar, February 8As the 5-year-old Pihu’s mother sits out in open taking the little girl in her lap, she peeps through her bandaged forehead and eyes and tells her mom, “I do not want to gaze at the sky. Now, I hate watching those colourful kites. Their patterns no longer amuse me.”The cute filly is the latest victim of the Chinese kite strings. A resident of Preet Nagar, she along with her parents was on a scooter on Sunday, when the manjha cut through her face inflicting serious injuries.Even though at least three children have received grievous injuries due to the use of banned Chinese kite strings, the district administration and the city police are yet to wake up from the slumber and nab the traders involved in its indiscriminate sales.After 11-year-old Ankur had sustained nearly 90 per cent burn injuries due to an electric shock after his kite’s string got entangled with an overhead high-tension wire in Jhansi Nagar last Tuesday and his friend ,too, got injured, Pihu is the third victim to get injured in a span of just one week. Standing in front while her father was at the wheel, a kite string slashed across her face. Before she could raise an alarm and the scooter could be stopped, the damage was already done by then.Her father Rakesh said he saw blood gushing from her forehead and the left side of her eyes. Hearing their screams, people from around the area immediately came to their help. “We took her to two hospitals, but it was Sunday and there was no staff. We could not get cotton pads…no medical aid for good 25 minutes. Then we rushed to Kamal Hospital where paediatrician Dr Anubhav Gupta immediately attended to her. Her wounds were sutured with 15 stitches on her face. She remained at the hospital and we finally got her home this afternoon.”Pihu’s mother, Sonia, alleges, “The use of Chinese strings is so rampant that everyone is using them despite being aware of its repercussions. I really thank God that the string passed just above her eyes and there has been no loss of vision. Doctor is telling us that her scars would heal up well.”Rakesh adds, “Today, it was my daughter. Tomorrow, it can be another child and can be fatal too. So, why are the governments, MLAs, councillors, civil and police administration not waking up? Why can’t they implement a proper ban? Why these strings are so openly available in the markets and the police not even keeping a check? Why is everyone so indifferent to this menace?”Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, however, maintains, “We have been conducting raids daily, confiscating Chinese string rolls and lodging FIRs against the traders indulging in the sales of the banned item.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-a-5-yr-old-girl-is-victim-of-banned-chinese-kite-string-209901
09-02-2021||---||PSU seeks release of Nodeep Kaur, action against cops||Jalandhar, February 8Women activists of the Punjab Students’ Union on Monday spoke in favour of Nodeep Kaur, an activist and member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, who was arrested on January 12. She is in detention ever since.The Punjab Students’ Union demanded the immediate release of Nodeep Kaur. Condemning her detainment and alleged torture by the Haryana Police, PSU activists demanded the dismissal of the police officials responsible.Notably, the demand to release Nodeep Kaur has grown into a robust online campaign, where various celebrities and prominent activists and organisations have demanded her release. She has also become the poster girl for labour rights in the midst of farm agitation. The Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan has also been actively supporting the farmers’ agitation.PSU district president Varjeet Kaur and general secretary Ramandeep Kaur, while speaking at Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, said the police and the BJP government in Haryana violated human rights.They said she was a victim like other activists, who were constantly being targeted and arrested for speaking the truth. They said Kaur had spoken for the rights of labourers. They said despite the activist having undergone so much injustice, those responsible for jailing her walk free and haven’t been punished. They demanded that the officers responsible for jailing her be dismissed. They also demanded that the case registered against her be dismissed and she be released immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/psu-seeks-release-of-nodeep-kaur-action-against-cops-209904
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||With Gurbani, Hanuman Chalisa, Singhu goes secular||With the focus of the farmers’ movement shifting from Punjab to the Jat hinterland, the Singhu protest site on the Delhi border, so far dominated by Sikh farmers, has donned a secular colour.The morning starts with the recitation of Gurbani from the stage, followed by Hanuman Chalisa and other religious hymns.Farmer leaders say the sudden increase in participation of Haryana farmers has further secularised the movement. “Now, it has gone much beyond any communal agenda.It is now difficult for the state to label this movement a ‘Khalistani struggle’,” says one of the leaders of the 32 farmer organisations spearheading the agitation.Earlier, farmer leaders were opposing the idea of any religious activity from the official stage at Singhu. In December, even a detailed discussion took place during a meeting of the farmer organisations on ways to save the movement from becoming a “show of one particular religion”.Apart from exchange of religious values, a mix of cultures is taking place at the protest site. This is the first time a large number of women and children from Haryana are participating at the Singhu border.“This is something that has never been seen before,” says a lawyer from Punjab and Haryana High Court who returned from Singhu on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-gurbani-hanuman-chalisa-singhu-goes-secular-209836
09-02-2021||Mansa||Martyr Sepoy’s kin upset over farmers being defamed||The family members of martyr Sepoy Gurtej Singh of Mansa, who sacrificed his life in a clash with the Chinese army at Galwan valley in Ladakh last year, are upset over farmers being called terrorists, Naxals and separatists.Gurtej’s father Virsa Singh, a resident of Birewala Dogra village in Budhlada subtehsil, is a marginal farmer and does farming on around three acres. He said: “We are opposing the farm laws as these will hit the marginal farmers like me hard. We demand the repeal of the laws at the earliest.”He said even he had gone to the Tikri border on his tractor to protest the three farm laws. “Our son gave his life guarding the country’s border. It really pains us when we hear media houses and politicians terming us terrorists, Naxals and separatists. But we cannot do anything,” he said.On January 26, martyr Sepoy Gurtej Singh was conferred with Param Vir Chakra posthumously. Manmander Singh Birewala, relative of the martyr, said: “We are proud that my nephew laid down his life fighting for the nation. We are part of India and nobody is demanding a separate state. We just want the three farm laws to be repealed”. He said he was not happy how the things unfolded at the Red Fort on Republic Day.The martyr’s family has made an NGO, Shaheed Gurtej Singh Welfare Foundation. In June, 2020, Sepoy Gurtej Singh was amongst the 20 soldiers who attained martyrdom fighting with the Chinese army in Galwan valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/martyr-sepoys-kin-upset-over-farmers-being-defamed-209837
09-02-2021||Fazilka||Don’t link farmers' stir with any community, SAD urges PM||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to link farmers’ agitation with any one religion or community, adding farmers from Uttar Pradesh to Kerala were united against the three agricultural laws.After touring the 25 wards of Fazilka in connection with the forthcoming municipal elections, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal appealed to the Prime Minister to talk on the agenda and focus on giving justice to farmers. “We should not try to divide this struggle by trying to limit it to one religion or community. This will not serve any purpose except alienating the government amongst the farming community,” he said.He condemned the state police for not taking action against Gidderbaha legislator Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, despite the fact that the suicide note of contractor Karan Kataria mentioned Warring and his brother-in-law Dimpy Vinayak were both demanding money from him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-link-farmers-stir-with-any-community-sad-urges-pm-209838
09-02-2021||Nawanshahr/Moga||BJP leaders face farmers’ wrath||There seems to be no let-up in the protest against the BJP, with state party chief Ashwani Sharma and leader Vijay Sampla facing farmers’ ire.In Nawanshahr, farmers owing allegiance to various unions gathered in large numbers and gheraoed the community hall at Pandora Mohalla where Sharma was supposed to address the meeting with BJP workers. The farmers got the information that the BJP chief was going to visit the district, after which they all gathered outside a mall and started moving towards the community hall.They blocked almost every entry point leading to the venue to oppose Sharma. The police also reached the venue to avert any untoward incident. A minor scuffle ensued between the police and the farmers. Women protesters alleged they were hurt during the scuffle. The opposition by the farmers was so strong that the BJP chief chose not to come.Even in Kapurthala, farmers did not let BJP leaders hold an event in which Sharma had to participate. He could not make it to the venue. Farmers reportedly stopped vehicles canvassing for the BJP and removed party flags put up on them. They also removed party badges pinned on supporters’ dresses.Meanwhile in Moga, farmers staged a protest against former Union minister and senior BJP leader Vijay Sampla while campaigning for the party candidates ahead of the upcoming civic body elections. Heavy police force was deployed at the venue where Sampla was scheduled to meet party workers. As he emerged from the meeting, a group of farmers stopped his car and raised slogans.The police escorted his vehicle and provided him a safe passage out of the city. He could not openly campaign for the party candidates in any of the city wards.Earlier, the farmers tried to break the barricades put up by the police to prevent protesters from entering the venue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-face-farmers-wrath-209839
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Giving legal help to those booked: Morcha lawyers||The legal committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has condemned the Centre and the Delhi Police for allegedly implicating innocent persons in serious offences.Committee convener Prem Singh Bhangu said they had tied up with the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) to ensure that legal aid was provided to all those who had been implicated in criminal cases by the Delhi police.“As many as 115 persons are now lodged in the Tihar jail and we are trying to get them released. We have formed a strategy whereby those above 60 years of age and those booked under minor offences, are to be first provided legal aid for getting them released,” he said.Bhangu said till now they had not been able to trace 25 persons, and the committee, along with the lawyers assigned to them by the DSGMC, was making all efforts to trace them. “We have traced seven of the missing persons,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/giving-legal-help-to-those-booked-morcha-lawyers-209840
09-02-2021||Bathinda||Delhi influx sees liquor sales drop||Liquor sales have declined significantly in the rural areas of the Malwa region in the past two months. As per liquor contractors, the sales have dipped up to 30 per cent as compared to last year around the same period.Contractors said as farmers’ stir continuing unabated for the past two months at the Delhi borders, they had been suffering losses in the business. They said their losses, however, had mitigated to some extent on account of the crackdown by the police on the production and sale of home-made liquor post the spurious liquor tragedy in the Majha region last year.Rakesh Kumar (Happy), a liquor contractor, said: “Villages, particularly in Rampura, Bhagta, Bhucho, Bhai Rupa, Ballianwali and Nathana, and villages in the Goniana block have recorded maximum decline in liquor sales. If on an average even the smallest of vends were fetching Rs 10,000 profit, it has come down to Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 now. People from all age groups have been visiting protest sites at Delhi borders; as a result, there is barely any activity at the liquor shops.”Javed Khan, another liquor contractor from Barnala, said, “We are two groups that operate in majority of the villages in the district but in the past two months alone, our daily sales have come down up to 25 per cent. After Covid, we were anticipating a good sale in the winter season. But with sales dwindling and stocks piling up at liquor vends in villages, we have curtailed our orders.”Ruldu Singh Mansa, president, Punjab Kisan Union, said, “It is indeed a great development from Punjab’s perspective that not just elderly and middle-aged but also youngsters in large numbers remain engaged in the agitation in Delhi. What could be more satisfactory than seeing people of the state holding fort at the Delhi borders than queuing up at liquor vends.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-influx-sees-liquor-sales-drop-209841
09-02-2021||Bathinda||Farmers' protest: Ex-sarpanch starts free taxi service to Delhi||A former sarpanch of Mehma Sarkari village in Bathinda district has announced bearing commuting charges for those interested to visit protest site at Delhi borders.Barjinder Singh Brar has hired a taxi (SUV) for the job that leaves for Delhi borders on a weekly basis. The first group of farmers left for the Tikri border on Monday. On an average, taxi service providers charge around Rs 8,000 for one round to Delhi. Many farmers travel by train, bus or tractors on a daily basis to the protest venues at the Delhi borders.Brar said, “All farmers do not have adequate resources to travel to and from Delhi. The service will facilitate their travel in a hassle-free manner.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-ex-sarpanch-starts-free-taxi-service-to-delhi-209842
09-02-2021||Jalandhar||Ex-serviceman sings, pens songs in farm stir’s support||At the ‘chakka jam’ at PAP Chowk on February 6 was 63-year-old Manjit Singh — a retired Naik from the Army. Popularly known as ‘Baba Chimte Wala’, he was part of a group of over 50 ex-servicemen which participated in the protest in solidarity with farmers on February 6.Dressed up in a spotless white kurta pyjama, he walked all the way to the protest site from basti areas to express solidarity with the farmers, even though he has no land of his own.He had protesters hooked as he crooned: “Ni Kangana tu Singhu border te aa. Mawan saddiyan phulke pakavan, Tu vi aake do-chaar la”. His four brothers and father were all in the Army. Enamoured by Lt General Bikram Singh who is also called the Hero of Ladakh, Manjit Singh named one of his sons, Bikramjit Singh.Manjit Singh says, “Faujian di andolan nu bahut support hai. Bahut fauji kisan ne. Je Modi araam di neend saunda aa – faujiyan karke hi saonda aa. Police fail hundi tan hari vardi vale fauji jawan hi control karde hai. Te eh kisana nu keh rahe ne atankvadi e vakhvadi e… Shaheed Kahuana saukha nahi – kurbani deni paindi hai. (If Modi sleeps peacefully, it’s because of the Army men. Many of them are farmers. When the police fail, they call the men in olive greens. We stand by farmers. But the Modi government calls farmers Khalistanis, terrorists and separatist. (It’s not easy to be called a martyr – you have to give sacrifices for it.)”Hailing from Mallewal village in Hoshiarpur, he is a poet, singer and performer – he has performed with the likes of Babbu Mann, Kanwar Grewal and Ranjit Bawa. But for now he stands in solidarity with farmers. He has penned songs on farmers, Kangana Ranaut and the Red Fort fiasco.He adds, “My father saw four wars in 1941, ’47, ’62 and ’65. He fought in World War I. One of my brothers saw three wars. My father retired as a subedar. My most difficult posting was at Nathu La in Sikkim. I was also posted at Tangdhar in Jammu and Kashmir. Ask us faujis, we know what the sacrifice means.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-serviceman-sings-pens-songs-in-farm-stirs-support-209844
09-02-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur ex-serviceman in jail, family decides to join protest||The family of ex-serviceman Jit Singh (70), who was arrested in New Delhi on January 28, has decided to send other members to the national capital to join the protests against the new farm laws.“My father retired as a Lance Naik in 1989. The Delhi Police arrested him from the Burari ground on January 28 and lodged him in the Tihar Jail. He was not involved in violence. He used to just provide water to farmers at the ground,” said Veer Singh, who is son of Jit Singh, in Khanauri town.The main source of the income for the family is Jit Singh’s pension and the meagre salary of his son, who works as a private security guard. Jit Singh who owns one-acre land has been supporting the agitation in a peaceful manner.“I was in touch with my father on January 26 and he was present at the Burari ground. After the arrest, I got a call from Tihar officials. It’s injustice to our family as my father should not have been arrested. Our other family members will join the protest in coming days,” said Veer Singh.Some other residents of Khanauri are not ready to accept the allegations that Jit Singh was involved in violence as they have always seen him motivating others for a peaceful protest against the laws.Rachpal Singh, brother-in-law of Jit Singh, said: “Jit Singh and his family have never supported violence. In fact, Jit Singh has been a vocal supporter of peaceful protests. We are trying to get him released on bail”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-ex-serviceman-in-jail-family-decides-to-join-protest-209845
09-02-2021||Muktsar||Rs 17-cr mediclaim by legislators in 10 years||Despite the fact that the Punjab legislators are among the highest paid in the country, MLAs and ex-MLAs have claimed medical expenses of Rs 16.89 crore in the past 10 years. Information received under the RTI Act revealed that Rs 1.59 crore was claimed in the fiscal year 2019-20.The state government, however, refused to provide details of each MLA or ex-MLA, claiming it was their personal matter.In the past decade, former MLAs have claimed medical expenditures of Rs 10.68 crore, while incumbent MLAs claimed Rs 6.21 crore.The ex-MLAs claimed medical expenses of Rs 1.29 crore in the year 2019-20, Rs 1.19 crore in 2018-19, Rs 1.2 crore in 2017-18, Rs 1.1 crore in 2016-17, Rs 99 lakh in 2015-16, Rs 99 lakh in 2014-15, Rs 1.1 crore in 2013-14, Rs 1.1 crore in 2012-13, Rs 75 lakh in 2011-12, and Rs 76 lakh in 2010-11.The Deputy Secretary, Vidhan Sabha, said the information about illnesses for which bills were claimed could not be given as the bills were sent to the district treasury offices.Notably, every person holding any office mentioned in Sub-Section (1) of Section 2 of the Punjab State Legislature Offices, Ministers and Members (Medical Facilities) Act, is entitled, for himself and his family, medical reimbursement as per the actual bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-17-cr-mediclaim-by-legislators-in-10-years-209846
09-02-2021||Faridkot||No interim relief for Sumedh Saini,  Umranangal in Behbal case||Four days after former DGP Punjab Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal approached the court of District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, seeking anticipatory bail in apprehension of their arrest on February 9 here, the court deferred the hearing on their application to February 11.Accused in a murder and attempt-to-murder case, the former DGP and IGP have been summoned by the Court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Faridkot, for their presence before the court on February 9.Fearing arrest, both accused police officers wanted to avail the benefit of anticipatory bail. However, as the court has deferred the decision on the anticipatory bail application to February 11, the threat of the arrest looms large.The public prosecutor today opposed the anticipatory bail to Saini, claiming the Punjab and Haryana High Court had already granted blanket bail to Saini in October 2018 and it was challenged by the state government. The court has summoned the record of this blanket bail to Saini on February 11.In the October 2018 blanket bail order, it was mentioned that “in case the petitioner (Saini) is sought to be arrested in the Kotkapura sacrilege case or in case involving Aman Skoda of Moga or in any case pertaining to an incident of the period while the petitioner remained as the state Vigilance Head or Inspector General of Police, Intelligence, Punjab, or Director General of Police, Punjab, one week’s advance notice shall be afforded to the petitioner before effecting his arrest so as to enable him to have recourse to remedies available to him”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-interim-relief-for-sumedh-saini-umranangal-in-behbal-case-209847
09-02-2021||Jalandhar||23-yr-old ‘escapes’ from shelter home in Jalandhar||A 23-year-old girl went missing from the Pingla Ghar here today. As per the authorities, she escaped in the morning. A complaint has been filed with the Police Station No. 2.The girl, who was staying in the Pingla Ghar hostel, was also working at its office as a computer operator. The girl was brought to the Pingla Ghar by her family in 2019.SHO Sukhbir Singh said, “The girl went missing this morning. Her last location was traced to the bus stand. As per preliminary information, she wanted to leave the Pingla Ghar for quite sometime.”Administrator, Pingla Ghar, Capt Jagdish Chand said, “The girl was suffering from depression and getting treatment. She wanted to leave the Pingla Ghar and we had also written regarding it to the DC, DSSO, Civil Hospital and the District Magistrate. She had never left the Pingla Ghar before.”Captain Jagdish said she came in 2019 after her family sought shelter for her from the then DC. Her mother had run away with someone and her family did not want to keep her. He said, “She had been pressing for a job outside. That seems only plausible reason for her escape.”Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “During my recent visit, the authorities informed that a girl, receiving psychiatric help, was lodged at the Pingla Ghar and wanted to take up a job outside the place. As an adult, she is free to take her decisions. The exact reasons for her leaving the place can only be ascertained when she is found.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/23-yr-old-escapes-from-shelter-home-in-jalandhar-209849
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Health workers must get first jab  by February 19||The state on Monday extended the last date for the healthcare workers to get their first shot of Covid vaccine from February 12 to February 19.Those failing to get themselves vaccinated till then will not get free vaccination. They will be vaccinated under the drive to inoculate the general population, after the completion of the ongoing phase I and II.The ongoing second phase to vaccinate the heathcare workers will be completed by the first week of March.This was decided during the third meeting of the state steering committee for Covid vaccination, chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan here this evening.“It was decided that the first dose of vaccine will be provided to the healthcare workers up to February 12. However, now the date has been extended to February 19,” said an official spokesperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-workers-must-get-first-jab-by-february-19-209850
09-02-2021||Ludhiana||Killed in Kabul blast, Ludhiana man leaves behind son he never saw||“We were planning to celebrate our first wedding anniversary, but fate had something else in store for us. We are shattered,” says an inconsolable Shivani.A resident of Mundian Kalan village in Ludhiana, Shivani lost her husband Sunny Singh (27) in a blast that took place in Kabul on Saturday. “He was excited to see our newborn for the first time. Before coming home, he wanted to earn some more money,” says Shivani.She married Sunny, a small-time general merchant in Afghanistan, last February and gave birth to a boy in October.Sunny had left for Afghanistan in August. Two other Afghan Sikhs — Sher Singh and Chucha Singh — sustained serious injuries in the attack that killed Sunny.“I had lost my father when I was six months old and my son has been left without his father when he is merely three months old,” Shivani said.Shivani has not eaten since she heard the tragic news.Repenting the day Sunny decided to go to Kabul for greener pastures, Shivani says, “We have lost everything. What will money do when we don't have him?”The deceased was working hard to earn money, so that he could build a house in his village.“I could not even see his face for the last time or attend his last rites,” rues Shivani, who watched Sunny's final journey over a video call by her in-laws, who were staying with him in Kabul. Besides her own fate, she is worried about the health of her toddler as well, who has been undergoing treatment for a heart ailment since birth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/killed-in-kabul-blast-ludhiana-man-leaves-behind-son-he-never-saw-209851
09-02-2021||Pathankot/Batala||BJP on ‘back foot’ in Batala, Pathankot||Repercussions of the farm laws have put the once-powerful BJP on the back foot in the poll-bound Municipal Corporations (MC) of Batala and Pathankot.Both these bodies fall in the ambit of the Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency represented by a BJP MP.To complicate matters, party leaders claim that the ruling dispensation in Chandigarh has clandestinely conveyed to officials to bend backwards to ensure all the Congress candidates have a smooth sailing and simultaneously “their candidates are harassed”.A Congress legislator said this was not a new phenomenon as it is always the ruling party which remotely controlled the electoral strings. “When the SAD-BJP was in power for 10 years, they swept aside practically all polls. Now, it is payback time,” he said.In Batala, the party has fielded candidates in 36 wards in the 50-member House while in Pathankot, all the 50 wards have been covered. CID reports claim the situation is better in Pathankot as compared to Batala because of the fact that the city is full of shopkeepers and traders who have traditionally been BJP voters. In Batala, the party is strong only in five to seven wards located in the walled city while it has nothing to gain in the wards falling on the outskirts. The situation is so dismal that the party could not find candidates to contest in as many as 14 wards.“In Pathankot, the cadre is well-entrenched in 10-14 wards. Here we have die-hard loyalists who will vote for the party come what may,” said a senior leader. CID reports, however, claim that the party may end up without touching double digits.There are many like shopkeeper Parshotam Lal who claimed they voted for the BJP in the 2017 Assembly polls and later for Sunny Deol in the 2019 elections. “Lekin is baar hum BJP ke sath nahi hai (This time we are not with the BJP),” he said.Observers claim that popular sentiment is certainly against the BJP. The SAD, the other mainline party, is yet to find its feet in the city. Likewise, in Pathankot, the Akalis stand completely marginalised. During the last elections, under the seat-sharing agreement, the SAD was given just five wards to contest keeping in view its marginal presence in the town. “This holds true even now. Without the BJP, the Akalis will be plowing a lonely furrow,” said a minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-on-back-foot-in-batala-pathankot-209852
09-02-2021||New Delhi||At Delhi meeting, Sonia ‘offers’ Cabinet berth, AICC role to Navjot Sidhu||Congress president Sonia Gandhi today met former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for about 25 minutes here and is learnt to have reiterated the party’s offer of a state Cabinet berth for him or even a central role if he desires so.The meeting, held at Sonia’s residence, was also attended by AICC general secretary and in charge for Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal.The presence of Venugopal was seen as a signal that the party high command wanted to placate Sidhu with the offers of a state Cabinet berth or an organisational role or both.Sidhu had sought the meeting a long time ago, but it had been delayed due to Sonia’s ill health and farmers’ agitation.Rawat has been publicly asserting that Sidhu would be duly accommodated with the latter even coming out happy from a breakfast meeting with Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh in November last year.Sidhu has been eyeing the post of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president currently held by Sunil Jakhar. The organisational chief’s position is key in the Congress as the PPCC president has a massive say in the distribution of tickets during the elections.The effort on Sonia’s part today appeared to be on breaking the prolonged deadlock on the role of Sidhu in the Congress.With the state elections slated in 2022, the party would want the stalemate to end and a battle-ready organisation to be in place before that.Sidhu’s bargaining power is also limited with the Congress appearing to be the current beneficiary of the farmers’ agitation and AAP largely fragmented in Punjab.Congress sources said Sidhu could go back to the state Cabinet and settle for his people to be accommodated in the organisation which has been in a limbo since 2019. The meeting also signalled early possibilities of a Punjab Cabinet and PPCC reshuffle.Also read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-delhi-meeting-sonia-offers-cabinet-berth-aicc-role-to-navjot-sidhu-209853
09-02-2021||Bathinda||BJP nominee alleges threat calls, probe on||BJP candidate from ward No. 7 and party’s Mahila Morcha district president Mamta Jolly Jain has claimed to have received threat calls on her mobile phone, prompting the police to start a probe.A complaint in this regard was filed by former BJP minister and Bathinda MC poll in-charge Manoranjan Kalia with Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk and Cantt police station SHO.The SSP directed the officials to trace the number from which the calls were made. Jolly also lodged a complaint claiming a suspicious car had been spotted in her area, but the police had failed to trace its number.SSP Virk said: “We have verified complaints by BJP candidates about threat calls, but there is a variance between the complaints and our findings. However, we have provided security to all BJP candidates. Women candidates have been given women officers.”In her complaint, Jain said: “On Sunday evening, I received three calls from a number within a span of two hours. The caller dared me to campaign in any other area outside Bharat Nagar.”She said it was sad that candidates of a national party were not being allowed their democratic right to campaign, adding political parties behind this were doing so in the name of farmers’ protest.Besides, incidents of tearing of BJP candidates’ posters, including those of Jolly’s, have been reported in Bathinda. Earlier, posters of party candidate from ward No. 27 Sareena Goyal were blackened, while posters of candidates Kachan Jindal (ward No. 29), Babita Gupta (ward No. 30) and Shama Bharti (ward No. 49) were torn. In all these incidents, women BJP candidates were targeted.BJP state secretary Sukhpal Sra has written to the State Election Commission and demanded security for party candidates, while district president Vinod Kumar Binta, who is contesting as an Independent, using his veto, has written to the SSP expressing satisfaction over the police arrangement for the poll in Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-nominee-alleges-threat-calls-probe-on-209854
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||BJP barely contesting half the seats in local bodies elections||Facing protests from farm unions, the BJP is contesting under 50 per cent of the total seats in the local bodies elections.As per the State Election Commission, 2,302 wards are up for grabs in the local bodies elections slated for next week. After the SAD parted ways over the farm laws, the BJP had claimed it would contest all 117 Assembly constituencies on its own. However, it has found it hard to field candidates in over 50 per cent of the civic body seats. While cities have been considered a good base for the BJP in Punjab, the party has fielded only 1,003 candidates.Party sources said even the RSS cadre were not upbeat. A district leader said the high command’s offer to provide funding for candidates willing to contest hadn’t cut much ice.There were instances where party loyalists had shown reluctance to contest on the party symbol. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma couldn’t be reached for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-barely-contesting-half-the-seats-in-local-bodies-elections-209855
09-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||AAP: Capt Amarinder gave consent to passage of farm laws||AAP state co-in charge Raghav Chadha today said the SAD and BJP were not the only parties to bring in the farm laws as the Congress was also an equal partner in the move because it “gave its consent when the Bills were passed”.Chadha arrived in Hoshiarpur for canvassing for the municipal corporation elections. Addressing a press conference, he said, “The Punjab Contract Farming Act-2013 was introduced by the SAD-BJP government and was stamped by the Congress. It was clearly stated in Section 25 of the Act that a farmer could face jail or fine if he did not comply with it.”“It is a law that makes farmers a kind of bonded labour,” he added. He said Capt Amarinder Singh and Sunil Jakhar were MLAs at that time, but they did not oppose the law. “Now, when the Modi government came up with the black laws on agriculture, Capt Amarinder was a member of the high-powered committee, and he agreed to the passage of the laws,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-capt-amarinder-gave-consent-to-passage-of-farm-laws-209856
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cong to protest  fuel price  hike on February 11||The Punjab Congress will stage a statewide protest against the hike in petrol, diesel and kitchen gas prices by the central government on February 11. The protest will be held in all cities from 11 am till 1 pm. This was disclosed by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar today.In a press release, Jakhar, who will lead a protest march in Abohar, said due to the “oppressive policies” of the Centre, all segments of society had been affected.A gas cylinder used to cost Rs 438 in 2014 when Dr Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister, said Jakhar, adding that now, the cost had risen above Rs 750.The global prices of oil and gas had come down, but the Centre was deliberately increasing prices in the country, Jakhar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-to-protest-fuel-price-hike-on-february-11-209857
09-02-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Cong workers, not farmers, opposing our candidates: BJP National secretary||Amid protests against BJP candidates over the farm laws, party national secretary and co-in charge for Punjab Dr Narinder Singh today assured them of full support in the upcoming civic body elections.Interacting with the candidates, he said the party high command was aware of the situation and making efforts to resolve the farmers’ issue. He said those opposing the BJP leaders and candidates were not farmers, but Congress workers.‘Will form govt in punjab in 2022’Later, addressing mediapersons, Dr Narinder Singh said the BJP would spring a surprise in the 2022 Assembly elections and form the government with the high command preparing a roadmap in this regard.He said to prevent the BJP from expanding its base in the state, Congress workers, at the behest of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, were staging protests in the guise of farmers to hide their failure in fulfilling promises and providing good governance.The BJP leader accused the Congress of “murdering” democracy by getting nomination papers of Opposition candidates rejected and planning rigging.He said the BJP high command had been apprised of the ground situation, adding the Assembly elections must be held under paramilitary cover for free and fair elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-workers-not-farmers-opposing-our-candidates-bjp-national-secretary-209858
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Votes shifted to other wards, claim Akalis||The SAD today lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission alleging change of wards of several voters in the Batala Municipal Committee elections and urged immediate action in this regard.In the complaint, SAD senior vice-president and spokesperson Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said Batala MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal had claimed the ruling party was trying to change wards of hundreds of voters even after the allotment of the election symbol to candidates. Citing example, the SAD said in ward No. 15 of the city, the vote of SAD candidate Inderjit Kaur along with hundreds of others had been transferred to ward No. 17.Meanwhile, the State Election Commission has declared 861 booths hypersensitive and 1,708 sensitive for the February 14 civic body elections. Giving details, officials said maximum 111 booths were hypersensitive in Muktsar Sahib, followed by Patiala (86) and Moga (78). The polling will be held in 4,102 booths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/votes-shifted-to-other-wards-claim-akalis-209859
09-02-2021||Abohar||BSF foils intrusion attempt, shots fired||The Border Security Force (BSF) late last night thwarted an intrusion bid by Pakistan smugglers in the Hindumalkot area, near Dullapur Keri village, in Sriganganagar sector, 35 km from here.Rs 2-cr heroin seizedFazilka: The BSF claimed to have recovered a 470-gram packet of heroin, worth Rs2.35 crore in the international market, in the area of Tahliwala border outpost in Fazilka district on Monday. The troops of BSF’s 52 Battalion recovered the packet from the fields of a farmer, Darshan Singh, across the barbed fencing. OCOfficial sources said the troops spotted suspected movement of smugglers close to the fencing and challenged them drawing fire. The troops retaliated, prompting the smugglers to flee. A packet containing 1 kg suspected heroin was found in the fields between the fencing and zero line. BSF officers from Sriganganagar reached the scene and initiated a search operation after cordoning off the area. Police sources said troops at pillar No. 134 under BSF’s Madanlal border outpost in front of Dullapur Keri village located on Abohar-Hindumalkot-Sriganganagar Road noticed some movement on the other side of the fencing around 12.15 pm.Two suspects had crossed the zero line and were approaching the fencing when they were challenged by the BSF men. No casualties were reported in the firing. Police sources said a packet wrapped in yellow tape containing 1 kg suspected heroin, priced at Rs 5 crore in the international market, was seized. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-foils-intrusion-attempt-shots-fired-209860
09-02-2021||New Delhi||Punjab defending gangster Mukhtar Ansari: UP to top court||The UP Government on Monday accused the Punjab Government of defending gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari — lodged in Ropar Jail for more than two years in connection with an alleged extortion case — saying he was “enjoying” life in the prison there.“Ansari is being defended by Punjab. Serious cases of murder and other offences are being held up (in UP). Punjab is supporting a gangster,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan on behalf of UP. Mehta said, “Punjab says Ansari is suffering from depression. Ansari says he belongs to a family of freedom fighters. He is a gangster…Why should Punjab support him.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-defending-gangster-mukhtar-ansari-up-to-top-court-209832
09-02-2021||New Delhi||Stubble-burning up in Punjab, Haryana||Bill on unauthorised colonies in DelhiNew Delhi: The government introduced a Bill in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, which seeks to replace the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri introduced it in the RS. The unauthorised colonies that existed as on June 1, 2014, and had witnessed 50% development as on January 1, 2015, will be eligible for regularisation. PTIAverage pace of NH construction 28 km/dayNew Delhi: The pace of highway construction during April-December 2020, on an average, was 28 km a day amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Parliament was informed on Monday. Total highways constructed across India during the period were 7,767 km, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari told the Rajya Sabha. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stubble-burning-up-in-punjab-haryana-209833
09-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Unions back suspended farmers’ groups||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, February 8Farmers’ groups from Punjab have come out in support of the two farmers’ groups suspended after the violence in Delhi on Republic Day.During a meeting of the forum of 32 Punjab farmers’ groups at Kundli yesterday, the farmer leaders questioned the suspension of the two farmer groups and demanded revocation of their suspension. The three-member panel formed to look into the issue also sought more time to submit its report.The joint forum of 32 farmer unions had on January 27 suspended Surjeet Singh Phool, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), and Harpal Singh Sangha of the Azaad Kisan Committee, Doaba, for reportedly deviating from their route during the tractor march in the Capital.According to sources, the issue of suspension was raised by other farmer leaders from Punjab. They asked why action was initiated only against two groups when thousands of farmers had turned towards the Outer Ring Road on Republic Day.The farmer leaders stated that they had deviated from the route due to a traffic jam on account of tractors and other vehicles.The farmer leaders demanded revocation of the suspension and the matter was deferred for the next meeting as three senior leaders — Darshan Pal Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjeet Singh Dallewal — were not present.Major Singh Punnawal, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, and Baldev Singh Nihalgarh, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, submitted their statements in writing to the three-member panel.They stated that they had deviated from the route unknowingly and turned towards the Outer Ring Road. They stated that when Harpal Singh Sangha, accompanying them, came to know of this, he decided to move back to the border.They stated that their vehicle developed a fault, after which they reached Kundli in a private vehicle. A farmer leader from Punjab said on the condition of anonymity that the committee had sought four days to submit its report.Kin of Accused seek fair probeKarnal: “My father is innocent. He couldn’t have indulged in any violence,” says Amarjeet Singh, son of Sukhdev Singh (60), who was arrested by the Delhi Police from Chandigarh in connection with the Red Fort violence. “My father had been camping at Singhu for over two months. On Sunday, we were told that he was arrested from Chandigarh. He is innocent.” Seeking a fair probe, Sukhdev’s family claimed the police were hiding the truth. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unions-back-suspended-farmers-groups-209732
09-02-2021||New Delhi||After PM’s invite, farmer leaders say ready for talks, ask govt to choose date||Farmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue.They, however, objected to Prime Minister Modi’s remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new “breed” of agitators called “andolan jivi” has emerged in the country, and said that agitation has an important role in a democracy.Modi appeals to agitators to give farm laws a chanceFarmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka, who is a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the ongoing stir, said they are ready for the next round of talks and the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting.“We have never refused to hold talks with the government. Whenever it has called us for dialogue, we held discussions with Union ministers. We are ready for talks with them (government),” Kakka told PTI.Centre complicating issue, says Rakesh Tikait on PM Modi's statement on MSPEleven rounds of talks have been held over the contentious farm laws but the impasse continues as the farmer unions remain firm on their demands—the repeal of the three laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP).In the last round of talks, the government had offered to suspend the laws for 12-18 months, but the farmer unions rejected it.Thousands of agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 70 days.Read also: Modi appeals to agitators to give farm laws a chanceCentre complicating issue, says Rakesh Tikait on PM Modi's statement on MSPTo weed out right-wingers, volunteers screen farmers living in Ghazipur tentsWhile replying in Rajya Sabha on Monday to a debate on the President’s address, PM Modi assured the farmers that Mandis will be modernised, saying “Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain.”“We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the way the old people are sitting there, is not right.“They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue,” Modi said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation.Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said the government has already said “hundreds of times” that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain in place.“If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn’t it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops,” Kohar told PTI.He said the farmer unions are ready to resume talks with the government, but there should be a formal invitation.“Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks,” the farmer leader.In his speech, Modi slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of ‘andolan-jivi’—professional protestors—who are seen at every agitation. These “parasites feast on every agitation,” he said.“Agitation has an important role in democracy. People have a right to oppose the government’s wrong policies,” Kakka said, referring to the remarks by the prime minister.Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta-Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops and alleged that it is trying to divert the issue.Farmer leader Baldev Singh also said government should repeal these farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP for farmers’ crops.Earlier in the day, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country.To press their demands, protesting unions held a nationwide ‘chakka jam’ last week, during which national and state highways were blocked in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-pms-invite-farmer-leaders-say-ready-for-talks-ask-govt-to-choose-date-209624
