10-02-2021||Chandigarh||On attaining puberty, Muslim girl can marry anyone by law: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that a Muslim girl who is less than 18 years old but has attained puberty is free to marry anyone as per the Muslim Personal Law.A bench of Justice Alka Sarin gave the verdict relying on various court rulings and the article 195 in ‘Principles of Mohammedan Law’, an authoritative textbook by prominent Muslim personal law jurist Sir Dinshah Fardunji Mulla.Quoting provisions of article 195 in Mulla’s authoritative treatise on Muslim personal laws, the bench observed that a Muslim girl on attaining the age of puberty was competent to enter into a contract of marriage with a person of her choice.Article 195 in the book explains the “capacity (eligibility) for marriage” under the Muslim Personal Law, the bench pointed out, adding that “as per this provision, every Mahomedan (Muslim) of sound mind, who has attained puberty, may enter into a contract of marriage”.In the absence of evidence, a Muslim girl is presumed to have attained puberty on completing the age of fifteen years, the bench said, quoting the provisions of article 195.“Lunatics and minors who have not attained puberty may be validly contracted in marriage by their respective guardians,” the bench further elaborated.“The bench said the marriage of a Mahomedan, who has a sound mind and has attained puberty, is void if it has been brought about without his consent,” it added.Justice Sarin gave the ruling on January 25 on a plea by a Muslim couple, seeking protection of their life and liberty from their respective families, who were against the marriage due to age difference between the man and the girl. In Muslim law, puberty and majority are one and the same thing and that there is a presumption that a person attains majority at the age of 15 years: Counsel for petitionersThe man was 36 years old while the girl was aged only 17 years.The couple told the court that they fell in love about two years ago and solemnised their marriage on January 21 this year, as per the Muslim rites.The counsel for petitioners argued that “in Muslim law, puberty and majority are one and the same thing and that there is a presumption that a person attains majority at the age of 15 years”.The counsel further argued that “a Muslim boy or Muslim girl who has attained puberty is at liberty to marry anyone he or she likes and the guardian has no right to interfere”.The petitioners also alleged in the court that their life and liberty are in “grave danger” from their relatives due to which they have also sought protection from the Mohali’s senior superintendent of police.The judge after the hearing said the court has taken note of the judgements cited on behalf of the petitioners and also the fact that the girl in the instant case is aged more than 17 years.The judge further said the marriage of a Muslim girl is governed by the Muslim Personal Law.Both the petitioners are of marriageable age as envisaged by the Muslim Personal Law, the court said.“In any event, the issue in hand is not with regard to the validity of the marriage but to address the apprehension raised by the petitioners of danger to their life and liberty at the hands of private respondents (their relatives) and to provide them protection as envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the judge said.Article 21 of the Constitution provides for the protection of life and personal liberty and lays down that no person shall be deprived of his or her life and personal liberty except as per the procedure established by law.“The Court cannot shut its eyes to the fact that the apprehension of petitioners needs to be addressed. Merely because the petitioners have got married against the wishes of their family members, they cannot possibly be deprived of the fundamental rights as envisaged in the Constitution of India,” the judge observed while directing Mohali SSP to take the necessary action as per law regarding protection to their life and liberty. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-attaining-puberty-muslim-girl-can-marry-anyone-by-law-punjab-and-haryana-hc-210535
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder 'unleashing reign of terror' ahead of civic polls: BJP's Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh Wednesday accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of "unleashing a reign of terror and violence" ahead of the February 14 civic polls in the state.His remarks came a day after two persons were killed and as many injured in a clash between Congress and Akali Dal workers campaigning for the civic polls in Moga, while in a separate incident Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma's vehicle was allegedly attacked in Ferozepur by some unidentified people.Sharma had gone there for a meeting with local party workers.Chugh said the ruling Congress realises that it had "bleak chances" of winning the civic polls and was therefore "promoting goondaraj".The Punjab chief minister has "let loose hordes of goondas "in the state to "stifle" the voices of the BJP, Chugh alleged in a statement here.                       "Amarinder has subverted all democratic norms and has unleashed a reign of terror and violence in the state in the run-up to the municipal elections," he alleged."The writing on the wall for Amarinder is clear, so he is getting nervous and jittery and is seeking help of goondas and unlawful elements to cow down the BJP," alleged Chugh.Reacting to the chief minister's statement that the BJP would be wiped out in the wake of the farm laws, Chugh said, "Amarinder's wishful thinking has made him blind to the ground realities."          "He is living in a fool's paradise if he thinks that the BJP could be wiped out. Many Congress leaders in the past had such dreams in their eyes, but the BJP has only grown from strength to strength," he said.The chief minister had on Tuesday said that the farm laws would spell the "death-knell" for the BJP.Slamming the CM, Chugh accused the Congress-led dispensation of not fulfilling promises made to farmers in its election manifesto.Elections to the eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14.The Moga incident took place Tuesday night when workers of both the parties came face-to-face in ward number 9 of the district, police said.Both the factions first engaged in heated arguments over some issue which later led to the clash.Akali workers, who were campaigning for the February 14 municipal polls, alleged that Congress activists ran their vehicles over them when they tried to flee.One person died on the spot while another succumbed to injuries in a hospital in Ludhiana, said police.A case under relevant sections including 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Narinderpal Singh Sidhu, the husband of Congress candidate from ward number 9, and six others, said police.Three persons including Sidhu have been arrested, said police adding that two vehicles had also been impounded. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-unleashing-reign-of-terror-ahead-of-civic-polls-bjps-tarun-chugh-210496
10-02-2021||Zirakpur||Mohali administration gears up to fortify polling stations, booths||Mohali SSP Satinder Singh on Wednesday said that full preparations have been made for the peaceful conduct of Municipal Corporation and Nagar Panchayat elections.“Strict checking of vehicles while coming and going in the district is being done. The personnel posted at the check posts have been directed to pay special attention to cash, liquor, and other prohibited items,” he said.  Adequate arrangements are being made to ensure the safety of the candidates, and for a peaceful election campaign. In view of the law and order situation, regular liaison is being maintained with the candidates of civil administration, and political parties and meetings were also being held, he added. The Mohali Additional District Magistrate has also exercised its powers under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (Act No. 2 of 1974). Orders have been issued to ban carrying of firearms, ammunition, explosives, flammable items, and sharp weapons inside.Strict security arrangements have been made at the polling stations and booths to maintain law and order.“As per Section 110 of the Punjab State Election Commission Act 1994, 48 hours before the election, public meetings or conventions and the movement of outsiders would be strictly followed. Unauthorised people around would not be allowed,” he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-administration-gears-up-to-fortify-polling-stations-booths-210490
10-02-2021||---||65-year-old farmer from Punjab’s Moga dies of cardiac arest at Singhu border||Moga, February 10A 65-year-old farmer hailing from a Moga village sitting on protest at the Singhu border has died of cardiac arrest, the local authorities said here on Wednesday.So far, seven farmers from the district have died at the Delhi borders.The deceased farmer has been identified as Darshan Singh of Rauli village. He was an active worker of the BKU (Kadian).His body will arrive at his village on Wednesday after the post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/65-year-old-farmer-from-punjabs-moga-dies-of-cardiac-arest-at-singhu-border-210438
10-02-2021||Amritsar||Khalra Mission Organisation seeks release of Nodeep Kaur||Also read: Parveen Kumar, an office-bearer of the organisation, said on the one hand the government was chanting slogans such as ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padao’ but on the other it was brutalising a 23-year-old labour activist. Moreover, instead of supporting innocent Nodeep Kaur, they supported the factory owner, he said, adding that people were being labelled as Khalistani, Pakistani and Maoist.#FreeNodeepKaur pic.twitter.com/nOFUPLuHZY  The organisation demanded that Nodeep Kaur be released immediately and all three FIRs registered against her be cancelled. Another activist Virsa Singh Behla said what could be more embarrassing than the fact that Navreet Singh, a farm law protester, was shot dead by the police and another youth was injured, adding that instead of taking action against the police, action was being taken against journalists, who revealed the secret.That’s pure hate from these people ! Don’t create hate people create love !Thank you raising your voice @meenaharris #FarmerProtest #FreeNodeepKaur https://t.co/DczLb5xKgj  All false cases registered on January 26 should be cancelled and youth and farmers should be released, he demanded. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khalra-mission-organisation-seeks-release-of-nodeep-kaur-210423
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin British politician Dhesi expresses concern over arrest of activist Nodeep Kaur||British Labour Party MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi on Wednesday expressed concern over the arrest of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur over the farmers' agitation, saying the abuse of peaceful protest activists, especially women, is an affront to democracy and civilised society."Alarmed to learn of sexual assault and torture allegations in police custody of Punjabi trade unionist Nodeep Kaur, who after four weeks hasn't even been granted bail," Dhesi tweeted.Also read: He added, "Abuse of peaceful farmers protest activists, especially women, is an affront to democracy and civilised society." Earlier, Punjab-origin politician Dhesi had sent a letter, signed by over 100 MPs and Lords, to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on the ongoing farmers' protests, asking him to raise this matter with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi when they next liaise.Alarmed to learn of sexual assault and torture allegations in police custody of Punjabi trade unionist #NodeepKaur, who after 4 weeks hasn’t even been granted bail.Abuse of peaceful #FarmersProtest activists, especially women, is an affront to democracy and civilised society. pic.twitter.com/mYCI05Ouzb  On Monday, the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes asked the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) to ensure relief for Nodeep Kaur.The Commission also sought a report by February 23. It said it has taken suo motu notice of the issue since the woman is a resident of the state.Nodeep Kaur, 23, was arrested on January 12 during the farmers' protest at Kundli in Haryana.Nodeep's case came to the fore as US Vice President Kamala Harris' niece Meena Harris claimed in a tweet that she was "tortured and sexually assaulted" in police custody.However, the police said she was facing serious criminal cases.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-origin-british-politician-dhesi-expresses-concern-over-arrest-of-activist-nodeep-kaur-210422
10-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Protesters miffed with ‘andolanjeevi’ remarks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 9As BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal arrived at the Matka Chowk this evening amidst the spirited roars of “Rajewal teri soch teh, perhra deyangay thok kay”, it brought little relief to those hurt by PM Modi’s remarks on protesters.On Monday, PM Modi, replying to a debate on the President’s Budget session speech, said the country needs to be protected against what he called ‘andolanjeevi’ or those who survive on protests. This hasn’t gone down well with city-based protesters, who have been gathering at Matka Chowk in hundreds since January 26.“Such language doesn’t behove any Prime Minister of a country. This is absolutely unfortunate, especially in a democratic country like India,” said Padma Shri Awardee Swaran Singh Boparai, who has received Kirti Chakra too.Dr Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, retd additional director, health, Punjab, said: “I am not surprised at his (PM Modi’s) ‘andolanjeevi’ remark. Ever since he came to power, he has been using such language and lying through his teeth. He’s an EVM PM, not a popular PM.”Meanwhile, Rajwal appealed to keep the protest peaceful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-miffed-with-andolanjeevi-remarks-210155
10-02-2021||---||3 more farmers die||Sonepat, February 9Three more farmers died during the protest today. A 39-year-old farmer of Sewah village in Panipat was found dead in a tent at the Singhu border this morning. The police suspected that he died of heart attack.One of them died of heart AttackThe deceased, identified as Harender Singh of Sewah village, had been putting up at the Singhu border for the past 12 days.Another farmer died in hospital this evening. The deceased was identified as Darshan Singh (71) Roli village in Moga district. He had been putting up at a protest site near Rai village for the past 26 days.Harender went to bed in his tent after dinner last night, but did not wake up this morning. Other farmers in his tent tried to wake him up, but he did not respond. They called a doctor, who declared him dead.Virender Singh, brother of the deceased, said Harender had been active during the farmers’ protest for the past two and a half months.The police sent his body to the General Hospital for postmortem examination. The body was handed over to his kin after postmortem examination.Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said prima facie, heart attack was the probable reason for the death, but the cause would be known after the viscera report.Sewah sarpanch Khushdil Kadyan said scores of village residents and some protesters were present during the cremation. Survived by two sons, he owned half-acre land.Meanwhile, Darshan’s son Jagjeet Singh told the police that the condition of his father deteriorated in the evening. They took him to the General Hospital, where he died during treatment.Rai SHO Vivek Malik said the body was kept at the hospital and the postmortem examination would be conducted tomorrow.Jhajjar: A farmer died at the PGIMS in Rohtak on Tuesday. He was identified as Bijendra (57) of Chhara village in Jhajjar district. He was hospitalised on January 16 after his condition deteriorated at the Tikri border.Before that, he had been camping at the Tikri border since the agitation began.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-more-farmers-die-210231
10-02-2021||New Delhi||Punjab Congress MPs to move Bill for repeal||Congress MPs from Punjab will move Private Member’s Bill in the Lok Sabha to pressure the government for repeal of farm laws and urge other MPs to join them.Eight MPs — Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, Ravneet Bittu, JS Gill, Gurjeet Aujla, Amar Singh, Mohd Sadique and Santokh Choudhary — collectively and individually submitted the Bills to the Lok Sabha secretariat today. They said they would request Speaker Om Birla to prioritise the legislations in the interest of farmers.R-Day violence: Deep Sidhu arrestedOn the run since Red Fort incident on January 26, actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu was nabbed by the Delhi Police from Karnal. He was remanded in police custody for seven days. The prosecution claimed that Sidhu was seen entering the fort with supporters carrying swords and flags.The Congress effort took off on a note of disunity within its Punjab ranks with Rajya Sabha MPs Ambika Soni, Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo missing from the picture. Bajwa said: "We had no information about the move. We were not even consulted. This is disappointing." Dullo also said he had no idea about the move.Tewari earlier mentioned that the Bills sought repeal of laws on grounds of "illegality and unconstitutionality".Supreme Court stays arrest of Tharoor, Sardesai & 5 othersOn why no plea in the SC, Tewari said, "The SC is seized of the matter. We did what we thought was best." Bittu appealed to 247 MPs, who have mentioned farming as their profession in records, to join them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-mps-to-move-bill-for-repeal-210137
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Regain control of stir, Lakha Sidhana asks unions||Hours after actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu’s arrest in connection with the Republic Day violence, another most-wanted accused, Lakha Sidhana, in a video message today asked Punjab farm union leaders to regain the leadership of the agitation.Appreciating the unions from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other parts for adding impetus to the agitation, Sidhana asked state farm leaders not to play second fiddle to those currently leading the movement seeking repeal of the farm laws. He was referring to the emergence of Jat leader Rakesh Tikait as the main face of the agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regain-control-of-stir-lakha-sidhana-asks-unions-210127
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Stir forced Capt Amarinder Singh to reject Montek Singh Ahluwalia report: Bhagwant Mann||State AAP president and MP Bhagwant Mann today alleged the Congress government wanted to implement the disinvestment recommendations as per Montek Singh Ahluwalia’s report on farming, APMC and power subsidy, but fearing farmers’ movement, had to reject the report.He was reacting to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s statement that he had rejected the expert panel’s initial report.Mann said Capt Amarinder was trying to portray himself as pro-farmer, when in reality he was working to suppress their struggle. The CM had asked for the recommendations because he wanted privatisation, he claimed.Mann said Capt Amarinder, in collusion with PM Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, was taking anti-farmer decisions. “Punjab farmers have been sitting on the Delhi borders for the past two months, but the CM, working at the behest of Modi and Shah, never took up their cause and instead worked to weaken it,” he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stir-forced-capt-amarinder-singh-to-reject-montek-singh-ahluwalia-report-bhagwant-mann-210128
10-02-2021||Abohar||103 kg of poppy husk recovered||The police on Tuesday claimed to have seized 103 kg of poppy husk in three incidents. The accused have been identified as Shakila of Chamar Kheda, Baljinder Singh of Patli village, Gurcharan Singh (51) and cleaner Sukha Singh (55) of Zinda Nayianwala village in Bathinda, Rajinder, alias Bagga (25) of Kulchander village, Gian Singh (24) of Surewala village, Sandeep, alias Sippy (20), and Sheeli (19) of Hanumangarh. Cases have been registered under the NDPS Act. TNSChandigarhCM mourns death of PPCC ex-memberChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh mourned the demise of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee ex-member Ramesh Chand Lakhanpal (76), who died on Sunday in Ludhiana, following a cardiac arrest. He said the services of Lakhanpal as a senior advocate in the legal cell of the Congress would be remembered. He was cremated at the ground behind KVM School on Tuesday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/103-kg-of-poppy-husk-recovered-210129
10-02-2021||Patiala||PIL: Unopposed election violates right to vote||Citing violation of the right to vote, a Nabha-based advocate has filed a PIL in the Punjab and Haryana High Court to allow voting in the MC poll, wherever a candidate is declared elected sans polling. In some constituencies, candidates, owing to many reasons, have been elected unopposed.In the petition, Harkirat Singh of Nabha said not allowing voting in wards with a single candidate was an attempt to deprive the electorate of their right to vote. “The people should have this right. At least, they should get to vote for NOTA to express their displeasure with the candidates.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pil-unopposed-election-violates-right-to-vote-210130
10-02-2021||---||Labourers seek waiver of debt||Sangrur, February 9Demanding debt waiver and release of activist Nodeep Kaur, labourers from various districts, under the banner of the Mazdoor Mukti Morcha (MMM), today organised a ‘lalkar rally’ near the local residence of Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla in Sangrur.Members of the MMM had been sitting on an indefinite protest here from January 24. Today, they concluded their protest. They announced to hold a state-level protest after their meeting on February 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labourers-seek-waiver-of-debt-210131
10-02-2021||---||Now, book ‘akhand path’ at Golden Temple online||Amritsar, February 9In a first, the SGPC has introduced an online booking facility for ‘akhand path’ at the Golden Temple.Earlier, only manual booking process was being followed. Now, a new website has been launched by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, who insisted on keeping a special provision for the online booking of ‘akhand path’. “The SGPC was already running an online facility for the sangat to book rooms at the ‘sarai’ (inn) on the Golden Temple premises but now, it will also be possible to book ‘akhand path’ on the new website. Apart from this, the sangat will also be able to book in advance the service of ragi jathas online,” the SGPC president said. The move will also put a cap on ‘obliging’ the VVIPs by giving them out-of-turn opportunity to hold prayers as well as control corruption as the process will be more transparent. The ‘bheta’ (offering) for booking the 48-hour ceremony performed by the Sikh priests on behalf of the devotee is Rs 8,500.Golden Temple manager Mukhtiar Singh said the online link had been added on the new website — www.sgpcamritsar.org  — but it would take at least two weeks to get the process fully functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-book-akhand-path-at-golden-temple-online-210132
10-02-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Just 4 bird flu cases, biz takes Rs 1K-cr hit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 9Just four cases of bird flu have been detected in Punjab ever since the scare started on January 4, but it has created havoc in the state’s poultry industry. Since January 4, poultry farmers have suffered losses of over Rs 1,000 crore.GS Bedi, Amritsar poultry farmers’ AssociationMarket manipulatedEach year, the scare is created to manipulate the poultry rates. There is no report of flu transmission to humans. The state must stop this artificial market manipulation.The government said of 13,253 samples sent from Punjab, only four tested positive for bird flu, the last one on January 27. Since then, there has been no reported case.These latest reports by the state have now emboldened the poultry farmers, who have been reeling under heavy losses caused by the disease scare. They now say the scare was artificially created by traders/middlemen, who wanted to manipulate the prices.Talking to The Tribune, Malerkotla-based RS Sidhu, owner of one of the biggest poultry farms in the state, said they were getting good rates for products, with eggs fetching up to Rs 5.30-Rs 5.50 per piece and birds Rs 102-Rs 104 per kg till the beginning of January. “Suddenly, the scare was created to bring down the consumption and as a result, the price of eggs fell to Rs 3.50 per piece and that of bird to Rs 50 per kg. As a result, farmers have suffered losses of Rs 1.75 lakh for every 1 lakh layers in a poultry farm,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/just-4-bird-flu-cases-biz-takes-rs-1k-cr-hit-210133
10-02-2021||---||2 ‘Khalistani’ operatives nabbed from Lucknow||Amritsar, February 9The Counter Intelligence (CI) wing nabbed an alleged Khalistani operative Jagdev Singh, alias Jagga, from Lucknow in a joint operation with the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police on Monday.Jagdev was produced before a UP court and being brought to Amritsar on transit remand. He is likely to produce before a local court tomorrow for police remand. Jagdev was arrested after his name figured during the interrogation of another alleged Khalistani operative Jagroop Singh. Jagroop was arrested by the CI wing on Sunday near Rampur Cheeta village, Amritsar. His interrogation further led to the seizure of five country-made pistols on Tuesday. The weapons were procured from Madhya Pradesh for allegedly carrying out unlawful activities. He was currently on police remand, sources in the CI said.The sources said Jagdev had fled after the arrest of Jagroop Singh. He was currently on bail after his arrest in an Arms Act case in which the police had confiscated two pistols from him in October 2019. Jagga, who originally hailed from Ferozepur, had several cases lodged against him. He was allegedly in touch with another terrorist Paramjit Singh living in England and Maltani Singh in Germany and was involved in anti-national activities. Officials said they were investigating their links in Lucknow and the purpose behind their visit.Man accused under UAPA arrestedAurangabad: A man accused in a case of unlawful activities has been arrested from Nanded in Maharashtra by the Punjab Police with the help of their local counterparts, an official said. The accused, identified as Gurpinder Singh, a native of Punjab’s Muktsar district, was accused under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), a police official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-khalistani-operatives-nabbed-from-lucknow-210101
10-02-2021||Faridkot||Court issues arrest warrant against Sumedh Singh Saini||While issuing an arrest warrant (bailable) against former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with a murder case, a judicial court in Faridkot on Tuesday accused the former DGP and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal of moving frivolous applications before the court.HC relief for IGPBoth Saini and Umranangal were summoned by the court of Judicial Magistrate, Ist Class, Faridkot, for their appearance before the court for today to face the trial in the Behbal Kalan police firing case of October 2015 in which two protesters were killed.The court strongly objected to an assertion by counsels for Saini and Umranangal that the court had not complied with the High Court orders according to which in case of arrest of the accused, a seven-day prior notice was required to be given.In his order, the Judicial Magistrate said the submission by the counsels for the accused was not true as the court had issued the notice of more than three weeks to both accused to appear before the court. While the challan against the accused was presented on January 15, 2021, the notice for their appearance before the court was issued for February 9, the judge said. While the directions of the High Court were already being complied with, both accused were misusing the process of law and not appearing before the court despite being given the notice of more than three weeks, the order reads. The notice issued to Saini and Umranangal was received back with the report that the security officer at the house of Saini refused to allow the process server to meet him and also refused to receive the summons. The summons was then pasted in front of his house on February 5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-sumedh-singh-saini-210102
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM unveils 56 sewa kendra services, slams SAD||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday virtually launched 56 services newly added to sewa kendras, slamming the previous SAD-BJP government for transforming the unique initiatives he had launched in his previous term into “loss-making white elephants”.Captain Amarinder said his government was committed to bringing in greater transparency and efficacy in governance by taking the total number of citizen-centric services available at these kendras to 500 in the next three months. With today’s launch, the number of services at the Sewa Kendras now stands at 327, with a daily footfall of 60,000.The Chief Minister directed Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to ensure that more services were included in the portfolio of these kendras in a time-bound manner, with a call centre all set to be launched next month to enable citizens lodge their grievances with ease. He also directed the Governance Reforms Department to tie up with the Department of Posts to immediately begin home delivery of documents as in the case of passports.Blaming the Akalis for the unviable, poorly managed and underutilised sewa kendras, resulting in a huge drain on the state exchequer, Captain Amarinder said as many as 2,144 sewa kendras were running with minimal footfall and poor delivery of services, while only 170 government services were available in these kendras under the previous regime. The 56 new services added to the sewa kendras today include 37 that were earlier provided by Police Department through saanjh kendras, 18 which were so far under the purview of the Transport Department through their offices, and one (mutation service) that the Revenue Department had been delivering through fard kendras in the state.Transport Minister Razia Sultan shared details of some of the services added to the sewa kendras today, including issuance of RC and driving licence appointment booking, NOC for inter-state transfer of vehicles, change of address, among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-unveils-56-sewa-kendra-services-slams-sad-210104
10-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||For Badals, it’s fight for pride in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 9The home turf of the Badal family, Bathinda, is witnessing a fight for the pride. A lot is at stake for cousins Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal in the Bathinda MC polls.Both are actively campaigning for their candidates and trying to strike an emotional chord with locals. Manpreet is leaving no stone unturned to ensure the Congress gets a majority in the MC polls for the first time, while Sukhbir is banking on anti-incumbency, which helped party MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal to secure a lead from Bathinda (urban) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Manpreet along with his wife Vinu Badal, son Arjun and brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal are holding public meetings and door-to-door campaign for the candidates daily. Sukhbir visited the city for the fourth time today and held various public meetings in favour of the party candidates. However, with the polls just a week away, the Bathinda MP has not yet campaigned for party candidates in the city.Addressing public meetings, Manpreet exhorts people to elect the Congress with a clear majority, which hasn’t happened to date, for the development of the city, stressing when the SAD-BJP was in power in the Bathinda MC for three years, it withheld many development projects. He also not forgets to point out the effective steps taken up by the state to tackle the problems of waterlogging and sewerage in the city.The FM lashes out at the Centre for withholding funds for Punjab in a bid to stop the development work. “Despite this, we have done well to bring the economy back on track,” he says.Sukhbir, on the other hand, tries to strike an emotional chord during his public meetings. He invokes the connections of his family with Bathinda and how they nurtured it by bringing many projects like AIIMS, refinery, airport, cancer institute and many other key projects to change its face.Targeting his estranged cousin, Sukhbir says: “Ration sent by Harsimrat Badal during the lockdown was not distributed and was siphoned. SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal has started many welfare schemes for the poor, but many of them have been discontinued.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-badals-its-fight-for-pride-in-bathinda-210107
10-02-2021||---||Countermand election, SAD urges Governor||Chandigarh, February 9The SAD today urged Governor VP Singh Badnore to direct the state to countermand MC polls at places where nomination papers of Opposition candidates had been rejected en masse. Seeking his intervention, the party sought the deployment of paramilitary forces to ensure free and fair elections.Action sought against WarringAn SAD delegation, comprising Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema and Surjit Singh Rakhra, called on the Governor and apprised him of the alleged electoral malpractices in the state.The delegation informed the Governor about the recent attack on Sukhbir Badal at Jalalabad and claimed the state was yet to proceed in the matter as per the complaint of the SAD chief submitted by the SP (Security). It urged the Governor to direct the government to take action against the Congress legislator and his son for the assault.Prof Chandumajra toldthe Governor the State Election Commission (SEC)had abrogated its responsibility by allowing en masse rejection of party candidates’ nominations in Zira, Guruharsahai, Maluka, Mehraj, Bhai Roopa, Mandi Gobindgarh and Ferozepur.“A delegation had requested the SEC to countermand the elections at these places and hold fresh elections, but the SEC expressed its helplessness in doing so,” the Governor was informed.Prof Chandumajra urged the Governor to direct fresh elections on such seats besides deployment of paramilitary forces, allowing videography inside polling booths and ensuring votes were polled the same day.The members also requested the Governor to direct the state to take action against Congress “goons” who had resorted to violence at many places, including Bhikhiwind, where the residence of an SAD leader was attacked by armed assailants in the present on the local police.It said there were also instances of vandalising of vehicles of Akali supporters and other irregularities, including changing of wards of voters in the Batala Municipal Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/countermand-election-sad-urges-governor-210108
10-02-2021||Rajmeet Singh||CMO halts move to hike fee under scholarship plan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 9A fee hike by Punjab’s Higher Education Department under the Scheduled Caste (SC) Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for different self-financed courses has been halted by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) after it was found contradictory to previous instructions on the capping of charges.Increasing the fee under the self-financed courses would have meant an extra financial burden on the state exchequer, as the charges of the SC students are reimbursed by the government. “Instead of fixing the fee on the basis of the affiliating university, an amount with maximum capping has been fixed. This needs to be reviewed,” said a senior government functionary.In the past, the Private Universities and Joint Association of Colleges has been quoting the fee structure of government and professional universities to seek the revision of amount for self-financed courses. In 2016, the state government had brought the fee of government and private institutions on a par.Officials said the fee of self-financed courses revised by the Higher Education Department for 2016-2017, 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 had brought out the variation in the amount charged by different universities.The Higher Education Department has proposed Rs 64,680 as the revised fee for two-year BEd course in a university against the previous amount of Rs 16,000. For Elementary Teacher Training (ETT), the fee had been fixed at Rs 44,000 against earlier Rs 8,725. In case of universities offering BSc (Agriculture)-cum-MBA, the fee has been proposed at Rs 1,79,465 and for BSc (Honours) courses at Rs 1,08,993.Sources said after a series of meetings chaired by senior functionaries in the CMO, a committee of the Secretaries of Higher Education, Technical Education and Finance had been constituted to take a relook at the entire issue and come out with a uniform fee structure.In case of educational institutions affiliated with the Technical Education Department, the tuition fee of Rs 60,000 had been fixed for degree courses in engineering, architecture, pharmacy and hotel management.Anshu Katria, co-chairman, Joint Association of Colleges, said they had taken up the issue of fee capping at a recent meeting with the group of ministers. “The colleges should be paid fee for respective self-financed courses being charged by the affiliating university concerned. How can a college teach BEd students for Rs 16,000 and ITI students for Rs 3,000 per annum?” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cmo-halts-move-to-hike-fee-under-scholarship-plan-210110
10-02-2021||Tribune Reporters||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma’s vehicle attacked in Ferozepur||Ferozepur/Abohar, February 9Protesters today attacked the vehicle of state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, who had come to meet party workers in connection with the upcoming civic body elections in the border town of Ferozepur.Farmer leadersNo farmer involvedWe had come here only to register protest. None of us wanted to hurt him. The attackers are not farmers and it seems that the assault was pre-planned. Keeping in view the recent attacks on BJP leaders, special security arrangements had been made by the police at the venue on the outskirts of the city.At least three SP-rank officers and four DSPs along with a large number of personnel were deployed to avert any untoward incident. The venue, a marriage place, was also barricaded. However, all efforts proved futile as the mob heckled the BJP leaders.Earlier, farmers belonging to various unions reached the venue and started raising slogans against the BJP-led central government. They also tried to enter the venue.Ashwani Sharma, State BJP President Some using stirIt seems that a few people wanted to take the advantage of the situation on the pretext of the farmers’ agitation. They will not succeed in their designs.However, farmers failed in their attempt as the police resorted to a mild lathicharge to bring the situation under control. After the meeting, as Sharma got into his vehicle to leave, a few unidentified persons attacked it with clubs and rods, before fleeing the spot. Farmer leaders said they had only come to protest and not to hurt anyone.“We had come here to register our protest against the farm laws. None of us wanted to hurt him. The attackers are not farmers. It seems the attack was pre-planned by anti-social elements,” they said.On his part, Sharma said: “It seems a few people wanted to take advantage of the situation on the pretext of the farmers’ agitation. However, they will not succeed in their sinister designs.”Following the attack, the state BJP chief sat on a dharna outside the Deputy Commissioner’s residence, demanding action against the culprits. The BJP workers also blocked the highway. The dharna was lifted after the DC assured them of investigating the matter and initiating action against the miscreants.In Abohar, Sharma faced a protest by semi-clad farmers as he arrived for a meeting with party candidates.In the wake of similar protests over the past few weeks, 200 police personnel from different police stations were deployed even as SSP Harjit Singh, SPs Avneet Kaur Sidhu and Jagdish Bishnoi, and DSPs Rahul Bhardwaj and Ashok Kumar monitored the security arrangements.The venue where Sharma was to hold the maiden meeting with party candidates and office-bearers was cordoned off. However, farmers gathered outside Nehru Park and started raising slogans. They damaged barricades on the road but were pushed back by the police as they tried to enter the venue. Sharma was escorted inside the venue under a tight security cover.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-chief-ashwani-sharmas-vehicle-attacked-in-ferozepur-210113
10-02-2021||Bathinda||Can’t campaign, will meet Governor: Ashwani Sharma||Facing protests from farmers, state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma did not turn up at the decided venue and instead held meeting with party leaders at an undisclosed location in Bathinda on Tuesday.Sharma alleged the Congress government had murdered democracy as all officials were behaving like the puppets of CM Capt Amarinder Singh.He said this was the first election, in which candidates of a national party were not being allowed to campaign or hold meetings, and even their posters were being torn.Sharma said he along with other leaders would meet the Governor and the DGP over the safety of BJP candidates in the MC polls. As the farmers got information about Sharma’s arrival in the city, they reached the venue and protested.Even policemen in large numbers were deployed and all roads leading to the venue near the multipurpose sports stadium were cordoned off. IGP, Bathinda Range, Jaskaran Singh and SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk also reached the spot and pacified the protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-campaign-will-meet-governor-ashwani-sharma-210092
10-02-2021||---||Farm laws death knell for BJP: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, February 9Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said Punjab would prove to be BJP’s nemesis as the farm laws would sound the “death knell” for the party.“The BJP is set to lose not just these civic polls but also the 2022 Punjab Assembly election. Its very existence will be wiped out from our soil,” said the Chief Minister, while reacting to the saffron party leadership’s assertion it would spring a surprise in the Assembly polls.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMCongress not involvedWhat you see on the roads and claim to be the Congress handiwork is the anger among farmers over the laws.A party failing to muster candidates for even 50 per cent of the civic body seats was trying to shift blame on the Congress for the farmers’ wrath, he said.The BJP should start preparing for political oblivion, said the CM, adding its fate was now sealed, not just in Punjab but also at the Centre. “The farm laws will sound the death knell for the party. For nearly seven years, they have trampled over human rights, as well as the dignity and aspirations of Indians, and now it is the people’s turn,” he said.“What you see on the roads, and which you allege to be the Congress handiwork, is the spontaneous anger triggered by your anti-farmer attitude,” he said, rejecting Punjab BJP’s claims of Congress workers, not farmers, targeting its campaign trail for the upcoming civic body elections.“Did you really think you could get away with abusing farmers, and violating their democratic and constitutional rights,” the CM asked BJP’s state leadership.Scorning the BJP’s charge of the police being mute spectator while they were being stopped from entering constituencies for electioneering, Capt Amarinder said the protesters themselves were complaining of being subjected to lathicharge. “The fact is that not only the Punjab Police but also the Election Commission are doing their job sincerely,” he said.To the party leadership’s assertion that it would spring a surprise in Punjab in the Assembly polls, the CM said: “Yes, there will be a big surprise in 2022, with the BJP’s very existence being wiped out from our soil.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-laws-death-knell-for-bjp-punjab-cm-210093
10-02-2021||---||AAP: Sunny Deol has betrayed protesters, Parliament||Pathankot, February 9The AAP, which is contesting the MC polls in Pathankot and Batala, came out strongly against Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol saying that he had not only betrayed the farming community but also turned out to be ‘disloyal’ to Parliament by attending it for just three days so far.Raghav Chadha, state aap in chargeMum on deathsNearly 160 farmers have died during the agitation following severe cold but the MP hasn’t uttered even a single word for them.State AAP in charge Raghav Chadha, who canvassed for his colleagues in Pathankot on Tuesday, said the people of Gurdaspur had chosen Deol as their MP with high hopes but “he had the temerity to disown the voters who elected him in the first place”.Chadha said the MP’s record in Parliament could be checked by anybody. “He was present for just three days. Moreover, he has not spoken on any issue pertaining to his constituency to date. The MP rarely visits the constituency and has left it to his personal assistant to sort out things. Did the people vote for him or his PA?” he questioned.Talking about farmers, he said “Nearly 160 farmers have died during the agitation following severe cold but the MP didn’t utter a single word for them and if at all he did “he only hurled insults at them and praised Modi”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-sunny-deol-has-betrayed-protesters-parliament-210094
10-02-2021||---||Drop cases, free farmers: SGPC||Amritsar, February 9Condemning the January 26 violence at the Red Fort, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur today demanded that the cases against farmers be scrapped and those who were arrested should be freed unconditionally.Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC PresidentRed Fort incident Centre's failure The central authorities failed to control those who proceeded towards the Red Fort. The incident of hoisting the Nishan Sahib should also not be used to detain and torture innocents.She presided over an executive body meeting of the SGPC here today. The executive body criticised the alleged torture of labour activist Nodeep Kaur, who has been behind the bars for a month now, and demanded her early release. It passed a resolution expressing grief messages for those who died during the farmers’ protest in Delhi, including Navreet Singh of UP.On Deep Sidhu’s arrest, she said, “I do not know the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident at the Red Fort complex. But the central authorities also failed to control those who proceeded towards the Red Fort. The incident of hoisting the Nishan Sahib should also not be used to detain and torture innocents,” she said.Appreciating PM Modi for recognising the sacrifices made by the Sikhs during his address in Parliament, she stressed the impasse over the farm laws was a fight between the Centre and the farmers across the country. “It is unfortunate that the Centre was unmindful of resolving the farm issues. Those who were arrested must be freed instantly by scrapping all cases against them.”The executive body also demanded the early release of Balwant Singh Rajoana, a convict in the Beant Singh assassination case. The SGPC is bearing a legal fee to the tune of Rs 11 lakh on every hearing in the case. “He should be released as the Supreme Court has already directed to commute his death sentence and he has already served the jail term,” she said.On the commemoration of Saka Nankana Sahib’s centenary, the SGPC is all set to take a contingent to the shrine. However, since the SGPC has also decided to hold programme locally at Godharpur in Gurdaspur, the jatha to Nankana Sahib would be led by either the SGPC president or the Akal Takht officiating jathedar.The SGPC has decided to hold gurmat programmes from February 19 to 21 at Godharpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drop-cases-free-farmers-sgpc-210095
10-02-2021||Muktsar/Fatehgarh Sahib||In Muktsar, saffron party nominees face voters’ ire||BJP leaders campaigning for the municipal council elections are facing the heat of the farmers’ agitation.Some residents of Gidderbaha town on Tuesday raised anti-BJP slogans when a party candidate went for her campaigning in a locality and showed her flags of farmer unions in protest. As a result, the candidate had to return from there.Similarly, posters announcing boycott of BJP leaders have come up in Malout town. The residents have appealed to BJP leaders not to come to their locality to seek votes.In Sirhind and Fatehgarh Sahib also, the BJP nominees continue to face farmers’ ire, with residents of ward No. 2 in Sirhind town deciding to boycott the saffron party candidate by putting up a banner urging the nominee not to visit their houses to seek votes due to the refusal of the Union Government to repeal the three agricultural laws.On the other hand, Fatehgarh Sahib’s Congress MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra has taken the lead and intensified election campaign for party candidates by addressing a string of meetings daily to garner support.While state AAP president Bhagwant Mann has held a roadshow in support of party candidates, it hasn’t gained much traction among voters. With most of the AAP faces being new, party candidates are making all-out efforts to reach out to voters.SAD candidates have started campaigning on their own as big leaders are yet to mark their presence. No big election meeting has been organised by the party in the town so far. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-muktsar-saffron-party-nominees-face-voters-ire-210097
10-02-2021||---||Former IAS and defence officers to spread farm narrative pan-India||Chandigarh, February 9Former IAS and defence officers have decided to take the narrative of the farmers agitating against the three laws pan-India. These officers will now tie up with their counterparts in other states and ask them to support the agitation started by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting at Kisan Bhawan here this afternoon. The former officers, led by former bureaucrat Kulbir Singh Sidhu, felt due to regional barriers, it was difficult for the masses to understand the issues being raised by farmer leaders from various stages. Thus, it had been decided to translate the address of farm leaders to regional languages.The former officers also discussed the generation of funds for the protesters and decided that former bureaucrats and ex-servicemen would constitute a shallow cabinet to take fast/quick decisions to help farmers.It also decided to reach out to farmers at the Delhi border to bolster their agitation. The meeting discussed the presence of Nihangs at the protest sites. A few members opined that they should not be part of the agitation, while a majority of them felt there shouldn’t be any issue if they were participating in an organised manner.The meeting concluded with the passage of three resolutions — the protesting farmers should not be subjected to human rights violations; the impasse between the farmers and the central government be resolved at the earliest; and no abusive language against anyone be used during the agitation.BKU rally tomorrow||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-ias-and-defence-officers-to-spread-farm-narrative-pan-india-210098
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farm leaders steer clear of Deep Sidhu||Farm leaders have disassociated themselves from any link with actor-activist Deep Sidhu, arrested for the Red Fort incident.Haryana leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said they had nothing to do with Sidhu. “He was not a part of this movement. It is now the government’s job to deal with him,” he added.Gurnam Singh Charuni, Farm leaderThe Donald Thinks D-Day Is About HimWe have nothing to do with Deep Sidhu. He was not a part of this movement. It is now the government’s job to deal with him. They would, however, continue to support youngsters, who were part of the farmers’ movement, arrested before or after January 26, Charuni added. Punjab Kisan Union’s Ruldu Singh Mansa alleged Sidhu was a government’s agent who had now been “discarded”. “This is how the government uses youngsters and then discards them,” he claimed.Krantikari Kisan Union’s Dr Darshan Pal said Sidhu went to the Red Fort against the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s call for the ‘kisan parade’. BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal refused to comment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-leaders-steer-clear-of-deep-sidhu-210100
10-02-2021||Faridkot||Court issues arrest warrant against former DGP Sumedh Saini||While issuing the arrest warrants (bailable warrants) against former Punjab Director General of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with a murder case, a judicial court in Faridkot on Tuesday accused the former DGP and suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal of moving frivolous applications before the court.Both Saini and Umranangal were summoned by the court of Judicial Magistrate, Ist Class, Faridkot, for their appearance before the court here for today to face trial in Behbal Kalan police firing case of October 2015 in which two protesters were killed.Instead of appearing before the court, both the accused sought exemption from their appearance today, saying their application for anticipatory bail was still pending in the Sessions Court, Faridkot. However, the court declined their applications.The court strongly objected to an assertion by counsels for Saini and Umranangal that the court had not complied with the High Court orders according to which in case of arrest of these accused seven days prior notice was needed to be given.In his order, JMIC Faridkot said that this submission by the counsels for the accused were not true as the court had issued notice of more than three weeks to both the accused to appear before the court.While the challan against the accused was presented on January 15, the notice for their appearance before the court was issued for February 9, said the judge.While the directions of the High Court were already being complied with, but both the accused are misusing the process of law and not appearing before the court despite given notice of more than three weeks, reads the order of JMIC, Faridkot.Notice issued to accused Sumedh Singh Saini and Paramraj Singh Umranangal, were  received back with the report that security officer at the house of Sumedh Singh Saini refused to allow the process server to meet him and also refused to receive the summons and the summon was pasted in front of his house  on February 5.Similarly, summon to  Umranangal were also received back with the similar report that the security officer refused the process servers to let them meet Umranangal to receive the summons, said the judge.It is clear that both the accused are moving frivolous applications before this court, despite having knowledge regarding summons, but are not appearing before the court for the reasons best known to them, said the court while issued bailable warrants in the sum of Rs 5,000 with one surety of like amount against Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court%C2%A0issues-arrest-warrant-against-former-dgp-sumedh-saini-210063
10-02-2021||Aditi Tandon||Congress MPs from Punjab to move private members bills to repeal laws||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 9Congress MPs from Punjab on Tuesday said they would move private members bills in the Parliament to pressurise the government to repeal farm laws and appealed to MPs of other parties to join the move.Former ministers and MPs Manish Tewari and Preneet Kaur, and other Punjab MPs of Congress Ravneet Bittu, JS Gill, Amar Singh, Mohd Sadique and Santokh Choudhry held a joint press conference here on Tuesday to say they had submitted private and collective private members bills in the Lok Sabha and will ask their Rajya Sabha colleagues to follow suit.The Congress leaders from Punjab also appealed to other MPs to join the effort to ensure the Centre and the Prime Minister feel the pressure to repeal farm laws.Ravneet Bittu said 247 MPs of them, 203 from Lok Sabha have mentioned farming as their profession and should join the Congress effort to “hit the arrogance of the government and get them to see the farmers’ point”.Bittu also said if these MPs don’t speak for farmers their constituents should hold them to account.JS Gill demanded Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia be paid to next of kin of the farmers who have died during the farmers’ agitation.Tewari said the bills demand repeal of farm laws on grounds that they are illegal and unconstitutional.Asked why the Congress did not petition the courts against the laws on grounds of illegality Tewari said, “The SC is seized of the matter and the laws have been stayed. We are taking whatever action we need to take as legislators against the laws.”The Congress MPs also said that they would hope other parties join the move in the interest of farmers.The Congress leaders said the movement is not confined to Punjab as Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar sought to suggest in Parliament.Tewari said the government’s arrogance needs to challenged.“We will urge Lok Sabha speaker to prioritise the introduction and passage of our private members bills,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mps-from-punjab-to-move-private-members-bills-to-repeal-laws-210013
10-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh slams Kangana Ranaut over ‘Khalistani’ remark, says ‘Punjabis have given their lives for country’||Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Donsajh has reacted to actress Kangana Ranaut’s latest statements which she made during an interview on national television.The Punjabi singer took to Twitter to shared his views, and called Kangana’s statements a ‘drama’.During the interview, Kangana has said that she asked the singer to say, that “he is not a Khalistani”, but the actor refused to comment on it."They sit on TV and call themselves patriots. They talk like the whole country is just for them. Punjabis have given their lives for the country whenever the need has risen. God forbid if there is a need for it today, we will do it again. And these Punjabis prick your side so much?," he wrote in a tweet in Punjabi."TV interview: 'You ask me this, I give you this answer.' What is this drama? They talk about the country, about Punjab. They want to push the debate to another angle. You wanna to project us as whatever you want. Wow," he wrote in another tweet.Desh Ch Sab Ton Wadh Agg Laun Da Kam Eh Eh So Called MASTAR-MASTARNI Hee karde aa ..I KNOW GAND DA JAWAB DENA THEEK NI..PAR EH SER HEE CHADI JANDE AA.. Har Gal Da Chup ni Hunda.. KAL NU EH KISEY NU KUSH V BANA DEYA KARAN GE..PUNJABI JEONDE AA HALEY...BUGGEYIn a recent interview with Republic TV's Arnab Goswami, Kangana had said, “I openly challenged him to say just once that you are not a Khalistani, he didn’t say it. Youth have been misled, they have been presented with a dream about Khalistan.”TV INTERVIEW -Tu Mainu Ah Puch Lai.. Mai Tainu Ah Jawab De Daungi.. Ki Drama Eh.. ?Asi Desh 🇮🇳 Di Gal Karde an..PUNJAB Di Gal Karde an..Eh Dhakke Naal Hor Hee Angle Dena Chaunde aaIt Means Tusi Dhakke Naal Sanu Jo Jee Karda Oh Banauna Chaune An.. Wah 👏🏽Seemingly, calling Arnab Goswami and Kangana 'Mastar, and Mastrani (Teachers)', he wrote in a tweet: "These Mastar and Mastrani are the ones setting the country on fire. I know it is not right to react to filth. But they keep getting on my nerves. Everything cannot be treated with silence. Tomorrow they will make anyone, anything. " Diljit and Kangana have been engaged in a heated war of words for over two months now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-slams-kangana-ranaut-over-khalistani-remark-says-punjabis-have-given-their-lives-for-country-209993
10-02-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Gangster-turned-social worker Lakha Sidhana garners support for stir||Tribune News ServiceMoga, January 22Gangster-turned-social activist Lakhbir Singh, alias Lakha Sidhana, is mobilising farmers in Punjab, particularly in the Malwa belt, to go to Delhi and participate in the proposed tractor rally of farm organisations.On Friday, he came to Moga and met local people in the new grain market in a one-to-one interaction, impressing upon them to support the ongoing agitation of farmers. He said, “Once the new farm laws come into force, the corporate sector will lure them to join hands with it for contract farming. After sometime, the farmers will become labourers in their own land and the big corporate houses will capture their lands.”He was of the view that the profit, which the corporate houses would earn from the hard work of farmers on their land, must retain with the farmers. “The farmers should be given more rates for their produce. The government must explore ways to export agro-products through the Food Corporation of India and other state-owned agencies to earn profits, which will also benefit the state exchequer,” he said.Lakha Sidhana, who is also spreading his messages in support of the farm agitation through his motivational videos on social media, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must look at the plight of small and marginal farmers instead of ‘selling’ them to corporate houses.In his early days, Sidhana was better known as a ‘gangster’ as per the police files with at least 25 cases of kidnapping, loot and murder registered against him. Now, only a couple of cases under the Arms Act are pending against him. In most of the cases, he was acquitted by the courts for lack of evidence.In 2018-2019, he also made headlines when his supporters smudged English language on signboards on highways, demanding that Punjabi be put on top. As a social worker, he has also organised mass marriage of poor girls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-turned-social-worker-lakha-sidhana-garners-support-for-stir-202197
