12-02-2021||Chandigarh||247 new COVID-19 cases in Punjab, 8 more die||Eight more people succumbed to the coronavirus in Punjab, bringing the death toll to 5,690, while 247 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 175,804 on Friday, according to a medical bulletin.There are 2,300 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported 39 cases, SBS Nagar 38 and Kapurthala 20 among fresh cases witnessed in the state.The recovery count rose to 1,67,814 as 162 more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, the bulletin said. Five critical COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support while 90 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 46,89,490 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/247-new-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-8-more-die-211485
12-02-2021||Ludhiana||Man hammers his wife, daughter to death||A 60-year-old factory worker allegedly killed his wife and daughter by hitting their heads with a steel hammer and is suspected to have died by suicide by jumping into a canal here, police said on Friday.Pyara Singh allegedly killed his wife Swarnkar Kaur (53) and daughter Rajwant Kaur (22) while they were sleeping at their residence in Sherpur Khurd colony here on Thursday night, police said.After killing the two, he escaped from his house, they said.Police later found his motorcycle on the banks of Sirhind canal near Doraha, about 20 km from here.Police suspect that he jumped into the canal after committing the crime.However, his body has not been recovered so far, they said.Before running away, Singh had called his nephew Gurpreet Singh up to say he had killed his wife and daughter and that he was going to die by suicide, according to police. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-hammers-his-wife-daughter-to-death-211479
12-02-2021||Dharamsala||HRTC to resume luxury bus service on Manali-Amritsar route on Sunday||After a gap of over 10 months, the state-run Himachal Road Transport Corporation’s luxury bus service on the Manali-Amritsar route will resume on Sunday.The bus service on the route was stopped in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Pankaj Chadha, regional manager of the HRTC, said the bus will start at 6.40 pm from Amritsar and reach Manali at 8 am the next morning through Pathankot, Dhsaramsala, Palampur, Mandi and Kullu.On the return journey, the bus will start at 8 pm from Manali.The official said around a dozen HRTC luxury buses were in operation from Dharamshala to other states before the coronavirus lockdown. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hrtc-to-resume-luxury-bus-service-on-manali-amritsar-route-on-sunday-211449
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Harsimrat Kaur Badal asks centre to review its assessment of Delhi-Bathinda flight||Former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday asked the central government to review its assessment that the Delhi-Bathinda flight was not viable with the carrier conducting the flight disclosing it had an average occupancy rate of eighty per cent before it was discontinued post-Covid, even she told the Punjab government to release its partial funding share of Rs three crore per year to ensure this facility could be restarted at the earliest.Harsimrat Badal, who had raised this issue in parliament also, said the central government had wrongly claimed in parliament that the Delhi – Bathinda flight was not commercially viable due to limited passengers, and low yields as well as an end to subsidy support under the Viability Gap Funding (VGF) scheme after a period of three years.Badal said this information was in direct contrast to a recent statement of Alliance Air, a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India, which had claimed that the Delhi-Bathinda flight started by it in December 2016 had witnessed an average annual occupancy rate of eighty per cent.“The airline, which used to run the flight thrice a week pre-Covid, now wants to run a daily flight on this route. Keeping in view this ground reality, I request the civil aviation ministry to review its report on the commercial viability of the Delhi-Bathinda route and sanction daily flights on this route at the earliest”.Badal said it was condemnable that the Punjab government had also abrogated its responsibility and was not making any effort to ensure the flight was restarted.“This comes to around Rs three crore per year. This is an extremely small amount to ensure this scheme, which provides much needed service to a large number of people from the Malwa region, is not shelved permanently. Finance minister Manpreet Badal, who is a legislator from the city, should release the State share under the VGF scheme immediately. Simultaneously Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should take up the need to renew the Delhi- Bathinda flight with the centre besides ensuring the VGF is extended by another four years as per provisions contained in the scheme”.The Bathinda MP said a lot of effort had gone into not only establishing the Bathinda airport under the leadership of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, but also starting the maiden flight to Delhi.“The flight has over the years provided a vital link to the national capital for people of Bathinda as well as even those from neighbouring areas. It has facilitated investors as well as those working in the HMEL refinery, AIIMS, central University as well as air force and central government employees. I urge both the central and state governments to ensure this link is not discontinued and efforts put in by the previous SAD led government to bring Bathinda on the national stage do not go in vain”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-kaur-badal-asks-centre-to-review-its-assessment-of-delhi-bathinda-flight-211422
12-02-2021||Faridkot||Former Punjab DGP Saini accuses state government of vendetta in Behbal Kalan-Kotkapura cases||Accusing the state government of vendetta which led to his implication in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases of October 2015, former DGP Punjab Sumedh Singh Saini in his anticipatory bail application in the court of District and Sessions judge alleged that some leaders in Congress party were annoyed with him as number of criminal cases were registered against these leaders during his tenure as head of state vigilance bureau.During his career as a head of state vigilance bureau from 2007 to 2012, a number of cases were registered against Capt Amarinder Singh, his son and relatives as well as other influential persons like former Cabinet ministers, alleged counsel for Saini in his arguments before the court.  These cases irked the political party in power in the state and it started looking for some dues to falsely implicate him in some criminal case.The present FIR and his nomination in this case is nothing but a step towards the said vendetta, his counsel said.Seeking anticipatory bail for Saini, his counsel argued that after the change of the government in the state, one member of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Punjab Police turned the entire events in such a manner to give a colour of criminal conspiracy to an act done by Saini in discharge of his official duty.Denying anticipatory bail to Saini, the orders of District and Sessions Judge Faridkot were available today morning.As per this order, the counsel for Saini argued that there was not even an iota of evidence against Saini depicting his involvement and that all the acts which have been done by him were in discharge of his official duty to prevent law and order situation arising out of the incident of sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan.Counsel for Saini relied on various orders passed by the District Magistrate Faridkot to project the gravity of the situation, which compelled imposition of Section 144 CrPC, for maintaining law and order situation in the area covering Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan.However, to oppose anticipatory bail to Saini, the District Attorney relied on the call details exchanged between Saini and many other co-accused at and around the time of police firing incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura on October 14, 2015.The attorney also relied upon the statement of accused-turned-approver in the case, Inspector Pardeep Singh. The court has already granted pardon to the accused Inspector Pardeep Singh and has arrayed him as the prosecution witness in this FIR.While denying anticipatory bail to Saini, the court in its order observed that the  prime allegations against Saini was that he along with other co-accused masterminded the conspiracy and it is upon his orders that the incident of firing took place, which resulted into the loss of life of two individuals.The supplementary challan presented against the present petitioner also indicates that the said statement of Inspector Pardeep Singh is also being used by the investigating agency and to project the allegations of criminal conspiracy designed by the petitioner, which led to Behbal Kalan incident.The investigating team has also collected evidence hinting at offence qua fabricating of evidence by the co-accused at the instance of Saini, especially the Gypsy of Charanjit Singh co-accused viz-a-viz the role of co-accused Sohail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal, at the instance of Saini.The statement of Inspector Pardeep Singh on September 3, 2020 also referred to above gives details of the involvement of Saini and other co-accused.The investigating team has collected evidence in the shape of call records, which are also hinted in the statement of Inspector Pardeep Singh relied upon by the investigating agency in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-dgp-saini-accuses-state-government-of-vendetta-in-behbal-kalan-kotkapura-cases-211421
12-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar, Rohanpreet Singh spotted at Mumbai airport; fans give her handwritten letter, says ‘tu apna khayal rakhya kar’||Newlyweds Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh were spotted at twinning in black at the Mumbai airport on Thursday. The lovebirds are adored by their fans.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  The 32-year-old singer, who has a huge fan following, shared a glimpse of a handwritten letter she got from her fans onboard a flight.Sharing it on her Instagram Stories, Neha wrote: "Love from some beautiful people sitting behind!"The letter's text read: "Dear Neha and Rohanpreet! We saw you'll at security but couldn't say hi. Lots of love from us at 25D, E and F. We hope you have a lovely flight and a great year ahead. Love Anchal, Hanisha and Sayesha. PS-Tu apna khyaal rakhya kar."Fans spotted Neha and Rohan at the security before they boarded their flight and were excited to say hello to them. So they wrote a letter.Meanwhile, the couple got married in October last year in a fairy tale wedding in Delhi. They left for Dubai soon after to celebrate their honeymoon.A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-rohanpreet-singh-spotted-at-mumbai-airport-fans-give-her-handwritten-letter-says-tu-apna-khayal-rakhya-kar-211390
12-02-2021||Patiala||PSEB rolls back late fee charge for Class 5, 8 board exams||Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has decided against levying late fee charges for students of Classes 5 and 8, officials said.The penalty was meant for students who have yet to register for board exams but met strident protests from several quarters. Late fee charge for Class 8 is Rs 1,500 and Class 5 is Rs 750. The PSEB has also extended its deadline for registration to February 19. The previous deadline was January 8.Talking to Tribune, Dr Yograj Sharma, chairman, PSEB, said earlier in the day that it was the negligence of government school teachers who didn’t complete the registration process in time.“Almost 44 days were given to them for the registration. We didn’t ask for any fees for registration. However, we have now decided to extend the date until February 19.”Teachers' unions protested the penalty charge saying it amounted to "constitutional impropriety" and a violation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act.  Officials said students were not at fault as it was the duty of the teachers to complete the registration process in time. As many as 1200 schools across Punjab couldn’t complete the registration process in time.The state education department had written a letter to the board Chairman on February 6 urging him to remit the late fees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pseb-rolls-back-late-fee-charge-for-class-5-8-board-exams-211374
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperatures registered a further increase and hovered above the normal limits in Punjab and Haryana on Friday.The mercury rose by a couple of notches at most places in the two states since Thursday, meteorological department officials said here.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 11.6 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 10.4 degrees Celsius, while Ludhiana and Patiala recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2 degrees Celsius each.Adampur (11.5 degrees Celsius), Halwara (11.2 degrees Celsius), Pathankot (12.8 degrees Celsius), Bathinda (8.7 degrees Celsius), Gurdaspur (eight degrees Celsius) and Faridkot (10.5 degrees Celsius) also recorded above-normal minimum temperatures.Ambala in Haryana recorded a low of 11.9 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at 9.3 degrees Celsius at Hisar.Karnal (10 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (10.6 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (11.3 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (10.3 degrees Celsius) also recorded above-normal minimum temperatures.According to the officials, after a gap of several days, fog engulfed many places in the region in the morning, including Chandigarh, Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Bhiwani, Karnal and Ambala.Visibility levels dropped at these places in the morning due to the fog, they said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-211365
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farm reform India's domestic policy issue, but we will closely follow farmers' protest: UK leader||Farm reform is a domestic policy issue for India but the UK government will continue to follow the farmers' protest in India closely, Leader of the House of Commons, Jacob Rees-Mogg, informed the British Parliament."We will continue to champion human rights globally, and having the chairmanship of the UN Security Council this month is a part of that," he said.Rees-Mogg was responding to assertions of Punjab-origin British Labour Party MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, who on Thursday was pushing for a debate in Parliament on the safety of the farmer protesters and press freedom in India.In the Business Questions, Dhesi asked: "Currently, the largest protest on the planet, the peaceful farmers' protest in India has been going on for months now."Given our serious anxieties, more than 100 honourable Members signed a letter to the Prime Minister seeking his intervention. Well over 1,00,000 constituents, incredibly from every single one of the 650 UK constituencies, have signed an online petition, including more than 3,000 from my Slough constituency.Over 100,000, incredibly from all 650 #UK constituencies (inc 3K+ from Slough), signed online petition;adding to 100+ MPs who wrote to PM.Given arrests of journalists and activists like #NodeepKaur, need Parliament debate ASAP on #FarmersProtest -largest protest on the planet. pic.twitter.com/E88c1pHqdw  "Given those facts, and given the arrest of journalists, peaceful protesters and human rights activists such as Nodeep Kaur, who, it is alleged, has been tortured and endured sexual assault while in police custody, will the Leader of the House please facilitate a debate on this important matter at the earliest opportunity, just as we debated a petition in this Chamber last week?"At this Rees-Mogg replied, "The honourable gentleman raises something that is a matter of concern across the House and across constituencies."The right to peaceful protest is a fundamental one, along with freedom of speech and Internet freedom. India is a very proud democracy and a country with which we have the strongest possible relations. I happen to think that over the next century our relationship with India may well be our most important relationship with any country in the world."He said, "As India is our friend, it is only right that we make representations when we think that things are happening that are not in the interests of the reputation of the country of which we are a friend. The Foreign Secretary discussed the farmers' protest with his Indian counterpart in December.Nodeep Kaur, a 23-year-old labour rights activist, was picked up by the police along with others on January 12 while she was protesting during the farmers' agitation. She has been charged under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and extortion. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-reform-indias-domestic-policy-issue-but-we-will-closely-follow-farmers-protest-uk-leader-211348
12-02-2021||Sonakshi Sinha has shown her support for farmers who are protesting against farm laws at Singhu border. After standing in solidarity||Sonakshi Sinha shares a poem on farmers||A post shared by Sonakshi Sinha (@aslisona)  Meanwhile, last week, Sonakshi had shared a post made by an account named Story Seller Comics that explained Rihanna and environmentalist Greta Thunberg’s tweets on farmers protest. It highlighted human right violations. The post read, “The voices raised are about the violation of human rights, suppressions of free internet and expression, state propaganda, hate speech and abuse of power.” Sonakshi’s Instagram stories came a little after several celebrities tweeted in support of the hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonakshi-sinha-shares-a-poem-on-farmers-211267
12-02-2021||New Delhi||SpiceJet to start Ahmedabad-Amritsar flight||SpiceJet today said it would start 24 new domestic flights from various cities, including Ajmer, Jaisalmer, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru. The airline said it would be the only airline to start flights on the Ajmer-Mumbai route and Ahmedabad-Amritsar route.The new flights also include four connecting Jaisalmer with Delhi and Ahmedabad.Meanwhile, passengers will have to shell out more money for air travel as the Civil Aviation Ministry increased the lower and upper limits on domestic airfares by 10 to 30 per cent. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spicejet-to-start-ahmedabad-amritsar-flight-211265
12-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Protests, boycott, BJP nominees face it all||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 11BJP candidates in Mandi Gobindgarh and Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib civic body elections are facing the wrath of farmers and residents. They are not being allowed to enter in many wards.In Mandi Gobindgarh, farmers are taking out protest marches daily against saffron party candidates. Joining BJP leaders who are either leaving the party or fighting as Independents, the mandal president has also resigned from the party and is contesting as Independent to keep his chances alive. The pro-farmer bodies are appreciating his gesture and extending support to him.In Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib wards, residents, particularly women accompanied by their family members, gheraoed senior BJP leader Dr Harbans Lal in Aman Colony, when he along with the BJP candidate was canvassing. They raised slogans against the central government and forced BJP leaders to leave the colony. They were told not to seek votes in the area.The office of BJP candidate from Sirhind’s ward No. 17 Varinder Kaur was closed by farmers. She lodged a complaint with the Fatehgarh Sahib SHO. Farmers also took out a march against the SAD candidate of ward No. 16 and his wife, who is contesting from ward No. 18, for allegedly committing a fraud to the tune of Rs.4.5 crore. Alleging he was not returning their money, they urged SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal not to nominate such anti-social elements.Meanwhile, the police took out flag marches in all towns. DC Amrit Kaur Gill and SSP Amneet Kondal visited sensitive areas. They promised the elections will be conducted in a free and fair manner and no one would be allowed to disturb the peace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protests-boycott-bjp-nominees-face-it-all-211085
12-02-2021||Fazilka||Teach BJP candidates a lesson: BKU||BKU (Ekta Daukonda) activists today took out a procession in Fazilka, urging residents to teach BJP candidates a lesson by boycotting them. BKU district president Harish Nadha said farmers had been protesting against the BJP-led central government for the past five months, demanding the repeal of the farm laws, but the government was unmoved.He said farmers had started joining the protest at Delhi from all over the country and it wouldn’t take long for the Modi government to relent under pressure.He said BKU activists had been appealing town residents to teach BJP candidates a lesson. Nadha said the activists also staged a protest outside the office of a BJP candidate on the Gaushalla road during the procession. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teach-bjp-candidates-a-lesson-bku-211086
12-02-2021||---||Saffron party calls on Guv, says deploy central forces||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 11The BJP today demanded the deployment of central security forces in the state in view of the alleged deterioration of law and order in the run-up to the MC polls.Congress men indulging in violence: SADDays after he was attacked, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday visited Jalalabad again to campaign. He alleged Congress men were indulging in violence and the Election Commission was a mute spectator to the murder of democracy.CM has failed, must step down: AAPThe AAP has demanded the resignation of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, alleging he has failed to maintain law and order. Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged the CM had given a free hand to the ‘goons’ within the Congress to terrorise Opposition parties.A delegation of senior BJP leaders led by Union Minister Som Parkash called on Governor VP Singh Badnore and apprised him of a series of attacks on BJP leaders, including stateBJP president Ashwani Sharma and former Cabinet Minister Tikshan Sood.BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma claimed that there had been almost two dozen incidents of violence against the BJP workers in which the police took no action and rather encouraged the anti-social elements to spread terror. The leaders claimed party candidates were being intimidated and assaulted all over the state.The BJP alleged police officials in Ferozepur, Mansa and Rajpura were openly encouraging criminal elements to terrorise and harm party candidates. “Earlier they had threatened BJP candidates against filing nominations, but now they are not allowing them to campaign. It is a far too serious situation which demonstrates complete collapse of democratic norms,” said Sharma.The delegation demanded that the state election authority must ensure that the model code of conduct was followed and the erring officials were punished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saffron-party-calls-on-guv-says-deploy-central-forces-211088
12-02-2021||Moga||Candle marches held over Moga killings||The SAD carried out a candle march here today demanding justice for two of their workers allegedly murdered by Congress activists.Leading the march, Youth SAD leader Barjinder Singh Brar and district party president Tirath Singh Mahla warned the Congress government against testing their patience.“The Congress men must either mend ways or else the Akalis will discipline them,” said Brar, while demanding early arrest of all suspects, who allegedly mowed down the Akali workers under their cars. He said if the local police failed to arrest the suspects, they would launch an agitation against the district administration to seek justice. “We stand in solidarity with the families of the victims and will explore all legal options to get justice,” he said. Senior Akali leader and former minister Tota Singh also participated in the march. He condemned the incident and demanded speedy trial of the accused.Local residents carried out separate candle marches in the city to express their concern over the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/candle-marches-held-over-moga-killings-211089
12-02-2021||---||Fuel price hike to burden farmers: Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 11The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee today organised statewide protests against the BJP-led NDA government for increasing the prices of fuel, cooking gas and other essential commodities. The protests were held mainly in the urban areas that would be going to polls on February 14.Congress leaders rallied in all nine municipal corporations and other civic bodies to emphasise “there is an important link between the price rise of the essential commodities and the farm laws that will spell doom for farming”.PPCC president Sunil Jakhar led the protest at Abohar. He said every section of society was suffering under the Modi government due to the wrong policies of the NDA. Claiming that when the BJP-led NDA came into power in 2014, the price of crude oil in the international market was $104 per barrel, which has slipped to $60 per barrel now, he said the prices of petroleum products had multiplied on the contrary. This, he said, had put a huge burden of about Rs 750 crore per month on consumers in Punjab alone.He said Punjab would prove to be the BJP’s nemesis. Referring to the farmers’ protests, Jakhar said the Modi government had enacted the laws to encourage “black market” and destroy the agriculture sector. The farmers from different states had been struggling on the Delhi borders for the past two-and-a half months to get the “contentious” laws repealed. The Delhi border had been fortified by erecting walls and fixing nails, which was shameful for any democratic country, said the PPCC chief.Jakhar said the Congress was contesting civic bodies’ elections in the name of pro-people policies and development work that the government led by Capt Amarinder Singh had taken up across the state. “Frustrated Akali leaders have threatened to deploy 500 outsiders on the day of polling. I urge the district police to send such elements out of Abohar after the poll campaign ends on Friday evening,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fuel-price-hike-to-burden-farmers-congress-211090
12-02-2021||Amritsar||Protest outside minister’s residence||Demanding criminal proceedings against the culprits involved in misappropriation of 328 saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib from the possession of the SGPC, Baldev Singh Wadala, a former Hazoori Raagi of the Golden Temple, and his supporters gheraoed the residence of Cabinet minister OP Soni here today.Though Soni was in Chandigarh, the protesters conducted prayers for a few hours outside Soni’s residence.Wadala resented the state government’s “indifferent” attitude towards protests that continued for over 100 days here over the missing saroops.“Our purpose of gheraoing residences of Cabinet ministers is to sensitise them about the issue of misappropriation of saroops and the government’s failure to initiate action in the matter,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-outside-ministers-residence-211091
12-02-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda farmers pedal to Delhi protest sites||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 11A group of farmers and farm labourers from different villages of Bathinda district have left for Singhu and Tikri borders on bicycles to take part in the ongoing agitation against the farm laws. The group members assembled at Dan Singh Wala village in Bathinda and after offering prayers at a gurdwara left for the national capital.Group leader Jasvir Singh, a farmer from Aklia village, said: “By cycling to protest sites, we will save on fuel and other expenses and keep the environment clean. Moreover, we will get more chances to exhort people to support the farmers’ agitation during our stay at different places. We will spread awareness among people on the way.”After reaching Singhu, the group members will stay there for a few days before moving to Tikri. The seven-member group, will cover approximately 350 km distance from Bathinda to the national capital.Buta Singh, another farmer from Kothe Natha Singhwala, said: “It’s high time the central government acceded to the genuine demands of farmers and repealed the laws. It has resorted to unsavoury remarks on farmers. We will join our brothers at the protest sites and raise demands more forcefully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-farmers-pedal-to-delhi-protest-sites-211092
12-02-2021||---||Campaigning ends today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 11The campaigning for the elections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats of the state will end on Friday at 5 pm. Stating this here today, a spokesperson for the Punjab State Election Commission said the campaign would end as per the programme announced on January 16.He said the required election materials and electronic voting machines (EVMs) would be handed over to the polling parties on February 13, while voting will take place on February 14 from 8 am to 4 pm.The spokesperson said the voters who would enter the booth by 4 pm would be given a chance to cast their vote, adding that the counting of votes would begin at the centres on February 17 at 9 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaigning-ends-today-211093
12-02-2021||Aman Sood||Power bill set to rise amid state regulator’s solar push||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 11With more stress being laid on renewable energy (solar power) in the coming fiscal, as desired by the power regulator, and minimum usage of state-run thermal units, power cost in Punjab is likely to rise further.30-35 paise/unit hike on cardsThe PSERC has revised the renewable power obligation to 14.5 per cent for 2021-22 against eight per cent in 2020-21. Due to this, the requirement of less power from thermal units during the day would result in financial burden on the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).The gross generation of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat thermal stations is 14.26 per cent each at plant load factor (PLF). The state government-owned thermal stations operate at much lower PLF as compared to the private ones. The PLF of thermal plants at Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib are 71.21, 51.97 and 27.84 per cent, respectively.If the government doesn’t buy power from private thermal stations, it is still required to pay capacity charges on the declared capacity of the plant. The PSPCL has estimated that in the next fiscal the capacity charges payable to Talwandi Sabo, Goindwal Sahib and Rajpura thermal plants would be Rs 1,275 crore, Rs 337 crore and Rs 72 crore, respectively.“Due to lower power rate from power exchanges and high flexibility of power from power sellers, buyers prefer to draw their requirement from power exchange rather than running their own thermal units,” said VK Gupta, spokesman for the All India Power Engineers Federation.“In the coming fiscal, this will lead to a hike of 30-35 paise per unit as fixed charges and surrendered power still needs to be paid for. Already Punjab is levying 40 per cent taxes,” he added.“The thermal plants used to be base-load and now these have been turned into flexible load plants to absorb renewable power. So, the PSPCL will run its thermal units at Ropar and Lehra only in paddy season and that, too, only after sunset as solar power will be available during the day,” Gupta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-bill-set-to-rise-amid-state-regulators-solar-push-211094
12-02-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab's per capita income falls to Rs1.15L, lower than national avg||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 11Punjab is no longer the prosperous state it used to be. The state’s per capita income has slid to below the national average and its per capita capital expenditure is the lowest in the country.Per capita expenditure lowest in countryAnalysing reportThe state was part of the workshop where the performance of all states and UTs was discussed. We are in the process of analysing the report. We are trying to assess the reasons for the fall in some socio-economic indicators. — Raj Kamal Chaudhary, Punjab Principal Secy, planningPunjab’s per capita income is Rs 1,15,882 — lower than the national average of Rs 1,16,067 — a gap of 0.16 per cent. This is the first time that the average income of a Punjabi is less than the income of his counterparts living in 16 other states and Union Territories, indicating how the state is slipping down the economic indicators.Punjab’s per capita capital expenditure, which is important for states as it affects the growth process of state economy, is the lowest in the country. The state is spending just Rs 869 per person as capital expenditure, against the national average (of major states) being at Rs 3,509.Goa is spending the highest (Rs 14,804) on building its assets and continues its economic growth momentum, while neighbouring Haryana is spending Rs 6,038. Lack of investment in building assets seizes the economic growth of any state.The economic and social indicators were shared by the Niti Aayog with top officials of the state government during a workshop on February 6. All states and UTs had reportedly participated in the workshop. The performance of Punjab for 2018-19, in this report, which has studied Budget documents, accessed RBI records and those of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, has sent shockwaves in the official circles of the state.The report also shows that the per capita social sector expenditure in Punjab is also much lower than the national average (Rs 6,981 as against national average of Rs 8,962 for major states).The only three areas where Punjab has taken lead is on school education and quality index and the India Innovation Index. Even on the health index, the state has shown improvement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-per-capita-income-falls-to-rs1-15l-lower-than-national-avg-211096
12-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||False info given, action taken against officials, says Addl CS||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 11The Punjab Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, has admitted before the Punjab and Haryana High Court that “certain false information” was disclosed in his earlier affidavit in the tainted cops case, while claiming initiation of disciplinary action against officials supplying incorrect details. However, his stand failed to find favour with Justice Arun Monga, who observed that it was seemingly a case of shooting the messenger.Beneficiaries sparedJustice Arun Monga said the person who acted merely as a postman to supply the information was being proceeded against, while there was stoic silence qua the beneficiaries of the wrong information, at whose insistence and to protect whom, the wrong information was provided.The admission, and the observation, came just about a fortnight after the petitioner’s counsel submitted only a half true picture had been projected in the affidavit. Some of the serving police officials/officers were deliberately being shielded.Justice Monga asserted perusal of the additional affidavit, dated February 1, revealed “candid admission” regarding “false information” in the affidavit filed on December 10, 2020. The justification rendered was that the deponent was misled into deposing incorrectly on the basis of wrong/filtered information provided by certain erring officials, against whom disciplinary action was being initiated in accordance with the law.The Bench also took note of the state’s submission that a decision had been taken to constitute a special committee to frame a policy for action in cases where police officials had either been convicted or criminal proceedings were pending after registration of an FIR. “Let a report be filed on or before the next date of hearing,” Justice Monga directed.Justice Monga said the order (December 15, 2020), passed by Justice Ritu Bahri, revealed the case was directed to be heard by Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal’s Bench as he had part heard the matter and certain detailed interim orders/directions were also passed. “Let this case be heard by the Bench of Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal after obtaining appropriate orders from the Chief Justice,” Justice Monga concluded. Justice Grewal had earlier called for details of accused and convicts in uniform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/false-info-given-action-taken-against-officials-says-addl-cs-211099
12-02-2021||Amritsar||Covid test must to visit Nankana Sahib||The SGPC has arranged a Covid-19 test camp for pilgrims who aspire to visit Pakistan for the centenary event of Saka Nankana Sahib.A jatha will leave on February 18 to mark the event on February 21. The details of pilgrims have been sent to the Pakistan embassy in this regard. The Pakistan embassy has made Covid test mandatory for visitors, 72 hours before they cross over at the Attari-Wagah border.The SGPC has asked all those who have submitted their passports to undergo testing. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a camp for Covid-19 testing was being held on February 15 and 16 at the SGPC office in Amritsar. Pilgrims could even get the tests done on their own. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-test-must-to-visit-nankana-sahib-211100
12-02-2021||---||ETT cadre applicants can’t change category||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 11After outrage, the state Education Department has withdrawn its order that allowed candidates to change their reserved categories after the declaration of the merit list.HC directions citedWithdrawing the directions, the department referred to an HC order, wherein it had stated in a similar case that the change of category after the examination was “unhealthy practice”.In its order, the department said the candidates who had changed their categories, after the final result was out, wouldn’t be counted for the recruitment for the ETT and master cadre teachers.The department had allowed candidates to change their categories through its orders on December 16 for the ETT cadre and on January 13 for the master cadre.The notices to change the categories were put out after the merit list had already been declared.Around 400 candidates changed their categories from the general to SC allegedly as they couldn’t qualify in their respective categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ett-cadre-applicants-cant-change-category-211101
12-02-2021||---||Muktsar locality bars parties’ entry over sanitation woes||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, February 11People living around the municipal committee office here have put up hoardings, appealing to the politicians to visit them for votes only after addressing the long-standing problem of poor sanitation.Gurjinder Singh, a senior citizen, said: “A few years ago, the municipal committee had built a market, located just opposite its new office. However, a large number of shops are presently closed. It is serving the purpose of garbage dumping ground, rather than a market. Besides, stray animals wander in it. We have met some politicians and officers, but nobody is paying any attention. Thus, we have appealed to politicians to come for votes only after developing the market.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-locality-bars-parties-entry-over-sanitation-woes-211102
12-02-2021||Moga||Moga killings: Police custody of three  Congress men extended||A local court today extended the police custody of three Congress men by five days to investigate the murder of two Akali workers, who were allegedly crushed to death under their cars on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Former councillor Narinder Pal Singh Sidhu, Jasmail Singh, alias Nikka, and Pamma were arrested soon after the incident. Sidhu’s wife is contesting the MC election from ward No. 9, here. He and his son Jaslovepreet Singh were among the 10 suspects who allegedly attacked the Akali workers. No more arrests had been made in the case so far.City-I police station SHO Jaswant Singh said: “We are trying to arrest the rest of the suspects,” he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-killings-police-custody-of-three-congress-men-extended-211103
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||BJP, SAD leaders polarising voters, alleges Brahm Mohindra||Veteran Congress leader and Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra on Thursday accused the BJP and its former alliance partner SAD of dividing and polarising people on communal lines.He warned the Akalis and the BJP against playing a dirty and dangerous game, which for sure would be defeated by the Punjabis.Mohindra said, “Amid the sectarian politics being played by the SAD, BJP and AAP, the Congress led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh enjoyed the trust and confidence of each and every Punjabi in the state”.“It was Capt Amarinder who took the lead in pointing out the flaws in the three farm laws. He initiated the process of taking the corrective measures by way of legislation in the Vidhan Sabha, which unfortunately has not been forwarded to the President by the Governor”, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-sad-leaders-polarising-voters-alleges-brahm-mohindra-211104
12-02-2021||Muktsar||8 Congress men suspended in Malout||The Congress leadership has suspended eight party leaders from Malout for alleged anti-party activities and contesting the municipal elections as Independents against party nominees.Malout block president Nathu Ram Gandhi said those suspended for anti-party activities included former Malout Municipal Council president Satguru Devraj Pappi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-congress-men-suspended-in-malout-211106
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Activist Nodeep Kaur: Punjab Women’s panel seeks Sonepat SSP’s report||On the appeal of Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary to the National Commission for Women (NCW) for the release of Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist Nodeep Kaur, the Punjab State Women Commission today sought status report from the Sonepat SSP by February 15.Punjab State Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati said Nodeep Kaur of Giadarh village in Muktsar district was arrested on January 12 after she had participated in the farmer’s protests at Kundli border in Haryana.Also read:She said through a written communiqué, the Sonepat SSP had been directed to get the case investigated by a senior officer. “The SSP has been asked to submit a detailed investigation report within five days i.e. by February 15,” she added.Gulati said after receiving the report, the commission would take further action. Earlier, Chaudhary had urged the NCW to intervene for early release of Nodeep. The minister said the government would provide legal assistance to Nodeep and urged the NCW to direct Haryana to arrange a meeting of a Punjab State Women’s Commission delegation with Nodeep. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/activist-nodeep-kaur-punjab-womens-panel-seeks-sonepat-ssps-report-211107
12-02-2021||---||NIA chargesheets Gurpatwant Pannun, five others||Tribune News ServiceMoga/New Delhi, February 11The National Investigation Agency (NIA) today filed a chargesheet against Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and five others with regard to the hoisting of a ‘Khalistani flag’ at the DC office complex, Moga on August 14, 2020.Aug 14 incidentThe NIA investigation revealed that Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of the Sikhs for Justice and five others conspired to hoist a 'Khalistani flag' in Moga on August 14, 2020.The central government has banned the SFJ due to its anti-national activities.Besides Pannun, the chargesheet, filed at the NIA court in Mohali, names Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Jagwinder Singh and Harpreet Singh.It has been filed under Sections 109, 120, 124A, 153B, 201, 204, 212 of the IPC; Sections 10 and 13 of the UAPA; and Section 2 of the Prevention of Insult to National Honour Act, 1971. The NIA investigation revealed that Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh and Akashdeep Singh were radicalised members of the SFJ. They conspired with Pannun and Rana Singh to hoist the ‘Khalistani flag’ in Moga.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-chargesheets-gurpatwant-pannun-five-others-211109
12-02-2021||---||No anticipatory bail for ex-DGP Sumedh Saini, IGP Umranangal||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, February 11The District and Sessions Judge today denied anticipatory bail to former Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended Inspector General of Police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal.Both Saini and Umranangal are accused in a criminal case registered at the Bajakhana police station of Faridkot. The case was filed on October 21, 2015, a week after two protesters were allegedly killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan in the aftermath of sacrilege incidents at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.Saini and Umranangal were chargesheeted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police on January 15. The court had asked them to appear on February 9.Saini had earlier approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking the quashing of the chargesheet. The case is pending in the High Court.On February 4, Saini and Umranangal had filed applications for anticipatory bail before the District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot.On February 9, the JMIC, Farikot, had issued bailable arrest warrants against Saini as he had not appeared before the court to face trial in the case. The court had summoned Saini for February 9 here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-anticipatory-bail-for-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-igp-umranangal-211110
12-02-2021||Amritsar||4-day remand of  ‘Khalistani operative’||The Counter-Intelligence (CI) today produced alleged Khalistani operative Jagdev Singh in a local court, which remanded him in four-day police custody. He was arrested from Lucknow on Tuesday.Jagdev was arrested following preliminary interrogation of his accomplice Jagroop Singh, who was arrested from Rampur Cheeta village on Sunday. The Punjab Police had recovered five country-made weapons from him.A CI official said the police had also brought Baljit Singh, an accomplice of Jagdev, on production warrant from the Amritsar Central Jail. Both were nabbed for allegedly possessing illegal weapons in 2019.On Wednesday, the CI had brought notorious gangster Jasbir Singh, alias Jasbir Anngarihya, on production warrant in the case. Jasbir faced 30 criminal cases, including attempt to murder, robbery and under the NDPS Act. Their arrest also brought forth the fact that anti-national forces in Pakistan were using notorious criminals and smugglers for carrying out nefarious activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-day-remand-of-khalistani-operative-211111
12-02-2021||---||Sambar shot by poachers at NFL||Tribune News ServiceRopar, February 11Some unidentified poachers shot a sambar in the residential area of National Feritilisers Limited (NFL), Nangal, on the intervening night of February 9 and 10.According to district wildlife officials, they got a call from NFL officials of poachers shooting a sambar in their area. Range officer Malkeet Singh said NFL security guards heard gunshots in the residential area of Sector 1 around midnight. The guards informed the Wildlife Department but the accused fled in a car. A sambar carcass was found the next morning with a gunshot injury, he said.This is not the lone incident in the area, which has proved to be a haven for poachers. Locals said a fortnight ago, poachers had shot a sambar in NFL’s Sector 7, the residential complex meant for senior officials of company.On Monday, more than 25 kg sambar meat was recovered from the fields of Majri village in the Purkhali area. Similarly, 1 kg sambar meat was recovered from Garh Bagga village. Last month, three sambars with their legs tied were found in the fields in the Nikku Nangal area. In November 2018, a sambar skull and nine horns were recovered from a home in the area. During summer, a video had gone viral on the social media showing some youths poaching a sambar with the help of dogs.DFO Monika Yadav said she had written to the SSP to track down the suspects. A letter had also been sent to the NFL authorities to install CCTV cameras to prevent such incidents in their area, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sambar-shot-by-poachers-at-nfl-211112
12-02-2021||New Delhi||Top court tells Centre to reply within 4 weeks||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave four weeks to the Centre to respond to a PIL seeking to declare “Prakash Parv” — the birthday of Guru Govind Singh — as a national holiday.On behalf of petitioner “All India Shiromani Singh Sabha”, senior advocate Vikas Singh told a Bench headed by CJI SA Bobde that the Centre had not filed its response so far.The Bench gave additional time to the government after Attorney General KK Venugopal sought four weeks to file the response. The SC on January 18 issued notices to the Centre and states on the PIL seeking a uniform national public holiday policy. It had asked the Centre and states to respond to the PIL, which alleged that currently public holidays were being declared on the basis of “whims and fancies of various political groups”.The petitioner complained that the birth anniversary of the Guru, which fell on January 20, had not been declared a holiday, although he was an important figure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-court-tells-centre-to-reply-within-4-weeks-211115
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Partner can’t call firm’s experience as his: HC||In a significant judgment liable to end controversy over the experience of a contractor executing the works of the state, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that jointly created experience of a partnership firm cannot be claimed by one of its partners in his independent capacity.Collective effortA firm’s so-called experience was that of its partners and attributable to their collective effort. It was not in its entirety attributable to each individual partner. — High Court BenchThe ruling by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came in a case where a contractor’s bid was rejected on the ground that his experience with an erstwhile partnership firm could not be counted as his. The judgment is significant as it makes it clear that the experience of a firm is that of its partners. But each partner’s know-how is not the same as the firm.The Bench asserted more than one person could gain experience from the same subject. But that could not by itself evince the conclusion that each person gaining ‘experience’ in the output jointly generated was entitled to the benefit of the output in its entirety.“The benefit of the experience of a firm, understood as an inextricably synthesised synergism of the individual efforts of all partners, cannot, therefore, be extended to a single partner in his individual capacity merely because he might have been actively involved in producing the jointly created final output. Therefore, given the nature of experience, it could have been identifiable, and could be quantified, quantitatively and/or qualitatively, only if it was claimed by the firm itself or its partners jointly,” the Bench held.The judgment added not necessarily attending to the day-to-day business of a firm was not unusual for every partner. Even a partner with requisite experience might not have ever participated in the firm’s management or affairs as he may only be an investment partner.It added tenders or award of contract matters were in essence commercial in nature. As such, the tender inviting authority was certainly entitled to evaluate and satisfy itself regarding the capability and competence of the tenderer in completing the tasks of the kind and magnitude involved.The Bench also rejected the argument that the partner held 50 per cent share in the erstwhile partnership firm. As such, he was entitled to claim proportionate work experience, equal to half the value of the project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partner-cant-call-firms-experience-as-his-hc-211116
12-02-2021||---||Peddler held with 10-kg heroin along Pak border||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 11The Border Security Force (BSF) today arrested a drug peddler near Attari along the International Border with Pakistan. During search across the barbed fencing, the authorities confiscated 10 packets containing 10.7 kg of heroin.Rs18-cr drugs seizedFazilka: The BSF recovered 3.6-kg heroin, worth Rs18 crore in the international market, in Jalalabad subdivision. Three plastic bottles containing 3.1-kg heroin, 522-gm heroin and 137-gm opium were seized in separate incidents. OCHis accomplice, however, fled the scene taking the advantage of fog.The arrested suspect was identified as Mandeep Singh of Dhanoe Khurd village. According to information, Mandeep suffered an bullet injury in the left shoulder and tried to flee but was chased down by the BSF men around 700 metre inside the border.The BSF observed suspicious activity on the Indian side of the border. When challenged, the BSF men heard sounds cocking of weapons and opened fire in self-defence. Mandeep was injured while his accomplice fled holding a bag.The jawans found footprints of two persons across the fencing, indicating the movement of Pakistan-based smugglers. During search, the BSF found heroin in a white bag.A BSF official said Mandeep was nabbed in November as well. However, he was released as no recovery was made at that time.“The probe had then revealed the name of his accomplice as Harjinder Singh but he was yet to be arrested,” he said.The official said Mandeep, apparently a courier, would be handed over to the police for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/peddler-held-with-10-kg-heroin-along-pak-border-211117
12-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Moga farmers set up park at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, February 11Punjab farmers have developed a park over 200 yards at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border. They have also installed benches, cots and centre tables there, besides setting up a guest room.The park has been barricaded with the help of tied-up bamboo sticks. The farmers have also installed five CCTV cameras in the area to keep a tab on anti-social elements and protect their belongings.The park is being used by the protesting farmers to discuss the prevailing situation while guests from Punjab use the room to stay.“Since heaps of garbage were lying at the site, residents of our village decided to clean the area and develop it into a park. It has been named ‘Sanjhi Chhat’,” said Gurcharan Singh from Manuke Gill village in Moga.He said they had been organising langar near the park for the last two months.Labh Singh, another farmer, said they lifted the garbage through tractor-trailers and then did earth-filling to level the surface. Plants were sown and flower pots were bought to give the site a shape of park. Benches were arranged and chairs were brought from Punjab. A make-shift room at the park had become the centre of attraction.“Various farmer groups gather at the park daily to discuss the situation. We are also providing the WiFi facility,” said Mandeep Singh Gill, another farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-farmers-set-up-park-at-tikri-211054
12-02-2021||---||72-year-old Moga farmer dies at Singhu||Sonepat, February 11A 72-year-old farmer from Moga district died at the Singhu border today. Heart attack was suspected to be the reason for his death. The deceased was identified as Hansa Singh of Said Mohammad village at Dharamkot in Moga district of Punjab.His associates said Hansa had come to the Singhu border 76 days ago. He went out of his tent this evening and fell down. They carried him back, but he was dead. They informed the family members of the deceased.Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said the body was sent to the General Hospital, where postmortem examination would be conducted on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/72-year-old-moga-farmer-dies-at-singhu-211057
12-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon||13 protesters missing: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Tribune News ServicePanipat, February 11The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will approach senior Delhi Police officers to search for the farmers missing after the Delhi violence on January 26. The SKM has finalised a list of 13 persons missing since the incident.As per the list finalised by the legal committee of the SKM, eight farmers are from Punjab, four from Haryana and one from Rajasthan. The SKM has formed a five-member legal committee to identify and trace the persons missing.The committee members — Prem Singh Bhangu, Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, Avtar Singh, Kiranjeet Singh Sekhon and IT cell in-charge Baljeet Singh — have established a legal help desk at the Delhi borders to collect information about the persons missing.“We have collected information that around 115 persons had been arrested and prepared a list of 13 persons who were missing after the incident,” said Deepsinghwala, vice-president, Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab.He said earlier, people had sent names of persons missing before the incident and of some mentally challenged persons, but the final list had now been prepared.“We will meet senior Delhi Police officers in connection with the missing persons. If we do not get any clue, we will file a habeas corpus petition in the apex court,” he maintained.“We have been in regular contact with the family members of the missing farmers and have also tried to search for them,” he added. Meanwhile, thousands of farmers continued their protest against the three farm laws on the 79th day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13-protesters-missing-samyukt-kisan-morcha-211058
12-02-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||No longer farmers’ stir alone: Unions||Jagraon (Ludhiana), Feb 11Not just farmers, but people from all walks of life attended Punjab’s first “kisan mahapanchayat” here on Thursday. Women too participated in large numbers. Enthused by the massive turnout, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leader BS Rajewal claimed that the determination shown by farmers camping at Delhi borders had shaken the Modi government, “which is now trying to find a face-saving formula to wriggle out of the mess it created through the agri laws.”Ready to amend laws, if need be: CentreThe Union Government is ready to discuss the new laws with farmers’ leaders with an open mind and to amend these, if necessary, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday.He said the agitation had “awakened” the entire nation and the global community too was keenly watching the developments in India. “The government is out to disband the mandi system by allowing free trade of foodgrain so as to leave the farmers at the mercy of big business houses,” Rajewal alleged.He said farmers would hold candlelight marches on February 14 to pay tributes to the Pulwama martyrs and observe February 16 as “kisan-mazdoor day” in memory of Sir Chhotu Ram. Other leaders, SS Dharamkot, KS Sandhu, Manjit Dhaner, Nirbhai S Dhudike, HS Lakhowal and JS Ugrahan, vowed to take the agitation to its logical conclusion. Dhaner claimed it was no longer a farmers’ struggle. “With a majority of people backing the farmers, it has become a mass movement,” he said. Ugrahan exhorted the people to prepare for a long battle. “The government is trying to impose a globally failed model of agricultural system on the farmers. Over 80 per cent farmers, especially small cultivators, will lose their landholdings to corporates because of the laws” he claimed.A series of ‘mahapanchayats’ have been held in Haryana against the farm laws.Three of these were addressed by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been spearheading the protest at the Ghazipur border for over two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-longer-farmers-stir-alone-unions-211181
12-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Punjab farmers develop park at Tikri, install CCTV cameras||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, February 11Punjab farmers have developed a park over 200 yards at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border by lifting garbage, levelling the surface by earth filling, sowing plants, placing some benches, kots and center tables besides setting up a guest room there.The park has been barricaded with the help of tied-up bamboo sticks.Significantly, they have also installed five CCTV cameras in the area with an intention to keep a tab on anti-social elements and to protect their belongings from thieves. The park is being used by protesting farmers to discuss the prevailing situation of the ongoing agitation while guests coming here from Punjab use the room to stay.“Heaps of garbage were lying at the site and foul smell emanating from the garbage irritated those staying nearby, hence people of our village decided to clean the site and to develop a park so that farmers could feel relaxed here hence this park has been given the name of ‘Sanjhi Chhat’ as it is for everyone,” said Gurcharan Singh, a farmer from Manuke Gill village (Moga), adding that they had also been organising a langar near the park for the past two months.Labh Singh, another farmer, maintained they lifted the garbage through tractor-trailers and then did earth-filling and levelled the surface. Plants were sown and flower pots were bought to give the site a shape of park. Benches were arranged and chairs were brought here from Punjab. A makeshift room at the park had become a centre of attraction. It was used for making stay arrangements for guests coming from Punjab, he added.“Different groups of farmers staying at other places at the border daily used to come to the park to talk about the ongoing situation with us. We are also providing Wi-Fi facility to the farmers. They can be seen using cell phones while sitting at the park,” said Mandeep Singh Gill, another farmer, adding that such sorts of facilities were must to make the long haul at the protest site bearable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-develop-park-at-tikri-install-cctv-cameras-210961
12-02-2021||Kuldip BhatiaOur CorrespondentJagraon||Kisan mahapanchayat held in Punjab's Jagraon; leaders say agitation no longer a fight of only farmers||Complete unity among various farmer unions and their cadres was at display at the kisan mahapanchayat that got under way at Grain Market here on Thursday.Senior leader of SKM and chief of BKU-Rajewal Balbir Singh Rajewal was the keynote speaker at the rally. He said even though the agitation had commenced from Punjab but now it was no longer confined to borders of this state.“Not only most of the states but the entire global community is watching the farmers’ stir keenly and repressive action of Modi government against peacefully protesting farmers is also being debated across the world,” he said, adding that for the first time in history as many as 40 organisations of farmers had come on a single platform to fight for their rights.Rajewal said the grit and determination shown by farmers camping on Delhi borders had shaken the Modi government to the extent that it was now trying to find a face saving formula to wriggle out of the mess that it had created through enactment of three farm laws.“The government is out to disband the best and proven marketing system in the world by allowing free trade of food grain so as to leave the farmers at the mercy of big business tycoons and a failed model of marketing is being thrust upon the farming community,” said the BKU leader.Announcing the decisions taken by SKM for next phase of agitation, Rajewal said farmers would take out candle/torch light marches on February 14 in memory of martyrs of Pulwama attack, February 16 would be observed as ‘kisan/mazdoor day’ in memory of Sir Chhotu Ram and a four-hour ‘rail roko’ protest would be held on February 18.Farmers and people from many other walks of life thronged the mandi ground with their vehicles — tractor trollies, cars. SUVs, buses and trucks — parked wherever a vacant space was available around the venue.The proceedings of the mahapanchayat were delayed by more than an hour owing to bad weather and late arrival of leaders. Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders Surat Singh Dharamkot, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Manjit Dhaner, Nirbhai Singh Dhudike and Harinder Singh Lakhowal were present.The rally attracted an estimated gathering of 25,000 to 30,000 people.Speaking at the mahapanchayat, SKM leaders Manjit Dhaner (BKU-Ekta Dakaunda), Kulwant Singh Sandhu (Jamhoori Kisan Sabha) and Harinder Singh Lakhowal (BKU-Lakhowal) vowed to fight the Modi government till it reaches a definitive conclusion on the issue of farm laws.Manjit Dhaner said BKU’s Rakesh Tikait had given a new lease of life to the struggle.He said: “It is no longer a fight of only farmers but has now become a mass agitation. In the ongoing agitation, 99 per cent of people are standing by farmers but unfortunately, Prime Minister Narndra Modi has chosen to side with corporate houses.”Lakhowal said the Centre’s claim that doors were open for dialogue on farm acts was a white lie because all doors had been slammed shut in the form of barricades erected on borders, with nails and iron rods fixed on roads, and denial of basic amenities to protesters.“Farmers are prepared to shed their last drop of blood to safeguard their lands and their rights to remunerative prices,” Dhaner added.BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan exhorted farmers and people to be prepared for a long-drawn struggle because “the fight is not merely against Modi or the NDA government”.“The real culprits for these new economic policies are the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the IMF and the Word Bank, who were out to snatch the bread from the mouths of the hungry people and turn the farmers into paupers,” Ugrahan said.He said if the three farm acts were implemented, more than 80 per cent farmers — especially those with small holdings — would lose their land to the corporate and big business houses.SKM leaders also cautioned people and protesting farmers against nefarious attempts by all political leaders to hijack the farmers’ agitation for their own political interests.“The struggle has not been launched by any political party but by farmers, farmworkers and the common people for their survival, and to stop the onslaught by corporates and big business,” they asserted.Senior leader of SKM and chief of BKU, Rajewal Balbir Singh Rajewal turned out to be a keynote speaker at the rally. He said that even though the agitation had started from Punjab, it is no longer confined to the borders of the state.“Not only most of the states, but the entire global community is watching the farmers’ stir keenly and repressive action of Modi government against peacefully protesting farmers is also being debated across the world,” he said adding, that for the “first time in the history as many as 40 organisations of farmers have come on a single platform to fight for their rights”.Rajewal said the grit and determination shown by farmers camping on Delhi borders has shaken the Modi government to such an extent, that it was now trying to find a “face-saving formula to wriggle out of the mess, that it had created through the enactment of three farm laws”.“Government is out to disband the best and proven marketing system in the world by allowing free trade of food grain so as to leave the farmers at the mercy of big business tycoons and a failed model of marketing is being thrust upon the farming community,” said the BKU leader.Announcing the decisions taken by SKM for next phase of agitation, Rajewal said the farmers would take out a candle and torchlight march on February 14—in memory of martyrs of Pulwama attack— February 16 would be observed as ‘kisan-mazdoor day’ in memory of Sir Chhotu Ram, and a 4-hour rail roko protest would be held on February 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kisan-mahapanchayat-held-in-punjabs-jagraon-leaders-say-agitation-no-longer-a-fight-of-only-farmers-210895
