14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Prisoners released on parole in Punjab to be sent back to jail||Prisoners who were released on parole in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic will be sent back to jails again in Punjab, subject to a negative test report, officials said on Sunday.“In the light of substantial downward trend in cases of COVID in Punjab, the high powered committee constituted by the Supreme Court of India for dealing with COVID in prisons has decided not to extend the parole of prisoners any further,” said an official spokesperson of the Punjab Jails Department.A committee headed by Punjab and Haryana High Court judge Ajay Tewari, Principal Secretary (Jails) D K Tiwari and ADGP (Prisons) P K Sinha recommended that all the prisoners surrender back to the prisons, which have been designated specifically for quarantining the returnees before testing and transferring them to their respective prisons.The whole process shall be done in a phased manner starting February 17, for which ‘first out-first in’ mechanism shall be followed, which means prisoners who have availed the longest period of parole would report back to the prisons first.The spokesperson further said a schedule for return of around 650 to 700 prisoners in one batch every 9 to 10 days has been circulated to all the authorities concerned.“All the parolees are required to report at the designated jail (Barnala or Pathankot for male; Malerkotla for female) with a negative COVID test report (RT-PCR only) received within three days preceding the surrender,” said the spokesperson.They will be quarantined in the jail for four days (including the day of surrender), and their COVID sample will be collected on the fifth day, following which they will be transferred to their respective prisons, said the spokesperson.If any prisoner tests positive in the pre-admission test, he/she shall inform the superintendent of the designated prison and shall report on the 18th day from the date of the result.As the return is planned in a phased manner, the parole of all the prisoners released in 2020 and presently out on parole shall stand extended till the date on which they have been asked to surrender at the respective designated jails created for this purpose.Prisoners above 60 years of age and those with chronic co-morbidities shall be taken back in the last batch of parole returnees, said the spokesperson.However, this schedule shall not apply to prisoners released on parole in the year 2021, who shall return to the respective special jails, as and when their parole period expires. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-prisoners-released-on-parole-in-punjab-to-be-sent-back-to-jail-212406
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 3 more deaths, 234 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Sunday reported 234 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection count to 1,76,296, while three more deaths pushed the toll in the state to 5,697, according to a medical bulletin.There are 2,360 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, it said.SBS Nagar reported 66 cases, Ludhiana 57, and Jalandhar 25 among the fresh cases recorded in the state, according to the bulletin.A total of 204 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovery from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,68,239, it said.Six critical patients are on ventilator support while 96 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 47,26,971 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-3-more-deaths-234-new-cases-in-punjab-212400
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||BJP has lost moral ground to rule: Punjab CM||Expressing shock at statements of senior BJP leaders on the farmers who died at the Delhi borders protesting against the farm laws, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said the party has lost the moral ground to rule at the Centre and in Haryana.“The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre should step down in the interest of the nation, as should the ML Khattar government in Haryana,” said the chief minister slamming statements of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar and Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal.Amarinder Singh lashed out at Tomar over what he called was his  “outrageous statement” citing Delhi Police information that only two farmers have died and one has committed suicide.“Even the media has released details of more than 200 farmers who have lost their lives in this agitation,” the CM said in a statement.He also criticised Haryana minister JP Dalal, who had stoked a controversy on Saturday, saying the farmers would have died even if they had stayed back home. Dalal made the remark in Bhiwani in response to a reporter’s query over the death of farmers.However, hours after making the statement, the Haryana agriculture minister said he had seen “twisted” statements attributed to him on social media.“If anybody is hurt by it, I tender my apology,” Dalal had said.The Punjab chief minister also slammed Tomar for answering in the negative to a query in the Rajya Sabha recently whether the government will provide financial assistance from the Kisan Kalyan Fund to the families of the dead farmers.“It was deplorable that a government that can spend Rs 8 crore on the publicity campaign for the new farm laws cannot give compensation to the families of the farmers who have sacrificed their lives in fighting for their rights,” he said, adding that Punjab alone has paid compensation to 102 families.“These statements of Tomar and Dalal reflect a shocking lack of concern on the part of the BJP leadership towards the farmers who have been braving the elements and the lathis of the Delhi and Haryana Police in their fight for survival,” the CM said.The chief minister said it is appalling that a government which claimed to be working in the interest of farmers does not even know how many farmers had died in the protests against the farm laws, “just as they had no idea, some months ago, on how many migrants had died in the country during the lockdown”.“What kind of government is this that has no data (or so it claims) of people dying on the streets in their own country,” Amarinder Singh asked.“Either the agriculture minister deliberately lied on the floor of the House or simply does not care to even ascertain the facts and figures,” said the chief minister, adding that this was not the first time a central minister had made a “false statement in Parliament on the issue of the farm laws or the farmers’ agitation”.“Another minister had earlier stated falsely in the House that Punjab had been taken on board on the farm laws in its capacity as a member of the agricultural reforms committee, which was also a blatant lie,” the CM said, adding that not once were these legislations even mentioned in that committee. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-has-lost-moral-ground-to-rule-punjab-cm-212395
14-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||BJP leader’s vehicle attacked in Hoshiarpur||A BJP leader’s vehicle was allegedly attacked here on Sunday by some unidentified people when a group of farmers was protesting against the Centre’s farm laws.According to police, the incident took place at Garhdiwala town, about 30 km from Hoshiarpur.The vehicle of district BJP president (rural) Sanjiv Minhas was attacked when around 100 farmers were protesting against the Centre’s farm laws outside a shop of another party leader, Jogesh Chopra, police said.At that time, Minhas was present in the shop, said officials.As the leader was being taken to a safer place, some unidentified people scuffled with police personnel. They also smashed windowpanes of Minhas’s vehicle.Minhas was taken to a community health centre for a check-up, from where he was discharged after providing first aid.Minhas accused Congress workers of attacking his vehicle.Superintendent of Police (Headquarters) Raminder Singh said they are verifying facts and action will be taken accordingly. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-vehicle-attacked-in-hoshiarpur-212374
14-02-2021||Amritsar||6-kg heroin recovered from India-Pakistan border in Amritsar||Six packets of heroin weighing over 6 kg were recovered from the India-Pakistan border in Amritsar by BSF sleuths on Sunday, an official said.A BSF official said the security personnel deployed on the international border observed suspicious movement of smugglers.Sensing a threat, they fired at them but due to dense fog and poor visibility, the smugglers managed to escape, he said.On searching the area, the BSF personnel seized six packets of heroin weighing 6.38 kg, the official added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-kg-heroin-recovered-from-india-pakistan-border-in-amritsar-212360
14-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab CM says four people from state untraceable after Uttarakhand glacier mishap||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said four people from the state were still missing in the flash floods that followed the recent glacier mishap in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district.Amarinder Singh said in a tweet on Sunday that Punjab was willing to extend any help it could to help trace the missing people.  “Four of our Punjabi workers Kewal Singh, Sukhwinder, Kulvir Singh & Sukhwinder Singh have been missing from Chamoli, Uttarakhand since the recent disaster. I seek CM @TSRawatBJP ’s intervention in tracing them. We in Punjab are ready to help Uttarakhand in every way,” the tweet said.  Four of our Punjabi workers Kewal Singh, Sukhwinder, Kulvir Singh & Sukhwinder Singh have been missing from Chamoli, Uttarakhand since the recent disaster. I seek CM @TSRawatBJP’s intervention in tracing them. We in Punjab are ready to help Uttarakhand in every way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-says-four-people-from-state-untraceable-after-uttarakhand-glacier-mishap-212356
14-02-2021||Ropar||Nine injured in clash between Congress, SAD supporters in Ropar||Nine people were wounded—a few seriously—in a clash that followed a heated argument between supporters of Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal, who accused each other of trying to bribe voters in the ongoing civic body elections.The fight broke out in ward no. 1 A Congress worker Pravin Kumar has been sent to Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research by a civil hospital.  He is reportedly nursing a serious injury on his arm.Congress candidate Neelam Devi and SAD’s Beena are two candidates in the fray in this ward.Pravin Kumar claimed he and his fellow Congress workers tried to stop SAD supporters from distributing money among voters.  He said SAD workers attacked them with swords in the argument that ensued.SAD supporters on the other hand claim Congress leaders had distributed cash in their ward on Saturday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nine-injured-in-clash-between-congress-sad-supporters-in-ropar-212355
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperatures on Sunday hovered above normal limits in Punjab and Haryana.According to the Meteorological department officials here, Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 9.8 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius while Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures of 9.6 and 10 degrees Celsius.Adampur (10.4 degrees Celsius), Halwara (10.6 degrees Celsius), Pathankot (10.9 degrees Celsius), Bathinda (9.8 degrees Celsius), Gurdaspur (7.8 degrees Celsius) and Faridkot (11 degrees Celsius) also recorded above normal minimum temperatures.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 8.4 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature in Hisar was 8.3 degrees Celsius.Karnal (8.6 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (9.8 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (11.1 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (9.5 degrees Celsius) too recorded above normal minimum temperatures.According to the Meteorological department, fog engulfed many places in the region including Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Faridkot and Gurdaspur on Sunday morning. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-212334
14-02-2021||Karam Prakash||Booth captured at polling station in Patiala’s Rajpura||Tribune News ServiceRajpura, February 14Amid the polling of the Municipal election under way, unidentified miscreants on Sunday allegedly captured polling booth at DAV School polling station at Rajpura.Around 40 miscreants entered the polling booth at around 11.30 am and closed the gate of the polling station to prevent voters from voting — despite the presence of the police there.Amidst the chaos, police turned mute spectator.Only after strong protest from one of the candidates, the police pulled out miscreants from the booths.Polling had to stopped following the protests by one of the candidates and his supporters.Meanwhile, Patiala SDM and SP Harmeet Hundal reached the polling station to normalise the situation.Hundal said polling had been resumed at the polling station.Reports of violence and booth capturing were also reported from Nabha and Patran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/booth-captured-at-polling-station-in-patialas-rajpura-212324
14-02-2021||Chandigarh/Ranchi||Punjab’s Gurpreet Singh wins 50km race walking event in National Championships||Race walker Gurpreet Singh won the men’s 50km race walk event at the 8th National Championships here on Sunday.The 38-year-old Army man from Patiala won the event by completing the race in three hours, 59 minutes, and 42 seconds (3:59:42s).Earlier, the Army man had won a silver medal in the 50km event at the 7th National Race Walking Championship in Ranchi.On Saturday, Sandeep Kumar, Rahul Kumar and Priyanka Goswami had qualified for the 20km event Oregon World Athletics Championships to be held from July 15 to 24 next year after winning 20km event.The victories also helped them secure the quota for the Tokyo Olympics.Sandeep and Priyanka, in fact, broke the national records during the course of their win.On his way to winning gold, Sandeep clocked one hour 20 minutes and 16 seconds to crack the Olympic qualification time of 1:21 minutes. Rahul, 34, too, bettered the Olympic qualification time, crossing the finish line at 1:20.26 to clinch silver.Priyanka, 24, crossed the line with a time of one hour 28 minutes 45 seconds, which was better than the Olympic qualification time of one hour 31 minutes for women. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-gurpreet-singh-wins-50km-race-walking-event-in-national-championships-212318
14-02-2021||---||Global Indian Diaspora sends roses to Indian missions as mark of love to farmers||New Delhi, February 14On Valentine’s Day, about two dozen Indian diaspora organisations launched an initiative for extending support to protesting farmers by tweeting or sending a rose to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The organisers urged sympathisers and members to send a rose to Indian missions in their respective regions to express their solidarity with the Indian farmers.“We would like to express our unwavering solidarity with the farmers in India and to draw attention to their non-violent protest braving harsh weather conditions and repressive measures for over two months,” the Global Indian Diaspora, a coalition of progressives, said in a joint statement.At the same time, the Diaspora made it clear that they opposed any rhetoric or ideology that divides people of India.Though the initiative has the form of a fun social media campaign, the Diaspora underlined its commitment to the farmers’ cause by urging for the release of all those in custody.The Diaspora also acknowledged the moral perseverance of Indian farmers and said it wished to amplify the voices of farm leaders like Darshan Pal, who oppose the “...repressive measures unleashed by the government against farmers, including the discriminatory laws, the arrests of farmers and the internet shutdown,”It also highlighted the case of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, several farmers who have gone missing since the Republic Day protests and many other political prisoners who remain in police custody without due process.Seconding the Kisan Ekta Morcha’s call for an open debate on the farm laws, the Diaspora wanted New Delhi to undertake a public commitment to include stakeholders as part of a review of existing laws and engage honestly and sincerely with farmers, acknowledging their fear, anger and grievances.In the case of these specific agriculture laws, repeal the laws and submit the Bills to a parliamentary committee for review and stakeholder engagement to modify them in a genuine effort to best meet the needs of farmers, as per prior parliamentary norms.A few days earlier, 78 Indian-American organisations and gurdwaras in the US had sent a joint letter to US President Biden to send a strong message to India on Human Rights violation at India’s farmers protest. It also expressed concern over a few twitter handles proposing a repeat of the 1984 pogroms.Meanwhile, the Indian-American media has reported that Raj Sodhi-Layne, an unassuming long-time resident of California, was the driving spirit of a public campaign to fund an ad during the telecast of the Sunday Super Bowl that was watched by millions and went ‘viral’ on social media. Sodhi-Layne and her friends raised over $ 10,000 for the 30-second ad, she told Indica News.The following is the list of Indian diaspora organisations: Global Indian Progressive Alliance (GIPA); Hindus for Human Rights-USA (H4HR); Friends of India-Texas; The Humanism Project, Australia; Boston South Asian Coalition (BSAC); Voices Against Fascism in India (VAFI); Young India, Inc.; Kisan Pizza, UK; Coalition Against Fascism in India (CAFI); Students Against Hindutva Ideology (SAHI); International Solidarity for Academic Freedom in India (inSAF); Canadians Against Oppression & Persecution (COAP); Indian American Muslim Council (IAMC); Alliance to Save & Protect America from Infiltration by Religious Extremists (ASPAIRE); Coalition of Americans for Pluralism in India (CAPI); Ambedkar King Study Circle (AKSC); Dalit Solidarity Forum, US; Indian Solidarity Finland; Indian Solidarity Sweden; and Indo- Canadian Workers Association Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/global-indian-diaspora-sends-roses-to-indian-missions-as-mark-of-love-to-farmers-212307
14-02-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Polling booth scrapped in Moga, polling staff asked to report back||Tribune News ServiceMoga, February 14For the first time in the electoral history of Punjab, a polling party was on Sunday asked to return with EVMs and other poll material at the eleventh hour after being told that there were no registered voters at the polling booth.According to information, the polling party had gone to booth number 42 in ward number 16, where they were deployed to conduct the local body elections. The polling party was then asked to report back to the returning officer.The district administration maintained that all votes of booth number 42 were shifted from ward number 16 to two others wards — 24 and 25 — as the number of votes in these wards were very less compared to other wards.The total votes in Moga as per the voters list are 1,14,820, the list of which was prepared on the basis of the voters’ list updated in February 2020.The total votes in ward number 23 are 849, ward number 24 has 909, ward number 25 has 975, ward number 35 has 1,009 while in ward number 16 there are 3,908 votes.When Opposition parties cried foul alleging that the Congress had intentionally reconstituted the wards in an irrational manner with the sole motive to win the elections, the district administration carried out a delimitation work and corrected its “mistake”.It was under this exercise that the votes of booth number 42 — shifted to ward number 16 — were then shifted in ward numbers 24 and 25, officials said. Accordingly, the booth of ward number 16 was scrapped by the administration but it was not updated, they said.District Magistrate Sandeep Hans claimed that the administration shifted the votes to other wards as per the rules and guidelines of the government and the State Election Commission.Meanwhile, alleged bogus voting was reported in ward number 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/polling-booth-scrapped-in-moga-polling-staff-asked-to-report-back-212305
14-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Rohanpreet Singh gets a tattoo for Neha Kakkar on Valentine’s Day; 'Nehu's man', it reads; check it out||Rohanpreet Singh gave the best and the biggest surprise to his wife Neha Kakkar on Valentine’s Day. The singers have been sharing mushy posts all throughout Valentine’s week, but this February 14 post has topped it.The 32-year-old singer broke Instagram when she revealed the tattoo Rohanpreet got inked on his arm for her. The tattoo reads: ‘Nehu’s Man’.Neha shared a series of pictures, and thanked her husband.“My Valentine gave me the Best Gift Ever!!!! Itnaaaa Pyaar Baby??? I asked him baby Pain hua hoga? He replied: Not at all, I kept singing Your Songs Nehu Babu @rohanpreetsingh Yes You’re #NehusMan and I’m Yours Now and Forever!!!! Love You The Most Babyyyy!!!! Happy Valentines Day Dear #NeHearts #NehuPreet,” read Neha’s caption.A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)A minute later, Rohanpreet also took to Instagram and shared a series of pictures with his wife.“Hey My Love Happy Valentine’s Day!! A Very Small Gift for You and I wanna tell you that I Feel So Proud When I see Your Name on my Arm now. Also You know am Confused now coz you said this tatto is a gift for You but I feel this is for Me coz getting Your Name Inked on My body is the biggest gift for me babu and I can Proudly say now that I’m #NehusMan  I Love You My Queen!! @nehakakkar  Happy Valentine’s Day to You all too! From Your #NehuPreet,” read the 28-year-old singer’s caption.A post shared by Rohanpreet Singh (@rohanpreetsingh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rohanpreet-singh-gets-a-tattoo-for-neha-kakkar-on-valentines-day-nehus-man-it-reads-check-it-out-212304
14-02-2021||New Delhi||As protest continues, farmers recall how it started in Punjab||It was between 12.30 pm to 1 pm on November 27, 2020 when thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana who were marching towards Delhi’s Ramlila Ground were stopped by Delhi police at Singhu village, claimed Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur district who is a member of the Krantikari Kisan Union in Punjab.“We reached Haryana from Gurdaspur on the night of November 25. Police had barricaded the area to stop our movement. With the help of local farmers, we managed to cross the state somehow. Our plan was to reach Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Ground in Delhi.”Gurmeet added that they were prepared for a protest till one and a half months. We had carried our food for that period. For one week, we prepared our own food and then Langar was established. We faced no difficulties since then, he said.The farmers in tractors and other vehicles were heading towards Delhi with the slogan - ‘Dilli Chalo’. “Dilli Chalo’ was a part of our movement against the three farms bills enacted by the Centre.Farmers unions of Punjab and Haryana had given this slogan to move toward Delhi,” Gurmeet said claiming he was one among those thousands of farmers who are sitting at Singhu village.As of Saturday, it’s more than 80 days since the farmers have been sitting at Singhu border. Since then (November 26, 2020) the National Highway (Delhi-Chandigarh) has remained blocked at Singhu.Many villagers in Singhu and Singhola seemed clueless about when the farm protest will end, and they would find the road operational and reopen their shops.The farmers have also been sitting on protest since over 70 days at two other borders of the national capital - Tikri village (Delhi-Haryana border and Ghazipur (Delhi-UP border).However, there are (at Singhu village protest site) many farmers from several districts of Punjab who claimed they have been agitating against the farms bills since September 2020.Satnam Singh Pannu, president (Punjab) of Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee, talking to IANS said that soon after the Acts (three farm laws) were introduced, farmers unions in Punjab and Haryana had started opposing them.The agitation against the farm bills in Punjab began when the farmers leaders initiated a movement in the villages.“Farmers leaders held meetings with panchayat heads and gradually other people also started supporting our agitation against the farm bills. To make the movement strong, people were explained the reality about the three farms laws. People from all sections began supporting farmers unions. Similarly, the movement grew in Haryana also.”The first sign of protest against the Central farm laws appeared on September 7, 2020 when farmers unions called a ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ across Punjab. It continued till September 13. Pamphlets were circulated in the villages by local farmers leaders and village heads. People were taken into confidence to join the movement.After that, from September 14 to 16, farmers had blocked highways near the Satluj, Beas and Ravi rivers. On September 24, the Delhi-Amritsar railway track was blocked by the farmers under the banner of Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee, which resulted in the suspension of many trains.“Farmers unions had started peaceful protests but when there was no response from the government, they decided to move towards Delhi and gave the Delhi Chalo slogan. Since then, we are here. But still, the government is not ready to fulfil our demands. We will not move from here until the farm laws are repealed,” said Satnam Singh Pannu.On February 14, the farmers unions have announced a candle march to remember the personnel martyred in the Pulwama attack. On February 18, there is a Rail Roko Abhiyan call across the country. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-protest-continues-farmers-recall-how-it-started-in-punjab-212294
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Polling under way for civic body elections in Punjab||Polling is under way for the civic body elections in Punjab, officials said on Sunday.The voting began at 8 am on Sunday and it will continue till 4 pm, they said.A total of 9,222 candidates are in the fray for elections to 2,302 wards of the eight municipal corporations of Abohar, Bathinda Batala, Kapurthala, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Moga and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state.Out of total candidates, 2,832 are contesting as independents, 2,037 are of the ruling Congress while 1,569 are Akali Dal nominees.The number of candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party is 1,003, 1,606 and 160 respectively.The State Election Commission (SEC) has set up 4,102 polling stations, of which, 1,708 have been declared as sensitive and 861 as hyper sensitive.A voter who enters the polling station before 4 pm will have the right to vote, an SEC spokesperson said.Around 7,000 Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) have been deployed for voting.As many as 19,000 police personnel have been deputed to conduct free and fair elections, the spokesperson said.There are 20,49,777 male, 18,65,354 female and 149 transgender voters, totalling 39,15,280 registered voters in the state for the civic body elections, he said.The counting of votes will take place on February 17. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/polling-under-way-for-civic-body-elections-in-punjab-212288
14-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||False epicentre report triggers panic in Asr||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, February 13An incorrect report of Amritsar being the epicentre of an earthquake by the National Centre for Seismology caused panic among residents on Friday night. Post midnight, the central body revised its report holding the mixing of the seismic waves of two earthquakes within 10 minutes in Tajikistan and Sichuan, China, responsible. Initially, the data review led to a faulty assessment that the earthquake was centred near Amritsar.The tremors lasted for a few seconds which prompted the residents to come out of their homes. So far, no casualty has been reported from the district but unconfirmed reports of cracks appearing in buildings are doing the rounds. However, officials of the district administration said no authentic case of cracks developing in any building had surfaced.Arshpreet Singh, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, said, “Post dinner, my family was watching programmes on TV when they felt the floor under their feet trembling. They moved out of the house for their safety.” There are four seismic zones in India covering 38 cities. Amritsar falls in the fourth zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/false-epicentre-report-triggers-panic-in-asr-212043
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Facilitation centres okayed for 15 clusters||With an aim to speed up recovery from the Covid-induced stress and to create more job opportunities in the state, the government has identified 15 industrial clusters for setting up common facilitation centres (CFCs) under the Micro and Small Enterprises Cluster Development Programme of the Government of  India, said Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora. The Centre has given final approval to project reports of Hitech Metal Cluster, Mohali; Oil Expeller & Parts Cluster, Ludhiana; Garments Cluster, Ludhiana; and Foundry Cluster, Kapurthala, for which the central government will provide a grant of 70-90 per cent of the project cost (up to maximum of Rs 15 crore), the minister said. He said Hi-tech Metal Cluster, Mohali and Oil Expeller & Parts Cluster, Ludhiana, had already been completed, while work on the remaining was in full swing. Auto Tech Cluster, Ludhiana, Sewing Machine Cluster, Ludhiana, and Cutting Tools Cluster, Patiala have got in-principle approval from the government and initial work of capacity building in the remaining was going on, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/facilitation-centres-okayed-for-15-clusters-212044
14-02-2021||Our Correspondent||6 of family killed in truck-van collision||Abohar/Sriganganagar, Feb 13Six members of a family were killed and seven others injured after the van they were travelling in collided with a truck-trailer near Raziasar in Sriganganagar district on the Bikaner Highway-62 this morning.The victims were on way to pay obeisance at the historic Ramdevra Temple near Pokhran in Jaisalmer district. The deceased were identified as Sangria panchayat samiti former chairperson Manju Nain (35), Bhavishya (10), Sonia (45), Aarzoo (22), Suman Nain (33) and Anil Kumar (31).Seven persons were evacuated from the crushed vehicle and shifted to the Trauma Centre at Raziasar. They were later referred to the District Civil Hospital in Sriganganagar. At least five of the injured were in a critical condition.Raziasar police station in-charge Vikram Tiwari said four persons died on the spot, while two others died on way to the Trauma Centre. The collision occurred near Srivijaynagar terminal, 1 km from Raziasar police station, breaking the van into several pieces. Locals had to struggle hard to extricate the trapped occupants.The police used a crane to remove the damaged vehicles and restore traffic. Businesses at Kishanpura Uthrada village in Sangria remained shut to mourn the deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-of-family-killed-in-truck-van-collision-212045
14-02-2021||Faridkot||Residents want MLA’s kin arrested for Faridkot deaths||A group of residents held a candle march today demanding justice for the three members of a family who died here last week after being allegedly harassed by a relative of a sitting Congress MLA. The protesters demanded the arrest of suspect Dimpy Vinayak, brother-in-law of Gidderbaha Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring. On the basis of a suicide note, the Faridkot police had registered a criminal case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC against Vinayak. A 35-year-old private contractor with the PSPCL, Karan Kataria, had allegedly killed his two children and injured his wife before turning the gun on himself at Narain Nagar here on February 6. It is alleged the police registered the case against Dimpy amid pressure after a six-page suicide note left by the deceased went viral on the social media. Due to alleged political interference, the police were yet to arrest the suspect. Accusing the police of soft-pedalling the issue, the participants, including ex-AAP MP Prof Sadhu Singh, claimed instead of making the arrest, the police were pressuring the victim’s family to reach a compromise. SHO Gurwinder Singh, however, said investigation was on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-want-mlas-kin-arrested-for-faridkot-deaths-212046
14-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Pak intruder shot along IB, Rs74-cr heroin seized||Tarn Taran, February 13 In a joint operation by the Border Security Force (BSF) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), a Pakistan intruder was shot and 14-kg heroin seized on the intervening night of February 12-13 near the International Border. A pistol magazine with six live rounds and two mobiles were also recovered from the spot. The 14.8-kg heroin concealed in 14 packets was reported to be worth Rs 74 crore in the international market. The BSF said on specific inputs, a joint ambush was laid at Thehkalan (Khalra) barrier in the district. Around 2.30 am, the teams observed two intruders enter the Indian side from across the border. The security men heard the sound of PVC pipes rubbing against the barbed fencing as the suspects transferred packets to the Indian side. The intruders were challenged by the BSF and heard the sound of cocking of a weapon. The BSF team fired in self-defence in which one intruder was killed near the fencing. The other intruder fled back into the Pakistan territory. It was learnt that Pakistan Rangers, during a flag meeting with the BSF, refused to take back the body of their national. The BSF said 70.904-kg heroin had been recovered and two Pakistan intruders killed so far this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-intruder-shot-along-ib-rs74-cr-heroin-seized-212047
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ration depot allocation stayed||The Punjab and Haryana HC has stayed the process of allocation of ration depots in Ludhiana, Patiala and Fazikla districts while taking up three separate petitions. The allocation has already been stayed in Jalandhar and Amritsar. The matters will now come up for hearing on March 3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ration-depot-allocation-stayed-212048
14-02-2021||---||19K cops deployed as state votes today||Chandigarh, February 13The voting process of elections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and municipal panchayats will be held from 8 am to 4 pm on Sunday. All arrangements have been put in place by the administration.An official spokesperson for the commission said 30 IAS/PCS officers had been deputed as observers to conduct free and fair elections. Apart from this, IG/DIG-level officers had also been appointed as police observers.IPS Mukhwinder Singh Chinna has been deputed as the observer for SAS Nagar, Roopnagar and Fatehgarh Sahib; Surjit Singh for Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot; Baljit Singh Rathore for Bathinda, Mansa and Faridkot; Surinder Kumar Kalia for Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and SBS Nagar.The spokesperson said Harbaz Singh had been selected as the observer for Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga and Fazilka; and Gurinder Singh Dhillon for Patiala, Ludhiana, Barnala and Sangrur. He said the voting would be conducted on electronic voting machines (EVMs) and 7,000 EVMs had been arranged for the purpose. He said the commission had appointed 20,510 employees for uninterrupted voting. Around 19,000 police personnel had also been deputed to conduct free and fair elections.The spokesperson said 9,222 candidates were in the fray in 2,302 wards. The commission had set up 4,102 polling stations for these elections, of which 1,708 were sensitive and 861 hypersensitive.The State Election Commission announced that February 14 and 17 would be dry days. The counting of votes would start at 9 am on February 17.33 Patiala booths hypersensitivePatiala: The district administration of Patiala has deputed 1,800 police officials along with four SP-level officers and eight DSP-level officers in all four municipal council areas. Police officials said 33 polling booths out of 190 in Rajpura, Samana, Nabha and Patran had been earmarked as hypersensitive and 50 sensitive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/19k-cops-deployed-as-state-votes-today-212049
14-02-2021||Archit Watts||No postal ballot, Muktsar staff on duty say can’t vote||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, February 13In the absence of postal ballot, some government employees assigned election duty have claimed they have been devoid of their right to vote in Muktsar district. The municipal council elections are slated for February 14.“In the municipal council elections, the government does not offer the option of postal ballot. I live in Muktsar and have been deputed to Malout. I have to go to the polling booth a day in advance, thus will be unable to cast my vote. Had the State Election Commission assigned duties to employees in their respective areas, people like me could have cast their ballot,” said a government teacher.Deputy Commissioner MK Aravind Kumar said: “The number of election staff in civic elections is lower in comparison to the Assembly or Lok Sabha elections. The adjustment in this regard has to be done at the district level. We will exempt employees having votes in urban areas from poll duty.”Meanwhile, sources in the district administration say nearly 900 employees have been assigned election duty. “The maximum number is from departments other than the Education Department,” he said. The situation in neighbouring Fazilka district is similar. A government employee from Abohar said he was assigned poll duty in Fazilka.Teacher deployed for poll dies in mishapA government schoolteacher heading to Malout for election duty died in a head-on collision between two motorcycles near Bharu village in Muktsar on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Gurmel Singh, a resident of Mallan village. Another person suffered multiple injuries in the mishap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-postal-ballot-muktsar-staff-on-duty-say-cant-vote-212050
14-02-2021||---||Cong using violence to win election, says SAD||Moga, February 13SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the Congress had vitiated the law and order situation in Punjab by using “goons” to maim and even kill Opposition supporters to win the municipal elections in the state.Sukhbir visited the families of two party men — Harminder Singh and Jagdeep Singh — who were crushed to death allegedly by Congress men earlier this week. He assured them of getting justice for the two.Sukhbir said Harmeet and Jagdeep were mowed down under an SUV just because they were SAD workers and Congress “goons” did not want any Akali worker to campaign for the party in the elections.“While I condemn this killing, I also condemn the district police for remaining a mute spectator to the violence unleashed by Congress goons. If the police had done their job, both would have been alive today,” he said.The SAD chief talked to the Moga SSP and asked him to ensure rule of law during the voting tomorrow. He also demanded justice for the two victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-using-violence-to-win-election-says-sad-212051
14-02-2021||---||Oppn fears violence, rigging in Bathinda||Bathinda, February 13Highlighting alleged irregularities in the voters’ list in Bathinda, the SAD and AAP have raised doubts over the intention of the state government and State Election Commission with regard to conducting free and fair elections.Former SAD minister Sikander Singh Maluka today raised fears of booth capturing and rigging in the MC and nagar panchayat polls with the support of the police.Maluka said a police officer linked with the Bathinda CIA had warned party candidates and supporters against having party booths outside the polling stations. “Even the administration is also playing in hands of the ruling Congress and has changed a polling station a day prior to the elections,” he said.Referring to irregularities in the voters’ list, Bathinda AAP district president Navdeep Singh Jeeda said there were many flaws which raised suspicion of rigging in the election.He said the Bathinda Municipal Corporation had more than 750 names in the voters’ list with incomplete information.“In the voters’ list, in some cases, photographs are missing while some have missing addresses or voter card numbers. This raises serious doubts over the intention of the ruling party and the EC,” he added.“It is the responsibility of the EC to conduct free and fair elections. Such irregularities damage its credibility,” Jeeda added.Capt made false promises: MannChandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Saturday said CM Capt Amarinder Singh had made big promises, including waiver of farmers’ debt and ‘ghar ghar rozgar’ to youth, before the 2017 elections. However, four years had passed, but the CM had not fulfilled even a single promise, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppn-fears-violence-rigging-in-bathinda-212052
14-02-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||In Gurdaspur, uneasy calm on election eve||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, February 13An uneasy calm prevails in the border district ahead of the civic body elections even as Congress legislators are exacerbating the situation for the police by engaging in turf wars.Of the district’s seven Assembly seats, six are represented by ruling party MLAs. These MLAs are openly impinging on the territories of their colleagues, often leading to frayed tempers and verbal spats.In Batala, as many as five legislators have a finger in the political pie. This has led to a situation where the police have now been forced to call in reinforcements from the PAP and adjoining districts. A total of 1,600 cops will provide security in all 50 wards of the Municipal Corporation (MC).Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa holds the key to the new MC House. His dominance is such that the once all-powerful ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri finds himself relegated to the sidelines.The only MLA who neither interferes in affairs of others nor does let anybody infringe upon his territory is Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.Senior officers admit that Batala is a virtual tinderbox. DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur has been tasked with ensuring that the elections go off peacefully. The fire brigade and half-dozen ambulances have been kept on a stand-by.“Ten wards have been declared sensitive. Here extra barricades have been established and cops have been deployed at strategic points based on intelligence inputs,” she said.The anger against the BJP following the farmers’ unrest is all pervasive. Officers say they are keeping a close watch on all 36 candidates fielded by the party. Many have even been asked to lay low tomorrow.After Batala, Gurdaspur is on the police watch list. Here the Congress has fielded candidates in all 29 wards while the SAD is contesting in 17 wards. The BJP is contesting 20 wards.Gurdaspur SAD president Gurbachan Singh Babbehali has been alleging that nomination papers of his candidates have been rejected on flimsy grounds. The party is struggling against the tide so much so that it could not find candidates to contest in several wards, including ward No. 17, where incidentally the SAD office is located.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-gurdaspur-uneasy-calm-on-election-eve-212053
14-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin---||Parties bank on educated young women||Tribune News Service Bathinda, February 13 Many youngsters, particularly women students and professionals with little political background, have been fielded by mainstream parties in Bathinda. The candidates say they are in it for development and to change the way people look at politics. Mandeep Kaur (26), who has done MCom in finance and was working with a private firm, has been fielded by AAP from ward number 33. She is aiming to bring a revolution in the civic politics and curb corruption. Talking to The Tribune, Mandeep said she wanted to inspire youngsters to take up politics as a career and remove corruption. “Instead of blaming the system, one should get actively involved in it to clean it from the inside. In my ward, there is water shortage and problem pertaining to water-logging as well. Also, some streets maps have not been approved by the MCB. So, I decided to contest the polls and bring about the change in society that I want to see,” she said. Mandeep’s way of campaigning has also attracted much attention. On Thursday night, she, along with her supporters, took out a ‘jaago’ in her ward. Sareena Goyal (30), who has done MA, MPhil and is currently pursuing PhD, has been fielded by the BJP from ward number 27. She has been facing repeated backlash with unidentified persons tearing her posters or blackening her face on those. Unfazed by such incidents, she terms her entry into politics as a social initiative. A postgraduate, Gurpreet Kaur (29) is contesting from ward number 41 on AAP ticket. “A lot of problems are being faced by the women in my ward. I want to be their voice. They run from pillar to post to get their pension or other scheme cards, but nobody listens to them. I will ensure that their work is done with ease,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-bank-on-educated-young-women-212054
14-02-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Nominee’s kin alleges threat, gangster booked||The police have booked Sonu Pehlwan, a gangster from Ludhiana, and around 15 of his accomplices for allegedly threatening to eliminate the husband of a Congress candidate in the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council elections. As per the FIR lodged with the Fatehgarh Sahib police station under Sections 452 (trespass), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act, Gurjit Singh, husband of Congress candidate from ward No. 17 Reeta Rani, claimed around 15 unidentified men surrounded him as he came out of his house in Sirhind city for campaigning. One of the suspects, Sonu Pehlwan, allegedly pulled out a weapon and threatened to teach him a lesson for contesting on a Congress ticket. Apprehending threat to life, the complainant rushed back into the house and was followed by the suspects, who tried to pry open the door and continued to threaten him. Gurjit said he had to call off campaigning in view of the threat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nominees-kin-alleges-threat-gangster-booked-212055
14-02-2021||Moga||Moga farmer dies at Singhu||A 72-year-old Moga farmer, who was taking part in the protest against the three farm laws, died after suffering a cardiac arrest at the Singhu border on the outskirts of Delhi, local officials said today.The deceased has been identified as Hansa Singh of Said Mohammad village at Dharamkot. His associates said Hansa had gone to the Singhu border over two months ago. Eyewitnesses said after he collapsed on Thursday night, he was taken to a hospital in Sonepat district. However, he was declared brought dead by doctors. His body was cremated at his native village today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-farmer-dies-at-singhu-212056
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Patar: Need to spread Guru’s message on co-existence||The Punjab Arts Council organised an online Trilingual National Kavi Darbar dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Nine prominent poets recited their poems and songs in Hindi, Punjabi and Urdu during the event. Punjabi poet and council chairman Surjit Patar inaugurated the event.Speaking on the occasion, Patar said the significance of the teachings, sacrifice and incomparable martyrdom of Guru Tegh Bahadur had increased even more in the present era when the existence of many religions was threatened by divisions in society. He said some politicians were spreading communal hatred for their petty political interests.Patar said Guru Tegh Bahadur, known as ‘Hind Di Chadar’, sacrificed his life to save religions and the downtrodden. He called upon poets and scholars to raise their voice against hatred, which was being spread to divide the people on communal and caste lines, and spread the message of co-existence espoused by the Guru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patar-need-to-spread-gurus-message-on-co-existence-212057
14-02-2021||Sangrur||FIRs won’t deter us, say Sangrur protesters||The farmers’ stir in front of the residence of BJP leader Satwant Singh Punia entered its 124th day today. The protesters have announced intensifying their agitation in the coming days if the central government did not repeal the farm laws. “The number of women has never receded here as they are well aware that it is their fight also. Many women have been coming here after locking their houses as their male members have gone to the Delhi borders to participate in the protest,” said Gurmale Kaur, a protester. Another woman Shinderpal Kaur said the BJP government had been registering false FIRs against farmer leaders. “But their FIRs cannot force us to end the protest,” she said. BKU (Ugrahan) leader Gobinder Singh said they were getting a good response for their agitation as the number of protesters had been increasing. “Majority of protesters have been coming on their own as they have understood that the fight against the central farm laws will go on for a long time,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firs-wont-deter-us-say-sangrur-protesters-212058
14-02-2021||---||Towering Tricolour||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/towering-tricolour-212066
14-02-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||High-stake elections, will indicate voter mood in Punjab’s urban areas||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13Ahead of the civic body polls in Punjab on Sunday, an edgy Opposition accused the ruling Congress of “tampering” with voter lists and “misusing” government machinery. Denying the charges, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar observed: “It seems the Opposition has already conceded defeat.”Feb 14 & 17 dry daysWhile SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal decried “attempts to kill the Opposition,” BJP state president Ashwani Sharma said he apprehended violence during polling. But AAP’s Raghav Chadha claimed a groundswell of support for the party.The elections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils & nagar panchayats are being fiercely fought. These are being viewed as a prelude to the Assembly elections due early next year.While winning is a matter of prestige for Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress, the Akalis view the elections as an opportunity to retrieve lost ground. Sukhbir has been at the forefront of campaigning. In Jalalabad, he accompanied candidates to the poll office for filing nomination papers.The performance of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will be keenly watched. It is the first election with the reins of the campaign firmly with the young and energetic Raghav Chadha, in-charge of AAP affairs in Punjab, and not Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann.The BJP, contesting on its own after three decades, is testing the waters. Besides facing public anger over the Centre’s three farm laws, it doesn’t have a widespread network in the state. Nevertheless, the party is hoping to maintain its hold over key pockets of Gurdaspur and surrounding areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-stake-elections-will-indicate-voter-mood-in-punjabs-urban-areas-212035
14-02-2021||---||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha: We want court to probe Republic Day violence||Ghazipur, February 13The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has called for a judicial probe by a high court or a Supreme Court judge into the January 26 violence and the arrest of farmers.Delhi cops take Deep, Iqbal to Red FortPrem Singh Bhangu, Morcha’s legal cell convener, said: “A high-level judicial inquiry is a must to unravel the conspiracy behind the events.” After Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, the Delhi Police arrested three more persons, Sukhmeet Singh, Gundeep Singh and Harvinder Singh, for the violence at Burari on January 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanyukt-kisan-morcha-we-want-court-to-probe-republic-day-violence-212038
14-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmer unions demand high-level judicial inquiry into January 26 violence||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence that took place during the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26 and the alleged ‘false” cases slapped on the farmers.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and, instead, approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance.Kuldeep Singh, a member of SKM’s legal cell, alleged that a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court should probe the incidents to unravel the “conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence and the alleged “false cases” against the farmers.According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable.Another leader Ravinder Singh said that 122 farmers had been arrested by Delhi Police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that SKM will provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers.The Morcha leaders claimed that “false” cases were being slapped on farmers charging them with serious offences like dacoity and attempt to murder to “harass” them.Singh said that the Morcha will provide Rs 2,000 to every arrested farmer for spending in prison canteen.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points, demanding a repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP). — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-demand-high-level-judicial-inquiry-into-january-26-violence-211940
