15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Second dose of COVID-19 vaccine being administered to health workers in Punjab||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday said the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine is being administered in all government hospitals of the state.Second dose of vaccine is being given to health workers who had got their first shots on January 16, when the vaccination drive was launched.Sidhu, in a statement here, said among the volunteer doctors from various departments those administered a second dose of vaccine in Mohali included Dimple Dhaliwal Srivastava (Paediatrics) and Sandeep (ENT). — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-being-administered-to-health-workers-in-punjab-212848
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||9 more POCSO fast-track courts, sexual assault response teams in all 27 police stations soon in Punjab||An inter-departmental meeting of the Punjab government on Monday decided on a slew of measures to strengthen the investigation and prosecution machinery for handling criminal offences against women and children, including establishment of nine more fast-track courts under the POCSO Act and Sexual Assault Response Teams in all the 27 police districts of the state to deal with cases of sexual attacks on women.The decisions are in line with recent directives of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh for ensuring time-bound investigations in cases of crime against women and children, and improving the prosecution rate in such cases, a press note from the office of Punjab’s director general of police said.At a high-level virtual meeting, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan directed officials to clear the backlog of cases in connection with crimes against women and children from 2016 to 2020 on priority.  She also directed the officials to lay down Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to fast-track the investigation of sexual offences against women and children by specifying the roles and responsibilities of all departments with regard to such cases, the press release said.Mahajan also ordered the constitution of a State Level Committee, headed by the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS)- Home, to review the monthly progress of pending cases. She directed the Health, Police and Prosecution departments to appoint a nodal officer for better inter-departmental synergy to deal with investigation of criminal cases related to women and child, and also manage the necessary programmes for training of personnel in this regard, the press release said.The meeting was attended by Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta, Principal Secretary Social Security and Women & Child Development Raji P Shrivastava, Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare Hussan Lal and Secretary Home Affairs Arun Sekhri. ADGP Women and Child Affairs Gurpreet Kaur Deo, Director Punjab Police Academy (PPA) Phillaur Anita Punj and Director Prosecution and Litigation Satnam Singh Kaler were also present during the meeting.The Chief Secretary announced that the state government will also recruit additional Scientific Officers and Forensic Experts to ensure faster disposal of cases pending with Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), the press release said. She added that the process of approval to provide compensation to the victims will also be eased so that such payments are made without any delay.She also directed the Home department to expedite the establishment of nine other Fast-Track Courts, for which approval has been granted by the Government, in addition to the three such courts already operational in Ludhiana and Jalandhar, the press release said.Notably, seven Fast Track Courts dealing with rape cases are also already functional in the state.Mahajan informed the meeting that to mark the International Women’s Day on March 8, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh will be launching various projects for the welfare of Women and Children, the press release said.DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta told the meeting that the police department plans to set up Sexual Assault Response Teams in all 27 Police Districts to deal with sexual assault cases, besides holding weekly meetings to discuss and monitor progress of all such cases under investigation cases, the press release said.Gupta further said that Dedicated Help Desks, already established at all police stations and manned by women for attending to complaints of women, will be functioning from SAANJH Kendras located in close vicinity to the Police Stations. The DGP suggested that some additional district level Special Prosecutors may be appointed to deal with cases related with sexual assault, the press release said.The Punjab Police Academy (PPA) Phillaur will organise joint training sessions and individual workshops for various departments, including Police, Health, Prosecution and Forensic Science Laboratory, for better coordination to handle such cases, he said, adding that the first batch of training will commence within three weeks, initially online and later in physical mode too, the press release said.For proper utilisation of the Nirbhaya Funds, the Punjab Police will upgrade forensic gadgets, mobiles and IT equipment etc to deal with online cyber offences against women and children, the press release quoted the DGP as saying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-more-pocso-fast-track-courts-sexual-assault-response-teams-in-all-27-police-stations-soon-in-punjab-212830
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Repolling ordered at three polling booths in Patiala||The Punjab State Election Commission on Monday ordered repolling at three booths of the Municipal Councils of Patran and Samana in Patiala.The repolling will be held on February 16 from 8 am to 4 pm, and counting will take place on February 17.An official spokesperson of the State Election Commission said reports were received from the Returning Officer (RO) of Patran that some miscreants damaged the electronic voting machine (EVM) at polling booth number 11 of ward number 8.Reports were received from the RO of Samana about damaging of EVMs by miscreants at polling booth number 22 and 23 of ward number 11.Taking serious note of these incidents, the Commission announced that the polling conducted at these booths would be nullified and repoll held under section 59(2)(A) of the Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994, the official said.Over 70 per cent voting was recorded in the elections to over 100 civic bodies in Punjab on Sunday amid stray incidents of skirmishes at some places.The Opposition parties have accused the ruling Congress of “capturing booths” and “indulging in violence”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repolling-ordered-at-three-polling-booths-in-patiala-212779
15-02-2021||New Delhi||India to bid for Chess Olympiad||The All India Chess Federation (AICF) has decided to bid for the next available edition of the Olympiad, and also announced that it would start the Indian Chess League this year.Sanjay Kapoor, the newly-elected AICF president, said a “foolproof” bid would soon be prepared for the Olympiad as and when the bidding process begins.“For a long time, we have been keen on starting the Indian Chess League with an international flavour to popularise the game even more,” Kapoor said. “The first edition, following the franchise-model, will be organised before this year is through.”The federation will also host the Women’s Grand Prix, which is an important part of the World Championship cycle, to give a boost to women players in the country. Other decisions taken at the federation’s AGM include the single window registration for all players, establishment of a Centre of Excellence, and organisation of a Super Tournament. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-to-bid-for-chess-olympiad-212704
15-02-2021||Indervir Grewal||Punjab teenagers Baljeet, Amandeep hit the ground running||Tribune News Servicechandigarh, February 14Baljeet Kaur seemed to have picked up where she left off before the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted the athletics season last year. Having won silver in the junior 10,000 metres event at the 7th National Race Walking Championships in February last year, she was all set to participate in her first world-level event. But the World Junior Championships were postponed due to Covid-19. A year later, the 19-year-old has won two back-to-back silver medals in the U-20 10,000 metres race walk event, achieving the qualifying mark for the World Championships in the process.Despite the disruption in training and the 2020 season being scrapped, Baljeet has also managed to cut over two minutes from her timing.Baljeet won silver at the recent 36th National Junior Athletics Championships in Guwahati with a timing of 48 minutes, 19.88 seconds. She had also finished second with a timing of 49:00.27 at last month’s 18th National Fed Cup Junior Athletics Championships.Last year, she had missed the World Championships qualifying time of 50:30 by just one second. However, she was likely to be selected for the world event as a top-two finisher.This time, though, she has earned her place by achieving the qualifying mark. The World Championships, which were to be held in July last year, will be held in August this year in Kenya.Baljeet, who hails from Kulana in Mansa, has been a trainee at the Punjab Institute of Sports’ (PIS) Patiala centre for five years. Even though the government centres have been shut for training due to Covid-19, Baljeet rented a room and continued to train under PIS coach Gurdev Singh. “Despite the difficult times, she put in the hard work and it shows in her timings,” Gurdev said.Amandeep’s double silverAnother Punjab athlete, 18-year-old Amandeep Singh Dhaliwal, achieved the qualifying mark for the World Championships. Dhaliwal also won back-to-back silver medals in the U-20 boys’ shot put event. After silver at the Fed Cup last month with a throw of 18.67 metres, he improved his throw at the Guwahati event to 18.75m. The World Championships qualifying mark is 18.30m.Dhaliwal, who hails from village Shekhupur Khurd, trains at the Sports Department’s Malerkotla centre. Dhaliwal, too, has been training on his own, working with government coach Harminder Pal Singh Ghuman. “He comes to train at my village, where I have built a makeshift throwing circle in my fields,” Ghuman said.In less than two years, Dhaliwal’s throw with the 6kg shot has improved from 17.23m to 18.75m, which is the season’s world leading throw in the U-20 category.3 from Haryana meet markThree athletes from Haryana also achieved the World Championships qualification mark. Yashvir Singh won silver in boys’ javelin throw with 77.15m. The qualification mark is 69.50m. Ankita was almost 10 seconds faster than the qualification mark, winning gold in the girls’ 1500m in 4:19.58. Pooja was almost a second faster as she won the girls’ 800m gold in 2:07.96.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-teenagers-baljeet-amandeep-hit-the-ground-running-212702
15-02-2021||---||Oppn candidates attacked, booths ‘captured’ at many places in Patiala||Samana/Rajpura/Nabha, Feb 14Despite the government’s assurance of free and fair polls, unidentified men barged into booths, polled bogus votes and attacked Opposition candidates and their supporters in the presence of police in towns of Patiala. Reports of violence came from Nabha, Rajpura, Patran and Samana. At various booths, AAP and SAD workers alleged Congress workers manhandled them in the police’s presence and no one was arrested.Cops ‘fail’ to actAAP and SAD workers alleged Congress workers manhandled them in the police’s presence. In Rajpura, despite a heavy deployment of police personnel, miscreants allegedly captured a polling booth at DAV School.In Rajpura, despite a heavy deployment of police personnel, miscreants allegedly captured a polling booth at DAV School in Rajpura. Around 40 miscreants entered the polling booth at 11.30 am and prevented voters from exercising their franchise.The polling was briefly halted following the protest by one of the candidates and his supporters. In the meantime, Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh and Superintendent of Police Harmeet Hundal reached the polling station, following which the polling resumed.BJP’s Parveen Chabhra, former president of the Rajpura Nagar Council, alleged: “With the police’s help, goons of the Congress captured booths.” The SDM said: “Strict action will be taken after identifying the miscreants.”Rajpura SAD leader Surjit Singh Garhi accused the Congress MLA and his supporters of capturing booths by attacking party workers. Meanwhile, Congress leaders claimed that AAP and SAD were alleging foul play as they were losing the elections.In Samana, the police had to resort to lathicharge when a brawl broke out following allegations of booth capturing by rival parties. Youths with covered faces attacked and ransacked the helpdesk set up by Independent candidate Darshan Kumar Mittal at Public Senior Secondary School, ward No. 4. The mob also manhandled a photo journalist as the police remained a mute spectator.At ward No. 10, Congress supporters alleged the polling station — the office of Punjab Power Corporation — was captured by supporters of an Independent candidate. SP Palwinder Singh Cheema who reached at ward No. 10 dispersed the crowd as the police resorted to a mild lathicharge to control the situation.Meanwhile, SAD candidate Kapur Chand Bansal was allegedly slapped by a rival candidate. In Patran, the voting remained largely peaceful apart from a few skirmishes in ward Nos. 17, 8 and 1. Independent candidates also raised allegations of booth capturing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppn-candidates-attacked-booths-captured-at-many-places-in-patiala-212573
15-02-2021||Bathinda||200 bogus voters added in Bathinda ward: BJP||Workers of the BJP today alleged that a bogus list of 200 voters at ward No. 43 had been released a day before the elections to “benefit” the Congress candidate.Situation turned tense outside the ward after workers of different parties roughed up each other over the issue. Raising questions over the transparency of the elections, BJP workers resorted to heavy sloganeering against the state government and the police. SSP Bhupinderjit Virk reached the spot to take stock of the situation and told candidates to file a complaint with the State Election Commission if they had doubts over the new voters’ list. Later, the BJP candidate from the ward filed a complaint with the State Election Commission seeking poll cancellation.Meanwhile, Congress workers also started raising slogans, alleging other parties were trying to create nuisance “without any valid reason”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/200-bogus-voters-added-in-bathinda-ward-bjp-212574
15-02-2021||---||Congress, SAD men clash, 9 hurt||Tribune News ServiceRopar, February 14Nine persons were injured when Congress and SAD workers accused each other of distributing cash and clashed in ward No. 1 here today.A Congress supporter, Pravin Kumar, was injured seriously and rushed to the Civil Hospital. He was further referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh. SAD workers Acchar Singh, Mahipal, Sewak Singh, Sham Singh, Chhinder Kaur, Nathu Singh and Lakhvir Singh and Lekh Raj were also injured in the clash.Around 2.30 pm, workers of both parties attacked each other with sharp-edged weapons. Following the clash, a stone pelting incident was also witnessed in the area. A heavy police force, led by DSP Talwinder Singh and local SHO Rajeev Kumar, reached the spot to bring the situation under control.Injured Pravin Kumar accused SAD supporters of trying to influence voters by distributing cash among them. He alleged when he and other Congress supporters raised the objection, they were attacked with swords. SAD supporters also levelled similar allegations against Congress leaders.Ropar SP (Headquarters) Ankur Gupta said the police has started investigation and all accused would be nabbed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-sad-men-clash-9-hurt-212575
15-02-2021||Jalandhar||Chaos as shots fired, stones thrown; 2 hurt||Unruly scenes were witnessed at Sultanpur Lodhi where a group of men resorted to stone pelting and fired into the air at booth No.1 of ward No. 1 , minutes before polling was to end.At least two persons were injured when a mob threw stones and opened fire while trying to enter the booth.While the SAD claimed the violence was started by Congress workers in a bid to case fake ballots, the latter alleged its workers were at receiving end. Later, SAD leaders gathered at the Talwandi Chowk and held a dharna.SAD’s Sajjan Singh Cheema said: “At 3.45 pm a group of men gathered outside the booth. Despite repeated calls to the SDM, DSP and SHO, the crowd swelled, leading to a clash. Many of them entered the booth as the police watched and then attacked voters. The police tried to push them away, but they fired into the air and threw stones at people.”“We left the place after the police assured us that the perpetrators will be booked,” he added. Sultanpur Lodhi Congress MLA Navtej Cheema said: “Our workers didn’t start the violence. Rather, they were attacked.”SHO Harjit Singh, who was manhandled by the mob, said: “It was a clash between Congress and Akali workers.” SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said 15 persons had been booked under Sections 336, 148, 149 and 188, IPC, based on video evidence and witness statements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chaos-as-shots-fired-stones-thrown-2-hurt-212576
15-02-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Poll staff get a rude shock, no votes at assigned booth||Tribune News ServiceMoga, February 14In a first, an election team deployed by the returning officer to conduct the civic elections in the city was at the last moment asked to return along with the electronic voting machines (EVMs) and other material as there were no votes in the polling booth assigned to them.List not updated The administration shifted the votes to other wards as per the government and EC rules. The list was mistakenly not updated and the returning officer assigned duties in routine. — Sandeep Hans, DMAs per the details available, when the officials went to booth No. 42 of ward No. 16 here to conduct the polls, they learnt there were no votes in the booth. They reported the matter to the returning officer. They were later shifted to the reserve team of polling officials. The district administration maintained the votes of booth No. 42 were shifted from ward No. 16 to two other wards — 24 and 25 — since the number of votes in these wards was very less.As per the voters’ list, prepared on the basis of an updated list of February 2020, Moga city has 1,14,820 voters. Going by the calculation, the average votes in each of the 50 wards comes down to around 2,296, with a variation of 10 per cent, as per the “Delimitation of Wards of Municipal Corporation Order, 1995”. However, the total votes in ward No. 23 were 849, followed by ward No. 24 (909 votes), 25 (975), 35 (1,009) and 16 (3,908).When the Opposition cried foul, alleging the Congress had reconstituted the wards in an irrational manner to win elections, the district administration carried out a fresh delimitation exercise and corrected the mistake. It was in this exercise that the votes of booth No. 42 in ward No. 16 were shifted to ward Nos. 24 and 25.Accordingly, the booth concerned of ward No. 16 was scrapped by the administration, but it was not updated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-staff-get-a-rude-shock-no-votes-at-assigned-booth-212577
15-02-2021||Ferozepur||Vote rigging plaints from Ferozepur too||Amidst sporadic incidents of violence, the municipal polls ended peacefully.Around 1.15 pm, the situation became tense in ward No. 8 in Ferozepur city where an Independent candidate leveled allegations of booth capturing. The police had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd. Later, the polling halted in this ward as two EVMs malfunctioned.In ward No. 20, SAD candidate Jagroop Singh boycotted the polling, alleging the police were working under pressure. In Guruharsahai, Malkit Singh Thind, AAP halqa in charge, alleged party polling agents were manhandled by Congress workers in booth No. 6.In Talwandi, BJP candidate from ward No. 11 alleged the booth was destroyed by Opposition candidates. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vote-rigging-plaints-from-ferozepur-too-212578
15-02-2021||Gurdaspur||Smooth polls in Gurdaspur||Verbal skirmishes were the order of the day during elections to the two Municipal Corporations and six municipal committees in the Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency today even as some adept policing ensured violence-free poll.Authorities had yesterday claimed that Qadian, Dhariwal and Batala were likely to be “hotspots”, but no untoward incident was reported from the areas today. In Qadian, sitting MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa appealed to the public to maintain peace.“I was informed by officials that trouble was brewing in my Assembly seat, Qadian, and that I should make an appeal to people. My pleas worked,” said Fateh.Senior police officers admitted his appeal helped their cause in a big way.In Batala, nearly 150 cops were deployed in ward No. 34, where Naveen Nayyar, Congress candidate and sister of former three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri, is pitted against former Congressman and ex-vice president of the MC Harinder Kalsi. Despite police presence, supporters of both groups entered a verbal duel, leading to a potentially volatile situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smooth-polls-in-gurdaspur-212579
15-02-2021||Moga||Cops monitored fake voting in Moga: SAD||Moga witnessed peaceful polling on Sunday amid allegations of bogus voting by Congress leaders with the help of local administration, particularly the police.Only one incident of attack on an Akali candidate, Parveen Kumar Peena, by an Independent candidate was reported in the Moga city. The police had not registered a case in this regard till the filing of this report. In ward No. 1, from where local Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal’s wife was contesting, massive bogus voting was reported.Akali leaders alleged that an SP-rank police officer, including few DSPs and inspectors, were stationed in ward number 1 and they were themselves monitoring bogus voting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-monitored-fake-voting-in-moga-sad-212580
15-02-2021||Abohar||Nominees’ kin clash in Abohar||Barring a few minor clashes in three wards, polling in PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s hometown went off peacefully. Activists of AAP and BJP led by MLA Arun Narang staged a dharna at different places after the polling ended, alleging rigging. The administration refuted the claim.Polling in hypersensitive ward No. 43 was disrupted following a minor clash between Congress and BJP workers. Eyewitnesses said the trouble erupted when the spouse of a BJP candidate objected to a voter not wearing mask. This led to a clash between spouses of BJP and Congress candidates. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nominees-kin-clash-in-abohar-212581
15-02-2021||Sangrur||Protest over ‘bogus voting’ in Sangrur||Alleging assault on their candidates and bogus voting, leaders of the SAD and AAP, along with Independents from Bhawanigarh, today sat on a protest against the local police. However, in Sunam, the ruling party leaders alleged bogus voting. In other towns, elections remained largely peaceful.“Policemen did not take any action when Congress workers attacked SAD leaders and threatened Independent candidates. Congress has misused all official machinery. We will not lift our protest till action is taken against local police officers,” said Harbhajan Singh Happy, who contested as an Independent.In Dhuri, some AAP leaders alleged that they were attacked by some persons near the polling station of ward number 1 and demanded action. “In Bhawanigarh, someone else cast the vote of our candidate Ram Singh of ward number 10 and his wife. Congress misused its power at other places as its leaders know that they would lose elections,” alleged Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol.In Sunam, local Congress halqa incharge Daman Thind Bajwa alleged: “ In ward number 8, votes of 18 persons were cast by someone else. Opposition parties resorted to bogus voting as they are losing election,” he alleged.“There was no violence and we are looking into complaints received from Bhawanigarh and Dhuri,” said Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-over-bogus-voting-in-sangrur-212582
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||It’s referendum on Congress’ work, says AAP||The local bodies elections held today — less than a year before the Punjab Assembly elections — are a referendum on the performance of the ruling Congress in the state.Alleging that polling booths were captured at various places and violence unleashed on their party cadres by the ruling party leaders, AAP has demanded the resignation of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, while holding him personally responsible for the alleged acts of violence on its workers and alleged incidents of booth capturing. An AAP volunteer was shot at in Patti. Some of their volunteers were arrested after they protested the high handedness of Congress leaders, the party alleged — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-referendum-on-congress-work-says-aap-212583
15-02-2021||Muktsar||Congress: Police worked for Akalis in Muktsar||Senior Congress leaders of Muktsar — the home district of the Badals — today alleged the police was helping Akalis in assaulting Congress workers and capturing booths.Congress leader and former Muktsar MLA Karan Kaur Brar said, “Some Akalis last night made a murderous attack on Yadwinder Singh Yadu, former senior vice-president of the Muktsar municipal council who is now our candidate from ward no.4, and his aides at the Kotkapura road. They suffered injuries and were admitted to a private hospital. Even though a police vehicle was stationed outside the hospital, cops themselves thrashed Congress workers.”Meanwhile, over the allegations of booth capturing by Akalis in Malout town, Deputy Speaker and MLA Malout Ajaib Singh Bhatti said, “Our candidate from ward No. 26 called me to the polling station saying Akalis had captured it. When I reached there, I found it locked.” Paramjit Singh Captain, Congress candidate from ward No. 26 in Malout, alleged, “The Akali candidate, along with the police, captured three polling booths.” Gopal Singh, however, said no incident of booth capturing had occurred in the town. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-police-worked-for-akalis-in-muktsar-212584
15-02-2021||---||Rawat, Capt in huddle over Sidhu||Chandigarh, February 14Days after Congress president Sonia Gandhi met former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat met Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to discuss rehabilitation of the cricketer -turned-politician, it is learnt.Punjab in charge keen on Dy CM’s post for himRawat, along with AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, was present when Sidhu had met the party president.At the dinner meeting that took place on Friday between the Chief Minister and Rawat, the latter is learnt to have conveyed Sonia’s message regarding rehabilitation of Sidhu. Rawat specially flew in by chopper to meet the Chief Minister.The party leadership is learnt to have offered him a state Cabinet berth or even a bigger role at the Centre.While the Chief Minister is learnt to have offered him a spot in the state Cabinet, Sidhu was reportedly interested in the post of the PPCC president. Rawat, who has been batting for Sidhu, is learnt to be keen on the Deputy CM’s post for Sidhu.Sources said balancing out the Hindu, Dalit and Jat leadership in event of a Cabinet reshuffle or replacing the PPCC president was a matter of concern for the party leadership.“With the Congress completing four years at the helm in March 2021 and the state assembly elections due early next year, clarity should emerge on Sidhu by March-end. Otherwise, it would be too late,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rawat-capt-in-huddle-over-sidhu-212585
15-02-2021||GS Paul||Covid parole ends, 6K told to return||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 14With the intensity of the Covid-19 threat diving down, the convicted prisoners and undertrials, who were released on special parole last year to decongest jails, have been called back.Negative report mustThe state government has decided not to further extend the parole, granted between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2020, to approximately 6,000 prisoners.The process would be done in a phased manner starting from February 17. A first-out-first-in mechanism would be followed, which means prisoners who have availed the longest period of parole would report back first.The male prisoners would surrender at the district jail Barnala and Pathankot, whereas the female prisoners at sub-jail Malerkotla along with a mandatory negative Covid test report (RT-PCR only) received within three days preceding the surrender.ADGP (Prisons) PK Sinha said three locations — district jail Barnala and the subjails at Pathankot and Malerkotla — had been designated as their primary destination where they would be examined by the health authorities.They would be quarantined for four days, including the day of surrender, and Covid samples would be collected on the fifth day. Subsequent to their negative report, they would be transferred to their respective prisons. However, the prisoners above 60 years and those with chronic co-morbidities would be taken back in the last batch of parole returnees.If any prisoner already tested positive prior to the surrender, he would have to report on the 18th day from the date of result with the prior permission of the jail superintendent.A schedule for return of around 650-700 prisoners in one batch every 9-10 days has been circulated to all jail authorities concerned. This schedule shall not apply to prisoners released on parole in 2021, who shall return to the respective special jails as and when their parole period expires.Amritsar Central Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said 530 convicted prisoners, including 50 women, were granted parole last year.“The males will surrender at sub-jail Pathankot, whereas females at sub-jail Malerkotla where they will be checked by health teams. Only those inmates will be shifted to jail whose Covid-19 test is negative. Landing here, they will be quarantined in the specific barracks earmarked for quarantine purpose. We have prepared special barracks to accommodate 336 persons at a time safely,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-parole-ends-6k-told-to-return-212586
15-02-2021||---||Back from Tihar, 80-year-old alleges assault by Delhi cops||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, February 14Baba Gurmukh Singh, 80, a Singhu protester booked and arrested by the Delhi Police following the Red Fort incident, was accorded a warm welcome by villagers as he arrived at Samaspur Singha village in Khamano subdivision after release from the Tihar Jail. Advocate AS Dharni, member of SAD’s legal team, accompanied him.Talking to mediapersons, Gurmukh said he was a retired Army soldier and had participated in a war against Pakistan. He said he had been participating in protest since December 26 and claimed he along with 10 other farmers was arrested from the Burari ground while taking dinner.He accused the police of pushing them into buses and assaulting them. He along with seven persons was kept in a small room in the jail. He said the protests would continue until the farm laws were repealed.Dharni urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to write to the Chief Justice for setting up an inquiry team to probe the alleged atrocities being committed on farmers by the Delhi Police. He said the police had started issuing notices to those who were part of the farmer protest, forcing them to move courts for bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-from-tihar-80-year-old-alleges-assault-by-delhi-cops-212587
15-02-2021||Sangrur||Jailed for 16 days, 70-year-old to rejoin stir||Sixteen days in the Tihar jail and alleged humiliation at the hands of cops failed to deter 70-year-old ex-serviceman Jit Singh, who was arrested on January 28 from Burari ground in New Delhi.As he reached his house at Khanauri town on Sunday morning, he announced to rejoin the protest against the farm laws. “On January 28 evening, some protesters, including me, were bundled up in a police vehicle. They did not allow me to even wear my trousers. I was taken to the police station in shorts. Is this the way to treat an ex-serviceman who has protected the nation and that, too, without any fault?” Jit said.Singh owns one acre of land, while his pension and the meager salary of his son, who works as a private security guard, are the main sources of income of his family. Earlier, he worked as a “granthi” at a gurdwara of Baniyani village in Rohtak (Haryana), the native village of CM Manohar Lal Khattar.“We have the right to protest peacefully if there is any injustice with us. The three laws will ruin farming and it’s an injustice with all farmers. I will rejoin the protest soon as I have done nothing wrong. Why should I not support my brothers?” Singh, who retired from the Army as lance naik in 1989, said. His brother-in-law Rachpal Singh said the registration of false cases could not prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jailed-for-16-days-70-year-old-to-rejoin-stir-212588
15-02-2021||Ravneet Singh||Pbi varsity suspends 16 courses||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 14Owing to financial crisis, Punjabi University, Patiala, has decided to keep a number of its courses in abeyance (temporary suspension). The university, which will start six self-financed courses at three of its campuses, has decided to shut various other courses launched last year that had failed to attract students. The university took the decisions during a meeting of the planning and monitoring board held on Thursday. An official, requesting anonymity, said the decisions were a part of the efforts being initiated to ensure product differentiation and cost-leadership.Poor student strengthOfficials say the university introduced many courses during the previous academic session (2020-21), but these too will be shut due to low admission count. No board meeting was held last year, and the decision over the matter was long-pending, they say.Officials said the university had decided to keep in abeyance as many as 16 courses, for which admission was less than 95 per cent in the past five years. These courses include BCom, BBA, BCA, MTech, MCA and various diploma and certificate courses.The university had introduced many courses during the previous academic session (2020-21), but these too would be shut due to low admission count, said officials. No board meeting was held last year, and the decision over the matter was long-pending, they said.The university will now begin six new self-financed courses, including BA-social science (honours), BEd and MA-English, among others, at three of its centres and colleges. The university will also increase the number of seats in the courses, other than certificate and diploma courses, by 10 per cent. “This will be done as per the guidelines of the UGC and the All-India Council of Technical education (AICTE),” said an official.The university also decided to stop admissions to MBA course being run at the School of Business Studies, Punjabi University regional centre, Bathinda, for lack of students. Acting Vice-Chancellor Ravneet Kaur said she would not be able to share any information regarding the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pbi-varsity-suspends-16-courses-212589
15-02-2021||Karam Prakash||District Education officers can’t comment on vacancies in schools any more||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 14Invoking the increasing number of legal challenges, the state Education Department has asked District Education Officers (DEOs) to stop furnishing information at their level — about the status of vacancies in schools — under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005.Education Dept letter says…RTI Act not dilutedTo provide exact information, DEOs have been asked to refer the requests to the head office. I don’t think there is any dilution of the Act in doing that. — Vijay Inder Singla, Education MinisterIn fact, the Education Department has asked the DEOs to forward all RTI requests, henceforth, to the head office. But, experts say the said arrangement amounts to the violation of the RTI Act.In a letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the department said it had come to their notice that information, especially by unemployed teachers, was selectively sought about the number of sanctioned, filled and vacant posts. And the information provided by the DEOs in the past had dragged the department into a lot of legal battles, thereby, creating administrative challenges for them, the letter adds.The department believes that in the wake of the rise in the number of admission of students, number of vacancies keeps changing. Therefore, DEOs have been directed in the letter that they should not give any information pertaining to the number of vacancies at their level and forward such RTI applications to the head office.Meanwhile, teacher unions have strongly opposed the letter. Vikram Dev, state president, Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), said it was a clear violation of the RTI Act.“Instead of decentralisation, the Education Secretary is out to take all powers in his hands. Moreover, each school and DEO office has an information officer who can provide information pertaining to vacancies more accurately. Therefore, we demand that the said order should immediately be revoked,” he said.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “The orders are specifically for information related to vacancy only. The process of rationalisation of posts is going on. So, the number of posts at any school keeps changing with the passage of time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/district-education-officers-cant-comment-on-vacancies-in-schools-any-more-212590
15-02-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||3 contacts of Punjab-based drug smugglers arrested||The Sriganganagar police have arrested three suspects, who owned agricultural land near the fencing, for their alleged role in drug smuggling from across the border on the night of February 7-8 in the Hindumalkot police station area.Helped smuggle 5-kg heroinThe police claimed at least four suspected smugglers from Ferozepur and Fazilka districts had fled with 5-kg heroin. A packet containing 1-kg heroin was found at the spot. Police and intelligence agencies were in touch with the Punjab Police to arrest the smugglers based in the state.SP Rajan Dushyant said Lakhwinder Singh (23) and his brother Satnam Singh (20) of border village Dullapur Keri and Balwinder Singh of Pakki village had been arrested.Satnam and Lakhwinder owned agricultural land near BSF’s Madanlal outpost. This land was 150 yards behind the zero line.Investigation indicated Lakhwinder facilitated the visit of smugglers from Punjab to his fields. Footage of the location of the International Border was also made available to them for easy access to Pakistan smugglers to take heroin consignments.DSP (Rural) Bhanwer Lal Meghwal said two months ago, Balwinder had sent their farm location through WhatsApp to the Punjab smugglers. The two were reportedly paid Rs 20,000. After successful drug delivery, the two were to receive a large amount from the Punjab-based smugglers.On February 7-8, BSF personnel posted at the Madanlal outpost noticed some suspicious movement across the border. On being challenged, two Pakistani men fired two rounds and fled. BSF jawans retaliated but there were no casualties. Later, a packet containing 1.4-kg heroin, worth Rs 5 crore in the international market, was found near the fencing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-contacts-of-punjab-based-drug-smugglers-arrested-212591
15-02-2021||---||23 gharials released into Beas||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 14The Department of Punjab Forest and Wildlife Preservation, in collaboration with the World-Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India) recently released another lot of 23 gharials into the Beas flowing in Hoshiarpur district.It was an extension of the state’s programme, conceptualised in 2005, to reintroduce, preserve and breed these critically endangered species of crocodile in Punjab streams.In the phase-I of this project, 47 juvenile gharials were released into the Beas Conservation Reserve in batches between 2017-2018 in Amritsar and Tarn Taran.RK Mishra, Chief Wildlife Warden, Punjab, said a suitable undisturbed stretch of Beas, near Salimpur and Tahli Forest, Hoshiarpur, was selected for the current batch of 23 captive-bred gharials.He said the long snouted gharials (Gavialis gangeticus) were brought here from Morena, Madhya Pradesh, under the phase-II of the project.Gursharan Singh, DFO, Wildlife, Hoshiarpur, said the species were three-year-old. “We had plans to release them in March 2020, but the move was postponed due to the pandemic. So, these were kept at the Chhatbir zoo before their final destination in the Beas.”Meanwhile, a joint monitoring team of the Wildlife Division, Hoshiarpur, and the WWF-India, has been formed for daily monitoring of gharials for one month. Field surveys conducted, so far, indicated that gharials had dispersed both upstream and downstream of the release sites in the Beas Conservation Reserve.Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, WWF-India, said post release, monitoring was one of the vital aspects of the gharial reintroduction. “The surveys will focus on understanding dispersal, habitat preference, population ecology and general well-being of the released gharials. These gharials, the shy reptiles, belong to fish-eating species and do not attack human beings or animals,” she said.The Beas Conservation Reserve — a 185-km stretch of the Beas — was found to be a perfect habitat for the gharials, which were reintroduced into the river two years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/23-gharials-released-into-beas-212592
15-02-2021||---||Army vehicle catches fire, luggage damaged||Our CorrespondentAbohar/Sriganganagar, Feb 14An Army vehicle caught fire today evening on the Sriganganagar-Bikaner highway. No casualties were reported, but a lot of luggage got burnt.The Suratgarh Municipal Council rushed a fire tender to the spot. The fire was controlled by splashing water. Preliminary inquiries indicated that the vehicle was transporting a boat, and four soldiers were on board. Initially, some spark was noticed emanating from a cloth, which was immediately removed. However, the spark had spread to luggage due to high-velocity wind, a passerby informed the police. The police and fire tender controlled the fire within half-an-hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-vehicle-catches-fire-luggage-damaged-212593
15-02-2021||Nitin Jain||Most have access to basic amenities: Survey||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, February 14Punjab ranks among the top states where access to bare necessities of life was highest in 2018. Other states that figured on the list are Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Kerala, Gujarat, Goa, Mizoram and Sikkim. However, the states where the access was lowest are Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Tripura.State moves up on potable water supply chartPunjab also ranks among the states that logged improvement in providing access to drinking water to households in 2018. Punjab, Haryana, Sikkim and Gujarat are at the top, while Odisha, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh are at the bottom on the index.Constant efforts proved fruitfulWe are committed to enhancing efficiency and effectiveness of the government schemes at the grassroots level.— Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryAccording to the pre-Budget Economic Survey 2021, Punjab also figures on the list of states that logged considerable improvement in making potable water supply available to people.In rural India, the highest access to bare necessities in 2018 was recorded in Punjab, Kerala, Sikkim, Goa and Delhi, while the lowest in UP, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Manipur and Tripura.The improvement is significantly higher in the rural areas, but variation in the access to bare necessities between rural and urban remained large. It was found that as compared to 2012, access to the bare necessities has improved across all states in 2018.The improvement is widespread as they span each of the five dimensions — access to water, housing, sanitation, micro-environment and other facilities. Inter-state disparities in the access to bare necessities have declined in 2018 as compared to 2012 across rural and urban areas. This is because the states where the level of access was low in 2012 have gained relatively more between 2012 and 2018.It was also found that the improved access has led to improvement in health and education indicators. However, while improvement in access to bare necessities is evident, disparities continue to exist between rural-urban, among income groups and also across states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-have-access-to-basic-amenities-survey-212594
15-02-2021||Moga||Man run over, Congress leader booked||Days after Congress activists were accused of running over two Akali workers, a youth Congress leader allegedly mowed down a man under his car at nearby Saleena village, on the outskirts of Moga city, late last night. The police have booked a case against Paramvijay Singh, alias Mikki, coordinator of the social media cell of the state Congress unit. The victim has been identified as Gurbachan Singh (54). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-run-over-congress-leader-booked-212595
15-02-2021||---||Bathinda AIIMS  treats first cancer patient||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 14After operation theatre services were introduced at AIIMS, Bathinda, last week, first surgery of a cancer patient was successfully performed by a team of doctors.Director Dr DK Singh said with regular infrastructure upgrade, the hospital would be instrumental in treating cancer patients of the region in future. Medical Superintendent Dr Satish Gupta said the first onco-surgery of carcinoma breast was conducted by the team of Dr Nikhil Garg, Dr Jaspreet Shergill, Dr Navneh Samagh and Dr Nimish yesterday.Dr Singh said: “The institute is dedicated to the service of the medical needs of the population of the region. It’s in its initial phase and yet to be fully operational, but maximum benefit would be passed on to people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-aiims-treats-first-cancer-patient-212596
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Capt slams BJP ministers for remarks on farmers||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday expressed shock over the recent statements of senior BJP leaders on the death of protesting farmers, saying the party had lost the moral and ethical right to continue to rule the country.“The BJP-led government at the Centre should step down in the interest of the nation as should the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana,” said the Chief Minister, slamming Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar and Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal for their statements on the death of farmers protesting against farm laws.The CM also slammed Tomar for his statement that the Centre had no plans to provide financial assistance to the families of the deceased farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-slams-bjp-ministers-for-remarks-on-farmers-212597
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhana gets cold shoulder||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has refused to discuss the issue of supporting gangster-turned-social worker Lakha Sidhana, facing arrest for the Red Fort incident. According to sources, a BKU (Sidhupur) leader at the last meeting of the 32 organisations of Punjab proposed that Sidhana should not be equated with Deep Sidhu, arrested by the Delhi Police in the case, and he should be supported by morcha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhana-gets-cold-shoulder-212599
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||NGO to train 1,800 school dropouts in soft skills||In a pilot project, around 1,800 school and college dropouts will be imparted training in soft skills by a Pune-based NGO, Champions of Change for Education and Skill Development.Departments of Technical Education, Higher Education and Industries and Commerce will help source the targeted youth. After getting nod of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, representatives of the NGO recently held a meeting with senior government functionaries, ahead of singing an agreement.A senior government functionary said the NGO, supported by Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funding, had implemented projects in other states for career counselling and skill development of rural youth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngo-to-train-1-800-school-dropouts-in-soft-skills-212600
15-02-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Lt Gen Minhas takes charge of Konark Corps||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lt-gen-minhas-takes-charge-of-konark-corps-212601
15-02-2021||---||71% cast ballot in Punjab civic poll amid clashes||Chandigarh, February 14Violence marred the high-stake civic body polls to Punjab’s eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats on Sunday that saw a high voter turnout of 71 per cent. Mansa reported the highest polling percentage at 82.99 per cent, followed by Bathinda at 79 per cent and Sangrur 77.39 per cent.Mansa 83%Mohali  60%In Patti (Amritsar), an AAP worker received a bullet injury while in Sultanpur Lodhi, unidentified persons opened fire to scare away the voters. Nine persons were injured in a clash between Congress and SAD supporters in Ropar.There were skirmishes and stone-pelting incidents over allegations of booth-capturing in Muktsar, Malout, Samana, Patran, Rajpura, Moga, Fatehgarh Churian, Mukerian, Dinangar, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Abohar, Jalalabad, Dhuri and Bhikhiwind.The outcome of the civic polls, held ahead of the crucial 2022 Assembly elections, will reflect the voter mood in urban and semi-urban areas. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar alleged SAD workers attacked Congress workers in Muktsar. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Dr DS Cheema accused the Congress of blatantly misusing government machinery to “capture” booths and unleashing violence on the Opposition to intimidate voters.“No concrete steps were taken to ensure free and fair elections. Akali supporters were attacked with sharp weapons at several places,” he claimed. The counting will be held on February 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/71-cast-ballot-in-punjab-civic-poll-amid-clashes-212523
15-02-2021||Chandigarh/Muktsar||Polling held for over 100 civic bodies in Punjab; skirmishes at some places||Polling was held for over hundred civic bodies in Punjab on Sunday amid stray incidents of skirmishes at some places.According to officials, seven people were injured in Rupnagar after workers of the ruling Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal clashed following a heated argument in Ward No.1 there.Skirmishes and scuffles between activists of the Congress and the Opposition parties were also reported from Batala, Rajpura, Tarn Taran, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Samana, Rupnagar, Nabha, Nangal, Mohali and Ferozepur.Though the final voting percentage is yet to come, over 55 per cent people had voted till 2 pm. The voting began at 8 am and continued till 4 pm, said officials.A total of 9,222 candidates are in the fray for the elections to 2,302 wards of eight municipal corporations of Abohar, Bathinda Batala, Kapurthala, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Moga, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats.Of the total candidates, 2,832 are independents, 2,037 from the ruling Congress while 1,569 are SAD nominees. The BJP and the AAP have fielded 1,003 and 1,606 candidates, respectively.Prominent among those who cast their votes on Sunday were Punjab minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, AAP MLA Aman Arora and state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma.The Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) accused the Congress workers of indulging in booth capturing in Samana, Rajpura, Dhuri, Abohar and Bhikhiwind, a charge denied by the ruling party.Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema claimed that an AAP volunteer was allegedly shot at in Patti by some Congress activists. However, police rejected the charge.Cheema alleged that the democracy was "murdered" in Punjab on Sunday by the Congress and sought resignation of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.Talking to the media in Majitha, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia accused the ruling Congress of “misusing” the government machinery to win the polls.The State Election Commission (SEC) had set up 4,102 polling stations, of which 1,708 were declared as sensitive and 861 as hypersensitive.Around 7,000 electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used for voting.As many as 19,000 police personnel were deployed to ensure free and fair elections, an official said.Voters were also screened with thermal scanners at polling booths in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.The officials said the state has 39,15,280 voters, including 20,49,777 males, 18,65,354 females and 149 transgenders. The counting of votes will take place on February 17. Polling began on a violent note in Muktsar when former senior vice president of Muktsar municipal council Yadwinder Singh Yadu, a Congress candidate from Ward 4, and his supporter Sudhir Sharma, were injured in a late night clash between the Akalis and the Congressmen at Kotkapura Road, on the outskirts of Muktsar.Violence was also reported from Ropar, where a clash between SAD and Congress workers led to nine people being wounded, some with serious injuries. Minor skirmishes and heated exchanges were also reported between workers of the ruling Congress and the opposition parties at Jagraon, Batala, Rajpura, Tarn Taran and Bathinda.Talking to the media in Majitha, Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia accused the ruling Congress of “misusing” the government machinery to win urban local bodies polls.He further charged the Congress-led government of not carrying out any development work during its regime.Voters including elderly citizens started coming to the polling booths in the morning at many places in Punjab to cast their votes.Voters were also screened through thermal scanners at polling booths in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.Congress leader and former MLA Muktsar Karan Kaur Brar blamed Akalis for the violence, and has raised questions on the functioning of the police in the town.Also read: Polling booth scrapped in Moga, polling staff asked to report backPolling under way for civic body elections in PunjabKaran Kaur Brar said: “In our government, the Akalis are assaulting the Congressmen. It is a complete failure of duty on the of part of the SSP and the district police.”Activists of the Akali Dal held a sit-in protest in Sultanpur Lodhi over allegations of fake votes at booth no. 1 of BDPO office. Firing in the air and stone pelting were also reported.Nine people were wounded—a few seriously—in a clash in Ropar. The clash followed a heated argument between supporters of Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal, who accused each other of trying to bribe voters in the ongoing civic body elections.Minor skirmishes reported in Tarn Taran, and in Guru Harsahai in Batala. Minor clash between Congress workers and the AAP workers in ward no. 7 reported. There are tight security arrangements in both towns.Meanwhile, the police took a SAD candidate and his son into custody over the allegations of kidnapping a Congressman.On this, SAD’s Muktsar district president-cum-local MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi said: “Yadu has been beaten up by police and not by any SAD worker. The police have also arrested Chand Batra — our candidate from Ward-18 Tek — and his son over false allegations of kidnapping. We are winning the election in a majority of wards and wanted a peaceful election.” Gidderbaha Congress MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring visited the injured Congressmen at a private hospital here. He said: “It is shameful that Congressmen are being assaulted in the constituency where the party is in power. I ask Sukhbir Badal to come here and see for himself that who is indulged in violence — his men or the Congress party workers.” HighlightsFinal pollingKiratpur Sahib Nagar Panchayat:  84.62 pcChamkaur Sahib Nagar Panchayat: 70.59 pcAnandpur Sahib municipal council: 76.83 pcRopar: 67 pcLudhiana MCFinal turnout: 70.33 pcCivic body-wise turnoutKhanna: 68.72 pcJagraon: 67.69 pcSamrala: 73.96 pcRaikot: 73.86 pcDoraha: 74.8 pcPayal: 83.09 pcMullanpur Dakha: 68.5 pcSahnewal: 61.16 pcMohaliOverall: 60.08 pcMohali Municipal Corporation: 55.54 pc Dera Bassi Municipal Council: 65.69 pc  Kurali Municipal Council: 69.24 pc Banur Municipal Council: 77.91 pcLalru Municipal Council: 75.76 pcZirakpur Municipal Council: 55 pc Nayagaon Municipal Council: 65.90 pc Kharar Municipal Council:  58.14 pc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/polling-held-for-over-100-civic-bodies-in-punjab-skirmishes-at-some-places-212302
15-02-2021||Moga||Man crushed to death near Moga, Congress worker booked||A man was killed when he was run over by an SUV allegedly driven by a Congress worker at Saleena village on the outskirts of Moga city late last night.Earlier this week, two Akali workers were crushed to death by a car in Moga city, following which Congress workers were booked.In the latest incident, a case has been registered against Paramvijay Singh, alias Mikki, coordinator of the Social Media Cell of the Punjab Congress, under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 279, 337, and 427 of the IPC at Sadar police station.The deceased has been identified as Gurbachan Singh (54). The case was registered on the complaint of his son, Lovepreet Singh, who alleged that he and his father were going to Saleena village from Moga on a motorcycle when Paramvijay, driving a Scorpio, hit them from behind.Gurbachan Singh was taken to a private hospital in Moga, where he succumbed to the injuries on Sunday morning.Also read: 2 killed in clash between Congress, Akali workers in Punjab’s MogaLovepreet was also injured in the incident, but was out of danger, police officials said.Meanwhile, the police have launched a hunt for Paramvijay, who fled the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-crushed-to-death-near-moga-congress-worker-booked-212291
