17-02-2021||---||Democracy throttled, BJP committed to people, says Ashwani Sharma||Chandigarh, February 17Having suffered a beating in the civic polls, the BJP on Wednesday hit out at the Congress for “misusing” the official machinery and said the results reflected “complete moral defeat” of the opposition party.“The election results reflect complete moral defeat of the Congress in the face of blatant misuse of official machinery,” BJP’s Punjab unit chief Ashwani Sharma said in statement.At more than two dozen places the Congress workers indulged in reckless violence against the BJP workers while the police took no action, alleged Sharma.  At numerous places,  he said, the BJP candidates were denied a fair play even as we brought the matter to the notice of the Election Commission time and again. Sharma said the BJP would continue working for the cause of the people undeterred by the outcome of the election results. Sharma complimented the party workers who had to suffer the brutality of the Congress and reassured the people of the state that the BJP would continue to uphold and popularise the development and progressive policies of the Modi government and would continue highlighting the “mafia raj” of the Amarinder Singh government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/democracy-throttled-bjp-committed-to-people-says-ashwani-sharma-213796
17-02-2021||Balwant Garg||Civic polls: 17 Akali, BJP, AAP candidates draw blank in Kotkapura||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, February 17In an utterly dismal show of their performance as political entities, eight candidates of SAD, five of BJP and four of AAP failed to get even a single vote in the MC elections in Kotkapura town of the district.The Congress, SAD, AAP and BJP contested on all 29 MC seats in the town. Even two children of Sunita Garg, the district convener of BJP, could not win the elections on their seats in Kotkapura.All 29 candidates of BJP could corner only 1,055 (2.3 per cent) of total 46,040 votes polled. While five candidates of BJP failed to get even a single vote, 12 polled less than 20 votes in their wards.The reason for some candidates getting no vote is attributed to the parties fielding outsiders in some wards.Maximum votes were polled to Congress (43.4 per cent), followed by Independents (28 per cent), SAD (14.7 per cent) and AAP (10 per cent) in Kotkapura. Congress has won 21 of 29 seats in Kotkapura, followed by five independents and three candidates of SAD.Pardeep Singla of BJP in Jaito is the sole winner of the party in the district. Vijay Kumar Chhabra, district president of BJP who had abandoned the party and joined the SAD some days back in view of farmers’ agitation against 3 farm bills, emerged winner on SAD ticket in Faridkot.In Faridkot, out of total 25 seats, 16 have been wrested by Congress, 7 by SAD, one each by AAP and independent. In Jaito, out of total 17 wards, the Congress fall beyond majority as it won only seven seats, followed by 4 by independents, 3 in SAD kitty, 2 for AAP and one for BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/civic-polls-17-akali-bjp-aap-candidates-draw-blank-in-kotkapura-213776
17-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmers at Singhu gear up to beat summer heat and continue protest||Farmers sitting on protest against the Government’s new farms laws have started preparing to face the scorching summer heat at Singhu village.They are planning to install fans, coolers, generators at the protest site.There are two stages set up at the Singhu protest site—one stage facing toward Delhi where the protesting farmers can be seen sitting at an open space, while the second stage is near Kundli village (border area of Delhi and Haryana), which is fully covered with tarpaulin.The farmers leaders told IANS that various social organisations have come forward to provide fans and coolers to the protesting farmers.“We are preparing to replace these tarpaulin-made tents under which farmers have been sitting for over 80 days braving chilly winds so far. With the summer having started and with every passing day becoming hotter, we are planning to install fans and coolers and if need be, air conditioners will also be provided. The changes would happen in the next couple of days,” said Kulveer Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur district in Punjab, who is also a member of the Krantikari Kisan Union.He said that volunteers have started preparing for initiating the changes at the protest sites.“Two such setups have already come up behind both the stages. We are not only planning to beat the summer heat, but we will also ensure that farmers get chilled potable water in the coming days.”Apart from tarpaulin shades or plastic tents, most of the farmers stay in their tractor-trolleys they have brought from their villages. All the tractor-trolleys parked across the road or outside (Delhi-Chandigarh highway) could be seen covered with tarpaulin.Many tractor-trolleys that have carried farmers from different villages and districts from Haryana and Punjab are fitted with fans to provide cool air to the farmers. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-at-singhu-gear-up-to-beat-summer-heat-and-continue-protest-213771
17-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||NOTA gets more votes than BJP candidates in two Bathinda wards||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 17Facing the heat over the three farm laws, BJP has performed poorly in the Bathinda MC polls as in two wards NOTA (none of the above button) got more votes than BJP candidates.As per the election result figures in ward number 10, BJP candidate Raj Kumar polled only 12 votes, while NOTA got 21 votes.Similarly, BJP candidate Manju Kaur polled 18 votes and NOTA got 39 votes in ward number 20.In many other wards as well, BJP candidates has given a tough fight to the NOTA. In ward number 3, BJP candidate Mahinder Kaur polled 39 votes, whereas NOTA got 27 votes.In ward number 24, BJP candidate Raj polled 22 votes and NOTA got 17 votes. In ward number 40, BJP candidate Ravi Kumar got 22 votes and NOTA got 19 votes.In ward number 21, BJP candidate Rinku Bala Gupta got 46 votes and NOTA got 29 votes.BJP got less than 100 votes in 20 wards. Surprisingly, former deputy mayor and BJP candidate from ward number 1, Gurinderpal Kaur Mangat polled only 84 votes and she remained at distant fourth position.In ward number 29 and 49, BJP candidates Kanchan Jindal and Shamma polled 660 and 633 votes, respectively.BJP state media co-incharge Sunil Singla said, “I salute the party cadre who contested these polls bravely in gunda raj of the Congress. On the name of farmers’ agitation, Congress misguided farmers and staged protests outside the residences of BJP leaders in the state and even did not allow our candidates to campaign freely. To hide their poor working in the state, Congress misused the state machinery to win these polls”.The BJP leader added, “We will sit and analyse these results and will redesign our strategy for the coming Punjab assembly polls.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nota-gets-more-votes-than-bjp-candidates-in-two-bathinda-wards-213769
17-02-2021||---||Cong secured win in civic polls by resorting to ‘state-sponsored repression’: SAD||Chandigarh, February 17The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday said the Congress had secured a win in the municipal elections by resorting to “state-sponsored repression” even as it lauded Akali workers for asserting themselves boldly and ensuring the SAD emerged as the main opposition to the corrupt and incompetent Congress.Read also: Punjab civic poll results reaffirm Congress hold; SAD ahead of AAP; BJP takes beatingIn a statement here, party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said even as the SAD had emerged as the principal opposition party in Punjab post municipal elections despite going alone for the first time, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had been completely eradicated in the state. He said SAD candidates gave a tough fight to the Congress across the state with almost all seats witnessing a direct contest between the Congress and SAD. “The vote share of the SAD has also increased in urban areas”. He said in direct contrast AAP had been pushed to the fringes of Punjab politics. “AAP has secured the number four position in elections to the municipal corporations,” he added.Speaking about the poll result, Cheema said, “It seems the civil machinery and the Punjab Police has won the day for the Congress along with equal help from the State Election Commission (SEC). More than 500 nomination papers of SAD candidates alone were rejected along with a couple of hundred of other parties in an attempt to make the entire election process a nomination process. This alone calls for sacking of the SEC.”He said the Congress had seen the writing on the wall much before the polls and unleashed a systematic campaign of terror, intimidation, violence and murder.“Strong SAD candidates were identified in advance and either their nomination papers were rejected or their booths were targeted for bogus voting and rigging. This murder of democracy will be responsible for the downfall of the Congress party in the 2022 assembly elections.”Reacting to the claims made by Pradesh Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Cheema said “instead of thanking the people Jakhar should thank the Punjab Police which his party misused to secure this victory. Had the Congress government allowed a free and fair election then the party would have realised its true popularity among the masses”.He also thanked the Akali rank and file for standing up to the “unprecedented repression and highhandedness of the Congress party and its goons”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-secured-win-in-civic-polls-by-resorting-to-state-sponsored-repression-sad-213767
17-02-2021||New Delhi||'Rail roko': Railways deploys 20 additional RPSF companies, focus on Punjab, Haryana, UP||The railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the RPSF across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, in the wake of the “rail roko” called on Thursday by farmer groups protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations.Director General, Railway Protection Force, Arun Kumar on Wednesday said, “I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. We will be liaisoning with district administrations and will have a control room in place.”“We will gather intelligence. States such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and some other areas will be our focus. We have deployed 20 companies (around 20,000 personnel) of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) in these areas,” he said.“We want to persuade them to not cause inconvenience for passengers. We have a four-hour window and we want it (rail roko) to get over peacefully,” Kumar said.The SKM had said the rail blockade will held across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm.The announcement came amid the ongoing protests against the laws at Delhi’s borders by farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and ‘mahapanchayats’ that are being organised in these states to garner support for the movement.On Tuesday, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni had said farmer unions will hold meetings in poll-bound West Bengal as well and indicated that they will ask people there not to vote for those who are “snatching our livelihood”.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rail-roko-railways-deploys-20-additional-rpsf-companies-focus-on-punjab-haryana-up-213754
17-02-2021||Sambhal||Farmers will not return home till they win: BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni||The Bharatiya Kisan Union is fighting for farmers’ rights, and they will not return home from Delhi’s borders till the new agri laws are repealed, the farm organisation’s Haryana president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said on Wednesday.He also said the union will hold programmes, such as panchayats and mahapanchayats, to make the country aware that the government at the Centre is “not for the people but of corporates”.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi’s borders against the legislations since November 28 last year and demanding these be repealed.“We are fighting for the rights of farmers, and they will not return home till they win, and time does not matter in this struggle,” Chaduni, who was on his way to Moradabad for a mahapanchayat, told reporters in Uttar Pradesh’s Gelua village.“This government is not for the people but of corporates and only people can fight with it. We will hold panchayats in the entire country and make people aware and associate them with us,” he said, a day ahead of a “rail roko” announced by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest.Chaduni alleged that the entire agri business was being given to corporates and said the farmers’ movement was for their “survival”.“Agriculture is our livelihood and not our business. The food grains of the country will go into godowns of corporates and they will indulge in black marketing. This is an ‘andolan’ (movement) not only of farmers but of all,” he said.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-will-not-return-home-till-they-win-bku-leader-gurnam-singh-chaduni-213750
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Defeated negative and vicious forces: Punjab CM Amarinder hails civic poll results||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday hailed the Congress party’s spectacular victory in the state municipal polls as not just a validation of his government’s development-oriented policies and programmes but also a total rejection of the anti-people actions of the major opposition parties, namely SAD, AAP and BJP.Congratulating Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, as well as all MLAs, members and workers of the party, for the sweeping victory in the civic polls, the results of which were declared today, the Chief Minister said the people of the state had clearly and unequivocally denounced the divisive, undemocratic, unconstitutional and regressive agendas of the three parties.He thanked and congratulated the people for defeating the negative and vicious forces that are out to ruin Punjab and its future.The first major polls to be held in Punjab since the enactment of the draconian Farm Laws had also underscored people’s angst with the BJP, which was responsible for the anti-farmer legislation with the active support of its former ally, the SAD, and the collusion of ruling AAP in Delhi, Captain Amarinder noted.With the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not even a close second to the Congress and trailing even independent candidates in some wards, the pro-governance and pro-progress verdict of the urban voters of Punjab was a clear endorsement of their negation of their loathsome political ideologies, said the Chief Minister.“It was a powerful message to these parties to keep out of Punjab, which was not ready to either forgive or forget the deceit and the treachery to which the people of the state had been subjected by them”, he added.In the final count, the Congress had won 1199 of the 1815 wards (municipal councils) and 281 of the 350 municipal corporation seats, with SAD trailing at 289 and 33, BJP at 38 and 20, and AAP at 57 and nine, while the remaining went largely to independents and BSP (K) and CPI winning in 13 and 12 wards respectively. “With these results, all these parties have got a foretaste of things to come in the Assembly elections, due just a year from now,” said Captain Amarinder.“The drumming that SAD, BJP and AAP have received in these civic polls is just the tip of the iceberg, and all three are set to be wiped out of Punjab’s political arena, and subsequently from the nation’s political landscape, in the months ahead”, he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/defeated-negative-and-vicious-forces-punjab-cm-amarinder-hails-civic-poll-results-213744
17-02-2021||---||Repoll at 2 booths in Mohali’s Ward 10 held||Mohali, February 17Repoll at two booths—No 32 and 33—of Ward 10 was held at St Soldier School, Phase 7 here, on Wednesday.The State Election Commission (SEC) had ordered repolling in two booths of Ward 10, from where state minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu is contesting the MC election.The elections were declared void by the SEC on Monday.Also read: Repoll in 2 booths of Ward 10 todayDeputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Girish Dalayan said a complaint regarding alleged electoral malpractices was lodged on February 15 by a candidate, who sought re-polling.The SEC, after perusal of the report, found that the polling process of the booths was vitiated, and ordered repoll and rescheduled the counting for the MC election.The counting of votes will be held on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repoll-at-2-booths-in-mohalis-ward-10-held-213679
17-02-2021||Jhajjar||2 Punjab farmers returning from Tikri border killed in road accident||Two farmers from Punjab died, while two others were injured, when a bus rammed into their tractor-trailer on the Rohtak-Delhi highway on Wednesday. The farmers were returning to their village from the Tikri protest site when the accident occurred near near Rohad Toll Plaza.Low visibility was stated to be the reason behind the mishap.This is a developing story and will be updated later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-punjab-farmers-returning-from-tikri-border-killed-in-road-accident-213678
17-02-2021||New Delhi||Man held for attacking SHO at Singhu border, fleeing with his car: Police||A man has been arrested for allegedly attacking an SHO of Delhi Police and fleeing with his car at the Singhu border, where farmers are protesting against three new farm laws of the Centre, officials said on Wednesday.The incident that resulted in minor injuries to the officer took place around 8 pm on Tuesday, they said.According to the police, the accused, who was in an inebriated state, snatched the car keys of one of the officers at the protest site and fled the spot.Being chased by the police, the accused abandoned the vehicle, snatched a two-wheeler from another man and fled.The security personnel finally overpowered him near the Mukarba Chowk around 8.30 pm and the station house officer (SHO) sustained injuries caused by a sword on his finger and neck while trying to nab him, a senior police officer said.The SHO was admitted to a hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment, the police said.The accused has been arrested and further investigation is under way, they added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-attacking-sho-at-singhu-border-fleeing-with-his-car-police-213677
17-02-2021||New Delhi||Protesting farmers to use social media to ‘counter fake news’||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws on the borders of Delhi have decided to use social media to tell the truth amid news of the borders being vacated.Farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa told IANS, "We are not angry with the media but with a section of the media which is constantly spreading fake news."We have asked the sons of the farmers to train the farmers to use social media platforms. After that, we will post the things related to agriculture and tell the truth about the protest site to everyone."We have made this strategy after the recent news about the borders being vacated. Our fight is not only about the farm laws now, we also have to fight against those who are trying to weaken the movement," he added.Farmers have been protesting on the borders demanding withdrawal of the three laws for the past 80 days. There have been 11 rounds of talks between the government and farmers' organisations, but they have been inconclusive. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-to-use-social-media-to-counter-fake-news-213669
17-02-2021||---||Students, artistes condemn arrest of activist Disha Ravi||Jalandhar, February 16After the politicians and opposition leaders, even the students, activists and Pollywood actors came out in the support of Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist, who was arrested by the Delhi Police, in connection with the ‘Toolkit’ case.Pollywood actors and singers, Jassy B and Himanshi Khurana, took to their Twitter accounts to question the arrest of the activist. While both the stars have become the part of the #ReleaseDishaRavi campaign, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, UK Labour Party MP, who has his roots from Doaba condemned Ravi’s arrest in the micro-blogging site. “One has to think about the state of a nation if young climate change activist is arrested for supporting farmers’ protest. Such acts will lead to a colossal damage to India’s reputation, as youths like Disha Ravi are global ambassadors for their country,” shared Dhesi, after ending his post with #IndiaBeingSilenced.Similarly, Licypriya Kangujam, a nine-year-old, climate and environmental activist, posted, “Arresting a 21-year-old climate activist is never a proof of a strong nation. I feel sad. This is an attempt to silent the voices of young girls and women in the country. But this will not stop us from fighting for our planet and future.” Licypriya, the youngest environment activist, recently got featured in the ‘Forbes India 30 Under 30’ special mention list for 2021.While students and youth have been urged by social activists on the social media platforms to raise their voices to protest against the authoritative regime and arrest of the students, Kawalpreet Kaur, national vice president, All India Student’s Association, appealed to people to join the protest against the illegal arrest of Ravi. “The activist was charged with sedition, which is unjust. Rise up against the muzzling of democratic voices, she added. Likewise, Varjit Kaur, a member of the Punjab Students Union, who is pursuing her masters in Political Science at Layalpur Khalsa College here, said, “A few days back it was Nodeep Kaur, and now it’s Disha Ravi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-artistes-condemn-arrest-of-activist-disha-ravi-213402
17-02-2021||---||Counting of votes for 116 local bodies today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16With the successful conduct of the repoll at three booths of Patran and Samana municipal councils in Patiala district today, the counting of votes in seven Municipal Corporations, barring Mohali, and 109 Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats will be held tomorrow.Number game9,222 total candidates in fray2,302 total wards in state71.39% Total turnout on Feb 14A total of 9,222 candidates are in the fray for 2,302 wards in the state. On February 14, a voter turnout of 71.39 per cent was recorded. The repoll in Patran and Samana MCs passed off peacefully. Officials said 87.72 per cent votes were polled at booth 11 of ward No. 8 in Patran, while 57.72 per cent turnout was witnessed at booths 22 and 23 of ward No. 11 in Samana.EVMs were damaged at both places during the elections held on Sunday as unidentified persons carrying rods and sticks ransacked booths in broad daylight. While miscreants had taken away the control unit of an EVM and torn some documents in ward No 8, two EVMs were completely damaged in ward No. 11. Following this, the police registered cases against unidentified persons while the Election Commission ordered repoll in both wards.Officials today said 366 men and 277 women voters turned out in ward No. 8 of Patran, while 609 men and 516 women cast their vote in Samana. They said the counting of votes will be carried out on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the State Election Commission said the counting of votes for Mohali would take place on February 18 after repolling in two booths was ordered post reports of irregularities. The polling will be held tomorrow.The commission had received a report from Sub Divisional Magistrate-cum-Returning Officers (RO), Mohali, through the Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer, SAS Nagar, of irregularities during polling and a request regarding repolling in booth No 32 and 33 of ward No 10. The PSEC on Tuesday also ordered deputy commissioners to appoint micro observers for vote counting of sensitive and hypersensitive wards.On the counting of votes, the Commission ordered to depute IAS, PCS or other senior officials as micro observers in sensitive and hypersensitive wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/counting-of-votes-for-116-local-bodies-today-213428
17-02-2021||---||Opposition crying foul in face of defeat: Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has termed the allegations of the BJP and AAP on rigging of the civic polls a typical case of crying foul in the face of their imminent defeat in the elections, the results of which will be announced on Wednesday.They’ll be rejectedWhy will my government or my party try to sabotage an election that we are clearly winning? The results will show Punjab's rejection of anti-people policies & actions of Opposition parties. — Capt Amarinder Singh, CM"It's a panic reaction to their inevitable wipeout in these polls," said the Chief Minister, adding that the BJP and AAP, as well as the SAD, were all set to be completely trounced in these municipal polls as these parties had lost the trust of the people of Punjab.Captain Amarinder alleged all these parties had worked together to ruin Punjab, with the black farm laws the latest in the long line of their anti-people and anti-Punjab actions. He added that the shock of their total rejection had unnerved their leaderships, who are desperately seeking refuge in lies and excuses to cover up their impending failure.Urging the Opposition parties to stop whining and start introspecting on their policies and programmes, he alleged as in the case of the Republic Day violence in Delhi, violence in the municipal council polls were the handiwork of the BJP and AAP working in collusion to seize the polls by hook or by crook.Ridiculing BJP's Tarun Chugh over his remarks that the people of Punjab were living in terror and fear, Captain Amarinder said the people of the whole country were, in fact, living under the dread of the tyrannical central government, which had given up even the pretense of being a democratic regime. "The BJP-led government at the Centre has become so despotic that it cannot tolerate the minimum of dissent, even on social media, which is why they probably believe that other parties are also running repressive regimes where ever they are in power, he added. The Congress has always upheld the Constitutional principles of democracy and the freedom of the citizens, and continues to do so in Punjab and other states where it is ruling, he said.As for Arvind Kejriwal’s AAP, that party was nothing more than a tool of the BJP to spread misinformation, and promote its anti-people agenda, said the Chief Minister, adding that the lies of these parties were clearly motivated by their petty political agenda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opposition-crying-foul-in-face-of-defeat-capt-amarinder-singh-213430
17-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Congress MLA’s aide booked for attack on AAP men||The Patti police have booked Lakhbir Singh, alias Kala of Kirtowal, a close aide of MLA Harminder Singh Gill, and four Congressmen for allegedly attacking AAP workers during polling on Sunday.A case under Section 307, 148 and 149 of the IPC, and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered on Monday after a video that had gone viral.Manbir Singh, AAP worker of Bhikhiwind, claimed that he received bullet injuries.AAP leader Laljit Singh Bhullar was also allegedly tortured and was admitted to a hospital in Amritsar.The police, in the FIR, had written that Manbir was not ready to record his statement. Dhruman H Nimbale, SSP, has denied any incident of firing in Patti. The police have not arrested any accused yet. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mlas-aide-booked-for-attack-on-aap-men-213432
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet to discuss Budget session on Feb 19||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has convened a Cabinet meeting on February 19 to decided upon the schedule of the Budget session, which will be held in March.Take up contract farming act in houseI will request the CM to discuss the Contract Farming Act, 2013, during the Budget session to expose the SAD and BJP. If need be, the Act should be repealed. — Sunil Jakhar, PPCC PresidentA senior government functionary said though the Budget session had been planned from March 1 to March 10, the final decision would be taken by the Cabinet. Being the last Budget for the Congress government that would be facing the state Assembly polls early next year, a lot of announcement related to unfulfilled promises made in the 2017 Assembly elections and fresh populist measures are expected to be made.With the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws still continuing, the Congress government will again bring the state amendment Bills to negate the central Acts as the Governor had failed to send the earlier Bills to the President.In a special session held in October last year, the government has passed the amendment Bills — Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill, and Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill. But these have not been forwarded to the President. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-to-discuss-budget-session-on-feb-19-213446
17-02-2021||---||Pakistan allows Nankana Sahib jatha to visit other shrines||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16The Pakistan government has allowed 505 pilgrims, visiting Nankana Sahib to commemorate the massacre centenary, to visit other prominent Sikh shrines in the country too.The scheduleFeb 18 Janam Asthan, Nankana SahibFeb 19 Gurdwara Sacha Sauda, FarooqabadFeb 21 Main event at Nankana SahibFeb 22 Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Hasan AbdalFeb 23 Gurdwara Dera Sahib, LahoreFeb 24 Kartarpur Sahib & Rori Sahib, GujranwalaFeb 25 Back through Attari-Wagah borderSponsored by the SGPC, the jatha, led by Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, will cross the Attari-Wagah border on February 18 and head to Janam Asthan, Nankana Sahib.Earlier, the jatha was allowed to celebrate the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, but their movement was restricted to Sri Nankana Sahib only in the wake of Covid threat.The Covid screening report has been made mandatory. The SGPC had conducted a two-day special Covid testing camp that concluded on its premises here today. Various “gurmat” programmes have been scheduled in Pakistan.As per the eight-day programme, the jatha will visit Gurdwara Sacha Sauda, Farooqabad, on February 19. The main event will be held at Nankana Sahib on February 21. The following day, they will visit Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib in Hasan Abdal; Gurdwara Dera Sahib, Lahore, on February 23, where dinner will be hosted at the Governor’s House. On February 24, they will visit Gurdwara Sri Kartarpur Sahib and Rori Sahib, Gujranwala, and come back to Lahore. On February 25, the jatha will return through Attari-Wagah JCP.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), too, will commemorate the occasion under the leadership of its president Bibi Jagir Kaur. The event will be held at Godharpur village in Gurdaspur district, which is associated with the kin of Shaheed Bhai Lachhman Singh Dharowali, martyr of Nankana Sahib a century ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-allows-nankana-sahib-jatha-to-visit-other-shrines-213467
17-02-2021||---||Fazilka villagers, traders oppose proposal to set up liquor unit||Our CorrespondentFazilka, February 16Traders have also joined the agitation started by residents and farmers against the setting up of a liquor unit in Fazilka.Ashok Gulbadhar, president, Beopar Mandal, Fazilka, said they had shot off a letter to the Chief Minister through the Deputy Commissioner to shelve the proposal of setting up a liquor unit in Heeranwali village which could cause pollution and health hazards for residents.The dharna entered the second day today. The protesters blocked the Fazilka-Abohar highway near Hiranwali Maur.Farmer Manoj Jhinja said the Bar Association, Arhtiya Association and Pesticide Dealers’ Association had expressed their solidarity with the protesting villagers.Former BJP Health Minister Surjit Kumar Jyani and AAP leader Arun Wadhwa sat on the dharna with the farmers today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-villagers-traders-oppose-proposal-to-set-up-liquor-unit-213469
17-02-2021||Moga||Railways cancels, diverts trains for tomorrow’s ‘rail roko’||The farmer unions’ call for the ‘rail roko’ on Thursday has forced the Railways to either cancel or divert several trains in the northern part of the country.Covid-hit services to resume soonThe Northern Railway has cancelled the Darbhanga-Amritsar Express Special till February 17. The Nanded-Amritsar Express will short-terminate at Chandigarh. On February 19, it will short-originate from Chandigarh and remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh-Amritsar.The Korba-Amritsar Express will short-terminate at Ambala. Consequently, on February 19, it will short-originate from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar.The Ajmer-Amritsar Express will short-terminate at Jalandhar city. On February 18, it will short-originate from Jalandhar city and remain partially cancelled between Jalandhar city-Amritsar.The Mumbai Central-Amritsar, Bandra Terminus-Amritsar, Jaynagar-Amritsar Express Special trains on February 17 will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar. The New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar and Amritsar-Haridwar Express Special will be also diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on February 17.Meanwhile, in its efforts to restore the train movement post Covid-induced lockdown and the farmers’ blockade last year in a phased manner, the Northern Railway has announced to resume regular services of 35 pairs of passenger, express and mail trains in the region soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railways-cancels-diverts-trains-for-tomorrows-rail-roko-213473
17-02-2021||Jalandhar||No help from farmer unions: Deceased Navreet Singh’s grandad||Hardip Singh Dibdiba, grandfather of Navreet Singh who died riding a tractor on January 26 in New Delhi, today said farmer unions should own up those who were part of the agitation and became victims of the ‘state-sponsored violence’.Yet to respond No one from the farmer unions contacted me till his bhog. A day after he died, I called up two union leaders, they did not take my call... there is no response from them even till today. Hardip S Dibdiba, Navreet’s grandfatherAddressing a press conference accompanied by MLA Sukhpal Khaira here, Hardip Singh said, “I do not want to demoralise the union leaders but they must do some course correction and move forward. They have to learn lessons from the consequences of events and only then they can become strong. They must fight for the release of activist Nodeep Kaur. They must support people like Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana.”He said, “These people had joined the agitation at their call. So what if our children stepped a little ahead during the agitation? They must understand that the crowd that moved towards Delhi had no one to guide them. If they come out now and support their own teams against the Centre’s propaganda, victory will be of farmers.”Hardip Singh alleged his grandson had been gunned down. “Even that day, there was no claimant for Navreet’s body. When I reached there, people asked me what should be done. I said Navreet was a part of the agitation and his body is the property of agitation, so they should decide but no one from the union came forward”, he said. Khaira said, “Soon we will form an action committee to take up cases of all victims of agitation. Their families need our support. Nineteen protesters are still missing. We need to work for them too.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-help-from-farmer-unions-deceased-navreet-singhs-grandad-213478
17-02-2021||Ghazipur||Farmers' protest: Kavi sammelan at Ghazipur planned||As fatigue takes a toll on farmers who have been protesting here for the past 83 days, the Kisan Andolan Committee has decided to up its game to enthuse the crowd once a week. It plans to hold ‘kavi sammelan’ and ‘mushaira’ to boost the morale of protesters.“We have to hold such events to retain the interest of the youth. We are in the process of organising a ‘kavi sammelan’. We will make an announcement once the dates are decided,” Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member, Kisan Andolan Committee, Ghazipur, said.The protest site wears a deserted look whenever Rakesh Tikait is travelling for a kisan panchayat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-kavi-sammelan-at-ghazipur-planned-213480
17-02-2021||---||Back from stir, Moga farmer dies at hospital||Tribune News ServiceMoga, February 16A farmer from Moga district, who suffered uneasiness due to cold weather conditions, died while undergoing treatment at a hospital, officials of the district administration said today. The deceased has been identified as Jagdev Singh, alias Jagga (52), a resident of Kotla Meher Singh Wala in Baghapurana subdivision of Moga.He had joined the dharna a few weeks back. A couple of days ago, he suffered uneasiness due to high blood pressure. Villagers brought him back and got him admitted to a hospital in Bathinda where he died late last night. Jagdev was not a member of any farm or labour organisation. He was an independent farmer and gone to the protest site along with other residents of his village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-from-stir-moga-farmer-dies-at-hospital-213482
17-02-2021||Sangrur||2 die in Sangrur after consuming spirit||Two waiters died during the past 24 hours in Sunam after allegedly consuming spirit they had stolen from a wedding ceremony while another one is stated to be out of danger.As per information, three persons, who worked as waiters, allegedly stole a bottle of spirit during a marriage in Jakhepal village.“The waiters consumed it on Sunday leading to the death of Karm Singh and Kesar Singh last night. But neither their families nor their friends informed us and cremated both bodies in the morning. After getting information, we reached their colony but they are not willing to share any information,” said Manjit Kaur, Subdivisional Magistrate, Sunam. “It’s not a case of spurious liquor as the two died after consuming spirit. Further investigations are on,” said Vivek Sheel Soni, SSP, Sangrur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-die-in-sangrur-after-consuming-spirit-213484
17-02-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Civic bodies, PRIs seek more financial powers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16The urban local bodies (ULBs) and panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) need to be empowered financially and through building their capacities. The Punjab Government should give the local bodies their due share in taxes and allow these to raise their own too.Three provisionsThese should be allowed to expand their tax base for collecting property tax and explore options for collecting pollution tax, sanitation tax and advertisement tax.Considering that the state’s own tax net is shrinking post GST rollout, the only way forward will be expanding thetax net, imposing new taxes and cutting down on expenditure.These are the suggestions given by representatives of various local bodies to the Sixth Punjab Finance Commission, headed by former Chief Secretary KR Lakhanpal. The commission is considering these suggestions so as to strengthen the local bodies and make these entities, said Lakhanpal, in an interview with The Tribune here today.“We are not restricting our scope to giving the ULBs and PRIs grants, which may be larger than what was previously given by the other commissions. What is more important is what is happening to the growth trajectory of the state government and in turn how it is affecting the PRIs and ULBs. Thus, we are talking to all stakeholders, especially after the report of the Union Finance Commission is released. We know about the grants Punjab will get, after the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission are received and action taken on the recommendations of the pay commission,” he said, adding that it was because of the delay in submission of these two reports that they would take a few more months before they submit their own report.Lakhanpal told The Tribune that mere transfer of resources to these bodies would be of little avail unless the structural issues faced by these are sorted out. Most important structural issue is the political consensus between all political parties on whether they intend to make these bodies self-governing entities.“This cannot come from bureaucrats or commissions. Because the principle of this is very sanguine – the principle is that the government should be closer to the people. That is why you need to make these local and rural governments powerful - financially and capacity wise,” he said.The chairman said barring Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Telangana, West Bengal, Gujarat and Maharashtra, other states have failed to build up strong ULBs and PRIs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/civic-bodies-pris-seek-more-financial-powers-213487
17-02-2021||---||Congress MLA ‘abuses’ tailor, audio clip viral||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, February 16Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring has courted a controversy as his alleged audio clip of abusing and threatening a Muktsar-based tailor has gone viral on the social media.Hits out at SukhbirI paid the tailor Rs27,000 last month. I have the bills. But I am surprised how this audio clip went viral now. Like always, Sukhbir Badal is behind this controversy — Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Gidderbaha MLAManpreet Singh, a leading tailor of Muktsar town, said: “I stitched some clothes for Warring in the past two-three years. When I asked for the charges of Rs 27,000 from his personal assistant and refused to stitch more clothes, Warring abused me over the phone. Though he threatened me, he made the payment by sending his gunmen. The matter is resolved now. I don’t know how the audio clip went viral.”Speaking over the phone, Warring said: “I paid him Rs 27,000 last month. I have the bills. But I am surprised how this audio clip went viral now. Like always, Sukhbir Singh Badal is behind this controversy. The tailor did not even demand money when I last visited his showroom along with a relative. Later, he returned some unstitched clothes. Thereafter, he made the audio viral.”He added, “When he insulted me, I too used some harsh words. I am a human first and an MLA later. We know each other for the past around 20 years. Now, I publicly say that if I am yet to pay money to anyone, he/she can come to my office with the proof. I don’t want any controversy.”Famous for special fitting of “Muktsati kurta pyjama”, the tailor’s list of customers includes Capt Amarinder Singh, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Sukhbir Badal, Atul Nanda, Rana Gurjit Singh besides some actors and singers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mla-abuses-tailor-audio-clip-viral-213492
17-02-2021||Faridkot||Sumedh Saini’s bail plea rejected||The District and Sessions Judge here today adjourned the hearing in the anticipatory bail of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to February 23.Saini approached the court to seek bail to evade likely arrest. The court has summoned the ex-DGP on February 18 after the SIT, probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing incident on October 14, 2015, had filed a chargesheet against him here on January 18. Saini has been chargesheeted in an attempt-to-murder case. Saini has also approached the court for inspection and to seek the copy of the chargesheet. As the public prosecutor, on behalf of SIT, is opposing the inspection and the copy of the chargesheet until the former DGP appears before the court, the decision on his application has also been adjourned to February 18. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-sainis-bail-plea-rejected-213493
17-02-2021||Muktsar||Man found dead in car||A 43-year-old resident of Prajapat Colony in Bathinda was found dead in a car parked on the roadside near Bharu Chowk in Gidderbaha today. The police said the deceased, Narinder Pal, bore some injury marks.“The family has not yet raised suspicion on anyone, but we will investigate the case from all angles,” said Muktsar DSP (Investigation) Jasmeet Singh. He added: “The deceased was into a marketing job, but we are yet to know the exact place of his posting and name of the company. The family has told us that he had joined a new company a few days ago.”Some eyewitnesses claimed the deceased had some foot injury as well. Besides, a blood-stained rope and a suitcase had been recovered from the car, they claimed, adding the car was unlocked and the key was recovered from the deceased. Meanwhile, a neighbour of the deceased in Bathinda said Narinder’s father had retired from the PRTC. He is survived by wife, a daughter, a son and parents. His brother is reportedly living abroad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-found-dead-in-car-213494
17-02-2021||GS Paul||Security up as bullet shells found in Afghan shipment||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 16The vigil at the integrated check post (ICP) has been tightened after empty bullet shells were found in a consignment of herbs brought from Afghanistan through Attari-Wagah border on Sunday.Worn out, RustyThe Kakra Singhi herb is found in Kandhar, hideout of anti-social activists. It’s dug out with lot of waste. These bullet cases, totally worn out and rusty, must have accidentally been carried along. — An officialThe Customs and BSF were immediately put on alert, but preliminary inquiry pointed out that it was an accidental development.Officials said around 15 shells were found in a truck loaded with “Kakra Singhi” herb, which is used in preparation of ayurvedic medicines for cough, fever, vomiting and diarrhoea, found in Afghanistan.During a random check, three empty fire shells were found in the consignment that arrived on February 14. Upon thorough search, 12 more were found.“The Kakra Singhi herb is found in dense forest area of Kandhar, notorious for hideout of anti-social and terrorist activists. This herb is dug out with lot of waste, including sand and stones. These bullet shells must have accidentally been carried along and were packed in the sack as it is. These were totally worn out and rusty,” said an official.Nonetheless, citing the seizure of 32-kg gold bars from an apple-laden truck coming from Afghanistan in December 2018, an official said this incident has put the security agencies on toes.The automated full body truck scanner worth Rs 23 crore has been hanging in balance since March 2017 when it was announced by then Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Kiran Rijiju. The rummaging of goods’ truck is done manually by the Customs with the help of sniffer dog squad.The trading with Afghanistan was resumed after Covid-19 relaxations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-up-as-bullet-shells-found-in-afghan-shipment-213496
17-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||Why not nail probe officers for corruption: HC to Ropar SSP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Ropar SSP to explain why an FIR should not be registered against the investigating or other officers concerned under the Prevention of Corruption Act for favouring three accused and not arresting them.Police failed to arrest accusedJustice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted that arrests were not made despite the fact that the anticipatory bail was dismissed up to the High Court. Besides, two inquiries, conducted on the representation given by one of the accused, were dismissed by senior police officers. It demonstrated that the investigating/other officers were well aware of all facts, yet failed to arrest the accused.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted that the arrests were not made despite the fact that the anticipatory bail was dismissed up to the High Court. Besides, two inquiries, conducted on the representation given by one of the accused, were dismissed by senior police officers. It demonstrated that the investigating/other officers were wellaware of all facts, yet failed to arrest the accused.For the purpose of filing the affidavit, Justice Sangwan set a 10-day deadline. “It is made clear that if the affidavit is not filed, the SSP will remain present in the court on the next date of hearing,” Justice Sangwan asserted, while fixing the case for further hearing in February last week.The directions came on a petition filed by Gurcharan Singh against the State of Punjab and other respondents for taking strict action against the accused named in the FIR registered on July 5, 2019, for outraging the religious feelings, wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation and other offences under Sections 295-A, 355, 341, 323, 506 and 34, IPC. The Bench was told that the accused were roaming freely and not being arrested despite committing heinous crime.The counsel for the petitioner submitted that a respondent-accused got an FIR registered on July 7, 2020, against the petitioner. It showed that respondent-accused came to the police station for the FIR registration. But he was not arrested despite dismissal of the anticipatory bail application by the High Court.After hearing arguments and going through the documents, Justice Sangwan referred to an affidavit which said the anticipatory bail of the accused was dismissed by an Additional Sessions Judge. A representation by a respondent-accused to the police was also dismissed after an inquiry. It was also stated that the respondent-accused filed anticipatory bail applications, which were also dismissed by the High Court.Justice Sangwan asserted: “Surprisingly, after all efforts made by the respondents-accused to evade arrest, the investigating officers now came to their rescue and instead of arresting them, issued a notice under Section 41-A, CrPC, directing them to join the investigation. This procedure adopted by the investigating officers/concerned officer(s) called for an explanation by the SSP…”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-not-nail-probe-officers-for-corruption-hc-to-ropar-ssp-213499
17-02-2021||---||Finish works by March 31 or face action, GMC officials told||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 16Medical Education Minister OP Soni today directed the authorities of the Government Medical College (GMC) to finish the ongoing developmental works in time or face action.Clerical staff protest, lock main gateFollowing a protest by the clerical staff at the entry gate of the medical college, OP Soni was ‘miffed’ with the authorities for not handling them well. The protesters reportedly locked the main gate as a mark of protest. The Patiala police, led by SP Hundal, intervened and helped the minister enter the college from another gate.The minister issued the warning to all the officials concerned of the Public Works Department (PWD), Punjab Health System Corporation (PSHC) and other departments.Soni reminded the authorities of the March 31 deadline to complete all the ongoing works. He said, “I will visit the college a day or two before the deadline, and if I find any work incomplete, the official concerned will face the consequences.”In the meeting with the stakeholders, the minister said the Chief Minister wanted to bring back the lost sheen of the GMC and Government Rajindra Hospital. Therefore, no laxity would be tolerated.When The Tribune inspected a few ongoing developmental works at the GMC on Tuesday, it found that nothing substantial had changed on the ground since the minister’s last visit on December 22.The new multi-storey institute building, which was lying non-functional for around three years, is still at the same stage. The minister said, “The work is on. We have given six months to complete the building.”Dr Rajan Singla, principal, GMC, said, “The deadline is for minor renovation works at the college and hospital. The big developmental works, including the institute building and multi-level parking at the Rajindra hospital, will take time because there are no funds to speed up the work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finish-works-by-march-31-or-face-action-gmc-officials-told-213500
17-02-2021||---||Road fatalities drop by 15% in 2020||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Punjab witnessed a significant decline of 15 per cent in road accident fatalities and 18 per cent reduction in road accidents in 2020 as compared to the previous year, DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta said here today.As per data, a total of 5,194 accidents were registered in 2020 while 3,866 people lost their lives in road accidents in the same year.DGP Gupta said during the ongoing Road Safety Month (January 18 to February 17, 2021), the Punjab Police organised 521 road safety camps and 542 road safety seminars besides holding 152 awareness rallies across the state, and sensitised around 1.33 lakh students from schools and colleges and 1.28 lakh citizens about road safetyand traffic rules.He said considering road safety as a major concern, the police were leaving no stone unturned to make the roads safer for commuters.DGP Gupta said a pilot project ‘Accident Resolution Team- ART’ was initiated in Patiala district under which teams led by the Station House Officer (SHO) visited and inspected the black spots in their respective jurisdictions. The Patiala police formulated 25 such ARTs and as many as 20 rectifications have already been realised, mostly on the Patiala-Sirhind road, resulting in a remarkable decline inthe accident rate.A standard operating procedure to prevent deaths due to stray animals had been formulated by the police and cattle accident black spots were also being identified, said the DGP, adding that 25 such black spots, mostly in the Malwa belt, had been earmarked and reflective tapes were being tied around the necks of stray cattle to avert accidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-fatalities-drop-by-15-in-2020-213501
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||High Court begins monitoring cases against MPs, MLAs||Pursuant to an order passed by the Supreme Court, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has initiated the process of monitoring the progress of cases pending against MPs and MLAs. It has, to begin with, appointed amicus curiae in the matter.The Union of India and the Chandigarh Administration have also assured the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh of assistance. The Bench asserted that each HC would register a suo motu case with the title “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs” to monitor the progress of cases. The writ petition would be heard by a division Bench to be constituted by the Chief Justice. A senior advocate would be appointed as amicus curiae and the state would be represented by the Advocate-General or an Additional Advocate-General.A police officer of rank not below the IGP would be present in the court on each hearing to furnish requisite information. Each special court would send a monthly status report to the HC, which would issue directions to ensure speedy disposal of cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-begins-monitoring-cases-against-mps-mlas-213502
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Result of service selection board exam declared||The Subordinate Services Selection Board, Punjab, today uploaded the result of the written test conducted on January 31 to fill the vacancies of Assistant Superintendent.This was stated by Raman Behl, chairman, Subordinate Services Selection Board, Punjab. He said he hoped that the successful candidates would be ready for the next phase of the recruitment process (physical aptitude test). The dates for the aptitude test would be announced soon, Behl said. He said further action was being taken under the recruitment drive launched by the board to recruit district collector, canal revenue patwari and junior draftsman. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/result-of-service-selection-board-exam-declared-213503
17-02-2021||Abohar||Man hangs himself in Abohar, 3 booked||A 27-yr-old resident of Basant Nagar reportedly committed suicide allegedly due to harassment by his colleagues in a finance company.The family of Simarjit Singh said he was working with a private finance company at Malout. Even when he had cleared all payments, three staff members had been harassing him for payment of dues. Upset, he hanged himself in a room here yesterday.A suicide note, reportedly written by Simarjit, was found at the site. He had requested for a befitting action against three persons. The police said a case had been registered under Section 306/34of the IPC on thestatement of deceased’s maternal grandfather Jagtar Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-hangs-himself-in-abohar-3-booked-213504
17-02-2021||---||Chinese kite string injures kid in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 16A Chinese kite string caused grievous cuts on the neck and thumb of a six-year-old kid in the Basant Vihar area of the city on Monday.The victim has been identified as Yuvan, alias Yuvi. Ashish Bansal, relative of the victim, said, “My nephew was standing outside his home when a Chinese string got entangled in his neck. By the time the family members came to know about it, the string had already injured him on the neck. He was immediately taken to a private hospital, where he got 25 stitches and underwent a one-hour operation.”The district administration had banned the sale and storage of China-made metal and zinc-laced strings, but in the absence of proper checks by the authorities, shopkeepers openly sell these. Several raids have been conducted in the past and stocks seized, but in vain. Notably, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also imposed a complete ban on the sale, storage, production and transportation of Chinese string, which is often used for flying kites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chinese-kite-string-injures-kid-in-bathinda-213505
17-02-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Illegal constructions continue in Sangrur, dept to submit report||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, February 16The ineffectiveness of orders of senior authorities of the Local Government Department can be gauged from fact that 16 months after the order to maintain status quo, construction of many illegal buildings is still going on.Records soughtOn the directions of senior authorities, we inspected 14 buildings being constructed without the approval of building plans. We have sought records from the Sangrur Nagar Council. We will submit a detailed report to our seniors.  — Avtar Singh, Engineer, Ahmedgarh NCA team of the department conducted an inspection of illegal buildings on Thursday, but locals do not have any hope as earlier, a team of the vigilance wing of the department had inspected the same buildings but failed to stop the construction.“On the directions of senior authorities, we have inspected 14 buildings being constructed without the approval of building plans. We have sought records from the Sangrur Nagar Council (NC). We will submit a detailed report to our seniors,” said Avtar Singh, municipal engineer of the Ahmedgarh NC.As per sources, on September 11, 2019, during a meeting in Chandigarh, it had come to light that the construction of 14 buildings was going on in violation of building bylaws and master plan in the municipal limits of Sangrur. Senior authorities had directed the Sangrur NC authorities to prevent more construction of these illegal buildings and maintain the status quo.“It’s all happening with the connivance of NC officials and politicians. The owners of these illegal buildings have been constructing their buildings at a fast pace after paying huge bribes to the officers concerned. We will start a protest for the demolition of these buildings,” said Avtar Ealwal, AAPleader from Sangrur.EO of Sangrur NC Ramesh Kumar said a special team of his department had inspected the illegal buildings and sought records from his office. “We have been trying to maintain status quo and also filed cases inthe court,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-constructions-continue-in-sangrur-dept-to-submit-report-213506
17-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 10-crore heroin recovered||Fazilka, February 16In a joint operation, personnel of the Border Security Force and the Punjab Police seized 2 kg of contraband, suspected to be heroin, worth about Rs 10 crore, from a farm in BOP Gatti of Fazilka district this morning.The contraband, packed in socks, was lying in the fields of Balwant Singh Teja in Rohela village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-10-crore-heroin-recovered-213507
17-02-2021||New Delhi||Deep Sidhu’s police custody extended||A Delhi court on Tuesday extended by seven days the police custody of actor-activist Deep Sidhu in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade against the Centre’s three new agri laws. Sidhu was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Bhujali after expiry of his police custody in the case. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deep-sidhus-police-custody-extended-213416
17-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Mahapanchayats cancelled in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, February 16The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday decided to cancel all conferences and mahapanchayats announced by various farm organisations in Punjab in the days to come. Its leaders asserted that ensuring the success of their ‘rail roko’ on Thursday was their priority.The decision to cancel conferences and mahapanchayats was taken at a meeting of 32 farm organisations at the Singhu border to chalk out their strategy for further strengthening the agitation. The decision was announced by SKM leaders during a press conference on Tuesday evening.“There is no need for conferences and mahapanchayats in Punjab at this stage. All 32 organisations from Punjab have unanimously decided to cancel all conferences and mahapanchayats. We have decided to concentrate on making the ‘rail roko’ successful and raising numbers at the Delhi borders,” said Buta Singh, a leader of the SKM.He said they had appealed to all panchayats and farm outfits to cancel their scheduled conferences. He pointed out that preparations for the ‘rail roko’ were under way. All farm organisations were set to show the strength of famers by stopping trains with the help of locals for four hours on Thursday, he asserted.“Since the struggle is likely to go on for long and the weather is changing, the SKM is making arrangements for fans, coolers, water, electricity and tents for protesting farmers,” he said. Rubbishing reports that the number of protesters was going down at the Delhi borders, farmer leaders said the number was swelling every day as farmers were fighting a decisive battle and had vowed to win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mahapanchayats-cancelled-in-punjab-213296
17-02-2021||Balwant Garg||Despite relaxed criteria, BFUHS gets 88 applicants against 498 vacant BDS seats||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, February 16A week after Supreme Court lowering the percentile marks by 10 percentile to fill vacant BDS seats, Baba Faridkot University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has got only 88 applications against 498 vacant BDS seats in 12 dental colleges in the state.A walk-in physical counselling to fill the vacant seats will start here on Wednesday.After the Supreme Court’s orders on February 8, the relaxed eligibility criteria for admission in BDS for a general category student is a minimum 113 marks out of total 720 marks in NEET-2020. The eligibility marks for a SC/BC and PWD student is 87 and 99 marks, respectively.Out of 88 new applicants for the BDS seats, 66 applicants have scored less than 150 marks in NEET-2020. Three candidates of SC/BC category have scores as low as 88, 89 and 90 out of total 720 marks.The apex court has allowed the relaxation in the eligibility with a cutoff percentile by 10 percentile for each category after many dental colleges approached the court.It is said more than 7,000 BDS seats have remained vacant in the country this time.Earlier, some dental colleges had approached the Dental Council of India (DCI), demanding relaxation in the eligibility criteria. The DCI had proposed to the Centre that the percentile for admission to BDS course in Dental colleges should be lowered by 20 percentile for each category but the government had declined to the proposal.The Union government declined to lower the percentile saying that 7.71 lakh candidates were found to be eligible for filling up 82,000 MBBS and 28,000 BDS course seats in the country. For each vacant seat seven candidates were available.It said there were 2.77 lakh dentists registered with the Dental Council of India. Taking into consideration the availability of 80 per cent of dentists, there is one dentist for every 6,080 persons which is better than the WHO norms of 1:7,500, it said.However, the dental colleges approached Supreme Court to get this relief, saying the percentile was lowered last year also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-relaxed-criteria-bfuhs-gets-88-applicants-against-498-vacant-bds-seats-213258
17-02-2021||---||Railways cancel, divert many trains in wake of farmers’  blockade on February 18||Tribune News ServiceMoga, February 16Indian Railways have cancelled several trains in the north—in Punjab particularly—in the wake of a railway blockade that farmers have called on February 18 to protest the three controversial agriculture laws.The trains cancelled are mostly ones that either start or are destined for the state on February 16-19. Among the trains northern railways have cancelled are 05211 Darbhanga-Amritsar express beginning on February 16 and the return train, 05212 Amritsar-Darbhanga Express on February 17.The following trains will be partially cancelled: 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express beginning on February 17 will be short terminated at Chandigarh and 02716 Amritsar-Nanded Express will begin at Chandigarh on February 19; 08237 Korba-Amritsar Express train on February 17 will be short terminated at Ambala and the 08238 Amritsar-Korba Express will start from Ambala on February 19; 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar Express train journey on February 17 will be short terminated at Jallandhar City, and 09612 Amritsar-Ajmer Express will start from Jalandhar city on February 18.The following trains will be diverted: 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express beginning February 16 will be diverted through Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar; 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Express beginning February 17 will be diverted via Amritsar-Tarntaran-Beas; 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Express on February 17 will be diverted through Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar;  02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express on February 17 will be diverted via Amritsar-Tarntaran-Beas; 04673/04649 Jaynagar-Amritsar Expresson February 17 will be diverted via Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar; 04650/04674 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express on February 17 will be diverted via Amritsar-Tarntaran-Beas; 04652 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express on February 17 will be diverted via Amritsar-Tarntaran-Beas route; 04654 Jaynagar-Amritsar Express on February 17 will be diverted via Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar;02407 Newjalpaiguri-Amritsar Express beginning on February 17 will be diverted via Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar; 02054 Amritsar-Haridwar Express beginning on February 17 will be diverted via Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar; 02053 Haridwar-Amritsar Express on February 17 will be diverted via Amritsar-Tarntaran- Beas.Meanwhile, Sukhdev Singh Kokri General Secretary of the BKU (Ekta) said that the railway blockade will last four hours from noon to 4 pm.Since the beginning of their protests on Delhi borders in November, protesting farmers have taken over toll plazas in several parts of the country and allowing vehicles to pass for free. The move had hugely irked the central and several state governments, which have been trying to take back the toll plazas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railways-cancel-divert-many-trains-in-wake-of-farmers-%C2%A0blockade-on-february-18-213246
17-02-2021||Batala||Punjab: 18-year-old killed outside school in Batala over property dispute||An 18-year-old student died after he was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by two persons outside his school at Ghuman village here, police said on Tuesday.Simrandeep Singh, a Class 12 student, was killed on Monday when he was coming out of his school along with his brother Harmandeep Singh, they said.Harmandeep managed to escape the assailants, police said, adding that Simrandeep suffered injuries to his head, neck and chest.He was taken to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, they said.It is suspected that Simrandeep was killed over a property dispute between his family and his neighbour, police said.Simrandeep was attacked with some shard-edged weapons by the two assailants, they said.In a complaint to police, Simrandeep’s father Hardev Singh accused his neighbour of killing his son. He has also named members of his neighbour’s family in the complaint, police said.Station House Officer, Ghuman, Surinder Singh said a case under relevant Indian Penal Code sections, including 302 (murder), has been registered against nine persons.The accused are absconding, police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-18-year-old-killed-outside-school-in-batala-over-property-dispute-213226
