18-02-2021||---||Punjab, Haryana asked to ensure online payment to farmers from upcoming season||New Delhi, February 18The Centre has asked Punjab and Haryana to ensure online payment to farmers through the electronic mode from the coming wheat procurement season.According to a presentation made by the Ministry of Food and Public Distribution and Consumer Affairs on Thursday, states have been directed to make online payment via state or FCI portals to ensure MSP reaches the farmers."The Government of India has also directed state governments of Haryana and Punjab to ensure online payments to farmers through e-mode from the upcoming season," said the Ministry of Food and Public Distribution and Consumer Affairs. That apart, procurement through bio-authentication of farmers has also been introduced in Uttar Pradesh, it said, adding that Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are also keen to adopt bio-authenticated procurement which will ensure transparency and tracking end-use beneficiary. Meanwhile, Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal, who highlighted the achievements of the departments, said the Centre did not have any proposal to raise the prices of food grains sold through ration shops under the National Food Security Act.  Food grain prices have not been revised since the introduction of the Act even though the economic cost has been increasing every year. “At present, there is no such proposal before the Food Ministry to increase the prices of products given under the Food Security Act,” Goyal said.The ministry is also looking at monetisation of assets of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC), which will lead to large investments in modernisation of warehousing and storage infrastructure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-asked-to-ensure-online-payment-to-farmers-from-upcoming-season-214322
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID: 10 more deaths, 278 new cases in Punjab||Covid-19 claimed 10 more lives and infected 278 more people in the last 24 hours in Punjab, taking the pandemic death toll in the state on Thursday to 5,732 and total caseload to 1,77,376.There are 2,642 active Covid-19 cases in the state, as of now, a medical bulletin said.Jalandhar reported 44 cases, Patiala 33 and Mohali 27, among fresh cases witnessed in the state on Thursday.A total of 169 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,69,002, read the bulletin.Eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 70 are on oxygen support, it added.A total of 47,94,887 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-10-more-deaths-278-new-cases-in-punjab-214316
18-02-2021||Vibha Sharma||BJP’s drubbing in Punjab local bodies polls: No link to farm stir, says Narendra Tomar||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 18Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said the results of local bodies elections in Punjab should not be viewed in context of the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three central farm laws.Also interestingly, while BJP leaders in Punjab have been claiming that the party is on an upswing since parting ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal, Tomar said that the former allies contested separately in these elections which was the main reason for the BJP not doing well."It is not correct to link the result of municipal corporation polls in Punjab with farmers’ agitation. We were weak in Punjab and used to fight polls in alliance with the Akali Dal. This time we fought separately, which caused us losses,” he said while speaking at Guwahati. Tomar is the BJP’s election in-charge in the poll-bound Assam where the party has an incumbent government.Notably, the BJP’s  drubbing in Punjab has been linked directly with the three laws, against which Punjab emerged as the epicentre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-drubbing-in-punjab-local-bodies-polls-no-link-to-farm-stir-says-narendra-tomar-214311
18-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||BJP fails to open its account in its Malwa strongholds||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 18Facing backlash over the three farm laws, the BJP has failed in the Punjab local body polls even in its strong pockets in the hinterland of Malwa.Farmer unions are quite active in the Malwa belt and are staging protests against the BJP-led Union Government at the Delhi border and in the state as well.Most of these areas are dominated by urban Hindu community where BJP supporters have sizeable numbers but despite this, the party has failed to get any votes.In Bathinda, the BJP has failed to open its account and even its vote share is drastically poor. In 2015, the BJP had won eight seats in alliance with the SAD and its two leaders, Tarsem Goyal and Gurinderpal Kaur Mangat, were Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor for the last 10 years in two consecutive terms. Goyal did not contest the polls this time while Mangat lost badly from ward number 1.In Abohar where the BJP has its sitting MLA Arun Narang, who had defeated Congress giant Sunil Jakhar in the 2017 Assembly poll, failed to provide any respite to the party as out of 50 wards, the Congress won 49 and one was won by the SAD.The BJP failed to win any seat from here.In Fazilka, the BJP was in power in the MC here for the last two consecutive terms and this Assembly seat was also contested by BJP former minister Surjit Kumar Jyani, but still the BJP performed badly and was able to win only four seats of the total 25. Even BJP district president Rakesh Dhuria lost from here.In Ferozepur where BJP leader and former CPS Sukhpal Singh Nannu had been contesting the Assembly poll for the last three terms and he even won in 2007, but this time the Congress has won in all 33 wards.The BJP was able to win one seat in Moga, one in Muktsar and one in Jaito in Faridkot district.BJP state media co-incharge Sunil Singla said, “I salute the party cadre who contested these polls bravely under the Congress 'misrule'. On the name of farmers’ agitation, the Congress misguided farmers and staged protests outside the residences of BJP leaders in the state and even did not allow our candidates to campaign freely. To hide their poor working in the state, the Congress misused the state machinery to win these polls.”The BJP leader said they would sit down and analyse the results and redesign their strategy for the Assembly polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-fails-to-open-its-account-in-its-malwa-strongholds-214237
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Neha Kakkar donates Rs 5 lakh to veteran lyricist Santosh Anand; read why||Singer Neha Kakkar will donate Rs 5 lakh to veteran Bollywood lyricist Santosh Anand during an upcoming episode of Indian Idol 12, after the lyricist speaks of  how he is battling a tough financial situation and has incurred debts.Neha is a judge on the show, and Anand will appear as a guest with musician Pyarelal of the legendary composer duo of Laxmikant-Pyarelal.The duo had worked with Anand in classics as Prem Rog, Roti Kapada Aur Makaan and Shor in the past.An emotional Neha says: “I would like to give you Rs 5 lakh as a small gesture and would also like to request the Indian entertainment industry to give Santosh ji some work as he has been such a crucial part of our industry. It’s our duty to help our colleagues in their bad times.”Her co-judge, composer Vishal Dadlani, then asks Anand to share a few of his songs with him. Vishal will help Anand release the songs.On the episode, Neha sings Anand’s immortal creation Ek pyaar ka naghma hai, which he had penned for the 1972 Manoj Kumar film Shor. Laxmikant-Pyarelal had originally recorded the song in two versions, in the voices of Lata Mangeshkar and Mukesh. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-donates-rs-5-lakh-to-veteran-lyricist-santosh-anand-read-why-214230
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Diljit Dosanjh turns producer with ‘Honsla Rakh’; Shehnaaz Gill, Sonam Bajwa to star in Punjabi rom-com||Punjabi star Diljit Dosanjh has turned producer with his upcoming “Honsla Rakh”, which features him alongside actors Sonam Bajwa and former “Bigg Boss” contestant Shehnaaz Gill.Directed by Amarjit Singh Saron, the Punjabi romantic-comedy will release on October 15 on Dussehra holiday.“Honsla Rakh” is backed by the 37-year-old actor’s company Story Time Productions.Dosanjh took to Instagram to share the film’s animated poster, featuring him carrying a baby on his back.The film, to be shot in Vancouver, Canada, also stars actor Shinda Grewal, son of leading Punjabi actor Gippy Grewal. This Dusshera #HonslaRakh, 15th Oct, 2021!! pic.twitter.com/uFU6TtXDBM  “Honsla Rakh” is co-produced by Thind Motion Films along with Story Time Productions.Dosanjh was last seen in the 2020 comedy “Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari”, co-starring Manoj Bajpayee and Fatima Sana Shaikh.It was one of the first Hindi films to release in theatres post the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. — PTIA post shared by DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-turns-producer-with-honsla-rakh-shehnaaz-gill-sonam-bajwa-to-star-in-punjabi-rom-com-214217
18-02-2021||A day dedicated to Sikhism-centric art||Sikhlens - Sikh Art & Film Festival 2021 is all set to regale the audience with stories from around the world||While the California edition of the festival went virtual for year 2020, Bicky Singh, founder of SikhLens, is pleased to have a regular brick and mortar festival at Tagore Theatre, Chandigarh. “The vision of the festival is to promote and bring out positive Sikh stories, heritage and culture and encourage our community to get into films,” he says. Filmmaker and festival head for India Chapter Ojaswwee Sharma says, “Despite the pandemic that stopped the world in its tracks, our festival is presenting 24 films, which is seven films up from the last edition.”A day of premieresThe festival sees world premiere of three films. The first is Art Finds Its Way, which captures the journey of micro-painter Aman Singh Gulati. Many of his notable almond pieces portray the essence of Sikhism. The second is Kites: Beyond Boundaries, which is about a retired forensic expert and an international kite maker Devinderpal Singh. The third is Silver Lining: The Journey of Rashpal Singh, an inspiring story of seva behind the free-of-cost eye camps for the people in need across rural Punjab. All these three films are directed by Ojaswwee Sharma.Music & gamesTraasdi Rooh is a documentary by Singapore-based Amardeep Singh on the remnants of Sikh legacy in Pakistan. Tiger Style is the story of music producers Raj and his brother Pops, based in Glasgow, who are promoting Sikh values through their music. Warrior Kaur is about martial arts champion Harleen Kaur in northern England, as she strengthens her connection with her Sikh faith that nurtures her athletic feats and vice versa.Something for childrenThe festival also has a children’s section. For the last six-and- half-years the Sikhlens Digital Voice Program and the Sri Hemkunt Foundation have trained Sikh children in the gurdwaras of California and around the world. These workshops have trained over 1,000 children, from the ages of six to 18, and have made over 125 shorts films. Four of these films will be screened at the festival.The chosen onesWhile the films are Sikh-centric, the theme varies – The Cheez That Binds is about Italian-speaking Punjabi farmers integrating into Italian society while teaching them about Sikhism; All Quiet on the Home Front is the story of Bhagat Singh Thind, a Sikh-American soldier, who fought for his ideals. The festival is being organised by Pinaka Media Works and Rolling Frames Entertainment and supported by Chandigarh Administration and Department of Culture Affairs UT.At Tagore Theatre on February 21 from 11 am.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhlens-sikh-art-film-festival-2021-is-all-set-to-regale-the-audience-with-stories-from-around-the-world-214169
18-02-2021||---||GNDU students demand release of jailed activists Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi||Amritsar, February 17Students of different departments of GNDU on Wednesday raised their voice of dissent against the arrest of farmers and political activists during a march took out on the campus. Showing solidarity with the farmers and calling for justice and terming the arrests of activist Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi as an attempt to violate the fundamental right of the students gathered outside the gurdwara on the campus.Carrying placards reading “Political prisoners aren’t criminals”, they raised slogans and demanded the release of Disha Ravi, Nodeep Kaur and 122 farmers detained in Tihar jail. While addressing the protesters, former student of the university and Sikh Youth of Punjab president Paramjit Singh Mand said, “For the past few months, millions of peasants have been sleeping on different points of borders in Delhi in chilling cold and waging a battle against the policies that would put them in the bondage of contractors and big corporate houses. They are demanding a repeal of the agricultural laws, the scrapping of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, etc. Hence, it is necessary that students should stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers.”Jatinder Singh, a PhD scholar of the university, who is part of the students’ protests, said, “The Central Government has an obligation to protect and uphold the protesters’ human rights, not to demonise them. It is painful that the government has arbitrarily arrested a number of protesters and activists like Nodeep Kaur and many others, which is not justified.”Jujhar Singh of Sath, who collaborated with the Sikh Youth of Punjab, said the government should stop witch-hunting of the supporters of the farmers’ agitation, including climate activist Disha Ravi.While commenting on the arrest of 22-year-old Ravi, Mand said under the present dispensation it seemed to be a heinous crime to post a tweet for the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gndu-students-demand-release-of-jailed-activists-nodeep-kaur-and-disha-ravi-214142
18-02-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Congress scores 29/29 in Gurdaspur municipal council poll||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, February 17The Congress annihilated all opposition as it virtually steamrolled its way past the mainline political outfits —the SAD, BJP and AAP — to win all 29 seats at stake in the polls to the Gurdaspur municipal council.All 29 candidates were handpicked by MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra. He had sought votes on the basis of developmental projects carried out in the past four years by his party.Two-time SAD MLA and president of the Gurdaspur district SAD unit Gurbachan Singh Babbehali finds himself in the doldrums as his party failed to win even a single seat. He had been carrying out extensive campaigns for his candidates in all wards.Cong MLA’s brother, Baljit Singh Pahra, who had contested from Ward No. 2, won unopposed. Sources say the decks have been cleared for him to become the MC president.The dice rolled favourably for the Congress and no opposition party candidate even came close to the Congress candidates as its nominees won ward after ward with ease. The Akalis were reduced to non-entities. In Ward No. 17, where the SAD (urban unit) has its party head office, the outfit could not even find a candidate to contest. If these results are any barometer, the writing is on the wall for the opposition parties. “They will have to pull up their socks if they have to put up a fight in the 2022 Assembly polls,” said a minister.The BJP was confident of winning at least half a dozen wards but as things stand this confidence turned out to be misplaced. The AAP, which ran largely its campaign on social media sites, too failed to open its account.In Dinanagar, the home borough of Cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhury, the Congress won 14 of the 15 seats. The Qadian municipal council saw a fight. Here, the Akalis won seven seats while the Congress bagged six.In Fatehgarh Churian, where Cabinet minister and sitting MLA Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s writ runs large, the Congress bagged 12 of the 13 seats. For long, the minister was focusing on both Batala (municipal corporation) and Fatehgarh Churian civic bodies. He has triumphed in both and is now all set to make his loyalist Sukhdeep Singh Teja as the first ever Mayor of Batala.Incidentally, Teja won by the largest margin of votes recorded by any candidate in the Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency. He garnered 65 per cent of the total votes cast in Ward No. 30 and won by a whopping margin of 2,470 votes.In Dhariwal, buoyed by local MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa’s support, the Congress won nine of the 13 seats. The legislator had campaigned for nearly a fortnight here.Sri Hargobindpur turned out to be a revelation. Of the 11 wards, Independent candidates won in six. The Congress fared so poorly that it managed just three seats. This development does not augur well for sitting Congress MLA Balwinder Laddi in the run up to the 2022 Assembly poll.The BJP, facing the wrath of the voters post farm laws, won just four out of a total of 146 wards in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-scores-29-29-in-gurdaspur-municipal-council-poll-214140
18-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Congress wins in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 17The Congress swept the polls in Fatehgarh Sahib district as its candidates won in all the four Municipal Councils (MCs).In Mandi Gobindgarh MC, one of the richest civic bodies of the state, the Congress won in 19 wards out of 29, whereas the BJP could not open its account, SAD (B) won four seats, AAP got two seats and Independents won on four seats.In Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib district headquarter Municipal Council 19 Congress candidates won in their respective wards. The BJP failed to open its account while AAP replaced SAD in three wards as the latter managed to win only one seat.MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra administered an oath to newly elected councillors.In Bassi Pathana MC Congress candidates won on nine seats out of 15, SAD (B) won on two seats, AAP on one seat and Independent one three seats.In Khamano Nagar Panchayat the Congress could win only five seats out of 13. Independents considered the Congress rebels won on six seats, SAD (B) managed only one seat and the BSP also opened its account by winning one seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-wins-in-fatehgarh-sahib-214059
18-02-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Close win in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, February 17Shiromani Akali Dal candidate from Ward No. 10 Jagdev Singh Peermuchalla has won against the Congress candidate Harsh Rishi by five votes (421-416). Thirteen voters pressed NOTA in this ward.Another SAD candidate, Jaswinder Kaur, beat the Congress’ Paramjit Kaur by five votes (583-578) in Ward No.1 of Dera Bassi. Eighteen votes went to NOTA.The biggest margin of win in the Zirakpur Municipal Council was in Ward No. 14 where Congress candidate Harjit Singh Minta defeated the SAD candidate by a margin of 1,204 votes (1456-252). Minta is tipped to get a plum post in the council.Among the prominent candidates, Congress candidate from Ward No. 12 of Zirakpur Udayvir Singh Dhillon defeated Dilbagh Singh (SAD) by 389 votes (789-400). Udayvir, son of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon, was contesting the MC elections for the first time. He is tipped as the next MC chief.Dharminder Sharma of SAD (Ward No. 18) and Yadwinder Sharma (Ward No. 22), both brothers of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, also registered comprehensive wins, defeating their nearest rivals by 209 and 356 votes respectively. However, SAD’s Kulwinder Sohi, former president of Zirakpur municipal council, lost to the Congress candidate by 516 votes in Ward No. 4.In Ward No. 8, the SAD candidate won by a margin of 38 votes while in Ward No. 13, the Congress candidate Gurpreet Kaur won by 52 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/close-win-in-zirakpur-dera-bassi-214046
18-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Madan Singh — The man who led last mutiny against the British||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 17The Royal Indian Navy Mutiny commands a special mention among the many valorous revolts of India’s freedom movement for it was spearheaded by the ratings of minority communities, with no political backing, who challenged the colonial rule, waged a one-day general strike in Bombay, shot left-handed salutes to British officials and took up cudgels with a leading daily for “negative reporting”.Into its 75th year now, the memoirs of the mutiny unfurl with the words of Annurag Dhillon, daughter of Madan Singh, the feisty rebel, freedom fighter and then petty officer telegraphist of a shore establishment, HMIS Talwar.In an attempt to recreate the events of February 18, 1946, Dhillon unknowingly paints the portrait of a nationalist, evoking a passionate narrative of India’s nationalist movement where religious identities blurred and people of India united to boot out the ‘divide and rule’ politics of the British.For one, she mentions, Leading Signalman Lieutenant MS Khan. “My father, a Sikh, was the first choice for the president of the Naval Central Strike Committee (NCSC). But he declined the offer because there were many Muslims in the establishment. It would have made it easier for the British to divide us on religious grounds, he would tell us. So, MS Khan was chosen as the president, my father became the vice-president,” recalls Dhillon on the verandah of her house in Sector 16.“You see, back then, Commander Bailey was replaced by Lieutenant Commander King. He was anti-Indian. One day, while taking a round, he chided the Indians at the establishment and called them ‘sons of Indian b*tches’. This language wasn’t acceptable to the staff,” she narrates.Her son Zorawar Singh Dhillon joins in. “They wanted to complain against King, but he was the final authority. Left with no option, ultimately BC Dutta was chosen to speak with King. Expectedly, King replied: ‘Do you know the consequences about lying to the commander?’ King went back on his words and then detained Dutta. That further infuriated them,” he says.Dhillon recounts her father’s words as she adds: “The following day, they were served terrible breakfast and most of them walked out of the dining room in disgust. Together, they decided not to fall in. My father stopped the ratings to go to the parade ground at one of the three entrance tunnels. People from Royal Indian Navy Voluntary Reserve came to appease them, but in vain. They didn’t talk to them as they were doubtful of their intentions.”In a couple hours, she said, “Commander Rattray held a meeting with them and asked them to choose their leaders so that they can talk to him. That’s when the NCSC came into being.”Narrating tales of how they took possession of telephones, cables, ammunition at Butcher Island and wireless office to contacting about 70 ships and other establishments, Dhillon states, “The next day, a call for general strike was given. On the evening of February 18, my father had sent out a press statement regarding the strike by all unions of Bombay. The next day, all papers mentioned the strike, except one, which was against it.”She recalls how Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Indian Muslim League objected to the strike, but the members refused to give in. “However, it was strange that a leading daily had reported negatively. Sir Francis Lyod, who headed the daily, called HMIS Talwar and sent a message to my dad: ‘Help us, we are in trouble’. The naval people had lined their guns on the newspaper’s building and my father had no idea about it. As he went to meet Sir Francis, he reassured him that they had no intention of hurting anyone. However, he did tell him to report the truth. He said: ‘You write what you see, what you hear, and do what you know’.”In retrospect, Dhillon wonders if one could still do that now. “My father also took up journalism. He was reporting for a journal, but resigned because he didn’t want to write what the journal’s authorities wanted him to. That’s the kind of man my father was,” she says.The Madan Singh class of tugboats, a series of service watercraft built by Tebma Shipyard Limited (a subsidiary of Bharati Shipyard Ltd), were launched for Indian Navy in 1999.My nephew Sebastian Raj Pender, an eminent historian in the UK, who is half British, half Indian, is writing a book on the mutiny,” informs Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/madan-singh-%E2%80%94-the-man-who-led-last-mutiny-against-the-british-214044
18-02-2021||Bathinda||Badal bastion Bathinda falls to Congress||The Congress has won the Bathinda MC poll by winning 43 of the 50 wards and is all set to have its Mayor for the first time. SAD secured its win in seven wards, while the BJP and AAP failed to open its account.In a major turnaround, PPCC secretary Tehal Singh Sandhu’s wife Manjit Kaur lost from ward No 1 with just 25 votes and even ex-deputy mayor and BJP candidate Gurinderpal Kaur Mangat lost badly with only 86 votes and remained on the fourth position.Also read: BJP loses to NOTATwo candidates got the same number of 334 votes and it was a tie between AAP’s Ranbir Singh and Independent Surjit Singh. Later, the Independent was declared winner by a toss in ward No 2 of Goniana MC.Cornered over the farm laws, the BJP performed poorly in most wards it contested in Bathinda. In ward No 24, the BJP candidate got only 22 votes out of around 3,000 polled, 61 in ward No 18 and 55 votes in ward No 21. However, BJP Bathinda urban president Vinod Kumar Binta, who contested as an Independent on tractor symbol, won by 229 votes from ward No 2 in the Bhucho MC.In CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s native Mehraj village, of the 13 seats, Congress won 10, SAD one and Independents two. In the Sangat MC poll, SAD won in 7 wards out of the 9, while the Congress won in only two. The Congress also won comfortably in Kotha Guru, Bhagta, Maluka, Bhai Rupa, Maur, Raman, Bucho Mandi, Nathana, Goniana, Kotshamir and Kotfatta municipal councils and nagar panchayat polls. While AAP was able to win three seats in Nathana, BSP won Bhai Rupa.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said, “This is a vote for the Congress. This is a vote for the people who stood up to the might of those vested interests who wish to destroy India’s agriculture and rural economy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-bastion-bathinda-falls-to-congress-213845
18-02-2021||Bathinda||Jagroop Singh Gill leads Bathinda Mayor post race||Congress’ Jagroop Singh Gill has continued his winning streak for the seventh time after winning by a margin of 414 votes from ward No 48 in Bathinda.With a clear majority in the House, Gill is the front-runner and main contender for the post of Mayor in the Bathinda MC. A lawyer, Gill got elected as a councillor for the first time in 1979, then again won in 1989, 1992, 1997, 2008, 2015 and now in 2021. He had also held the posts of the Chairman of the Bathinda Improvement Trust, vice-president and president of the civic body and the president of the District Bar Association in the past. Among other ex-councillors who emerged victorious are Sham Lal Jain, Santosh Mahant and Harmandar Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jagroop-singh-gill-leads-bathinda-mayor-post-race-213846
18-02-2021||Patiala||In Patiala, Congress wins 66 of 92 seats||The Congress grabbed most seats in the Rajpura and Samana council poll and registered considerable win in Patran and Nabha, in the CM’s home bastion of Patiala.While AAP and SAD star campaigners failed to make a difference, the BJP, too, registered losses due to the farmers’ protest. Of the 92 seats in the four councils, Congress won 66, SAD 11 and AAP and BJP two each. Independent candidates emerged victorious in 11 wards.Congress’ Preneet Kaur said: “People voted for Congress due to the government’s development works.”The AAP’s campaign, led by Bhagwant Mann and Jarnail Singh, failed to make a difference. Mann held roadshows in Rajpura and Nabha, while Jarnail went to Samana and Patran and managed just one seat each in Rajpura and Patran.Meanwhile, the BJP suffered losses due to farmers’ stir. The party managed only two seats in Rajpura MC and failed to open account in the other three councils. Campaigns led by senior SAD leaders Surjit Rakhra and MP Prem Singh Chandumajra also failed to turn tables for the party candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-patiala-congress-wins-66-of-92-seats-213847
18-02-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar rejects BJP, AAP, stays with Cong||The Congress has reaffirmed its dominance in the high-octane civic body poll amid farmers’ agitation against the farm laws in the Majha region.The emerging scenario on the ground level electoral battle could be perceived as a setback for the BJP and AAP, which had failed to make its presence felt. Both parties were wiped out in Amritsar’s three nagar panchayats Rayya, Ramdas and Ajnala; two municipal councils Majitha and Jandiala and in ward No 37 bypoll.A similar scene was witnessed at the Patti Municipal Council and the Bhikhiwind Nagar Panchayat where the BJP could not open its account. In Amritsar, of the 68 seats, Congress won 40, followed by SAD with 25 and three Independents. The bypoll of the Amritsar MC ward No 37 was won by Congress’ Gagandeep Singh Sehjra with 130 votes.The SAD has re-established its grip in Ajnala that was being loosened after former MP Rattan Singh Ajnala camp joined the SAD (Taksali) group. Apparently, with the U-turn taken by his son Boney Ajnala and his supporters, SAD bounced back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-rejects-bjp-aap-stays-with-cong-213848
18-02-2021||Bathinda||Akalis deserted in stronghold||In the backdrop of agitation against the three farm laws, the ruling Congress swept the local body elections in Malwa, considered as the stronghold of the SAD. Post the alliance break-up, the BJP also performed poorly in the region.The Congress won in Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar and Ferozepur in the Malwa region. It also did well in Faridkot and other districts.In Bathinda, the home turf of former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the Congress won 43 seats while the SAD won seven out of the total 50 wards. This is the first time the Congress won a majority in the Bathinda MC. Hence, it will have its first mayor from here. The SAD managed to make a comeback only in some pockets.In Moga, the Congress failed to win a majority on its own and was able to win 20 seats while the SAD won 15, Independents 10, AAP four and BJP one.In Ferozepur, the home constituency of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, the Congress made a clean sweep and grabbed the control of the MC for the first time. It also won in all wards in Zira and Guruharshai, while the SAD was able to retain wards in Mudki.In Muktsar, out of 31 wards, the Congress won in 17, SAD 10, AAP two, BJP one and Independent one. In Malout, the Congress won in 14, SAD nine and Independents four. The Congress also did well in Sangrur district. In Longowal, out of total 15 seats, it won nine while the Independent won six seats. In Sunam, the Congress won 19 while the Independents won four seats.In Mansa, the Congress was able to win 14 seats out of the total 27, but surprisingly, many of its senior leaders lost the polls. Mansa MC former president Mandeep Singh Gora lost in ward No. 22 while senior Congress leader Manjit Singh Rama lost from ward No. 6. Similarly, the Congress was able to grab control of MCs in Faridkot district as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-deserted-in-stronghold-213850
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||BJP leader Tikshan Sud’s wife loses in Hoshiarpur||In the results declared today, the Congress got a clear majority in two Municipal Corporations of Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur with 45 and 41 seats, respectively, out of a total of 50 wards. The farmers’ agitation and the split between the SAD and the BJP cost the two parties dearly.Akalis wiped outIn Hoshiarpur, while the Akalis were completely wiped out, BJP, which ruled the last MC House and has had bigwigs to represent the area, managed to win four seatsIn Hoshiarpur, while the Akalis were completely wiped out, the BJP, which ruled the last MC House and has had bigwigs to represent the area (Union MoS Som Parkash and ex-Union MoS Vijay Sampla), managed to win four seats. The biggest shocker for the saffron party from this traditional bastion was the defeat of wife of former BJP minister Tikshan Sud, Rakesh Kumari, from ward No 6. AAP won two wards and Independents three.The BJP and AAP suffered even a bigger jolt in Kapurthala where they scored a duck. In the eight ULBs of Jalandhar, Congress got a clear majority in Phillaur winning 11 of 15 wards. In Sultanpur Lodhi, Congress won in 10 of 13 wards and the remaining three went to the Akali Dal. In Nawanshahr MC too, Congress got an edge clinching 11 of 19 wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-tikshan-suds-wife-loses-in-hoshiarpur-213851
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Local bodies elections: Farm laws backfire on BJP in Punjab||In what is seen as the reflection of the public sentiment against the three farm laws, the BJP could win just 2 per cent of the total wards in the local bodies elections. In seven districts, it even failed open the account.The saffron party, which was contesting on its own for the first time, suffered its worst-ever electoral defeat in the last 25 years. The party has always contested in alliance with the SAD since 1997.The BJP managed to win only 49 of the total 2,302 wards. After the Congress, SAD, AAP and Independents, the party finished at the fifth position.In Amritsar, Bathinda, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Mansa and Kapurthala, the party could not win even a single ward. In alliance with the SAD, the party used to contest 23 Assembly seats and three Lok Sabha seats in the state. The astonishing result is of Amritsar where the party had a strong presence. It had won the Lok Sabha election thrice as well as several Assembly constituencies in 2012. “With Punjab leading a strong movement against the farm laws and contesting alone, it became a challenging election for the BJP,” said Dr Parmod Kumar, Director, Institute for Development and Communication.The saffron party could field just 1,003 candidates in a total of 2,302 wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/local-bodies-elections-farm-laws-backfire-on-bjp-in-punjab-213852
18-02-2021||Gurdaspur/Pathankot||Tide turns in Gurdaspur||The BJP was decimated in the Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency, comprising the revenue districts of Pathankot and Gurdaspur, as it won just 16 of 196 seats in the civic body polls.In Batala, the Congress won 35 of 50 wards and the BJP, which incidentally had controlled the outgoing House, won just four. The SAD won six wards and AAP just three.Observers claim developmental projects, particularly those pertaining to the construction of new roads and widening of existing ones, building of three strategically important bridges on the Hansli drain and laying of interlocking tiles within the walled city swayed the electorate in favour of the Congress.Sukhdeep Singh Teja, tipped to be the first-ever Mayor of the ‘steel town’, won by a whopping 2,470 votes. Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s candidates won 12 of the 13 seats in the Fatehgarh Churian MC polls.In Pathankot, the hometown of state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, the Congress bagged 37 seats of total of 50. The BJP won 12 seats, 22 less than what it won in outgoing dispensation. It’s a major setback for the party as it had a “large committed vote bank of traders and shopkeepers who were traditional party voters”. The saffron party found itself facing the wrath of the residents over the farm laws.In Gurdaspur, the Congress won all 29 wards. This is seen as a setback for two-time MLA and Gurdaspur SAD chief Gurbachan Singh Babbehali who had visited almost all wards to drum up support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tide-turns-in-gurdaspur-213854
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||PPCC to launch ‘Capt for 2022’ campaign today||Buoyed by the civic poll results and with the state Assembly elections less than a year away, the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) is launching campaign ‘Capt for 2022’ from tomorrow.Riding on the sentiment against the central farm laws, the Congress has made inroads into urban pockets that were the stronghold of the SAD and BJP. The party has fared well in Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Ropar and Batala by winning 1,078 of 1,815 wards (municipal councils) and 271 of the 351 Municipal Corporation seats. Compared to Majha, the party’s performance in Malwa and Doaba has been better.With the Congress completing four years in March, the Congress government has planned a concerted campaign around Capt Amarinder Singh.“The message is clear that people have voted for the Chief Minister. The result will serve as a launch pad for Capt Amarinder Singh as the CM face in 2022”, said PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, adding that the PPCC is launching campaign ‘Capt for 2022’ from tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ppcc-to-launch-capt-for-2022-campaign-today-213855
18-02-2021||Muktsar||In Malout, Cong loses  to SAD by single vote||The policy of not withdrawing the nominations of two covering candidates cost dearly to the Congress candidate from ward No. 5 in Malout, who lost the election to her rival SAD nominee by just one vote.However, her covering candidates, both daughters-in-law, Kajal and Mehak, got one and two votes, respectively.Prem Lata of the Congress got 792 votes, whereas her rival SAD candidate Mamta got 793. A majority of residents of Malout town said had the Congress candidate asked her covering candidates to take back their nominations, she would have won. In Malout, the Congress won in 14 wards, the SAD in nine and Independents won four seats. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-malout-cong-loses-to-sad-by-single-vote-213856
18-02-2021||Ropar||AAP cuts sorry figure in Ropar||The Congress won 48 seats of the 68 contested by its candidates in Ropar district. The elections were held in total 92 wards of the four municipal councils of Ropar, Anandpur Sahib, Nangal and Morinda along with nagar panchayats of Chamkaur Sahib and Kiratpur Sahib on February 14. The AAP failed in opening its account despite fielding candidates in 70 wards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-cuts-sorry-figure-in-ropar-213860
18-02-2021||Faridkot||17 candidates draw a blank in Kotkapura||In a dismal show, eight candidates of SAD, five of the BJP, and four ofAAP have failed to get even a single vote in the MC elections in Kotkapura.All 29 candidates of the BJP could garner only 1,055 (2.3 per cent) of total 46,040 polled votes in Kotkapura. While five candidates failed to get even a single vote, 12 other candidates polled less than 20 votes in their wards. The reason is attributed to the parties fielding outsiders in some wards.Of the 25 seats, Congress won 16, SAD 7, AAP 1 and Independent 1. In Jaito, of the 17 wards, the Congress won 7 seats, Independents 4, SAD 3, AAP 2 and BJP 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17-candidates-draw-a-blank-in-kotkapura-213876
18-02-2021||Mansa||Amid Cong sweep, CPI firms up strength at Joga Nagar Panchayat of Mansa district||Notwithstanding the sweeping victory by the ruling Congress in the civic body elections in the state, Independent candidates backed by the CPI have won 12 seats of the total 13 in the Joga Nagar Panchayat of Mansa district.The SAD and Congress had not fielded their candidates on the party symbols following which the CPI-backed candidates also decided to contest without these. Earlier, in the 2015 civic body elections also, the CPI had won nine seats.Balkaran Singh Brar, CPI general secretary, said, “The CPI has been sweeping elections in Joga for the past many years. Apart from development works being carried out by previously elected candidates, it’s also a victory of the invaluable contribution of Jangir Singh Joga and other farm activists of the area, who have shaped narrative of local politics. People from the area have also made significant contribution to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three agricultural laws.”“Since the Independents, fielded by the two major traditional parties, had forged an unannounced alliance, the CPI district unit also decided to field their candidates as Independents without the party symbol,” Brar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-cong-sweep-cpi-firms-up-strength-at-joga-nagar-panchayat-of-mansa-district-213901
18-02-2021||Moga||No majority, ruling party eyes Independents in Moga||The ruling Congress has failed to achieve the half-way mark in the Moga Municipal Corporation election. Of the 50 wards, it won just 20, six short of the majority.The SAD won 15 seats, AAP four, BJP one and the Independents emerged victorious in 10 wards.Surprisingly, local Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal’s wife Dr Rajinder Kaur also lost the poll.Speculation is rife that the Congress is likely to indulge in horse trading to woo some Independents to grab the mayor’s post. Besides, it will be a task for the ruling party to finalise a face for the mayor’s post amid widespread factionalism in the party’s local unit.Youth Akali leader Barjinder Singh Brar, alias Makhan Brar, his father Jathedar Tota Singh and former MLA Joginder Pal Jain have also started contacting the Independents. Though it’s not going to be easy for the SAD, if the AAP councillors and the lone BJP councillor extend support to the party, it will only require support of five Independents to gain majority.Majority of the people were reportedly fed up with the policies of the Congress, widespread corruption and unwarranted interference of the local MLA in the administrative affairs of the local body.With poor show in the MC poll, the COngress will have to rethink its political strategy with just one year left for the Assembly election.Political observers say these results will have far-reaching consequences and may cast a shadow on the Assembly election. Some say the electoral outcome may plunge Moga into a leadership crisis within the Congress and it may have to look for a new face for the 2022 election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-majority-ruling-party-eyes-independents-in-moga-213929
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Distant second, Majitha only saving grace for Akali Dal||Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union Cabinet over the farm laws and intense campaigning by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal have failed to get the desired results for the party in the civic body poll.Winning just 294 of the 2,165 seats in all municipal bodies, the SAD stood a distant second to the ruling Congress. While the party lost badly in Sukhbir’s constituency Jalalabad and Harsimrat’s constituency Bathinda, the saving grace was Majitha — the citadel of Sukhbir’s brother-in-law Bikram Singh Majithia — where it won 10 of the 13 seats.In Bathinda, the party could manage to win only seven of the 50 seats and in Jalalabad just five of the 17 seats.Jagtar Sandhu, historian and former journalist, said in the last local bodies election, the Akali Dal was in power with the BJP and hence captured the election, but this time, it was the Congress. “But still, one can’t ignore the results in key constituencies of Bathinda, Jalalabad and Majitha belonging to the top leaders. It seems that Bikram Majithia still has a grip over his constituency,” he said.In a message on the social media, Sukhbir said the party workers battled unprecedented repression, money bags and government machinery and yet emerged as a force to reckon with. He said the party had stood second and the writing on the wall was that in the 2022 election, the Congress would be routed. Harcharn Bains, party’s principal adviser, said the results were encouraging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/distant-second-majitha-only-saving-grace-for-akali-dal-213933
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP vote base up in urban areas: Harpal Cheema||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today said the party had contested the MC election for the first time and welcomed the verdict given by the voters.Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said the results were a good sign for the party. “The party’s base in urban areas has increased and the party’s vote share is also up significantly. This is a sign that AAP will emerge stronger in urban areas by 2022,” he said.He said the results were a positive sign for the forthcoming Assembly election. “We will overcome our shortcomings after self-assessment. We will work to further strengthen the party,” he added.The AAP leader said before the last Assembly elections, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had made many promises to the people of Punjab but these were yet to be fulfilled by him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-vote-base-up-in-urban-areas-harpal-cheema-213934
18-02-2021||Ferozepur||Cong wrests Ferozepur from BJP||The Congress today trounced all rival parties to make a historic clean sweep in the municipal council elections in the three sub-divisions of this border district.In Ferozepur, the Congress wrested the power from the BJP by winning all 33 seats. The BJP, which had won 19 seats in the previous MC poll in 2015, failed to make a mark this time. The SAD and AAP were also unable to register their presence in the poll. The BJP candidates had contested in 12 wards.This is for the first time that the Congress has grabbed all 33 seats in this municipality which hitherto used to be a citadel of the saffron party.Similarly, in Guruharsahai, the Congress emerged victorious in all 15 wards. Likewise, in Zira, the Congress grabbed all 17 seats unopposed amidst allegations of misuse of official machinery.In Talwandi Bhai, the Congress won 10 seats while the SAD managed to win 2 seats. AAP also won maiden seat in the entire district from Talwandi Bhai. In Mudki, the Akalis were able to retain eight seats, which they had won in 2015. In Ferozepur city, Aaqib Akhtar, nephew of Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana, won with a margin of 697 votes.Interestingly, in Ferozepur 558 voters, in Mamdot 222, in Mudki 47 and in Talwandi Bhai 79 voters, used NOTA. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-wrests-ferozepur-from-bjp-213935
18-02-2021||Amritsar||Jatha to Pak refused permission, SGPC fumes||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MEA) has denied permission to a Sikh jatha that was to leave for Pakistan on Thursday for the centennial of the Nankana Sahib massacre. As many as 730 visas were issued by the Pakistan Embassy for the February 21 event.Citing security concerns, the SGPC received a fax message from the MEA on Wednesday evening, stating that recent inputs indicated a threat to Indian citizens visiting Pakistan. It also pointed out that movement on the India-Pakistan border had been suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A furious SGPC president, Bibi Jagir Kaur, claimed that restrictions on the jatha at the eleventh hour when all preparations had been made and documents furnished revealed Centre’s “anti-Sikh” mindset. “The MEA stated that the jatha could not be allowed to proceed to Pakistan due to security reasons and the Covid -19 threat. If that is the case, why was a jatha allowed earlier in November for Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary celebrations,” she asked. “The SGPC had arranged 20 buses for the pilgrims from the international border to Sri Nankana Sahib and other gurdwaras. Langar and other arrangements too were in place. All this has been scrapped by the Centre at the last minute,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jatha-to-pak-refused-permission-sgpc-fumes-213940
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||ED conducts raid at Jalandhar's Club Cabana||Sleuths of the ED from Delhi today conducted a raid at Club Cabana, suspecting some hawala transactions. The sleuths inspected the site, recovered some documents and got along two officials from the premises to its local office on Cool Road. Till late evening, the team was interrogating Shiv Lal Pubby, an NRI and partner in the club, and his aide Mukesh Sharma, in a suspected FEMA violation case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-conducts-raid-at-jalandhars-club-cabana-213950
18-02-2021||Moga||Trains diverted due to farm stir||With reference to the news item, ‘Railways cancels, diverts trains for tomorrow’s rail roko’, published in this column on Wednesday, the officials have clarified that the Railways had cancelled and diverted trains not in the view of the ‘rail roko’ call of the farmers, but in the view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation between Beas and Amritsar stations. The error is regretted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trains-diverted-due-to-farm-stir-213951
18-02-2021||The Tribune interview||Punjab civic body mandate for liberal policies: Amarinder||Lauding the voters, CM Capt Amarinder Singh, in an interview with Rajmeet Singh, said the people had voted for development, peace and stability and against regressive and divisive policies. Excerpts:How do you view the results?A clear endorsement of our policies and a validation of our stand on key issues, including farm laws. The Congress has delivered on its promises over the past four years.Do you think farmers’ stir had bearing on the outcome?The issue has touched the entire nation. With its largely agrarian society, Punjab is affected more than many other states by the Centre’s anti-farmer stance. The issue has exposed the apathy of the BJP and its former ally SAD and even AAP. People have realised that a vote for any of these parties would be a vote against Punjab.Repeal agri laws, Capt urges CentreI again appeal to the Centre not to take farm protest lightly and repeal the contentious laws — Capt Amarinder SinghHow do you rate SAD, AAP performance?Pathetic. Neither of these parties is even a close second to the Congress. Their fluctuating stand on the farm laws and farmers’ stir has made matters worse for them.What’s message for BJP?The clear message is mend your ways or be ready to be wiped out of the Indian polity. Today, it is Punjab, next will be the states going to the polls later this year. Finally, the saffron party will be dethroned unceremoniously. The BJP has been trampling over democratic and constitutional principles since it came to power at the Centre in 2014. It has become even more despotic and autocratic since 2019, when it was re-elected with a clear majority. All its actions are aimed at dividing the society on the lines of caste and religion. Its leaders have been working only for their own good and that of their crony capitalist friends.As against 2019 LS polls, the Congress has done well in urban areas. What are the reasons?I don’t look at these results as a referendum of any sort. Rather, I would call it a validation of trust and confidence the people have reposed in us. I am thankful to the Almighty that I have been able to sustain with the support of my colleagues and Punjabis within and outside the state. As for better performance, parliamentary and civic elections are driven by different issues. The LS polls are centered on national issues, while in the municipal elections, local issues are more relevant. The work that my government and the Congress have done on the ground is there for all to see.What changes do you see in country’s political spectrum in the last one year?There have been major changes in the political spectrum over the past one year, which have completely exposed all other parties, be it the SAD, AAP or the BJP. From the CAA to farm laws, all sorts of legislations have been imposed by the BJP aimed at disturbing peace and stability of Punjab and the nation as a whole.As for the SAD and AAP, their double standards on key issues have exposed their claims of being pro-people. The people have seen through their lies, deceit, and their anti-Punjab agenda. In contrast, the Congress has worked hard and relentlessly for the development and progress of the state. This has resulted in an even bigger swing in its favour than what political experts had projected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-civic-body-mandate-for-liberal-policies-amarinder-214032
18-02-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Cong sweeps Punjab civic poll, Capt taller||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 17The Congress today registered an overwhelming victory in the Punjab municipal elections by pocketing around 67 per cent seats of seven municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats.The BJP, which went alone in any election for the first time in the state, stood last, losing badly even in its strongholds. The party had fielded 1,000 candidates.Though the party ruling the state usually posts better results in civic elections, the ongoing farmers' stir created extra interest in the people's verdict this time.Cong single largest party in MogaCongress emerges single largest party bagging 20 of 50 seats in the Moga corpnThe counting of votes for the Mohali Municipal Corporation would be held tomorrow as re-polling was held in two wards today.The election results declared today put the Congress way ahead of other parties. With victory in 1,484 of the 2,165 wards of various municipal bodies, the Congress got clear majority in six of the seven corporations, including Bathinda (Akali bastion) and Gurdaspur/Pathankot area (BJP stronghold). It emerged as the single largest party in the Moga MC by winning 20 of the 50 seats. The party is likely to get support from 10 Independent winners.Though the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) stood distant second with 294 seats, the party barely managed to win more seats than Independents (283). The Akalis are taking solace in emerging as the principal Opposition party, ahead of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).AAP, which won only 57 seats, lost badly even in key areas, including MP Bhagwant Mann's home district Sangrur.The BJP could win only 47 seats. The party failed to retain its influence in Abohar, Pathankot and Batala and could not open its account in Bathinda and Kapurthala.Also read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-sweeps-punjab-civic-poll-capt-taller-214031
18-02-2021||Jhajjar||2 Punjab farmers killed as bus hits tractor in Haryana's Bahadurgarh||Two Punjab farmers were killed and as many sustained injuries when their tractor-trailer was hit by a private bus near Jakhoda village on the Rohtak-Delhi highway in Bahadurgarh subdivision today. Low visibility is stated to be the reason behind the mishap.The deceased have been identified as Gurdas Singh (60) and Ajaib Singh (58) of Guda village in Bathinda district.The mishap took place when the farmers were returning to their village from Tikri. A case has been registered against the bus driver, who managed to flee after the mishap. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-punjab-farmers-killed-as-bus-hits-tractor-in-haryanas-bahadurgarh-213810
18-02-2021||New Delhi||MHA denies permission to 600 Sikh pilgrims planning to visit Pak; cites security, COVID situation there||The Union Home Ministry Thursday denied permission to 600 Sikh pilgrims intending to visit gurdwaras in Pakistan citing the security and COVID-19 situation in that country, officials said.In a communication to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the home ministry said the security situation in Pakistan continues to be adverse and there is a threat to Indian citizens in that country.Besides, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected five lakh people in Pakistan and 10,000 people lost their lives due to the disease.The health infrastructure in Pakistan is also not adequate, the ministry said.It also said both passenger as well as trade traffic between India and Pakistan has stopped since March 2020 due to the pandemic.Citing these reasons, the home ministry conveyed to the SGPC that it has decided not to accord permission to the Jatha comprising 600 pilgrims which intended to cross over to Pakistan on Friday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mha-denies-permission-to-600-sikh-pilgrims-planning-to-visit-pak-cites-security-covid-situation-there-213788
18-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Amarinder assures support to farmers during his impromptu stop at Chandigarh’s Matka chowk||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh made an impromptu visit at Matka Chowk in Chandigarh on Wednesday evening, to interact with youth and professors protesting in solidarity with farmers camping at Delhi borders.CM Amarinder ensured his and his government’s complete support to the farmers protesting against the farm laws.“@capt_amarinder made an impromptu stop and interacted with youngsters, professionals & others sitting at Matka Chowk in Chandigarh in solidarity with farmers camping at Delhi borders. Such protests have been going on in the city for the last three months.1/2,” tweeted media adviser to Punjab CM, Raveen Thukral.During the interaction, CM @capt_amarinder expressed his and his government’s full support for the farmers protesting against the #Farmlaws & assured of all possible steps to protect the interests of the farming community. 2/2 pic.twitter.com/CYWdawfi3a  “During the interaction, CM @capt_amarinder expressed his and his government’s full support for the farmers protesting against the #Farmlaws & assured of all possible steps to protect the interests of the farming community. 2/2,” read another tweet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-assures-support-to-farmers-during-his-impromptu-stop-at-chandigarhs-matka-chowk-213787
18-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Ahead of Thursday's ‘rail roko’, farmers at Tikri border finalise strategy||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, February 17Protesting farmers at Tikri border after discussion with locals on Wednesday finalised their strategy for Thursday’s ‘Rail Roko’ protest even as the district administration appointed 11 duty magistrates at different railway stations and other places of the district to maintain law and order.The Government Railway Police at Bahadurgarh also beefed up the security arrangement on the Rohtak-Delhi track. Even, local police too deputed extra personnel nearby the railway tracks in view of the call of ‘Rail Roko’ call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha against three farm laws.Read also | 'Rail roko': Railways deploys 20 additional RPSF companies, focus on Punjab, Haryana, UPAs per information, Deputy Commissioner Jitender Dahiya has appointed the Duty Magistrate for Bahadurgarh, Asauda, Dighal, Jhajjar, Jharli and Machhrauli railway stations where farmers could come to stop the trains. Besides them, duty magistrates have also been appointed for Jhajjar city, Beri sub-division, Line Par locality in Bahadurgarh and Dujana villages.“No one will be allowed to take law into their hands hence security has been beefed up near the rail track while local police authorities have also deputed extra police force. Action will be taken against those found committing any crime,” said Hoshiar Singh, incharge, GRP station, Bahadurgarh town, adding that four trains run on the Rohtak-Delhi track between 12 pm to 4 pm daily.Significantly, the farmers were keeping the strategy secret to give the authorities a slip.Meanwhile, Rajender Arya Dadupur, national president, Bhartiya Kisan Majdoor Naujawan Union, has appealed to the people to avoid travel by train on Thursday to express their solidarity with the farmers’ demands.Inderjit Singh, vice president, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, claimed the Rail Roko protest would be successful as the people stand with the farmers and they in a large number would assemble at various points in favour of the farmers to stop the trains on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-thursdays-rail-roko-farmers-at-tikri-border-finalise-strategy-213783
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Delighted with Punjab civic body results, Sunil Jakhar launches ‘Capt for 2022’ campaign||Delighted by results of the civic body polls, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Wednesday has launched “Capt for 2022” campaign. The ruling Congress won six of the seven municipal corporations in the civic polls.The statement gains significance in view of the efforts by the party high command to rehabilitate Navjot Singh Sidhu.“The message is loud and clear. People have given their mandate for Capt Amarinder Singh as the government near its term early next year. It is for everyone to see,” said Jakhar. “I would like to launch a campaign ‘Captain for 2022’. Only he can steer the ship of the state through these turbulent times when Punjab is being discriminated against by the BJP-led Centre,” Jakhar told reporters here.“People have given their fatwa and reposed their faith in the leadership of Amarinder Singh. The message is loud and clear. The credit of this victory goes to the people of Punjab and the able leadership of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh,” he said.Sources revealed armed with civic body results, the Congress government is all set to launch a campaign projecting Capt Amarinder Singh as the saviour of Punjab.The Congress won in Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Batala and Pathankot.Jakhar then expressed his support for Amarinder Singh as the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the next assembly elections. Punjab goes to the polls in early 2022.“People have rejected negative politics and voted for our development agenda,” he told reporters here.“Be it traders, small traders or youth, they kept one thing in mind that the future of Punjab lies safe in Congress’ hands. People know that Congress party can further take the state on the path of growth and development by ensuring an atmosphere of peace, harmony and brotherhood,” Jakhar said.Notably, the outcome of the elections held against the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation against the BJP-led government at the Centre has come as a boost for the Congress, which is also eyeing to win the assembly elections due early next year.The Punjab Congress chief alleged that the BJP, which was facing backlash in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ protests, made attempts to “divide” Punjab on urban-rural lines, but people rejected their “agenda”.“People who have seen Punjab’s dark days of terrorism saw through their agenda and rejected it,” he said.“Through municipal election results, the BJP’s central leadership should get a clear message. They tried arm twisting tactics, they tried to defame Punjab and Punjabis especially those supporting farmers. But people of Punjab know how to claim their right through democratic means, and they have given their message.”Jakhar further said the BJP at the Centre tried to create divide in name of religion, caste, urban and rural divide.“I want to thank urban voters for showing solidarity and rejecting the BJP’s agenda. BJP’s agenda was to create a divide on rural and urban lines. People saw through BJP’s game plan of divide and rule,” he said.He also said if BJP high command ignores this “strong message”, it would be “at their own peril and own cost”.The Congress leader also alleged that for the BJP, farmers are only a vote bank.“They never saw Punjab as Punjab, but only as a vote bank,” he said.Replying to a question, Jakhar said, “Our principal opposition is negative thinking, the main character of that is BJP”.Speaking about the AAP, Jakhar claimed the party was active only on social media, and it did not have real connect on the ground.“People also saw that during this election campaign, SAD, AAP and BJP did not speak even once on development issues. Their sole target was Amarinder Singh and Congress. SAD and AAP also did not touch the issue of steep price rise including that of petrol and diesel,” he said.“The parties which were saying the civic polls are going to be semi-final for 2022 have suddenly changed their tone. The fact remains that this is the launching pad (for Congress before 2022 polls), which brings enormous responsibility on the shoulders of the Congress party,” he said.Jakhar claimed that BJP and SAD were “two sides of the same coin” despite the Akalis having parted ways with the saffron outfit.The Congress leader also said “it has been totally fair and transparent election”.Meanwhile, the ruling Congress has won many of the 109 Municipal councils and Nagar Panchayats, said officials, adding details would be known later. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delighted-with-punjab-civic-body-results-sunil-jakhar-launches-capt-for-2022-campaign-213743
18-02-2021||New Delhi||Man who brandished swords to 'instigate' farmers on R-Day arrested||A 30-year-old man who was allegedly swinging swords that "instigated the protesters" at the Red Fort during the violence in Delhi on Republic Day has been arrested, police said on Wednesday.Maninder, who is a car mechanic, was seen in a video swinging two swords at the Red Fort on January 26 with "the intent to energise brutal and violent assault against the Police persons on duty".As per the police, Maninder, who runs a sword training school in his neighbourhood, was radicalized by watching provoking videos on Facebook.The 30-year-old was picked up last evening from a bus stop near CD block in Pitampura."Subsequently two swords (khandas) used by the accused in Red Fort has been recovered from his house in Swaroop Nagar," Deputy Commissioner of Police (special cell) Pramod Kumar Kushwaha said."A long video of him swinging swords at Red Fort has been found from his mobile phone. Further interrogation of the accused is in process," he added.Police have further disclosed that Maninder had motivated six other persons from his neighbourhood to join the tractor rally on January 26."Maninder's sword dancing had motivated violent protestors to cause more mayhem at the Red Fort by indulging in violence against the public servants including the policemen and causing damage to historic Red Fort," Kushwaha explained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-who-brandished-swords-to-instigate-farmers-on-r-day-arrested-213687
18-02-2021||---||Punjab civic poll results reaffirm Congress hold; SAD ahead of AAP; BJP takes beating||Chandigarh, February 17The ruling Congress won six municipal corporations and emerged as the largest party in the seventh, sweeping the urban body polls in Punjab on Wednesday.The Congress won in Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Batala and Pathankot, in the civic polls held against the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation.The counting for Mohali municipal corporation will take place on Thursday.As per results of seven Municipal Corporations and 109 Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats, Congress won 271 wards of total 351 of seven Municipal Corporations of Abohar, Batala, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Moga and Bathinda and byelection of one ward of Amritsar.As per reports from Municipal Corporations, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) secured 33 wards, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won 9, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) managed to get victory in 20 wards and Independents added 18 wards to their kitty.According to the results of 109 Councils and Nagar Panchayats, Congress has won 1,078 wards, while Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) got 251 Wards, whereas Aam Aadmi Party succeeded in 50 wards. Apart from this, Bharatiya Janata Party won 29, BSP won 5 wards and independents have succeeded in 375 wards.The ruling Congress led by Capt Amarinder Singh has reaffirmed its hold in most of the districts.The results, ahead of the state Assembly polls, would serve as a booster for Capt Amarinder Singh who is aiming for another term in the 2022 Assembly elections.It would be a signal for detractors of the Chief Minister.The outcome comes as a boost for the Congress, which has been backing the protest by farmers – a majority of them from Punjab and Haryana – against the BJP-led government at the Centre.The Congress is also eyeing a win in the Assembly elections, which are just a year away.Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said people have rejected the “negative politics” of parties like the BJP, SAD and AAP.“We contested on the development agenda. This victory will embolden our workers to work hard,” Jakhar told reporters.In Moga, where no political party has scored a majority, the support of independent candidates could be crucial.The Congress won 20 of the 50 municipal wards in Moga, the Shiromani Akali Dal 15, the Aam Aadmi Party 4, the Bharatiya Janata Party 1 and independents 10.The Punjab election campaign was marred by stray clashes between party workers with opposition leaders alleging at some places that their candidates were being stopped from filing nomination papers.The State Election Commission had ordered repolling at two booths for the Mohali municipal corporation. Therefore, the counting for the entire civic body will take place on Thursday.Though the civic body polls are like a curtainraiser for the Assembly polls, the SAD that was written off by the Congress after its fiasco over the farm laws needs to be taken note of. The AAP that was trying to ride on its support for farmers still needs to work a lot on the ground. The voters seem to have sent a message to the BJP through the civic body polls.Way ahead of the AAP, the SAD held the second position, though it is way behind the Congress. Due to the anger against the central farm laws, the BJP’s performance has been rather dismal.Major embarrassments have been the losing of the election by the wife of Congress MLA Harjot Kamal and wife of BJP leader Tiksan sood from Hoshiarpur.Also read: Delighted with Punjab civic body results, Sunil Jakhar launches ‘Capt for 2022’ campaignCongress wins 5 wards in Zirakpur, 12 in BanurRepoll at two booths in Mohali’s Ward 10 under wayResultsLudhiana (Khanna):  Total seats: 33Congress: 19SAD: 6AAP: 2BJP: 2Independent: 4Ludhiana (Jagraon MC): Total seats: 23Congress: 17Independents: 5SAD: 1Jalandhar (Adampur): Total wards: 13BSP: 1Independent: 12Jalandhar (Alawalpur): Total wards: 11SAD: 1Independent: 10Ward no 1. Rachna, IndependentWard no 2: Krishna Devi, IndependentWard no 3: Raj Rani, IndependentWard no 4: Jasvir Kaur, SADWard no 5: Neelam rani, IndependentWard no 6: Mukadar Lal, IndependentWard no 7: Kavita Rani, IndependentWard no 8: Pankaj Sharma, IndependentWard no 9: Naresh Kumar, IndependentWard no 10: Madan Lal, IndependentWard no 11: Brij Bhushan, IndependentJalandhar (Kartarpur): Total wards: 15Cong: 6Independent: 9Jalandhar (Nakodar): Total wards: 17Congress: 9Independent: 8Jalandhar (Nurmahal): Total wards 13BJP: 1Independent: 12Ward no 1. Babli, IndependentWard no 2. Anil Kumar, IndependentWard no 3. Deepak Kumar, IndependentWard no 4. Jung Bahadur, IndependentWard no 5. Mamta jaspal, BJPWard no 6. Balbir Chand Kauldhar, IndependentWard no 7. Hardeep Kaur, IndependentWard no 8. Nand Kishor, IndependentWard no 9. Suman Kumari, IndependentWard no 10. Rajiv Misra, IndependentWard no 11. Suman Sekhri, IndependentWard no 12. Krushna Devi Sandhu, IndependentWard no 13: Walaiti Ram, IndependentJalandhar (Phillaur): Total seats: 15Congress 11BSP: 1Independent: 3Jalandhar (Lohian Khas): Total seats: 13Congress: 10Independent: 3Ward no 1: Swaran Kaur (Congress)Ward no 2: Baldev Singh (Congress)Ward no 3: Parminder Kaur, (Congress)Ward no 4: Sukhwinder Nagi (Independent)Ward no 5: Parveen Kumari (Independent)Ward no 6: Jagjit Singh (Congress)Ward no 7: Rani, (Congress)Ward no 8: Gurjit Singh, (Congress)Ward no 9: Balwinder Singh, (Congress)Ward no 10: Gurbir Singh (Congress)Ward no 11: Manjit Singh (Independent)Ward no 12: Pardeep Kumar (Congress)Ward no 13: Seema (Congress)Jalandhar (Mehatpur): Total seats: 13Congress: 11Independent: 2Kapurthala: Total wards: 50Cong: 45SAD: 3Independent: 2Faridkot MC: Total wards: 25 Cong: 16SAD: 7AAP: 1Independent: 1Faridkot (Kotkapura)Cong: 21SAD: 3Independent: 5Bathinda (Sangat MC): total wards: 9Congress: 2SAD: 7Faridkot (Jaitu MC): total wards: 17Congress : 7Independent : 4SAD: 3AAP: 2BJP: 1Patiala: NabhaCong: 14SAD: 6Independent: 3Nawanshahr: Total wards: 19Congress: 11Independent: 4SAD: 3BSP: 1Nawanshahr (Banga MC): Total wards: 15 AAP: 5Congress: 5SAD: 3Independent: 1BJP: 1BathindaCongress: 43SAD: 7Muktsar: Total wards: 31Congress: 17SAD: 10AAP: 2BJP:  1Independent: 1Sangrur: (Longowal) total seats: 15Congress: 9Independent : 6Sangrur: (Amargarh) total seats: 11Congress: 5SAD: 5AAP: 1Sangrur: (Bhawanigarh) total seats: 15Congress: 13SAD: 1Independent: 1Sangrur: SunamCongress: 19Independent: 4Gurdaspur: Congress wins all 29 wardsRopar (15 Morinda municipal council seats)Independent: 8Congress: 7Ferozpur (Talwandi Bhai)Ward No. 1:  Anu Bajaj, Congress   Ward No. 2:  Tarsem Singh, Congress   Ward No 3: Rupinder Kaur, CongressWard No. 4: Pritpal Singh, SAD       Ward No. 5: Kulwinder, Congress  Ward No. 6: Rupinder Singh, SAD  Ward No. 7: Amarjit Kaur, Congress    Ward No. 8: Narpreet Singh, AAP  Ward No. 9: Kulwinder Kaur, Congress      Ward No. 10: Jagdeep Singh, Congress  Ward No. 11: Rakesh Kumar, CongressWard No. 12: Arti Dhingra, Congress     Ward No. 13: Bhjan Singh, CongressFerozepur (Mamdot)Ward no 1: Mandeep Kaur, Congress      Ward no 3: Sukhwinder Kaur, Congress  Ward no 4: Daljit Singh Bawa, Independent  Ward no 5: Anuradha Rani, Congress      Ward no 6: Surinder Kumar, SAD       Ward no 7: Alice, Congress    Ward no 8: Upinder Singh, IndependentWard no 12: Balwinder Singh, SAD    Ward no 13: Baj Singh, CongressFerozepurWard no 1: Darshana, Congress   Ward no 2: Navjot Kaur, Congress     Ward no 3: Manjeet Kaur, Congress  Ward no 6:  Kapil Kumar, CongressWard no 7: Rachna Kumari, Congress      Ward no 8: Parvinder Kumar, Congress   Ward no 10: Rajesh Chanana, Congress  Ward no 11: Jagroop Kaur, CongressFerozepur (Mudki)Ward No. 1: Lakhwinder Kaur, CongressWard No. 2: Avtar Singh, Congress    Ward No. 3: Happy Kaur, SAD      Ward No. 5: Praveen Kaur, SAD   Ward No. 6: Sewak Singh, SAD    Ward No. 7: Sarbjit Kaur, Congress    Ward No. 8: Davinder Kumar, SAD    Ward No. 9: Gurjit Kaur, SADKartarpur MCWard no 1:  Balwinder Kaur, (Ind)Ward no 2: Onkar Singh (Cong)Ward no 3: Tejpal Singh (Ind)Ward no 4: Jyoti Arora (Ind)Ward no 5: Komal Agarwal (Ind)Ward no 6: Prince Arora (Cong)Ward no 7: Amarjit Kaur (Ind)Ward no 8: Bal Mukund (Ind)Ward no 9: Sunita Rani (Cong)Ward no 10: Dimple Kapoor (Ind)Ward no 11: Rajwinder Kaur (Uncontested Congress candidate)Ward no 12: Sham Sunder Pal (Cong)Ward no 13: Surinder Pal (Ind)Ward no 14: Ashok Kumar (Cong)Ward no 15: Manjinder Kaur (Ind)FerozepurWard No. 1: DarshanaWard No. 2: Navjot KaurWard No 3 Manjeet KaurWard No. 4 Bohar SinghWard No. 5 Mandeep KaurWard No. 6 Kapil KumarWard No. 7 Rachna KumariWard No. 8  Parvinder KumarWard No. 9 Prem Rani SharmaWard No. 10 Rajesh ChananaWard No. 11 Jagroop KaurWard No. 12 Ashok SachdevaWard No. 13  Sukhwinder KaurWard No. 14 Kashmir SinghWard No. 15 Pooja RaniWard No. 16 Rippi BhattiWard No. 17 PraveenWard No 18 Dinesh KumarWard No. 19 Satwant KaurWard No. 20 Aaqib AkhtarWard No. 21 Mamta RaniWard No. 22 Rishi SharmaWard No. 23 Sakshi KhuranaWard No. 24 Parminder SinghWard No. 25 AshaWard No. 26 Rohit GroverWard No. 27 Yamni SharmaWard No. 28 Michele GachliWard No. 29 ShivaniWard No. 30 Amarjit KaurWard No. 31 Surjit SinghWard No. 32 Kamal KumarWard No. 33 Rajinder KumarMoga:  Total wards: 50Congress: 20SAD: 15Independent: 10AAP: 4BJP: 1Congress loses Moga MC electionsMalout: Total wards 27Congress: 14SAD: 9Independent: 4Gidderbaha: Total wards 19Cong: 18Independent: 1SAD boycotted electionAmritsar (Ajnala total wards: 15)Cong-7SAD-8Amritsar (Rayya total wards: 13)Cong: 12SAD: 1Amritsar (Jandiala total wards 15)Cong: 10SAD: 3Independent: 2Patiala: Result of all 31 seats of Rajpura MC declaredCongress: 27BJP: 2SAD:1AAP: 1Congress wins Amritsar Muncipal Corporation ward number 37 bypollRamdas:Congress: 8SAD: 3Ferozepur: Congress wins ward No 1 to 13Majitha: Total wards: 13SAD: 10Congress : 2Independent -1Nangal: Total wards 19Congress : 15BJP: 2Independent: 2 — With agency inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-civic-poll-results-reaffirm-congress-hold-sad-ahead-of-aap-bjp-takes-beating-213673
