21-02-2021||Amritsar||Devoid of Indian Sikh ‘sangat’, Saka Nankana Sahib commemorated at Sri Nankana Sahib||The BJP-led Central government was criticised on both the sides of India-Pakistan border for its denial to permit Indian ‘jatha’ to visit Pakistan to take part in the centenary of Nankana Sahib massacre, known as Saka Nankana Sahib, on Sunday.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh addressed the Pakistan devotees’ digitally through ‘zoom’ and appreciated the Pakistan authorities for organising the event to pay homage to the hundreds of Sikhs who laid down their lives for the sake of Sikh Panth and the shrine’s administration.In Pakistan, around 2,000 Sikhs and Nanak Naam leva sangat attended the occasion.  Federal Minister Brig (Retd) Ejaz Shah was the chief guest.Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh told that all the arrangements were made in collaboration with the Evacuee Trust Property Board.“Pakistan had issued 720 visas to Indian devotees as special permission to attend the occasion but in vain,” he said.The SGPC marked the occasion at Godharpur village in Gurdaspur district, where the kin of Bhai Lachhman Dass Singh Dharowali, who was killed during Nankana Sahib massacre, lived.Launching an attack on the Central government, Giani Harpreet Singh said the BJP-led Central government has been playing politics of “polarisation”.“Since 1947, the minorities like Muslims and Sikhs were being targeted politically, socially, economically and religiously only to grab powers through votes from the majority community. The Sikhs ought to be politically strong while burying internal conflicts,” he said.  On Centre’s move to restrict Indian Jatha to Nankana Sahib, he said it was a fallout of Sikhs’ active participation in protest against the newly enacted farm laws.He said that even if the Centre attempted to intercept the Sikh jathas on Gurpurabs ahead, the Sikhs would never bow down before the Centre.“I want to clarify to the Central government that its attempt to desist the Sikhs’ participation in farm protest could never be fructified. A century ago, the British government had stopped the Sikh jatha heading to Nankana Sahib, a day after the massacre, led by Jathedar Kartar Singh Jhabbar and today the BJP’s Central government did the same,” he said.He said the Sikhs would commemorate Saka Nankana Sahib martyrs every year and the occasion would also memorise the Centre’s move to stop Sikh jatha to Nankana Sahib.Addressing a gathering, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal also questioned the Centre for its denial to jatha and the CM for not taking up the issue.“Even few days back few persons were granted permission to visit Pakistan at the insistence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh,” he said.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur urged Sikhs to unite under the banner of the SGPC and also announced to construct a Guru Ka Langar hall in remembrance of Bhai Lachhman Singh and a library in memory of the martyrs of Nankana Sahib in their native villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devoid-of-indian-sikh-sangat-saka-nankana-sahib-commemorated-at-sri-nankana-sahib-215696
21-02-2021||Dasuya||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal accuses CM Amarinder Singh of going back on loan waiver promise||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal accused Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of going back on his election promise to waive loans of Punjab’s farmers.Badal, the former deputy chief minister of Punjab, spoke to the press after he visited the family of a farmer Jagtar Singh and his son Kirpal Singh who killed themselves recently over mounting debts at Muhadipur village. Badal claimed that the tragic incident “exposed” Amarinder Singh’s government.“The incident proves that even loans of marginal farmers like Jagtar Singh who owned only one acre of land have not been waived off. This despite the fact that Capt Amarinder Singh promised on the holy Gutka Sahib that the Congress government would effect a complete loan waiver once it came to power in the State,” he said.He also claimed that lakhs of farmers have been thrust into a state of further indebtedness in the four years of Congress party’s rule mainly relying on the promise of loan waiver.“Farmers stopped paying their loan installments hoping the Congress government would fulfill its promise. This is the reason why farmers like Jagtar Singh and Kirpal Singh were driven to despair and took the extreme step. The Congress government is responsible for the death of Jagtar who had made a name in the local community as Nambardar of the village for twenty years as well as 1500 farmers who have committed suicide during Congress rule”.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s government was voted to power in the 2017 assembly elections.He also urged the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi to pay heed to the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders since November.“It’s high time the Centre listened to the protesting farmers and accepted all their demands including repeal of the three laws, assured government purchase on minimum support price (MSP) and implementation of the Swaminathan report in letter and spirit,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-accuses-cm-amarinder-singh-of-going-back-on-loan-waiver-promise-215679
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Statement on extended period for putting farm laws on hold mischievously taken out of context: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday rejected as ‘misinterpretation’ the media statement quoting him on extension of the proposed suspension of the farm laws, saying it was mischievously taken out of context to give the wrong impression on his stance.The message sought to be communicated from his interview was totally incorrect, as was evident from the rest of his statement on the issue, said the Chief Minister, allaying the apprehensions of some Kisan leaders that he was trying to interfere in their agitation.Even as he categorically ruled out any interference, or even direct mediation unless sought by both sides, Captain Amarinder said he had categorically stated in the said interview that “from what I understand is that some of the farmers are agreeable to the laws being put on hold for 18 months but may go up to 24 months.”He was also on record as stating in the same interview that an extended period for putting the laws on hold continued to be in active discussions (between the government and Kisan Unions), he added.The Chief Minister said his statement was clearly in reference to the feedback or inputs received on the issue from certain Farmer Unions, which was taken out of context and presented as his personal suggestion for a compromise. Instead of being put in the context of his full statement, this particular point (on 24 months’ suspension of the Farm Laws) was played up as a separate communication, he said, terming it as factually incorrect.While he maintained that an early resolution was critical to the safety of Punjab, which had witnessed a surge in smuggling of weapons into the state from across the border in the past 5-6 months, the Chief Minister asserted that he, and his government, continues to stand with the farmers on the issue.He pointed out that even in his speech submitted to Niti Aayog for circulation at Saturday’s meeting had categorically underscored the need for “urgent resolution” of the current agitation “to the satisfaction of the protesting farmers by addressing all their grievances.” It is the farmers who have to decide what is in their interest and to what extent they are willing to compromise, if at all, on their demand for repeal of the Farm Laws, said the Chief Minister.He reiterated his stand that the Central Government should not stand on prestige on the issue and should be willing to revoke the legislations to find an effective, long-term solution to the problem.Captain Amarinder expressed surprise at Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar’s claim that no one spoke about the farm laws in the sixth governing council meeting held yesterday.Though he could not personally attend the virtual conference owing to ill-health, his speech, which was submitted to the Niti Aayog on Thursday, had clearly highlighted the issue.Not only had he reiterated his government’s stand that Agriculture is a State subject and law-making on it should be left to the States in the true spirit of “cooperative federalism”, he had further underscored, in black and white, the need to resolve the farmers’ issues on urgent basis, Captain Amarinder noted, categorically and unequivocally rejecting the claim of the Niti Aayog VC as false and baseless.The Chief Minister asserted that his, and his government’s, stand on the Farm Laws had been consistent all through, at every forum, and the state amendment Bills, passed in the Vidhan Sabha, were an endorsement of the same. It was unfortunate that the Governor was sitting over these Bills instead of forwarding them to the President for assent, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/statement-on-extended-period-for-putting-farm-laws-on-hold-mischievously-taken-out-of-context-amarinder-215660
21-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Long haul: Mist fans, freezers arrive at farmers’ protest site||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, February 20Having braved severe cold for over two months, farmers from Punjab camping at Tikri border since November 27 are now gearing up for the summer season. They have made arrangement for mist fans and deep freezers. A submersible pump is also being installed to meet water requirements. They say they are ready to face every situation to get the three farm laws repealed.Kewal Singh, a farmer from Moga district, said: “We have also placed orders for two air conditioners. We are ready for a long haul. Earlier, we braved bone-chilling cold and now we are ready to face severe heat with same enthusiasm.”Labhpreet Singh, another farmer, said: “We have also begun replacing our sheds. For potable water, an RO system is being installed.” Jasvinder of Ludhiana said farmers of various villages had pooled money to buy two deep freezers and five mist fans. “The freezers are required to keep eatables fresh during summer,” he said.VILLAGES POOL MONEYArrangements afoot for ceiling fans, fridges, ACs, submersible pumps and water purifiers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/long-haul-mist-fans-freezers-arrive-at-farmers-protest-site-215273
21-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||Farmer, son take poison; note ‘blames’ agri laws||An indebted farmer and his son allegedly consumed some poisonous substance at Mohddipur village of Dasuya subdivision late last night. The bodies of Jagtar Singh (70) and his son Kirpal Singh (45) were found lying inside their house.The police recovered two notes, one purportedly penned by Jagtar Singh and the other by his son. Jagtar’s note reads: “I am taking my life over harassment due to an outstanding loan. The Congress government had promised debt waiver, but to no avail. Secondly, the Modi government is not repealing the farm laws. It is upsetting to see the farmers’ plight.”The other note too mentions similar reasons. In the end it reads: “Kisanon ki suno Modi sarkar, sirf apne mann ki baat na karo”.Jagtar’s brother Sukhvinder Bajwa said: “My brother was hoping that the Punjab Government would waive his loan. Both had earlier gone to take part in the agitation in Delhi.” Navjot Mahal, SSP, said: “We have taken the notes into our possession and are verifying the facts.” On alleged delay in debt waiver, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said: “I have asked the SDM concerned to probe the matter. We will also check facts regarding their debt waiver application and eligibility.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-son-take-poison-note-blames-agri-laws-215275
21-02-2021||New Delhi||Punjab sees 47% rise in Covid cases||Punjab is among the five states witnessing an upsurge in daily Covid cases over the past week with the state recording a 47.30 per cent jump in 24-hour infections between February 14 and 20.Along with Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, Punjab today contributed 87 per cent of new cases even as Kerala and Maharashtra alone made up for 75.87 per cent of the active caseload in India.As against 260 new cases on February 14, Punjab saw 383 cases today, a surge of 47.30 per cent, while the corresponding surge was the highest for Maharashtra at 69.26 per cent (from 3,611 cases on February 14 to 6,112 today).The daily cases in the country climbed to about 13,993 after nearly 22 days.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan appealed for use of face masks and adhering to social distancing norms. The minister said the government would revisit the behavioural strategy part as the vaccination drive progressed. The Centre is hoping to push herd immunity by fast-tracking vaccination, but the pace of progress remains slow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-47-rise-in-covid-cases-215276
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Consult us over Covid priorities, says CM||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today urged the Centre to consult the state before fixing priorities for Covid vaccination as it was a matter involving the population.As the portal created by the Centre for registration of healthcare workers was not working, several frontline workers, willing for vaccination, had been left behind, he pointed out, calling upon the Centre to allow the entry of such workers.In his circulated speech at the Niti Aayog meeting, the CM also requested the Centre to allow 100 per cent use of the SDRF towards the expenditure for the Covid management, instead of the present ceiling of 50 per cent. The state might also be allowed to utilise the previous years available funds, he suggested.Captain Amarinder also urged the Centre to provide immediate financial assistance of at least Rs 300 crore to upgrade health infrastructure, equipment and other healthcare needs.For the effective service delivery at health and wellness centres, liberal grants for the strengthening of infrastructure, drugs and diagnostic should be provided by the Centre, said he. He also sought the creation of a “Water Quality Kosh” in every state to enable Punjab to achieve the vision of providing potable water to each rural household on a sustainable basis. He requested the government to consider the Gurdaspur Medical College project on priority to provide better healthcare in the border district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/consult-us-over-covid-priorities-says-cm-215344
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||End farm impasse: Capt to PM||Expressing concern over the threat to agriculture as a result of the “disruptions caused by the three farm laws”, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure urgent resolution of the farm unrest.Calling for respect for the annadata, the CM, through his speech submitted for the virtual meeting of the NITI Aayog, reiterated his government’s stand that agriculture was a state subject and law-making on the issue should be left to the states “in the true spirit of cooperative federalism enshrined in the Constitution”. Capt Amarinder could not attend the meeting as he was indisposed.Dispel farmer fears on MSP, says AmarinderCiting strong apprehension among farmers of the state that the MSP-based procurement regime introduced as part of food security measures in the 1960s might be discontinued in view of the Shanta Kumar Committee report of 2015, the Chief Minister said the Government of India should dispel any such impression “to instil confidence in the farmers of Punjab”.In his speech, the CM asserted that any reform in a sector subsuming almost 60 per cent of the country’s workforce must be done only through extensive consultation with stakeholders.The CM also used the forum to once again reiterate the state government’s demand for a bonus of Rs 100 per quintal on paddy procured as “paddy straw management compensation”.Underlining the importance of aligning the cropping system with agro-climatic conditions for the optimum use of resources, Capt Amarinder called upon the Government of India to designate agencies to procure and provide MSP matching the returns of wheat and paddy. This will motivate farmers to take up cultivation of alternate crops, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/end-farm-impasse-capt-to-pm-215345
21-02-2021||CHANDIGARH||Clear Rs 8,253 crore pending GST dues, Punjab asks Centre||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today requested the central government to release the pending amount of the GST compensation amounting to Rs 8,253 crore to the state for April 2020 to January 2021.The CM further reiterated the state’s demand for releasing the compensation on a monthly basis in the coming fiscal year and sought extension in the period of the GST compensation beyond the current five years for states like Punjab, which had lost a significant portion of their revenue, especially on account of subsuming of Purchase Tax on foodgrains and were staring at a huge revenue shortfall after the end of the compensation period.‘Build rail infra’ In his speech submitted at the Niti Aayog meeting, the CM said the practice of direct transfer of funds under certain central schemes to the implementing agencies bypassing the Consolidated Fund of the state had not only violated the provisions of the Constitution, but was also against the spirit of cooperative federalism. The Centre was requested to route all funds only through the Consolidated Fund of the state.The 15th Finance Commission, in the final report for the FY 2021-22 to 2025-26, had recommended certain sector-specific and state-specific grants for Punjab, amounting to Rs 3,442 crore and Rs 1,545 crore. However, these had still not been cleared by the Government of India, he regretted, urging the Centre to provide these to the state for infrastructure and much-needed impetus to its economy.To further enhance the ease of doing business, which has led to Rs 70,000 crore fresh investment in Punjab in the last 4 years, the Chief Minister suggested that the periodic assessment for reducing the compliance burden with ministries and agencies of the Government of India might also be done. He further sought steps to improve logistics/transportation for the land-locked state, which was unable to reach its potential due to distance from the ports in terms of freight movement.He urged the central government to draw a scheme to facilitate the industrialisation in the states that were more than 1,000 km away from the ports by subsidising the industrial units for transportation of their finished product and procurement of raw material to and from the nearest port.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clear-rs-8-253-crore-pending-gst-dues-punjab-asks-centre-215346
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||All set for mega rally against farm laws in Barnala today||Barnala gears up to witness one of the biggest protest rallies ever organised by any farmer union in Punjab.The rally against three farm laws is being organised by the BKU (Ugrahan) and the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union tomorrow. The organisations claim it is to be attended by over two lakh people at Barnala’s grain market. “One person needs at least four square feet, so we have laid mats on nine lakh square feet,” says Sukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary of the union.Cops on toesApart from that four acres near the dais have been reserved for tea langar preparation. “Instead of serving at one place, we will try to serve tea among the people sitting in the venue,” said Kokri.He said it was not possible to make arrangements for food, so they have asked people to bring their food along. “Some villages may arrange langar as well,” he said.There will be around 1,000 volunteers who will help for the success of the rally. The organisations are expecting 6,000 vehicles, which will ferry people to the venue.The district administration is concerned about the traffic management. The union has deputed around 300 volunteers for the smooth movement of vehicles and parking. Apart from that, 400 have been deputed for the security of the stage and serving water and tea to people attending the ‘maha rally’.The Barnala police are on their toes to make arrangements for the smooth movement of traffic. Police officials from outside districts have also been called. The traffic is to be managed by six SPs and 12 DSPs and 300 constables. The police have prepared a special map for traffic diversions.Senior vice-president of the union Jhanda Singh Jaithuke said the rally was to be attended by people from 1,600 Malwa villages. “We are expecting 70,000 people from Sangrur district alone and around 50,000 from Barnala. There will be a huge participation of women,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-set-for-mega-rally-against-farm-laws-in-barnala-today-215347
21-02-2021||Muktsar||BJP’s Muktsar block president resigns||Irate over the poor performance of the BJP in the municipal council elections, the saffron party’s Muktsar block president today resigned from his post. He said the state party leadership forced them to field candidates, but nobody came for canvassing.“I am angered and surprised that a number of BJP candidates got less than 20 votes in Muktsar town. Thus on moral grounds, I have resigned from the party. The party high command is to be blamed for this shameful defeat. When the senior leaders were anticipating poor results, they should have boycotted the election. Now, we are unable to even face the public. Everyone has seen the real picture of the BJP,” said Tarsem Goyal, after resigning from the post of BJP’s Muktsar block president.He said, “Of the total 21 candidates fielded in 31 municipal wards of Muktsar town, the security deposit of 18 candidates has been forfeited. Further, just one BJP candidate has won in the entire Muktsar district.”He said farmers gheraoed him twice before the election, but nobody came in his support. On this, Rajesh Pathela Gora, president, BJP, Muktsar district, said, “Tarsem was willing to resign even before the elections. Now, I have got his resignation. In comparison to some other districts, we have performed better here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-muktsar-block-president-resigns-215348
21-02-2021||Ferozepur||Jail warden held with mobile sets, SIM cards||The police today nabbed a warden posted in the Central Jail for allegedly trying to supply mobile phones to inmates.Barinder Singh Gill, DSP (City), said the accused was identified as Constable Gurmeet Singh (40) who had been posted on jail duty. The constable was recruited in 2017 and had completed three years of service. When the warden came back on duty today, three mobiles, five SIM cards, two charges and two headphones were recovered from him during frisking. Though he tried to escape from the spot, the jail security overpowered him and handed him over to the police.“During preliminary investigation, the accused admitted that he was going to supply these mobile phones, SIM cards and other material to a jail inmate identified as Amrik Singh who had been serving sentence in an NDPS case,” the DSP said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jail-warden-held-with-mobile-sets-sim-cards-215349
21-02-2021||Sangrur||At 65, Sangharshi fighting like a Yodha||The refusal of the Centre to repeal farm laws and violence in New Delhi have failed to dampen the spirit of Mahinder Singh (65), who has been designated as a Sangharshi Yodha by the Punjab Government as he remained in various jails during the Emergency.Mahinder Singh has been attending the protest at the Tikri border since its start and convincing all against violence.Was jailed during emergencyMahinder Singh (65) has been given the title of Sangharshi Yodha by the Punjab Government as he remained in various jails during the Emergency.“I know that my age does not allow me to sit here in a biting cold. The threat of the pandemic also looms large. But the Centre has compelled me and others to protest. I have remained in various jails in Ambala, Patiala, Nabha and Sangrur for many months during the Emergency in the country for opposing the dictatorial decision of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. I will not leave Tikri until the black laws are repealed,” he said.When asked whether he sees any difference then and now, he says, “Things have changed a lot as that time, farmers were not united as we are now. After the police arrested me during the Emergency, my family faced many problems to locate me. Though protesters have become powerful these days, the mindset of rulers seems to be same.”His family owns three acres in Ealwal village and he has two sons and both are married. He also accused the Punjab Government of not giving the complete debt relief to farmers after winning the elections.“In my life I have never supported violence. We have right to protest here peacefully. We will win this battle too. Since the start of the agitation, I, along with other elders, have been trying to convince youngsters to maintain peace because the government will definitely try to provoke us to weaken our agitation,” he said. He has been staying near pole number 36 at the Tikri border along with residents of Khurana, Khurani and Kalaudi villages.“We have lost many youngsters and elders, but the government seems unmoved. We must prepare for a long but peaceful protest rather than waiting for a call from the government,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-65-sangharshi-fighting-like-a-yodha-215350
21-02-2021||Mohali||Bail plea of PWD XEN’s father dismissed in corruption case||A Mohali court has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of 85-year-old Surinderjit Singh Jaspal booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and various sections of the IPC in a criminal case registered at the Vigilance Bureau police station, Mohali, on September 17, 2020.The caseThe accused is alleged to have deceitfully exchanged his land with an oblique motive and the amount deposited into his account was found to be excess than his disclosed sources, a Mohali court noted.The allegations of the prosecution against the accused were that Rs 5,75,71,907 was received by the accused in connivance with his son Nimratdeep Singh, who was PWD Executive Engineer, and he purchased a house in Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, in 2017. The accused is alleged to have deceitfully exchanged his land with an oblique motive and the amount deposited into his account was found to be excess than his disclosed sources, the court noted.On February 12, the Vigilance Bureau claimed to have unearthed 39 properties worth at least Rs 80 crore allegedly amassed by an executive engineer (XEN) of the PWD through corruption.This included a two-kanal house in Sector 20, Chandigarh, where former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was the tenant. Besides, more than Rs 10 crore was found in various bank accounts of the accused and family members. The XEN, Nimratdeep Singh, was booked in September 2020 on corruption charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bail-plea-of-pwd-xens-father-dismissed-in-corruption-case-215351
21-02-2021||Abohar||Three killed in wall collapse||Three persons, including a father and son, were killed when the wall of a house collapsed today in Saliwala village of Hanumangarh district.Witnesses said the new boundary wall of the house owned by Sant Lal (42) was being constructed in the village after the old mud wall got damaged. Lal and his cousin Subhash (40) were digging the foundation to construct a new wall. Lal’s son Mukesh (12) was also present there. Around 1.30 pm, the mud wall suddenly collapsed. All three were buried in the rubble. They were taken to the Civil Hospital at Hanumangarh, where doctors declared them brought dead. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-killed-in-wall-collapse-215352
21-02-2021||LUDHIANA||Action sought against MLA over rape charges||Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha staged a protest in support of a woman, who had levelled rape allegations against an MLA, in front of the Commissioner of Police office, here today.The woman had levelled rape allegations against MLA Simarjit Singh Bains. However, Bains had denied the allegations. Gosha slammed the Congress government and the Ludhiana Police for not taking action against Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains. He said, “Instead of taking action, the police are harassing the victim and didn’t allow her to stage a peaceful protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/action-sought-against-mla-over-rape-charges-215353
21-02-2021||Ferozepur||Two Ferozepur cops booked for celebratory firing||ASI Jagroop Singh allegedly used his assault rifle during the wedding ceremony of his son on January 10. Sub Inspector Gurtej Singh can also be seen doing the same in a video.Hardyal Singh Mann, DIG, ordered an inquiry and the duo was booked under Sections 336/34 of the IPC at the Ghallkhurd police station. They are yet to be arrested. TNSMan dies as gun goes offAbohar: A 29-year-old man died when a gun went off “accidentally” at Bhagsar village. Happy was reportedly moving with the licensed revolver of his father, who is an ex-serviceman, to the first floor of his house late Friday evening when the mishap took place. He was taken to hospital, where he died on Saturday. OCYouth killed in road mishapSangrur: A youth was killed while another suffered serious injuries after their motorcycle was hit by a speedy truck on the Sangrur-Sunam road. “Manjot Singh (20) died while his friend Jaspreet Singh suffered serious injuries after their motorcycle was hit by a truck. We have registered a case and conducting an investigation,” said Pritpal singh, SHO, Sangrur city-1 police station. TNSPeace body to be honouredChandigarh: The Lahore-based organisation Centre for Peace and Secular Studies (CPSS) will be honoured with annual ‘Suhi Saver Award’ at a function on February 28 in Ludhiana. Every year, the organisation honours the individuals with significant contribution to society. Besides working for peace between India and Pakistan, the CPSS also works for protection of human rights. The main speaker at the function will be Delhi-based senior journalist Supriya Sharma. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-ferozepur-cops-booked-for-celebratory-firing-215354
21-02-2021||Bathinda||Sidhana plans rally at CM’s village on February 23||Wanted in the Red Fort violence case, gangster-turned-social activist Lakhvir Singh, alias Lakha Sidhana, on Friday night posted a video on social media in which he announced holding a rally against the farm laws at Mehraj village in Bathinda on February 23. Mehraj is Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s ancestral village.He also urged the youth to be present at the grain market of the village to show solidarity with the protesting farmers. In the 13-minute video, he hinted that he might also attend the rally. “The government is trying to instil fear in farmers by registering false cases against them,” Sidhana says in the video.Besides standing up for farmers’ rights, he has also asked Punjabis to promote their mother tongue throughout the world on World Punjabi Day (February 21). Sidhana has been absconding since the January 26 violence. After Deep Sidhu’s arrest, the Delhi Police announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for information on Sidhana. Jaskaran Singh, IGP, Bathinda, said, “We have come to know that Sidhana’s supporters will hold a rally at Mehraj on February 23, but there is no further information.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhana-plans-rally-at-cms-village-on-february-23-215355
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Civic body poll rout raises questions on AAP’s future||The crushing defeat suffered by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in local body elections has raised a question mark on the future of the main Opposition party in Punjab.The party had fielded 1,606 candidates in 2,037 wards, highest after the Congress. However, just 60 candidates of the party could win. It was just 2.5 per cent of the total seats. The party, which was claiming to win over 100 Assembly seats out of the 117, couldn’t even win 100 wards in municipal elections. In five districts, even a single candidate of the party could not win the election.The performance is being seen as a big blow, especially when looked in comparison with the BJP. The saffron party, which has just two MLAs as compared to AAP’s 19, was contesting against all odds due to farm laws. Despite that, the BJP is not much behind AAP. The Akali Dal has also performed much better than AAP with 252 seats.Party MLA Kanwar Sandhu, who is now under suspension, was prompt to comment on the development. He tweeted how the party’s ‘blunders’ during the 2017 Assembly election campaign snatched defeat from the jaws of victory. “The failure to introspect further marginalised it. Inability to course-correct leading to decimation. Those parroting ‘party strengthening base’ are enemies within,” he said. A senior leader of the party said the decision to contest the municipal elections was taken at the last moment. “The party decided to contest the poll in the last week of December. It was challenging to find the candidates a month before the elections.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/civic-body-poll-rout-raises-questions-on-aaps-future-215356
21-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||Farmer, son commit suicide over debt, farm laws in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur||A debt-ridden farmer and his son allegedly died by suicide in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur village, saying in a note that they were upset over the Centre’s new farm laws and the state government’s failure to waive their loans.The farmer, Jagtar Singh (70), and his son Kirpal Singh (42) were found dead at their residence in Muhadipur village on Saturday morning, Deputy Superintendent of Police Munish Kumar said.They had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance, police said.In a suicide note recovered from their residence, they wrote that they were taking the extreme step because of debt.They also accused the Congress government in Punjab of not honouring its promise of waiving their farm loans.They further mentioned in the note that they were also distressed as the Centre had not repealed the new farm laws.The two owned one acre of land.Their bodies were sent to Dasuya civil hospital for post-mortem, police said, adding they are investigating the matter. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-son-commit-suicide-over-debt-farm-laws-in-punjabs-hoshiarpur-215191
21-02-2021||New Delhi||Increase in Covid cases in Punjab, Kerala, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and MP: Govt||Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have recorded an “upsurge” in daily new cases of Covid, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.In a statement, the ministry said that in the last seven days, Chhattisgarh had also seen a rise in daily active new cases. In the last 24 hours, 259 daily new cases had been reported, it said.Kerala continues to report a high number of daily new cases and in the past week, Maharashtra had exhibited a spike in the number of daily new cases, accounting for the highest number of daily new cases in the country on Saturday, the ministry said in the statement.Read also: Study reveals how to prevent future Covid surges“In the last 24 hours, 6,112 daily new cases have been reported in the state,” it said.The ministry said Punjab had also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases reported in the last seven days with 383 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours.“Since February 13, Madhya Pradesh is also witnessing a rise in the number of daily new cases. In the last 24 hours, 297 daily new cases have been registered in the state,” the ministry said.The ministry stressed the importance of adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour for breaking the chain of transmission and containment of spread of the disease.Only two states, Maharashtra and Kerala, account for 75.87 per cent of total number of active Covid cases, the ministry added.The ministry said 18 states/UTs had not reported any Covid deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Telangana, Haryana, J&K (UT), Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Assam, Chandigarh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu .The ministry said a total of 1,07,15,204 Covid vaccine doses had been administered through 2,22,313 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am on Saturday.These include 63,28,479 health-care workers (first dose), 8,47,161 health-care workers (second dose) and 35,39,564 frontline workers (first dose), the ministry said.The second dose of Covid vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. Vaccination of the frontline workers started on February 2.The ministry said nine states had administered more than five lakh doses each. These are Uttar Pradesh (11,52,042), Maharashtra (8,60,386), Gujarat (8,56,657), Rajasthan (7,99,719), West Bengal (6,50,976), Karnataka (6,29,420), Madhya Pradesh (6,26,391), Bihar (5,50,433) and Odisha (5,01,713). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/increase-in-covid-cases-in-punjab-kerala-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-and-mp-govt-215164
21-02-2021||Bathinda||Republic Day violence accused Lakha Sidhana calls rally at CM Amarinder’s ancestral village on Feb 23||Wanted in the Delhi violence incident of January 26, gangster-turned-social activist Lakhvir Singh, alias Lakha Sidhana, on Friday night posted a video on social media in which he announced to hold a rally in protest against the farm laws at Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh’s ancestral village Mehraj in Bathinda district on February 23.Lakha Sidhana also appealed to the youths to reach at grain market in Mehraj village in the rally in large numbers.In the 13-minute long video, Lakha Sidhana has hinted that he himself would also attend the rally in his home district.He also urged unions leaders to be united against the three farm laws.“The government is trying to create a fear among the farmers by registering false cases against them,” he said.Sidhana has also asked Punjabis to promote their “mother tongue throughout the world on World Punjabi Day (February 21)”.It is pertinent to mention that since January 26, Lakha Sidhana is absconding.However, a few days back even rumours of Lakha Sidhana being arrested by Delhi Police in Sonepat spread on social media.After the arrest of Deep Sidhu, Delhi Police have announced Rs 1 lakh reward on the whereabouts of Lakha Sidhana.Even in Punjab, he was last seen on January 20 in Moga when he went to mobilise support for the tractor rally.Bathinda district administration and police are unaware about the protest rally of Lakha Sidhana on February 23 in Mehraj.IGP Bathinda Jaskaran Singh said, “I came to know about rally being organised by Lakha Sidhana supporters at Mehraj on February 23 but I don’t have any further information and police don’t have role in it.”Lakha Sidhana belongs to Sidhana village in Bathinda district. At one time, he was one of the most dreaded gangsters in Punjab and is an accused in many cases, including booth capturing, attempt to murder, murder, loot, besides violation of the Arms Act.He holds two master’s degrees and at one time even wanted to join the Indian Army.He is also a Kabaddi player. He decided to become an activist and bid adieu to the world of crime.He also unsuccessfully contested assembly election on a Punjab People’s Party (PPP) ticket from Rampura Phul Assembly constituency in 2012.He was jailed several times between 2004 and 2017 and was shot twice but survived.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/republic-day-violence-accused-lakha-sidhana-calls-rally-at-cm-amarinders-ancestral-village-on-feb-23-215149
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab JCO gets disability pension for injury suffered in 1984||It has taken the intervention of the Supreme Court for a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) to get his disability pension for an injury which he suffered in 1984.Finally, bringing closure to the ordeal of a retired Subedar from Dasuya in Punjab, the Supreme Court this week dismissed an appeal filed by the defence authorities against a disability pension that had been granted to him on judicial adjudication.Subedar Sadiq Masih of the Corps of Engineers suffered a permanent disability while he was riding a two-wheeler after sunset to avoid any encounter with terrorists when attending to an urgency during his casual leave.Terrorism was at peak in Punjab during those times, and it was common for military and police personnel to be attacked during daytime. The disability was declared “attributable to military service” by the statutory Court of Inquiry and also by the brigade commander, but disability benefits were refused to him by administrative authorities stating that the disability was suffered during leave. By discussing the scope and the length and breadth of rules and relying upon directions of the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Chandigarh Bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal comprising Justice MS Chauhan and Lt Gen Munish Sibal granted him relief in 2017.Rather than releasing benefits, the Tribunal’s decision was challenged by the government in the Supreme Court which dismissed the appeal filed against the disabled Subedar this week.He had retired from service in 2005.Sources familiar with these matters said that despite directions by the Defence Minster and the Defence Secretary, insensitive and controversial appeals were being filed in many instances by defence authorities in cases involving disabled soldiers where the benefit granted was minuscule when compared to the amount spent by the government on litigation. In the year 2016, the then defence minister, Manohar Parrikar, had accepted the recommendations of a high level Committee of Experts which had recorded that further appeals in individual cases must not be filed on subjects that have attained finality at the level of the High Court or Supreme Court.The Committee had termed multiple appeals against soldiers and other employees as “administrative egotism”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-jco-gets-disability-pension-for-injury-suffered-in-1984-215143
