22-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 15 more deaths, 389 new cases recorded in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 5,769 on Monday with 15 more fatalities, while 389 new cases pushed the infection count to 1,78,847, a medical bulletin issued here said.There are 3,167 active COVID-19 cases in the state currently, it said.Of the new cases, 54 were reported from Jalandhar, 49 from Mohali and 38 from Hoshiarpur.A total of 225 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 1,69,911 as per bulletin.Ten critical patients are on ventilator support while 77 are on oxygen support, it said, adding that 48,60,435 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-15-more-deaths-389-new-cases-recorded-in-punjab-216133
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||High Court to hear bail plea of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur on Wednesday||The Punjab and Haryana High Court will on Wednesday hear a bail plea of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, arrested on charges of extortion and attempt to murder.The bail application of the 23-year-old labour rights activist had come up for hearing on Monday but on the request of the Haryana counsel, Justice Avneesh Jhingan adjourned the matter for February 24, said Kaur’s counsel Arshdeep Cheema.The court will now hear Kaur’s bail plea along with the matter pertaining to her illegal confinement on Wednesday, said Cheema.Kaur is facing three cases that include charges of attempt to murder and extortion.A member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan and a resident of Giadarh village in Punjab’s Muktsar, Kaur is lodged in a Karnal jail after she was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Haryana’s Sonepat on January 12. She was “falsely implicated” in the cases registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and other provisions by the Sonipat police, claimed her counsel.Earlier, Nodeep Kaur was granted bail in two of the cases, mainly related to extortion charges.The High Court on February 13 had taken a suo motu cognisance of the matter pertaining to Kaur’s alleged illegal confinement and had issued a notice of motion to the Haryana government for its reply by February 24. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-to-hear-bail-plea-of-labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-on-wednesday-216105
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder launches urban projects worth Rs 1,087 crore||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday virtually laid the foundation stones and inaugurated a slew of projects worth Rs 1,087 crore for the holistic development of the urban areas under the Smart City and AMRUT schemes.He urged the Union Government to include the holy city of Anandpur Sahib under the Smart City scheme, as a tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur on his 400th  birth anniversary.Thanking the people of the state for their overwhelming support to the Congress in the recently concluded civic elections, Amarinder Singh said the mandate is a vindication of the pro-people policies of his government.Pointing out that while the Congress won 1,410 of the 2,206 wards (64 per cent), the Chief Minister said that all the opposition parties had been decimated because of their anti-people and vicious negative agendas.He lambasted the earlier Akali-BJP regime for ignoring the development of the urban areas and expressed confidence that the launch of these projects will drive sustainable progress in these regions.The Chief Minister said he was particularly delighted to lay the foundation stone for the Rs 721 crore surface water supply scheme for Amritsar city, his erstwhile Parliamentary constituency.He said this scheme would ensure access to clean drinking water to the residents of the holy city, instead of the contaminated and fast depleting groundwater.The Chief Minister said under the first phase of Urban Infrastructure Improvement Programme, 2,065 projects have been started, with majority being completed, at a cost of Rs 300 crore.He said another 4,227 projects have been approved under the second phase and work on 1,300 of them has already started.Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra said that Amarinder Singh had taken personal interest in ensuring proper hygiene and sanitation in urban areas during the difficult phase of the Covid-19 pandemic. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-launches-urban-projects-worth-rs-1-087-crore-216097
22-02-2021||Ghazipur||Celebrities don’t speak up as they fear reprisals from govt: Gul Panag||Actor Gul Panag is part of a tiny minority of Bollywood personalities who have spoken about social issues, including the ongoing farmers’ protest, when many from her fraternity have been silent.The former Miss India says she “sympathises” with celebrities who choose to stay silent because of fear of reprisals either from the Government or organised lobbies that have targeted celebrities in the past.“I have sympathy (for them) and it is a personal choice to stand in support of something or stay silent as it is completely an individual decision,” Gul told The Tribune on Sunday.“Traditionally, celebrities in India have never taken strong positions. In the UK in the US we have seen a lot of celebrities taking a very public position against what the government of the time was doing... be it the ‘Black Lives Matter, be it ‘Taking the Knee’. They took very symbolic positions. Here (why they don’t do it in India) is because of the fear of the institutions being weakened and then they not having the recourse to justice or just fear of being harassed,” Gul explained.Celebrities, including cricketing great Sachin Tendulkar, current Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli and some from the film fraternity including Akshay Kumar and Karan Johar joined the ‘India against propaganda’ drive after pop icon Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg supported the farmers’ protest. The Indian celebrities copped a lot of flak for voicing their pro-government stance.Gul, however, points to the fact that the only reason why some of the famous personalities who used to mock the previous government for fuel price rise are mum on the same issues today because they fear reprisals.“This is a government that rules by fear. The previous government could be mocked as they weren’t afraid. But clearly, this government is hypersensitive to mockery and they rule by fear. So they have instilled fear and effectively taken away your ability to speak on things that you want to speak,” she said on behalf of her fraternity.“The manner in which organise lobbies come after celebrities who have spoken out in the past is proof why they shouldn’t speak out. They have come after people like Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan and even Salman Khan. And the other very critical aspect is that something I learnt from my father (Lt Gen HS Panag). My father rose to one the highest position possible in the Indian Army. And he is a very outspoken person as he has always called spade a spade. And yet he was able to rise to the top how? Because he didn’t have skeletons in the closet. Point is that you can’t afford to have skeletons in your closet and then take on the powers that be,” she explained.While she may have sympathies with the ones who are choosing to stay silent, Gul wants them to open up as it only emboldens perpetrators.“Your silence may promote a culture and something that does affect you will be trampled upon in due course. The very act of not speaking up enables those who transgress. It enables the perpetrators of injustice,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/celebrities-dont-speak-up-as-they-fear-reprisals-from-govt-gul-panag-216023
22-02-2021||---||COVID-19 continues to haunt Patiala govt schools; 8 more teachers test positive||Patiala, February 22As many as eight school teachers of two government schools tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday.The Health Department has now ordered to shut both schools for the next 48 hours.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said four staff members each at Government Senior Secondary School, Bhunerheri, and Government School, Mahinder Ganj in Rajpura, had tested positive for COVID-19.Health officials informed that there was a surge in the coronavirus cases among the school staff and children in the month of February.Officials also expressed the concern that there positive COVID-19 cases were increasing by the day in government schools.As per the health department, a total of 46 staff members and two school children contracted the virus in February. Notably, last week, seven school staff members of a government school in Sanour block had also tested positive for coronavirus.District Education Officer Harinder Kaur said they had asked the staff at schools to sanitise the school regularly. She said: “We have asked the school staff of both schools to stop holding the ongoing examinations physically and conduct the same online.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-continues-to-haunt-patiala%C2%A0govt-schools-8-more-teachers-test-positive-216021
22-02-2021||---||Farmers head to New Delhi in groups to strengthen stir||Jalandhar, February 21Support for farmers’ stir is increasing with each passing day. Villagers of Jalandhar district have been heading to Delhi in groups on rotational basis to ensure that they have enough protesters on the ground.Tarsem Singh of Uchha village said he would be going to Singhu on Monday along with his group. “Now, participation from villages will increase manifold. Everyone wants to make their presence felt in the farmers’ protest,” he said.He said they decided at the panchayat-level that farmers would head in groups to Delhi to infuse more energy in the stir.Stir in Nawanshahr on February 24Tarsem said, “We will spend four-five days and come back. Later, another group of farmers will leave. In this way, we can look after our fields and and strengthen the protest.”Sukhwant Singh from Karnana village said some adjoining villagers decided to move to Singhu and Tikri borders in groups.Another farmer, Sucha Singh, said he would be leaving for Delhi to show solidarity with farmers’ protest along with his counterparts.He said they would take essentials articles for farmers who had been staying there for the last three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-head-to-new-delhi-in-groups-to-strengthen-stir-215994
22-02-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Cereal exports: Focus on quality, infra push||The agriculture sector showed its famed resilience even when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. In an agrarian economy like that of Punjab, agricultural production and the export of produce are giving a much-needed fillip to the economy.The export of basmati rice, kinnow and non-basmati rice sourced from the fields of Punjab, seed potato, some vegetables, honey and even processed food like chilli paste and tomato paste has seen a surge in the past year. The state’s food producers and exporters have not only consolidated their position in the overseas markets, but have also entered new markets abroad.The data released by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry recently shows that the export of rice, wheat and coarse cereals rose to Rs 49,832 crore during April-December 2020 (from Rs 32,591 crore reported during the same period in 2019). The export of non-basmati rice jumped by over 100 per cent, while the export of basmati rice was 19 per cent higher than in the corresponding period of 2019. Though state-specific export data is not released by the government, it is estimated that the majority of basmati rice was exported from Punjab and the non-basmati variety exported was also sourced from the state.Ranbir Singh, General Manager, Punjab Agri Export Corporation Limited (PAGEXCO), says that other than these cereals, the export of horticulture crops like kinnow, seed potatoes and processed food like chilli paste and tomato paste, besides honey, has shown an impressive growth this year. “As many as 56 containers of red chilli paste and 120 containers of organic basmati rice and wheat flour have been exported so far this year from the state. Europe, Australia and West Asian countries are looking at the state for sourcing agriculture produce,” he says. He adds that the surge in agri product exports from India is sure to break China’s monopoly in world trade, especially in red chilli and tomato paste.What has aided this surge, says Vinod Kaul of the All India Rice Exporters’ Association, is the demand for foodgrains created across the developed world during the course of the pandemic. Many countries wanted to build their foodgrain stocks and thus they started importing huge quantities of grains. “Also, countries such as Thailand and Vietnam banned the export of grains during the pandemic, but India continued with it,” he adds.In December 2019, PAGEXCO had come up with an Agriculture Export Policy (AEP). It focused on having a medium-term to long-term strategy to increase exports of agricultural produce from Punjab by strengthening back-end and front-end infrastructure to boost the export of fresh and value-added fruits and vegetables. It also talked of identifying focused commodities and clusters for developing export-related infrastructure and undertake capacity building of farmers towards making them ready to explore the markets abroad. According to this policy, the target was to take Punjab’s exports to $4,997 million by 2027-28.“We are working towards attaining these objectives,” says BS Sidhu, Agriculture Commissioner, Punjab. “On the production side, we are continuously striving to reduce the use of red chemicals in crops so as to bring down the maximum residue limit (MRL) of pesticides on grains and other crops. We are replacing harmful pesticides with green ones so as to improve the quality of our agricultural produce and make it ready for premium export markets,” he adds.While quality is being looked into, exporters of food products from Punjab say that the most urgent government intervention required as of now is the opening of the two international airports for exports of agro foods to bring down the freight costs post-lockdown that have led to monopolistic trade by big shipping lines. “The cost of taking one container to Europe has gone up from $700-800 to $3,000 and the rates to the US have doubled to $4,000. Though we have added new markets for basmati export like China and West Indies, we are aware that this is panic demand triggered by the pandemic. To sustain the demand, we will not only have to improve quality of our produce, but also rationalise our costs, including freight costs,” says Arvinder Singh, a leading basmati exporter from Punjab.Send your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cereal-exports-focus-on-quality-infra-push-216017
22-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Cereal exports: Damper on grain gains||Despite a drop in trade with Iran due to payment issues, the rice industry in India saw an increase in exports worldwide between April and December 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019.As per exporters, the country exported 3.08 million tonnes of basmati rice in the current fiscal (April to December 2020) compared to 2.58 million tonnes in the nine-month period in 2019.Haryana is one of the largest producers and exporters of basmati rice. It exports basmati and non-basmati rice to Iran, UAE, Iraq, Kuwait, Egypt, Yemen, Europe, US and other countries.The Karnal belt is a major hub of production and export of basmati rice. The exporters are hopeful that if the trade with Iran returns to normalcy, it will further boost the industry. “We have payment issues with Iran, due to which exporters are reluctant to book orders. In 2019-20, we exported 1.3 million tonnes to Iran out of a total of 4.5 million tonnes of basmati rice sent across the world. In 2020 (April to December), 3.08 million tonnes were exported globally, but only 0.5 million tonnes to Iran,” says Vinod Kaul, Executive Director, All India Rice Exporters’ Association (AIREA).The exporters admit that the Covid-induced lockdown contributed a lot to the rise in exports. “Even as major rice competitors like Thailand and Vietnam banned exports for some time due to food security concerns, India did not do so, opening opportunities for business with new countries to supply non-basmati rice. As a result, India’s non-basmati rice export surged to 8.2 million tonnes in 2020 (April to December) as comparison to 3.5 million tonnes in the same period in 2019,” Kaul adds.Exporters say they are getting big orders not only from old buyers but also from new countries. “We got major orders of non-basmati rice from African countries during the lockdown. In the current fiscal till December, African countries bought 5.5 million tonnes of rice compared to 2.2 million tonnes in the same period in 2019,” says Vijay Setia, former president of the AIREA.Bangladesh, China and Vietnam have emerged as new buyers. “Bangladesh imported 13,800 tonnes of rice between April and December 2020 against 1,550 tonnes in 2019,” he adds. “We have exported 33,000 tonnes of broken rice (non-basmati) to China in the current fiscal so far and we are hopeful the export will reach 4-5 lakh tonnes by the end of the fiscal,” says Kaul. He says the prices of Indian non-basmati rice are low in comparison to those of competitors, thus attracting more buyers.India witnessed a fall in exports to the European Union in 2018-19 and 2019-20 due to high pesticide residue in rice. Setia says the residue is being brought within the prescribed parameters, thanks to the efforts of the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) and AIREA, and cooperation of farmers.Dr Ritesh Sharma, principal scientist at Basmati Export Development Foundation, a part of APEDA, says collective efforts are needed to tackle the problem of high pesticide residue in rice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cereal-exports-damper-on-grain-gains-216016
22-02-2021||Gurdaspur||Tit for tat in civic body elections||Flame of glory reaches FaridkotFaridkot: ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashal’ or the flame of glory, which is on a year-long tour across the nation, was received by Col HJ Singh (retired), a 1971 war veteran, at the Faridkot military station on Saturday. It was given a special guard of honour, followed by wreath-laying in the memory of soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice for the country. ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ is being celebrated across the nation to mark India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.Assaulted, Cong leader adopts ‘Gandhigiri’Muktsar: After the daylight murder of Youth Congress leader Gurlal Bhalwan in Faridkot, the former vice-president of Muktsar Municipal Council, Yadwinder Singh Yadu, who suffered a murderous attack a few hours before the polling for the municipal council elections, said on Friday that he didn’t want action against anyone for the attack on him. An injured Yadu, who won the MC election from ward No. 4 as a Congress candidate, said he wanted to show the right path to the youth. Notably, he is admitted to a private hospital here and has received stitches on his head. He even appealed to both Congress and SAD to forget this episode and move ahead.A gift for children of migrantsAbohar: Hundreds of East Punjab families had migrated to Abohar in August 1947. One of them, headed by Bishesharnath Vij, developed farms on the outskirts of the town and later engaged migrants from Uttar Pradesh to assist them in agricultural activities. For the welfare of their children, the Vij family provided funds to set up a government primary school. The school has been upgraded up middle standard and is dedicated to the memory of Bishesharnath’s son Ram Prakash Vij. On the occasion of the 25th death anniversary of Ram Prakash, the family organised a programme. Around 23 brilliant students were given scholarships and study material. Blankets were gifted to needy families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tit-for-tat-in-civic-body-elections-215905
22-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Kin run from pillar to post for release of Nodeep Kaur, Shiv Kumar||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, February 21It has been over 40 days since activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested on charges of attempt to murder, extortion and snatching, but her elder sister, who studies in Delhi University, has been still running from pillar to post for justice.The family members of Shiv Kumar, an associate of Nodeep, are waiting to meet him even a month after his arrest. The Kundli police had arrested Nodeep, a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, on January 12 in connection with three criminal cases for extortion, snatching, rioting and attempt to murder and she was lodged in Karnal jail since then.Her elder sister Rajveer Kaur, working with Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch, a student organisation, said they had learnt to fight social evils from their mother Swaranjit Kaur. “My mother always raised her voice against caste oppression and exploitation of women,” she said.“We have written to the Prime Minister’s Office, Chief Ministers of Haryana and Punjab, National Human Rights Commission, National SC/ST Commission and National Women Commission,” she said. Nodeep had got bail in two cases and her bail application in the third case would be taken up on Monday. Shiv had not got bail in any case.Rajbeer said his son Shiv was picked by the Kundli police on January 16, but they came to know about his arrest on January 31. “The police produced him in court on January 23 and took him on 10-day police remand, but did not inform us. We met the Sonepat SP on January 31 and he confirmed the arrest,” he said, adding that Shiv was sent to judicial custody on February 2.“I tried to meet him in jail three or four times, but the jail administration did not allow us citing Covid protocol,” Rajbeer said. He said cops picked his son on January 16 and kept him in illegal detention before taking him on 10-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-run-from-pillar-to-post-for-release-of-nodeep-kaur-shiv-kumar-215841
22-02-2021||Patiala||Varsity professors plan system for hearing-impaired||Professors and experts from universities and government institutes have formed a consortium to prepare a translation announcement system at public places for the hearing-impaired. The project aims to collect and convert announcements made at public places into Indian sign language.The team includes professors, associate and assistant professors from universities, including Punjabi University, Patiala, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, IIT-Kota, IIIT-Manipur, Aligarh Muslim University, UP, Dravidian University, Andhra Pradesh, among others, across 13 states.Vishal Goyal, professor, Punjabi University, Patiala, said it was difficult to communicate with hearing-impaired persons at railway stations, bus stands, airports, banks and hospitals. “Most of the people don’t understand sign language, while the hearing-impaired don’t understand spoken language. Our machine translation project aims to help special persons and bridge this communication gap,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/varsity-professors-plan-system-for-hearing-impaired-215903
22-02-2021||---||Pvt schools must make Punjabi compulsory till Class X: Minister Channi||Chandigarh, February 21“India is a beautiful bouquet of multiple languages and cultures in different regions and those propagating the concept of ‘one language, one nation’ are anti-nationals,” state Tourism and Cultural Affairs Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said at a function held to mark the International Mother Language Day here on Sunday.The programme was organised by the Punjab Kala Parishad.Channi said some people were trying to pull flowers out of this bouquet, which would create a threat to the existence of many minorities. He said unity in diversity was the real strength of the nation and advocated that people should not be divided in the name of language, religion or caste.The minister said to promote Punjabi, it must be made compulsory till Class X in all private schools of the state as well. “Apart from this, the working of the courts should be done in Punjabi,” Channi said, adding that the state under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was actively working in this direction so that even common people could easily read and understand all cases and judgments.Channi announced that this year, a Rs 2-crore budget provision would be made for the Punjab Kala Parishad. He also announced celebrating the ‘Punjab Cultural Day’ annually, the date for which would be finalised soon.On the occasion, Punjab Kala Parishad chairman and prominent Punjabi poet Padma Shri Surjit Patar said we should respect all languages and cultures as per the message, teachings and sacrifice of Guru Tegh Bahadur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pvt-schools-must-make-punjabi-compulsory-till-class-x-minister-channi-215902
22-02-2021||---||Bird-watching centre comes up at Ropar||Ropar, February 21The Tourism Department has set up a bird-watching centre in the dense forest area of Sadabrat. Though its formal inauguration is yet to be scheduled, the Ropar Wildlife Department has already started group tours of students to the area on the outskirts of Ropar.Local birds as well as migratory birds, including Himalayan bulbul, plum-headed parakeet, great barbet, Indian peafowl, grey hornbill, Asian koel, black francolin, Eurasian coot, ruddy shelduck, red-crested pochard, bar-headed goose, great cormorant, mallard, gadwall and little egret can be spotted in the area.The project worth Rs 10 crore includes an interpretation centre, where information about birds and other literature for promotion of ecotourism in the state will be provided to the visitors.Besides, three bird-watching towers and a boardwalk have also been constructed. The forest enthusiasts will be able to enjoy walking on the nature trail in the Sadabrat Protected Forest.The Ropar Wetland was designated as a Ramsar site in 2002. Monika Yadav, District Forest Officer (wildlife) said the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation held a bird fest last month during which seminars and bird-watching tours were held for students, and essay-writing as well as painting competitions organised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bird-watching-centre-comes-up-at-ropar-215901
22-02-2021||Faridkot||Suicide victim’s wife now blames Gidderbaha MLA Raja Warring||Two weeks after a PSPCL contractor allegedly shot his two kids before killing himself and injuring his wife, the latter has now named Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring as one of the main culprits in the suicide case.Earlier, the police had registered a case of abetment of suicide against Warring’s brother-in-law Dimpy Vinayak on the basis of a suicide note left behind by deceased contractor Karan Kataria.SHARE FAMILY’S GRIEF: WARRINGMLA Raja Warring said throughout his political career, he had always indulged in fair politics. “I stand with the family in their sorrow and grief,” he said.In the two-page note, sent from a Ludhiana-based private hospital to the Faridkot police, the victim’s wife, Sheenam, alleged that Vinayak and Warring were responsible for the death of her husband and their two children. My husband was being harassed by the MLA and his brother-in-law for money, so he was under acute mental stress following which he took the extreme step, she alleged.Meanwhile, Sewa Singh Malhi, SP (D) Faridkot, feigned ignorance about receiving any letter from Sheenam. Malhi said, “A special police team under the supervision of the DSP is investigating the matter and the FIR registered against Vinayak. The police will take action against him after investigating the matter. As far as the accusations against at the MLA are concerned, I don’t have any information about it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suicide-victims-wife-now-blames-gidderbaha-mla-raja-warring-215900
22-02-2021||---||Loan waiver rejected as deceased farmer wasn’t eligible for it, says admn||Jalandhar, February 21The Hoshiarpur district administration today claimed that farmer Jagtar Singh, who committed suicide over not getting a loan waiver by the government, was not eligible it.“Jagtar owned six acres and his claim for a loan waiver had been rejected in 2018,” said the administration. However, the claim of the administration has been dismissed by the farmer’s family which said they collectively owned not more than 2.5 acres.SDM, Dasuya, Randeep Singh Heer said, “We had gone through the revenue records of Jagtar and as per these, in 2018, he owned six acres. Since farmers with more than five acres cannot get a loan waiver, his claim was rejected. He had taken a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh which he was to repay. We are investigating the records of his son Kirpal Singh as well. The details are yet to come.” Kirpal Singh had also ended his life along with his father.CM must fulfil relief promise: SADShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said refusal of loan waiver to many Punjab farmers was the reason why Jagtar Singh and Kirpal Singh were forced to commit suicide. Sukhbir demanded that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should fulfil the complete loan waiver promise that he made to farmers of the state.Inderpal Singh, brother of Kirpal Singh, said, “My father and brother had owned only one acre each for the past many years. About 10 years ago, we had sold some land. But at present, we own only around 2.5 acres. A four-kanal land in my name has also been pledged. We have given the details to the administration and do not know why my father’s loan waiver was rejected. Our family members had been going to Singhu too. My father was upset about the government not listening to farmers on the laws, but we never knew he would take this step.”Meanwhile, sarpanch of Mohadipur village Joginder Singh said, “It is true that the family has merely two acres. Many years ago, Jagtar Singh and his five brothers had 25 to 30 acres of land but they sold it. I don’t know the exact date of the sale of the land.”SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, senior party leaders Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Daljit Singh Cheema along with AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Congress Dasuya MLA Arun Dogra met the family members of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/loan-waiver-rejected-as-deceased-farmer-wasnt-eligible-for-it-says-admn-215899
22-02-2021||New Delhi||Step up testing, look for mutants, Punjab told||With India’s active Covid-19 caseload creeping up slowly, the Centre today wrote to sixinfection-contributing states, asking them to heighten surveillance in clusters, test more and look for potential mutants.The active cases today rose to 1,45,634, up from 1,37,567 on February 14. The total active cases stand at 1.32 per cent of overall infections and have risen through the week, in a reversal of declining trends in the past. The Centre has written to Maharashtra, Kerala,Edit: Surge in covid casesChhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir asking them to work on five areas—improve overall testing by focusing on increasing the proportion of RT-PCR tests; ensure all negative rapid antigen test results are followed with RT-PCR tests and no positive persons are missed; refocus on strict surveillance and containment in selected districts; regular monitoring of mutant strains followed by genome sequencing; and a close watch on emerging clusters of cases.The ministry has asked the states to focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths. More than 74% of the active cases are in Kerala and Maharashtra.In the last four weeks in Kerala, the average weekly cases have fluctuated between a high of 42,000 to a low of 34,800 and weekly positivity ranged between 13.9 per cent and 8.9 per cent. Alappuzha district is of major concern with weekly positivity rate rising to 10.7 per cent amid mass gatherings, low testing and lax Covid appropriate conduct.In Maharashtra, in the last four weeks, weekly cases have shown a rising trend and have increased from 18,200 to 21,300 and positivity has risen from 4.7% to 8%. The Mumbai Suburban area saw weekly cases rise by 19%. In Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal, weekly cases rose by 33,47,23,55 and 48%.The Health Ministry said Punjab was also “rapidly assuming critical dimensions in respect of the spread of infection.”“In Punjab in the last four weeks, the weekly positivity rate has increased from 1.4 to 1.6 per cent while the weekly cases in the last four weeks have seen a rise from 1,300 to 1,682. In SBS Nagar alone, the weekly positivity rate has risen to 4.9 from 3.5 per cent and the weekly cases have more than doubled from 165 to 364,” the ministry said.Five states/UTs have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 1.79 per cent. These are Maharashtra (8.10 per cent), Kerala (7.90), Andhra Pradesh (3.30), Goa (3) and Chandigarh (1.80). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/step-up-testing-look-for-mutants-punjab-told-215771
22-02-2021||Abohar||Call to shun plastic in Abohar||A call to shun single-time use disposables and polybags has now been added to the “Apna Abohar, Apni Abha” campaign here.The team, led by Sandeep Jakhar, said much work was yet to be done. The drains on DAV College Road and the railway overbridge were cleaned on Saturday. NGOs, which love to serve biscuits and tea to volunteers, were urged to shun the use of disposable cups and dish plates, besides polythene carry bags.“Polybags is responsible for choking sewers. Our efforts are aimed to clean Abohar under any circumstances. We urge all citizens to avoid the use of plastic and disposable items if we want to improve the sewerage system. We have removed tonnes of garbage from public places, parks, government buildings and drains. If people join the campaign, then the day is not far when Abohar will achieve good ranking in the next Swachhta Survekshan, Jakhar said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/call-to-shun-plastic-in-abohar-215896
22-02-2021||---||Schools throw Covid norms to wind||Faridkot, February 21The School Education Department has observed that teachers and students in many schools have not been adhering to the Covid guidelines laid by the government. Department officials say during inspection in various schools, both teachers and students can be seen without masks with little regard for social distancing.In a recent letter to all district education officers (DEOs), the secretary, School Education Department, wrote about gross negligence on part of school authorities. He said masks, in many schools, were a mere formality.“Adhering to the Covid guidelines in all private and government schools is mandatory and every school needs to enforce it in letter and spirit,” said the secretary.He has asked the DEOs to ensure that every school has one teacher working as a nodal officer and every class has a monitor for the strict implementation of the Covid norms. “Besides students, teachers and other staff, it is mandatory for school heads to wear face mask,” the secretary added.He has directed the DEOs to hold regular inspection to ensure schools complied with the Covid norms. They have been asked to ensure strict enforcement of guidelines to prevent further spread of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-throw-covid-norms-to-wind-215894
22-02-2021||---||2 end lives in Ropar||Ropar, February 21Two persons ended their lives in the district during the past 24 hours. The body of a 21-year-old youth was found hanging from a tree in Dhangrali village, while an unidentified person jumped in front of a train at Anandpur Sahib.According to the police, the body of Hanspreet Singh was found hanging from a tree in the village in the morning. While no suicide note was found on the spot, inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been started on the statement of Sukhwinder Singh, father of the deceased.At Anandpur Sahib, an unidentified person committed suicide by jumping before a train yesterday. Inquest proceedings have been started in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-end-lives-in-ropar-215887
22-02-2021||GS Paul||SGPC observes Nankana Sahib massacre centenary in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 21The BJP-led Centre was criticised on both sides of the India-Pakistan border for its denial to permit pilgrims to visit Pakistan to take part in the Nankana Sahib massacre centenary, known as Saka Nankana Sahib, today.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh addressed devotees in Pakistan digitally and appreciated the authorities for organising the event.In Pakistan, around 2,000 Sikhs and the Nanak Naam Leva Sangat attended the occasion. Federal minister Brig Ejaz Shah (Retd) was the chief guest.Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) chief Satwant Singh said all arrangements were made in collaboration with the Evacuee Trust Property Board. “Pakistan had issued 720 visas to Indian pilgrims as special permission to attend the occasion, but in vain.”Meanwhile, the SGPC organised the occasion at Godharpur village in Gurdaspur district where the kin of Bhai Lachhman Dass Singh Dharowali, who was killed during the Nankana Sahib massacre, lived.Launching an attack on the Centre, Giani Harpreet Singh said the government had been playing politics of polarisation. “Since 1947, the minorities like Muslims and Sikhs were being targeted politically, socially, economically and religiously only to get their votes. The Sikhs ought to be politically strong and to bury internal conflicts,” he said.On the Centre’s move to deny the Indian Jatha to Nankana Sahib, he said it was the fallout of Sikhs active participation in a protest against the farm laws.“I want to convey to the Centre that its attempt to discourage the Sikhs’ from participating in farm protest could never be fructified. A century ago, the British government had stopped a Sikh jatha heading to Nankana Sahib, a day after the massacre, led by Jathedar Kartar Singh Jhabbar and today the BJP government did the same,” he said.Addressing a gathering, SAD president Sukhbir Badal also questioned the Centre for its denial to the jatha and the CM for not taking up the issue. “Even a few days back, a few persons were granted permission to visit Pakistan at the instance of CM Capt Amarinder Singh.”SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur urged the Sikhs to unite and also announced to construct a Guru Ka Langar hall in remembrance of Bhai Lachhman Singh and a library in memory of the martyrs of Nankana Sahib in their native villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-observes-nankana-sahib-massacre-centenary-in-gurdaspur-215876
22-02-2021||fazilka||Liquor unit: Villagers block NH for 7th day||To protest against the setting up of a liquor unit, villagers and farmers continue to block the Fazilka-Abohar stretch of the NH-7 near Hiranwail Maur village for the seventh consecutive day on Sunday.The NH has been blocked since February 15.Anil Jhinja, sarpanch of Hiranwali village, said the unit was being set up on 28 acres by a senior Congress leader in the village, which was being opposed by locals and farmers. He said the construction of the boundary wall of the unit had begun amid the ongoing protest. Jhinja said they had also submitted a memorandum to Fazilka Deputy Commissioner in this regard but to no avail.Cutting across party lines, leaders of major political parties, including Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya, ex-MLA Mohinder Kumar Rinwa, BJP ex-minister Surjit Kumar Jyani, ex-MP Sher Singh Ghubaya and AAP leader Atul Nagpal among others, expressed their solidarity with the villagers.Meanwhile, commuters remained inconvenienced as they had to travel for more than 50 km, that too, through link roads instead of the 32-km stretch between Fazilka and Abohar on the NH. Large number of trucks plying between Jammu and Kandla port in Gujarat through this road had also been stuck due to the blockade. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-unit-villagers-block-nh-for-7th-day-215870
22-02-2021||---||Get jab or face action, Punjab health workers warned||Chandigarh, February 21The government decision, which amounts to arm-twisting health workers to take Covid shots, has raised eyebrows.Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said health workers, who do not get vaccinated despite being given the repeated opportunities and if they get infected at a later stage, will have to bear the cost of their treatment and will not be allowed quarantine/isolation leave. The development is being seen as violation of human rights by experts.3.88 lakh registered for Covid VAXThe Health Minister said it was just an appeal issued to the workers in public interest. “The past few days have seen an uprising trend in the number of Covid cases in Punjab and with 358 cases being reportedon February 20, now the state has about 3,000 active cases while there were only 2,000 active cases (33 per cent rise) three weeks back,” he added.There was a dire need to get vaccinated for all health workers to deal with any unprecedented situation. Punjab was among the six states where cases were rising and they should prepare to fight it, he said.The rising cases indicated that Covid was not over yet and Punjab might witness a surge in the number of cases. This highlighted the need for following social distancing, wearing of a mask, hand sanitisation and respiratory etiquette, he said.Urging health workers, he said they should shun hesitancy and come forward to get vaccinated at the earliest for the sake of their own safety and that of their family members and near and dear ones.“The vaccine is safe and effective and not even a single case of death or any serious adverse effect has reported in Punjab,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/get-jab-or-face-action-punjab-health-workers-warned-215867
22-02-2021||---||Sangrur shooter selected in WC skeet team||Sangrur, February 21A Sangrur-based shooter, Karam Sukhbir Singh Lehal, has been selected by the National Rifle Association of India in Indian men’s skeet team for the World Cup in rifle, pistol and shotgun to be held in Delhi.The country’s top shooters, including 15 Tokyo Olympics quota holders, will participate in the event to be held at the Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range from March 18-29.Karam Lehal has won both national and international medals in skeet shooting in the past 10 years.In 2014, he participated in the Asian Shotgun Championship and won a gold medal in the team event and a bronze in the individual event. In 2015, he won a gold medal in the team event at the 35th National Games in Kerala and won the inter-university competition held at Punjabi University. In the Olympic trials held in 2020, he finished fourth in the country in skeet shooting.“I feel lucky to be selected for the World Cup. After doing class XII from GGS School, Sangrur, I did graduation from Public College, Samana, and now pursuing MA in political science from Khalsa College, Patiala,” said Lehal.Education Minister Punjab Vijay Inder Singla and Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir congratulated Lehal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-shooter-selected-in-wc-skeet-team-215864
22-02-2021||Moga||SAD to contest top Moga civic body posts||Senior vice-president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and former minister Tota Singh has announced that the Akalis will contest the election for the posts of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor in the Moga Municipal Corporation.The government is yet to announce the dates of elections for the office-bearers of the newly elected local bodies. SAD has got 15 seats in the House of 50 wards while the Congress emerged the single largest party with 20 seats. Independents got 10 seats, AAP 4 and BJP 1. The Congress has claimed to have got the majority by obtaining the support of nine Independents.However, Akali leaders Tota Singh, Joginder Pal Jain and Barjinder Singh Brar and former mayor Akshit Jain have also started one-to-one contact with the elected members, including the Independents and those belonging to other parties. He has appealed to the 10 Independent to support the Akali Dal keeping in view the growing factionalism within the Congress, which has hindered development of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-to-contest-top-moga-civic-body-posts-215862
22-02-2021||Patiala||16 SBI staff members test +ve in Patiala||In a radom sampling, 16 employees of the State Bank of India (SBI) loan branch here tested positive for Covid-19. The Health Department said 11 employees tested positive on Friday and five today.The department said they conducted a random sampling at the SBI loan branch, Urban Estate. The employees who tested positive have been put in isolation and their close contacts asked to monitor their health constantly.The Civil Surgeon of Patiala, Dr Satinder Singh, said the SBI branch had closed the public dealing following the detection of positive cases. “We have been holding random sampling in government departments,” he added.Many SBI branches had been hot spots for Covid cases during the first wave last year.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said around 224 tests were conducted at SBI branches. They directed the employees to avoid the office if they had fever. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-sbi-staff-members-test-ve-in-patiala-215860
22-02-2021||---||No special train to Varanasi||Jalandhar, February 21Even though just a week is left for Guru Ravidas Jayanti, there is no arrangement for special trains to reach Seer Govardhan Temple in Varanasi, the birth place of the revered guru, for the celebrations.As many as 50,000 devotees from the Dalit-hub Doaba visit the holy shrine around this time each year through special trains and several routine passenger trains shuttling between Jalandhar and Varanasi. But this time, no such arrangement could be made possible for the auspicious day falling on February 27.Seth Satpal Mal, a devout follower and one of the organisers of special trains, said, “This time, we could not get the special train owing to Covid. We had to apply for it two months before but we could not get a clearance. There are just one or two trains plying. So, the devotees have planned to leave by buses in two or three days or they will be taking their private vehicles.”Dera Ballan head Sant Niranjan Dass is learnt to be leaving by air for Varanasi on February 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-special-train-to-varanasi-215858
22-02-2021||---||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh says remarks on farm laws taken out of context||Chandigarh, February 21Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today rejected the statement quoting him on the extension of the proposed suspension of the farm laws, saying it was mischievously taken out of context to give a wrong impression on his stance.The message sought to be communicated from his statement was incorrect, as was evident from the rest of his statement on the issue, said the Chief Minister, allaying the apprehensions of some kisan leaders that he was trying to interfere in their agitation.His take“From what I understand is that some farmers are agreeable to the laws being put on hold for 18 months but may go up to 24 months,” Capt Amarinder Singh had stated in an interview.Even as he ruled out any interference or even direct mediation unless sought by both sides, Captain Amarinder said he had stated in an interview, “From what I understand is that some farmers are agreeable to the laws being put on hold for 18 months but may go up to 24 months.”He was also on record as stating in the same interview that an extended period for putting the laws on hold continued to be in active discussions (between the government and unions), he added.He said his statement was clearly in reference to the feedback/inputs received on the issue from certain unions, which was taken out of context and presented as his personal suggestion for a compromise. Instead of being put in the context of his full statement, this particular point (on 24-month suspension of the farm laws) was played up as a separate communication, he said, terming it factually incorrect.While he maintained that an early resolution was critical to the safety of Punjab, which had witnessed a surge in smuggling of weapons into the state from across the border in the past 5-6 months, the Chief Minister asserted that he and his government continued to stand by the farmers.Captain Amarinder expressed surprise at Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar’s claim that no one spoke about the farm laws in the sixth governing council meeting held yesterday. Though he could not personally attend the virtual conference owing to ill-health, his speech, submitted to the Niti Aayog on Thursday, had highlighted the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-minister-captain-amarinder-singh-says-remarks-on-farm-laws-taken-out-of-context-215856
22-02-2021||---||At Barnala, call for march to Delhi borders on Feb 27||Chandigarh, February 21A mammoth gathering of farmers and farm workers in Barnala today swept aside the fear of fizzling out of the movement and gave a clear message that the protesters are ready for a long struggle which can continue through the summer.The ‘maha rally’ organised by the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) was also addressed by leaders of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha.They gave a call to the people of Punjab to reach Delhi borders in large numbers on February 27, when the stir is going to complete three months. They also appealed to women to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8 at Singhu and Tikri.Earlier, the organisers made the seating arrangement in 9 lakh sq ft area and the police also made elaborate arrangements for traffic management, but with lakhs of people participating in the rally, all plans seemed to go haywire as huge traffic jams were witnessed around the city. It was being termed as one of the biggest rallies organised by any farmer union in Punjab.Speaking at the rally, farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the struggle had exposed the powers which were trying to rob the pockets of the masses.Speaking on the January 26 incident, he said it was a government ploy. “A group was acting on the directions of the rulers. These were the same people who were vouching for Khalistan from day one. They were against the programmes of farmer organisations.” Ugrahan said the secular character and participation of other communities was necessary for strengthening the struggle. “This is not a struggle for religion or caste. This is a struggle for our livelihoods. This is not struggle of people of Punjab but of the people of India,” he said.The rally is being seen as an important development as it was for the first time that leaders of the SKM spoke from the stage of BKU (Ugrahan). Ugrahan is not part of the front of 32 farmer organisations.Farmer leader Datar Singh diesChandigarh: Datar Singh, a prominent farmer leader, died on Sunday after a cardiac arrest at Amritsar. He was the president of the Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab, and before joining the farmers’ movement, he was a known trade union leader. Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s Darshan Pal said Datar was a brave leader of the SKM. TNSDon’t cooperate with Delhi cops: RajewalFarm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Sunday asked people to throw the notices sent by the Delhi Police “into the dustbin or send these to the morcha’s legal team”. “Don’t cooperate with the Delhi Police. There is no need to join the investigation. If they try to arrest you, oppose them unitedly,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-barnala-call-for-march-to-delhi-borders-on-feb-27-215827
22-02-2021||Abohar||In show of support, Congress activists take out padyatra||To express solidarity with farmers on the farm laws, Congress workers organised a ‘padyatra’, which started from Satipura village, passed through Chak Jwalasinghwala village and concluded at the Bhagat Singh chowk in Hanumangarh, 60 km from Abohar.The ‘padyatra’ was flagged off from Satipura jointly by PPCC secretary and district in charge Zia-ur-Rahman Arif, Hanumangarh MLA Vinod Kumar and Nohar MLA Amit Chachan. Vinod Kumar said the “walk for farmers” was planned to support the stir that the ‘annadatas’ had to launch to oppose the “black laws”. “We will cooperate with the families of farmers, from the twin districts of Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar, who have been camping at the Delhi border,” he said.Congress former president Rahul Gandhi had already addressed the mahapanchayat at Peelibanga and Padampur in the area.Congress activists from across the district, who participated in the ‘padayatra’, shouted slogans, including “kisan ekta zindabad” and garlanded the statue of Bhagat Singh near the railway station. A two-minute silence was also observed for the farmers, who lost their lives during the peasant movement.The participants included District Congress Committee chief Kavita Meghwal, former MP Bharat Ram Meghwal, former DCC president Surinder Dadri, Municipal Council chairman Ganesh Raj Bansal, deputy chairman Anil Khichad, Rawatsar Municipal Council chief Shyam Sunder Meghwal, Panchayat Samiti former chairman Daya Ram Jakhar and senior farmer leader Balraj Singh Satipura. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-show-of-support-congress-activists-take-out-padyatra-215760
22-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Policies flawed, losses up: Rice millers||Fatehgarh Sahib, February 21The Punjab Rice Millers’ Association today alleged the Union Government was “hell bent in destroying the rice industry” as it was neither permitting the state government to allow millers use the old gunny bags nor initiating movement of foodgrain from godowns. This was causing a space problem for the millers resulting in financial losses to the rice industry as well as the state government.Nakesh Jindal, press secretary of the association, said 50 per cent of the paddy purchased by the state agencies was yet to be milled due to shortage of gunny bags. He said the Union Food Ministry had written to the FCI authorities not to accept any customised milled rice till February 28. He said the industry was already in crisis due to gunny bag shortage and non-movement of foodgrain and the recent orders had only aggravated the situation.Moreover, as per the agreement with the government, the millers were supposed to complete the process by March 31, 2021, and if they failed to do so, they would penalised. He urged the Centre and state government to take necessary steps to avoid losses to millers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/policies-flawed-losses-up-rice-millers-215763
22-02-2021||---||Eyeing state Assembly polls, AAP leaders to meet workers||Chandigarh, February 21 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will organise a series of meetings in all four zones of the state from Monday to review the local bodies’ elections and hold discussions on strengthening the party. A statement issued from the party headquarters said the AAP leadership would conduct meetings with all office-bearers, local leaders and MC candidates from Monday to analyse the condition of the organisation and discuss a strategy to strengthen the party for the upcoming 2022 Assembly elections. These meetings would be convened under the leadership of AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann, Leader of the Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, party Punjab in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-in-charge Raghav Chadha. The statement said AAP had contested the municipal elections for the first time and got a good response from the people.  “The response from the people in urban areas was overwhelming, an area which was traditionally weak for the party. However, seeing a major scope of improvement, the AAP leadership will conduct zone-wise meetings,” reads the statement. AAP said the primary aim of the meeting would be to meet all stakeholders involved in the local bodies’ polls and motivate them to keep fighting for the people. AAP said the meetings with office-bearers, local leaders and MC candidates would encourage them. The local leaders would be encouraged to work harder to make a better and prosperous Punjab. The statement further said the people still saw AAP as the only alternative that could bring about a real change in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eyeing-state-assembly-polls-aap-leaders-to-meet-workers-215766
22-02-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Jail Dept grapples to stop cellphone use||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 21Even as the recovery of mobile phones from inmates in Punjab jail has almost doubled in three years, the Department of Jails is struggling to find ways to stop their use inside the premises.While the existing jammers in jails are either not operational or can detect only 3G connectivity, the department does not have enough funds to install 4G jammers. Further, the department is in a quandary as 4G jammers will be rendered ineffective with the rollout of 5G phones in the market in the near future.Hiccups in trialsThe department is currently carrying out trials with a new system of jamming the phone network, but it is leading to complications. As most jails are located in populated areas, jammers affect mobile signals in the civilian area. Residents of these areas often complain to mobile service providers of poor connectivity.Jails Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa says a trial of jammers is on in some jails but there is opposition from the civilian population. Further, in some jails, jammers do not cover the entire premises and are ineffective in barracks located far-off.“We have increased manual vigil in jails, besides better frisking of inmates. This has led to an increase in recovery of mobiles,” says Randhawa.In 2017, the jail staff had recovered around 1,400 mobile phones, while last year, 2,700 phones were seized. “These phones are handed over to the police for further investigation,” says a jail official.“The department has been trying to find an effective solution, but due to multiple complications, a foolproof method is yet to be found,” adds the minister.Phone recovered from sangrur prisonSangrur: A mobile phone was recovered from the Sangrur jail recently. “On the complaint of jail authorities, a case has been registered against unidentified persons who left the phone near jail “ahata”. We have started further investigations,” said Pritpal Singh, SHO, Sangrur city-1 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jail-dept-grapples-to-stop-cellphone-use-215767
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sikhlens arts festival: 24 movies screened, world premier for three||Themes of kirtan, Sikh identity and seva dominated the second Sikhlens Sikh Arts and Film Festival at Tagore Theatre today.While 24 films that brought forward tenets of Sikhism being observed in different parts of the world were the highlight, a photo exhibition, Charan Chhoh Punjab, by Vinod Chauhan that traced journey of Guru Nanak Dev in 120 frames engaged the visitors.The festival saw three world premieres for films, “Art Finds Its Way”, “Kites: Beyond Boundaries”, “Silver Lining: The Journey of Rashpal Singh”, directed by Ojaswwee Sharma, India Head Sikhlens, met rousing response. “Kite flying is the best natural therapy,” said elated Devinder Pal Singh, of “Kites: Beyond Boundaries”. Spectators were glued to Aman Singh Gulati, aka Almond Singh’s, works, recipient of many world records making the largest and the smallest art works culled from life. Sikh gurus and Pulwama martyrs, Aman picks up themes from life. “It’s so amazing to have our film seen and loved by so many people, I am happy that I could make my parents proud,” he shared. Human rights activist Dhananjay Chauhan took to stage to perform amongst others.Dr Param Preet Ghuman released her debut book of poetry, “Safar”. The collection has 47 poems that touch different aspects of life. “Safar is a metaphor for life, the poem with the same title a reflection on how life unfolds.” In the medicine profession for the past three decades, Dr Ghuman believes that more and more women must engage in self-expression that’s generally denied to them.Varied themes, “Knitted Beliefs”, story of Narayanpura, a neighbourhood in Karachi where Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Sikhs live together in harmony, to “The Sardar of Conde-Sur-Vire”, first elected Sikh in France, and “The Cheez that Binds Us”, about Punjabi Sikhs in Northern Italy, different stories from across the world entertained the audience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhlens-arts-festival-24-movies-screened-world-premier-for-three-215816
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID: Six deaths, 348 new cases in Punjab||Six more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as 348 fresh cases surfaced, taking the infection count to 178,459, a medical bulletin said.  So far, 5,754 people have died from the infection in the state.Punjab has seen an uptick in coronavirus cases for the past several days. The number of daily infections is rising in the range of 250 to 350.  As a result of the upswing in fresh cases, the number of active cases has also risen to 3,019. It used to be around 2,000 active cases three weeks ago. SBS Nagar reported the maximum 63 cases on Sunday, followed by Ludhiana (49) and Amritsar (45).A total of 206 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,69,686, as per the bulletin.Eleven critical patients are on ventilator while 69 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 48,50,347 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-six-deaths-348-new-cases-in-punjab-215701
22-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmers announce series of events to further escalate protest||Protesting farmers on Sunday announced a series of events from February 23-27 to further intensify their agitation against the three new agricultural laws as they accused the government of adopting “repressive” measures against them.They also said they will soon devise a strategy to keep the protest going for long.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the protests, told a press conference here that under their proposed escalation programme, February 23 will be observed as ‘Pagadi Sambhal Diwas’ and February 24 as ‘Daman Virodhi Diwas’, essentially to underline that farmers must be respected and no “repressive measures” should be taken against them.Read also: Security beefed up at Singhu borderBKU’s Ugrahan dares Delhi Police to enter Punjab to arrest accusedThe Morcha said February 26 will be observed as ‘Yuva Kisan Diwas’ (youth farmers day) and February 27 as ‘Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas’ (farmer-labourer unity day).“The government is adopting all the repressive measures, mischief and manipulations including arrests, detentions and registration of cases against the protesters. The Singhu border has been fortified and appears to be an international border,” farmer leader Yogendra Yadav said.A long-term plan for movement will be discussed in view of the Parliament session from March 8, and the strategy will be shared in the next meeting of SKM, he said.Another Morcha leader, Darshan Pal, also alleged “repression” by the government.He said around 32 people have got bail out of 122 arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-announce-series-of-events-to-further-escalate-protest-215683
22-02-2021||New Delhi||Security beefed up at Singhu border||In order to avoid any untoward incident at the protest site where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, the police have beefed up the security at Singhu border and adjoining areas.Around 100 CCTV cameras at both the stages and many locations including the areas outside restrooms earmarked for women protesters have been installed along with heavy deployment of police personnel near the barricades close to the protest site. Two control rooms for monitoring of CCTV cameras have also been set up behind both the stages.The number of volunteers for security check at every entry and exit gates along the way from Singhu village to Kundli village has also been increased.“Activities of people moving around are being monitored and volunteers are keeping a close watch on people coming from outside and farmers staying on tractor trollies. Since there are many cuts for entry and exit towards the villages so the volunteers have been deployed at every possible spot. Volunteers are also patrolling on tractors especially after the sun set,” said Maninder Singh, a member of Krantikari Kisan Union in Punjab who is also part of security management at Singhu.Height of concrete barricades that were setup earlier by Delhi Police close to the protest site (towards Delhi) have been increased by putting barbed wire on them. Whereas barricades put at four spots along the way from Singhu to Singhola village (Delhi-Chandigarh) highway were added with barbed wire after stone-pelting incidents.Drone cameras are been used by the security forces to monitor the situation. However, Delhi Police personnel along with the paramilitary forces deployed at the protest site have been decreased while the entry of visitors and mediapersons from the main gate is still banned. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-beefed-up-at-singhu-border-215677
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||BKU’s Ugrahan dares Delhi Police to enter Punjab to arrest accused||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan on Sunday dared Delhi Police to enter Punjab for arresting the Red Fort violence accused.At a massive show of strength by the farmers and farm labourers mainly from the Malwa region of Punjab at Barnala town, he said said the ongoing farmers' protest was the first time that people of India had mounted a challenge to what he claims is a "fascist and communal government".Ugrahan was addressing a ‘kisan mazdoor rally’, which saw thousands gather at Barnala’s grain market against the Centre’s three controversial farm laws on Sunday, Organised by the BKU (Ugrahan) and the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, was one of the largest gatherings held in the state since the farmers' protest moved out of the state to the borders of Delhi. The union had said it expected over two lakh farmers to attend the rally.Also read: All set for mega rally against farm laws in Barnala today“One person needs at least four square feet, so we have laid mats on nine lakh square feet,” Sukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary of the union, had said on Saturday.Given the scale of their event, BKU said it had deputed around 300 volunteers for the smooth movement of vehicles and parking, and 400 more volunteers for securing the stage and serving water and tea to those attending the rally. Donning yellow dupatta to signify solidarity, tens of thousands of women too participated.Sufi singer Kanwar Garewal enthralled the gathering.Organisers claimed that over two lakh farmers attended the rally.Besides Ugrahan, leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha comprising Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ruldu Singh Mansa and Sukhdev Singh too participated in the rally.Expressing serious concern over the threat to the state’s agriculture as a result of the “disruption caused by the three new farm laws”, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure urgent resolution of the ongoing farm unrest by the Centre “to the satisfaction of the protesting farmers by addressing their grievances”.Calling for the fullest respect for the ‘annadaata’, the Chief Minister, through his speech for the virtual meeting of the Niti Aayog, reiterated his government’s stand that agriculture is a state subject and law-making on it should be left to the states in the true spirit of “cooperative federalism” enshrined in the Constitution.In this context, he pointed to the state amendments already passed to the central legislations by the state Assembly in October 2020. — With IANS inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bkus-ugrahan-dares-delhi-police-to-enter-punjab-to-arrest-accused-215646
22-02-2021||New Delhi||3 held in Delhi over killing of Youth Cong leader in Punjab’s Faridkot||Three persons have been arrested in Delhi in connection with the killing of a 34-year-old Youth Congress leader in Punjab’s Faridkot on February 18, the Delhi Police said Sunday.The Punjab Police have been informed about the arrest of Faridkot residents -- Gurvinder Pal (the 32-year-old key accused), Sukhwinder Singh (23) and Saurabh Verma (21) in the killing of Gurlal Singh Bhalwan, a Delhi Police officer said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra also said two other associates of the arrested accused are still at large and efforts are underway to nab them.They all are allegedly members of the Lawrence Vishnoi gang. Vishnoi is presently in Ajmer prison. The accused planned to kill Bhalwan because they suspected him to be a member of the rival Bhambhia gang, the senior police officer said.The officer said the conspiracy to kill Bhalwan was scripted by Goldy Brar, a Canada-based associate of Lawrence Vishnoi gang who has several cases registered against him.Brar runs an extortion racket in Canada from where he targets several prominent Punjab-based businessmen, he said.Police said Goldy instructed Gurvinder to kill Bhalwan on February 9. The Youth Congress leader wrote on Facebook on February 5 that he was planning to travel to Delhi join farmers’ protest against the three agricultural laws.   As per their plan, Gurvinder, accompanied by two shooters, closely followed Bhalwan when he travelled to the Singhu Border on February 9, the officer said. “However, the task could not be completed because of the size of the protesting crowd that was present,” he said. The trio then followed Bhalwan till Jantar Mantar in Delhi where Congress leaders and workers had assembled to protest against the farm laws, the DCP said, adding the trio left the trail since they found it difficult to dodge the security arrangements made by Delhi Police at the protest sites.Later, as directed by Goldy, Sukhvinder and Sourav started monitoring Bhalwan’s movements in Faridkot, the DCP said.“On February 18, when Bhalwan left his home, the duo started following him and communicated about his movements to Gurvinder, who had ferried the shooters from Chandigarh to Faridkot,” he said.According to police, around 12 shots were fired at Bhalwan when he was standing near his car after coming out from a friend’s shop at Faridkot’s Jubilee Chowk. The accused duo then fled on a motorcycle.He was rushed to a hospital, where he died during the treatment.Bhalwan was the president of the Faridkot district Youth Congress and a Zila Parishad member from Golewala, Punjab, police said.“On late Saturday night, we received information that three persons suspected to be involved in the murder of a political leader in Faridkot, Punjab, are expected to arrive at Sarai Kale Khan and would go to their hideouts in Uttar Pradesh. Accordingly, our teams conducted a raid and apprehended Gurvinder Pal, Sukhwinder Singh and Saurabh Verma. Two firearms and eight live cartridges were recovered from their possession,” he said.Goldy’s cousin Gurlal, a former state president of the Student Organisation of Punjab University (SOPU), was killed in a gangwar between the Lawrence Vishnoi and the Bhambhia gangs in Chandigarh in October 2020. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-held-in-delhi-over-killing-of-youth-cong-leader-in-punjabs-faridkot-215629
22-02-2021||Air Vice Marshal Arjun Subramaniam (Retd)||Courage over Srinagar: Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon||Sprinting out of an underground shelter as the tannoy (a term used to denote a public address system in older colloquial British English) blares is bread and butter stuff for fighter pilots in the Indian Air Force as they respond to a scramble order to intercept intruding enemy aircraft. Not many, however, would have imagined in the wildest of their dreams that they would have to scramble their jets during an enemy bombing raid that involved four aircraft already in the process of dropping their bombs over targets on the airfield. This is exactly the situation that young Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon found himself in on December 14, 1971, at Srinagar airfield as part of an air defence detachment of four Gnat fighters from 18 Squadron, also called the Flying Bullets.Srinagar during those days was not a base that had a fighter squadron permanently located due to the restrictions imposed on India not to base fighter aircraft at air bases in J&K following the UN-sponsored ceasefire in 1947-48. Strangely, this was not revised even after the 1965 India-Pakistan war. Air Marshal Manjit Singh Sekhon, himself a Vir Chakra awardee from the 1971 war for his exploits while flying Vampires from 121 Squadron out of Srinagar and who was closely related to Nirmaljit Sekhon, recalls that the latter was full of ‘josh’. Much older and hailing from the same village Issewal in Ludhiana, he recalls having advised Nirmaljit to focus on becoming an officer in the IAF. He also remembers that both squadrons were put up in the same officer’s mess at Badami Bagh and that during the conflict, Nirmaljit would often walk up to his room and say in Punjabi, ‘Dhuan udani hai’ — meaning that he wanted to ‘smoke out the Pakistanis in battle’.Battle-inoculated well before his epic dogfight over Srinagar airfield, Nirmaljit Sekhon had escorted Manjit Sekhon’s formation of Vampires a few days earlier as the latter attacked the Hajira Brigade of the Pakistan army and enemy artillery guns at Dwarandi, both in the Poonch sector. Unable to resist the temptation of joining the party, the Gnats emptied their guns on the targets after the Vampires completed their attack before returning to Srinagar.Though Air Chief Marshal Lal had instituted several measures to improve early warning of incoming strike aircraft through a layered network of radars and Mobile Observation Posts (MOPs), the mountainous terrain and valleys offered excellent cover for enemy aircraft to conceal their approach while attacking airfields such as Srinagar. Therefore, the only way for air defence aircraft like the Gnats to intercept incoming strike aircraft was if they had at least five-six minutes of warning that would allow them to scramble in two-three minutes, and then allow the air defence radar to carry out an intercept before the strike hits the target. No such window was available on December 14, the day that Sekhon was part of a two-aircraft air defence mission that was on readiness at Srinagar.Masking themselves with tactical finesse and penetrating the Srinagar valley with ease, a six-aircraft Sabre formation from the PAF’s 26 Squadron led by their squadron commander, Wing Commander Changezi, swooped down on Srinagar airfield at 7.30 am. Comprising four aircraft for airfield attack and two staying high to provide air defence cover, the Sabres thought it would be a cakewalk for them and like a few times earlier, they would exit the Valley before the Gnats were scrambled. This time, however, they did not expect the speed with which Flight Lieutenant BS Ghuman and Flying Officer Sekhon would scramble into the air. Having got airborne before Sekhon as the Number One, Ghuman gained height and turned around to pick up his Number Two, but lost sight of everything below as there was a thick layer of haze between 1,000 and 3,000 feet.Sekhon, meanwhile, miraculously got airborne even as the first Sabre pair had dropped its bombs on the runway while the second pair was diving for the attack. So, you had two Sabres at over 750 km/hr with Sekhon’s Gnat behind one of them as he built up his speed quickly and commenced manoeuvring to get a shot on the Sabre leader, while the other Sabre attempted to get behind him. Two Sabres dropped their load and headed home while Changezi called on the two loitering Sabres to come into the fight from above. Despite being outnumbered 4:1, Sekhon fought on, calling for Ghuman to support him and forcing the Sabre behind him to exhaust the ammo. Unfortunately, Ghuman had lost contact in the haze and could not join the fray. Out of ammunition and vulnerable to the second pair of Sabres which had its ammo intact, Sekhon’s aircraft was hit by several bursts of concentrated fire and went down close to Badgam, the site of another epic battle in November 1947 where Major Somnath Sharma was awarded a Param Vir Chakra as his company of 4 Kumaon stalled the enemy’s advance towards Srinagar airfield. Sekhon attempted an ejection, but was too close to the ground and perished in action. Among the Indian accounts of that battle, a 2017 piece by KS Nair in Indian Defence Review and a terrific YouTube animation by Anurag Rana offer the finest accounts. Kaiser Tufail provides the best PAF perspective in his blog ‘Aeronaut’, where he calls Sekhon a ‘hard nut to crack’, and describes the combat with flair as Sekhon ‘snatched degrees at a dizzying rate’.While it is possible that Sekhon had scored a few hits, and inflicted some damage on one of the Sabres, the PAF claims that all the Sabres returned to Peshawar undamaged. However, there is ungrudging admiration for Sekhon from all his adversaries who were involved in that day’s combat. For his ‘sublime heroism, supreme gallantry, flying skill and determination above and beyond the call of duty in the face of certain death’, Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon was awarded the IAF’s only Param Vir Chakra till date.— The writer, a retired fighter pilot, occupies the President’s Chair of Excellence at National Defence College, New Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/courage-over-srinagar-flying-officer-nirmaljit-singh-sekhon-215546
22-02-2021||Mohinder Singh||Recounting tragedy at Nankana Sahib||Sikh shrines have played a vital role in shaping the course of events of the 550-year-old history of the Sikhs and in the development of the Sikh religious tradition. Guru Nanak, founder of the Sikh religion, established the twin institutions of sangat and pangat where all could partake of food from the Guru’s kitchen, sitting in one line without any distinction of caste and class. Earlier, these gurdwaras were managed by pious men, who following the advice of Guru Nanak did not look upon offerings as their personal property.With the rise of the Sikhs to political power in the 19th century, historic gurdwaras were endowed with land grants. After the fall of the Sikh kingdom in 1849, Punjab came under British control and the Sikh community’s hold over the mahants weakened. With the sudden increase in the income of the mahants, there came a change in their lifestyle — a shift from piety to indulgence in pleasures.Realising the influence that the gurdwaras had in the daily life of the Sikhs, British rulers tried to establish indirect control over them by supporting the corrupt mahants, who, in turn, used these historic places to legitimise the British rule. When the country was busy condemning the killing of innocent Indians by General Dyer at Jallianwala Bagh, Arur Singh, manager of the Golden Temple in Amritsar, invited the General to the temple and tried to whitewash his bloodstains by honouring him with a siropa and declaring him a ‘Sikh’.Nankana, being the birthplace of Guru Nanak, occupies the most important position among the Sikh shrines. During early decades of the 20th century, the gurdwara of Janam Asthan came to be controlled by Mahant Narain Das, who was leading an immoral life.Bhai Lachhman Singh Dharowali, who had played a prominent role in the liberation of gurdwaras in Tarn Taran and other places, decided to take the initiative of liberating Nankana Sahib by leading a jatha from his village, which reached Nankana Sahib on the morning of February 20, 1921.Unaware of the mahant’s intentions, he entered the gurdwara with members of the jatha and thus fell into the trap laid by Narain Das, who had hired nearly 400 mercenaries, including notorious criminals like Ranjha and Rehana, armed with lethal weapons. According to an eyewitness account, on hearing the news of the arrival of the jatha, the mahant exhorted his men to action. Without any provocation, they started firing and, in the process, Bhai Lachhman Singh received a volley of bullets while trying to protect the holy Granth. The mahant took the extreme step of dragging him from his hair and after chopping off his arms, smashed his head on the ground. Similar treatment was given to the other members of the jatha. In order to obliterate all traces of the killed, the mahant’s men burnt the bodies. A few members of the jatha, who had taken shelter inside the rooms, were dragged out, tied to the jand tree and burnt by pouring kerosene. The historic tree, burnt from one side yet still green from the other, is a mute witness to the cold-blooded murder of innocent men, women and children.The Public Prosecutor confirmed that “the mahant tried to obliterate all traces of the killed by burning the corpses”. Lord Reading, the Viceroy of lndia, in his report to the Secretary of State for India, also referred to the attempt to burn all the bodies.On learning about the tragedy, Bhai Uttam Singh, a local factory owner, informed the higher authorities and also sent urgent telegrams to the Akali leaders. The Deputy Commissioner reached Nankana Sahib around noon. In the meantime, prominent Akali leaders also arrived. On noticing that the Akali leaders were greatly agitated over the inaction of the authorities in protecting the peaceful jatha, Mahant Narain Das and his henchmen were arrested and sent to Central Jail, Lahore, and the keys of the gurdwara were handed over to the Akali leaders.The tragedy greatly perturbed the Sikhs in different parts of the country who sent messages of sympathy for the Akali martyrs. Mahatma Gandhi visited Nankana on March 3, 1921. While condemning the cruel deed of the mahant, he described the martyrdom of the Akali reformers as an ‘act of national bravery’.With the help of volunteers who had also joined the Akali leadership in Nankana, mass cremation of the martyrs was performed. Prof Ruchi Ram Sahni, a trustee of The Tribune and author of ‘Struggle for Reform in Sikh Shrines’, mentions a touching incident when a very old woman talked to Sir Edward Maclagan, the Governor of Punjab, and said, “My child, my four sons and a grandson have been massacred. I request you for justice.” Uttering these words, the old lady fell down senseless.According to Khalsa Samachar, a young woman with prayers on her lips and tears trickling down her cheeks was complaining why her brothers had not allowed her to attain martyrdom just like them.Bhai Jodh Singh, a respected Sikh scholar, who offered ardas for the martyrs, exhorted the Sikhs “to bear the suffering like their forefathers as a sacrifice without a reproach or curse”, and mentioned that the crime committed in the holy shrine required a flood of innocent blood to be washed away. In their daily prayer, the Sikhs the world over remember the sacrifice of the martyrs of Nankana Sahib which led to the liberation of historic Sikh shrines from the control of mahants and provided democratic management of the historic gurdwaras.— The writer is Director, National Institute of Panjab Studies, New Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recounting-tragedy-at-nankana-sahib-215525
