25-02-2021||New Delhi||Deep Sidhu moves Delhi court seeking fair probe against him in R-Day violence case||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu on Thursday moved a Delhi court seeking a fair and impartial investigation in the matter against him in connection with the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day.In his plea, filed by advocate Abhishek Gupta, Sidhu sought to issue directions to the investigating agency to call, preserve and make part of the record of investigation the material related to the case and to conduct a fair and impartial investigation in the matter.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar will hear Sidhu’s plea on Friday.Sidhu was arrested by the Delhi police special cell on February 9 for his alleged involvement in the January 26 violence in the national capital. Later, he was sent to seven-day police custody.Currently, he is undergoing judicial custody in the matter.Delhi Police had earlier told the Court that Deep Sidhu was the main instigator. He allegedly instigated the mob not to follow the permitted route of the Kisan parade and to breach barricades with tractors on January 26.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deep-sidhu-moves-delhi-court-seeking-fair-probe-against-him-in-r-day-violence-case-217462
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt invites applications for appointment of Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University||The Punjab government on Thursday invited applications for the appointment of Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala. The Punjabi University, Patiala is an institution of excellence in higher learning and research.Punjabi University, Patiala established in 1962 is a premier institution of Punjab with more than 42,000 students and 60 teaching and research departments, 20 Regional Centres Neighbourhood Campus/Constituent Colleges and about 275 affiliated colleges.The official spokesperson of the Punjab government said that as per the advertisement issued by the Punjab Government the Vice-Chancellor, being the academic as well as administrative head, is expected to be a visionary with proven leadership qualities, administrative capabilities as well as teaching and research credentials. The applicant should fulfil the eligibility conditions for the position of Vice-Chancellor as per Regulations of University Grants Commission.Not more than 67 years of age as on the closing date of receipt of applications of this advertisement and appointment shall be for a period of three years.The appointment will be made from a panel of names recommended by the Search Committee. The advertisement and format of application are available on a website link www.punjabiuniversity.ac.in.The spokesperson further said that the applications of eligible individuals received by post through candidates or nominators, in the prescribed proforma shall be considered.Such applications should reach within 21 days from the date of the publication of the advertisement, by Registered Speed Post to Special Secretary Higher Education Government of Punjab Room No. 26, Fifth Floor, Punjab Civil Secretariat-Chandigarh (0172-2748467).“Application for the post of Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University Patiala”, should be super scribed on the envelope, added the spokesperson. He further clarified that the higher education department will not be responsible for postal delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-invites-applications-for-appointment-of-vice-chancellor-of-punjabi-university-217423
25-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Black and white photos of Dharmendra, Asha Parekh, Shammi Kapoor surface; Priyanka Chopra retweets Twitter thread||Global icon Priyanka Chopra Jonas has thanked an author for sharing pictures and handwritten notes of veteran actors Dharmendra, Shammi Kapoor, Biswajit, Sadhna, Saira Banu, Asha Parekh and Sunil Dutt, among many more."This is so special, I loved going through her collection. Thanks for sharing," wrote Priyanka while retweeting the Twitter thread.This is so special, I loved going through her collection. Thanks for sharing ❤️ https://t.co/PVbI0OuqWl  The author, Sam Jawed, also revealed that her aunt wrote fan mails, despite strong disapproval in the family.Check out the autographed pictures and hand-written notes here:My aunt passed away many years ago. Among her belongings was an old album that she was very fond of. The album remained lost for many years, buried somewhere in a storeroom in the basement. It was found again recently during a clean-up. 1/n  Dharmendra -1962 The pic is damaged but the good looks are intact! 5/n pic.twitter.com/thUcMWmpOS  Biswajit7/n pic.twitter.com/oHRjBQm3JE  Asha Parekh - 19639/n pic.twitter.com/UmnXCt8EiY  Sunil Dutt - 1962He wrote her a long letter in Urdu which I can’t read! 10/n pic.twitter.com/JZTKduS5Xv  The Irani sisters - Honey and Daisy12/n pic.twitter.com/KVN1CaT9Tn  Rajashree and NaazI don’t recognize these names but that’s what’s written on the pics. 13/n pic.twitter.com/uJxG63ZLyy  Posting the pictures, she also shared the story of her aunt and wrote in a series of tweets: "My aunt passed away many years ago. Among her belongings was an old album that she was very fond of. The album remained lost for many years, buried somewhere in a storeroom in the basement. It was found again recently during a clean-up.""As a young girl growing up in a small town in 1950s and 60s, she was completely enamored by movies. Much to the disapproval of her mother, she spent her free time writing fan mail to movie stars and over a time, built up quite a collection of autographed pictures and letters. Sadly, most of it is now in a bad shape but I managed to salvage a few that I am posting in this thread. I’m sure she would have loved to show off her collection. So, here it is," she added before posting the pictures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-and-white-photos-of-dharmendra-asha-parekh-shammi-kapoor-surface-priyanka-chopra-retweets-twitter-thread-217406
25-02-2021||Balwant Garg||Ensure safe transportation of children in COVID times: School edu dept||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, February 25With relaxation in COVID-19 curbs and laxity in coronavirus-apprporate behaviour, the state has witnessed resurgence in cases, particularly in schools.Keeping in mind the same, the State School Education Department has asked the government and private schools in the state to ensure safe transportation of school children by implementing the Safe School Vahan Scheme (SSVS).With the reopening of the schools after relaxation in curbs, cramming as many children as possible in school vans, students are at the risk of being exposed to the virus.Sending a copy of the state transport department’s order regarding the SSVS, School Education (Secondary) Director has asked all schools to implement it and make parents also aware about the measures in the parent-teacher meetings as well.As per the state transport department orders, the principal/head master/head mistress of the school shall be responsible for transportation of school children. They need to ensure that all schools buses should not more ferry more children than the registered seating capacity, and ensure medical check-up of van drivers as well.They have to ensure that the attendants are provided in buses to ensure COVID-19 protocol. The schools have also been asked to ensure that the driver and attendants should not suffer from any contagious disease.Last week, the School Education Department had observed that teachers and students in many schools were not adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines laid by the government.Department officials say during inspection in various schools, teachers and students were seen without masks with little regard for social distancing. The department had also sent a letter to all District Education Officers (DEOs) regarding the gross negligence on part of the school authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-safe-transportation-of-children-in-covid-times-school-edu-dept-217403
25-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma remembers Sardool Sikander, shares video of him holding newborn Anayra; sings ‘Ek Onkar’||Comedian-host Kapil Sharma recalled a 'beautiful memory' with Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander, who passed away on Wednesday.Kapil shared an IGTV clip of Sardool blessing the actor’s daughter Anayra by singing “Ek Onkar” on the occasion of her first Lohri.Sharing the video on Instagram, Kapil wrote: “A beautiful memory of a beautiful human being. It was my daughter’s first lohri and me and my family was so happy that Sardool paji and his family was there to bless the new born. He sang “Mool mantar” “Ek Onkar” to bless the baby. Never thought it was our last meeting with you, love u sardool paji, u will always stay in our hearts #omshanti #sardoolsikander”A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)  Apart from Kapil, Gurdas Maan, Mika Singh and Daler Mehndi also mourned the loss of the 60-year-old singer. Also read: Kapil Sharma explains why he was wheelchair-bound at Mumbai airport; details insideजितने प्यारे कलाकार उतने ही प्यारे इंसान थे sardool पाजी, ईश्वर इनके परिवार को इस दुःख की घड़ी से उभरने का साहस दे 🙏 https://t.co/xqz8fHEC6z  Sikander passed away in Mohali, Punjab. He was admitted to a private hospital, and was undergoing treatment for COVID-19.Sikander is survived by wife and two sons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharma-remembers-sardool-sikander-shares-video-of-him-holding-newborn-anayra-sings-ek-onkar-217399
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Mika Singh, Salman Khan to share stage once again; Punjabi singer calls it an ‘honour'||Singer Mika Singh will be seen performing with Bollywood superstar Salman Khan after four years in the upcoming show Indian Pro Music League (IMPL). Mika said: "The IPML is a one of a kind show in a never before seen format in the music genre. Salman bhai is the biggest star in the country and it would be so much fun and such an honour to perform with him after quite some time."The singer added: "We have such a camaraderie and there is a little unexpected tinge to it when we are performing together. That really adds to the performance. I am super excited about this, and I literally can't wait."The show comprises six teams supported by Bollywood personalities Shraddha Kapoor, Rajkumar Rao, Bobby Deol, Suresh Raina, Govinda, Genelia and Ritesh Deshmukh.The show will have one-star singer and one rising star. Salman Khan is the brand ambassador of the show.The show will be hosted by Karan Wahi and Waluscha D'Souza. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mika-singh-salman-khan-to-share-stage-once-again-punjabi-singer-calls-it-an-honour-217365
25-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail beds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan president Shiv Kumar — who is a co-accused in cases registered against Nodeep Kaur — has eight injuries, including fractures on the left and right foot, that are more than two weeks old, according to a report prepared by a five-doctor board of the GMCH, Sector 32.The board examined the jailed Dalit activist on February 20.Also read: Given the injuries reflected in the report, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has now sought a report of the Shiv Kumar’s medical examination, which was conducted when the Sonepat police arrested him under Section 54 of the CrPC. The court today scheduled March 16 as the next date of hearing in the case of Shiv’s alleged illegal custody and torture.The affidavit submitted by the superintendent of the Sonepat jail to the High Court included a copy of the medical board’s report.According to the report, Shiv, who was taken to the GMCH on February 20 after a High Court order, also showed signs of “post-traumatic stress disorder-like symptoms”. “All injuries are more than two weeks old and were caused by blunt object/weapon,” according to the report prepared by the GMCH board. The board comprising Dr Ashwani Soni, assistant professor of orthopaedics; Dr Mandeep Singh, assistant professor of general surgery; Dr Nidhi Chauhan, assistant professor of psychiatry; Dr Sandeep Moudgil, assistant professor of radiodiagnosis; and Dr Dasari Harish, head of department of forensic medicine and toxicology.It has been alleged that Shiv Kumar was illegally arrested on January 16 and tortured in the police custody. On record, he was booked on January 24, arrested two days later, and has been in the police custody ever since.According to the report, “there is fracture distal phalanx of the second digit of left hand, and fracture of base of metatarsal bone of right foot.” The report also points to “possibly fracture/sesmoid bone” at two other places in the left navicular bone of a foot and right ulna bone of right wrist.The psychiatric assessment read: “He appeared sad and distressed with occasional crying spells. He expressed preoccupation with his current situation, reported predominant anxiety symptoms, flashbacks of brutality meted out to him, nightmares, feelings of loneliness, uncertainty about future and sleep disturbances. Appetite is normal. He denies delusions, hallucination, ideas/plans of self-harm. Overall, evaluation is suggestive of post-traumatic stress disorder-like symptoms.”INJURIES EXAMINED BY DOCTORSAccording to the report, the injuries have been described as:INJURIES 3 & 7 ARE ‘GRIEVOUS’According to the report while injury numbers 1,2,5 and 6 are simple in nature, injury numbers 3 & 7 are grievous. The board said it could not comment on injury numbers 4 and 8, as regards their nature because of possibility of a sesamoid bone fracture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nodeep-kaur-case-dalit-activist-shiv-kumars-medical-report-reveals-2-fractures-broken-toenail-beds-217200
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab gets over Rs 1,000-crore FDI proposals; land purchased||Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab has managed to attract global companies from the US, UK, Canada and France across diverse sectors, such as sports infrastructure, real estate, IT, pharmaceuticals and industrial gases.The state received over Rs 1,000-crore FDI proposals during April 2020 — January 2021. The companies have already procured land and submitted the detail project report (DPR) to the government, according to Rajat Aggarwal, CEO, Invest Punjab.RoundGlass Well Being (P) Ltd, a subsidiary of US-based RoundGlass LLC, has submitted a proposal for investing Rs 455.32 crore on the state-of-the-art sports infrastructure in Mohali. It will offer players access to an international-level sports ecosystem through a team of certified coaches along with world-class technical staff, nutritional, educational, medical and training facilities.Vadhera Apartments (P) Ltd plans to invest Rs 270 crore in a real estate project in Ludhiana in collaboration with Malhotra Group’s Newcastle Upon Tyne (UK). Also, Smarter e-Learning Pvt. Ltd, a subsidiary of New York-based Netsmartz LLC, a software development company, will invest Rs 151.78 crore in Mohali’s IT sector.Centrient Pharmaceuticals India Pvt Ltd, a subsidiary of US-based Centrient Pharmaceuticals, proposes to invest Rs 135 crore in a pharma unit in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.Further, NCML Jalalabad (P) Ltd is to set up a 50,000 MT-capacity silo for storing foodgrain at Fazilka.Similarly, subsidiary of French Multinational Company Air Liquide North India (P) Ltd is setting up a unit in Patiala for Industrial gases at a cost of about Rs 20 crore. “ Despite slowdown, we have won investors’ trust,” observed Aggarwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-gets-over-rs-1-000-crore-fdi-proposals-land-purchased-217039
25-02-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab health officials worried over case fatality rate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24With people in Punjab throwing safety norms to the wind, it is no news that the state has been topping the Covid fatality rate in the country.The trend has left the health officials in the spot as no other state is near Punjab’s 3.23 Case Fatality Rate (CFR). The distant second is Maharashtra where CFR is 2.5 per cent, followed by Sikkim (2.2).Punjab’s CFR is more than double the national average of 1.45. It has emerged as such a big worry that even CM Capt Amarinder expressed concern over the trend. Even neighbouring states are performing much better than Punjab. In Haryana CFR is 1.1 per cent, Himachal Pradesh J&K and Chandigarh 1.6 per cent each.Punjab has been continuously figuring on top for the past more than four months. The health officials say that it is because the number of cases had witnessed a sudden dip in January.But independent experts say the number of high deaths is because of high prevalence of co-morbidities. “Punjab has the highest number of patients with co-morbidities. It is a well established fact that Punjab has the highest number of patients suffering with communicable diseases. So the number of casualties will be more,” said Dr JS Thakur of PGI’s School of Public Health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-officials-worried-over-case-fatality-rate-217000
25-02-2021||---||Muktsar officials shun masks at dist complex||Muktsar, February 24Even though the Centre on Tuesday expressed its concern over rising Covid-19 cases in Punjab, top officers in the district administration were today found in their offices without mandatory face masks.During a visit to the District Administrative Complex, it was found that a majority of people were entering the complex without masks. Shockingly, some officers and their subordinate staff too were not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.Notably, as of now, just 392 health workers have got the second dose of the vaccine in the district. Health Department officials further informed that 1,228 workers and 469 frontline workers had so far got the first dose of the vaccine in the district.Just a few commuters were seen wearing masks. Cops at some places challaned people for not wearing masks.Meanwhile, some parents have appealed to the state government to rethink its decision to reopen schools. They even said when the Centre and state government were issuing fresh advisories and restrictions to deal with Covid-19, then the schools too should be closed for some time.Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said there had been a rise in Covid cases in the past week. At present, the district has 22 active Covid-19 patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-officials-shun-masks-at-dist-complex-217001
25-02-2021||Patiala||8 teachers, 3 students in Patiala test positive||Eight teachers and three students from six government schools tested positive for Covid-19 in a random sampling today. Consequently, the Health Department has shut down the two government schools located in the Tripuri area and Naugawan, for the next 48 hours.Patiala on Wednesday reported 63 positive cases. With this, around 50 staff members and nine students have already tested positive in the district in February alone.Following the Covid surge in the government schools, the Health Department has asked the District Education Officer (DEO) to further direct school heads to strictly comply with the Covid norms.The department, in its letter to DEO, wrote that as Covid clustering had already been recorded in many government schools, therefore the risk of further spread loomed. Meanwhile, sources informed that the number of positive cases in government schools might be much higher.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh, said, “We have been closely watching the sudden rise of Covid cases in the schools. We have directed the Education Department to ensure that everyone on school premises wears the mask."Singh added that he had already directed health officials to ramp up testing in schools to stave off the spread. — TNSLudhiana schools top positivity rateLudhiana: Ludhiana, which had earlier assumed the dubious distinction of Covid capital of Punjab, has topped the state with highest virus positivity in the schools. Against the state’s average positivity rate of 1.1 per cent, Ludhiana has recorded a whopping 3.1 per cent Covid positive students and school staffers, the official figures compiled by the Health Department have revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-teachers-3-students-in-patiala-test-positive-217002
25-02-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||566 Covid positive, eight dead in past 24 hours||Even though active Covid cases nationally remained below 1.5 lakh today for the third straight day, settling at 1,46,907, the Centre deputed multidisciplinary teams to 10 states, including Punjab, showing consistent rise in daily cases for a week.Punjab remained a cause for concern as it reported the second highest 24-hour rise in active cases after Maharashtra today. While Maharashtra reported the highest daily rise in active cases in the country today adding 298 cases, Punjab was second with 128 cases.The state reported 566 Covid cases and eight deaths in the past 24 hours. Such high number of cases have been reported after a long time as for the past two weeks, the average daily cases has remained around 300.Fully preparedThe state govt is fully equipped and prepared to combat the possible fresh wave but the citizens should also follow appropriate Covid behaviour. —Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryAs per a media bulletin released on Wednesday, the total number of cases has reached 1,79,819 and number of deaths reached 5,786.At present, 82 patients are on oxygen support and nine on ventilator support. The state reported eight deaths in the past 24 hours. In the district-wise breakup, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala reported two deaths each, Ferozepur and Jalandhar reported one death each.Multi-disciplinary teams have reached Punjab and other states for supporting the local administrations for targeted Covid response. The Centre today also wrote to the state to increase RT-PCR testing. In his letter to states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has exhorted focus on measures to break the chain of transmission and ensure that RT-PCR testing is amplified to flush out hitherto undetected cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/566-covid-positive-eight-dead-in-past-24-hours-217003
25-02-2021||Muktsar||Arrest Raja Warring, in suicide case, demand Akalis||Three days after the wife of a PSPCL contractor from Faridkot, who allegedly shot his two children before killing himself and injuring her on February 6, named Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring as one of the main culprits in the suicide case, a large number of SAD activists today took out a protest march in Gidderbaha town.They demanded the arrest of Warring, his brother-in-law Dumpy Vinayak and burnt their effigies. Two weeks ago, Faridkot City police had booked Dumpy. However, no arrest has been made till date. SAD’s Gidderbaha constituency in-charge Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon said, “The police should register a case against Warring on the statement of the deceased’s wife. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrest-raja-warring-in-suicide-case-demand-akalis-217004
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s base has eroded in state, says Brahm 
 Mohindra||Demolishing the BJP’s claims of giving due representation to the Hindu community in Punjab’s political set-up during the 2022 Assembly poll, the state’s Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra today reminded the saffron party that its base among the community had eroded during the 10 years of SAD-BJP government in the state from 2007 to 2017.Breaking his silence on the BJP’s narrative for the next Assembly poll, Mohindra said, “What are they talking of? When in power, the BJP leadership proved to be weak compared to the Akalis. Despite playing an important role in forming the government in 2007, they could not bargain for equal power-sharing like getting the post of Deputy CM or other political appointments.As a result, the Hindu community has weaned away from the BJP,” the minister said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-base-has-eroded-in-state-says-brahm-mohindra-217005
25-02-2021||---||Government extends benefits to peace-time Chakra awardees’ families||Chandigarh, February 24In a move that resolves a long-pending anomaly related to grant of benefits to the kin of posthumously decorated armed forces personnel, the Punjab Government has extended the benefits to the families of those awarded peace-time gallantry medals before 2017.The state government had instituted an “Honour and Gratitude” policy in 2000 offering government jobs to families of posthumous gallantry awardees as per their qualifications. However, due to an oversight, the policy had only included war-time gallantry awards and had left out peace-time awards even if those happened to be higher in precedence.Param Vir Chakra, Maha Vir Chakra and Vir Chakra are classified as war-time medals and are awarded for gallantry in the face of the enemy while Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra are peace-time medals for acts of courage other than in the face of the enemy. The policy was finally rectified in 2017 but the authorities concerned had interpreted the amendment to mean that family members of only those personnel would be eligible who were awarded after 2017 whereas the original policy of year 2000 did not contain any such cut-off date.The rectification of the anomaly remained pending with the government since 2017. In December 2020, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the government to take appropriate measures and introduce clarity in the policy within a period of three months.The fresh policy issued this week now includes all ‘Chakra’ series awards in its ambit without any cut-off provision as to the date of the award. The applicant however needs to be within the prescribed age limits for the job that he or she is applying for.Sources familiar with the matter said although the number of affected applicants may not be very high, the rectification of the anomaly is a huge morale booster for them.Anomaly removedThe fresh policy issued this week now includes all ‘Chakra’ series awards in its ambit without any cut-off provision as to the date of the award. The applicant however needs to be within the prescribed age limits for the job that he or she is applying for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-extends-benefits-to-peace-time-chakra-awardees-families-217006
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha writes to President, demands end to ‘repression’||Farmers across the state today observed the ‘Anti-repression Day’ against the attempts being made by the Delhi Police to arrest farmers from Punjab and book farm union leaders in allegedly fake cases.As part of this, the farmers staged dharnas at 35 places across the state and gave memorandums to the President of India, through the local civil administration heads. The protesting farmers alleged that the Delhi Police, under the influence of the Centre, was trying to hit out at the farmers struggle going on at the borders of Delhi, by booking leaders and farmers in cases.AAP urges khattar to release NodeepA day after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders were not allowed to meet labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur during their visit to Karnal Jail, senior party leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Wednesday wrote to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar seeking her immediate release.Prem Singh Bhangu, chairman of the Legal Committee of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said the farmers were demanding immediate release of the farmers lodged in Tihar jail at Delhi. “We also want that notices issued to hundreds of farmers in Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh by the police, NIA and other government agencies, should be scrapped,” he said.Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU Dakaunda, said farmers were left with no option but to seek the intervention of the President to stop the repression unleashed on them, in a bid to end the farmers’ struggle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanyukt-kisan-morcha-writes-to-president-demands-end-to-repression-217007
25-02-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Is Lakha Sidhana pursuing political agenda?||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 24With the Punjab Assembly elections less than a year away, gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana’s rise is setting alarm bells ringing in the political circles in the region.Despite being on the run and wanted by the Delhi Police, Lakha’s rally at Mehraj village has a bigger political meaning. His close aides made a political pitch for him by giving a call that people should reject the SAD, Congress and AAP and elect people like Lakha who only talked about Punjab.In the rally, there were clear indications that Sidhana was eyeing to play a major political innings in the upcoming Assembly polls in 2022.Besides, even radical groups are sensing an opportunity to recover the lost political ground on the issue in the state and, hence, they all have come together on one platform and started rallying behind Lakha Sidhana and Deep Sidhu.If Mehraj rally was any indication, Lakha Sidhana succeeded in presenting himself and Deep Sidhu as heroes of the community amongst the public with Khalsa flags outnumbering farmer unions’ flags at the venue.A large numbers of youth were seen wearing T-shirts with photos of Sidhana and Deep Sidhu and carrying placards in their support.Sidhana had unsuccessfully contested 2012 Assembly elections from the Rampura Phul segment on PPP ticket, the party launched by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, which later got merged into the Congress.Mobike owner called by copsBhola Singh, a resident of Mehraj village on whose motorcycle Lakha Sidhana fled from the rally on Tuesday, was called to the Rampura City police station. However, the police denied that they had called Bhola to the police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/is-lakha-sidhana-pursuing-political-agenda-217008
25-02-2021||Mona||Sardool Sikander: A humble singer whose legacy will live forever||Duniya mein Sikander koi nahi... Haan, Waqt Sikander hota hai... reads legendary singer Sardool Sikander’s bio on Instagram. He breathed his last on February 24 at Mohali. His demise sent artistes, politicians cutting across the parties and his fans in mourning. Sikander suffered from diabetes, kidney and other complications, and was recently treated for Covid-19. He had been undergoing treatment at a hospital for the past few weeks.Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander dies at 60Coming from a humble background, Sikander, who was born at Kheri Naudh Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib, rose to a professional high with ‘Roadways Di Laari’. He had a good command of classical, folk, religious and playback singing. Sikander enjoyed success on radio, television and live shows. ‘Ek Charkha Gali De Vich, Maula, Nanak Naam Chardi Kalah’ are some of his famous songs. One of his bestselling albums is ‘Husna De Malko’ (1991) that has sold 5.1 million copies worldwide and counting. He also acted in Punjabi films like ‘Police in Pollywood’ and ‘Jagga Daku’.A melodious singer, Sikander was a humble soul. He revered his guru Charanjit Ahuja. “Happiest Birthday to the Maker of Sardool Sikander Mere Ustad — Janaab Charanjit Ahuja sahab (your birth day is the biggest blessing of my entire life)” was one of his last social media posts.Famous folk singer Pammi Bai, who also got trained under Ahuja, calls Sikander’s demise unfortunate and untimely. “He was a multitalented singer; his loss leaves a big void in the music world.” Bai shares how Sikander and his two brothers would go to do kirtan on one bicycle. “Sardool would ride the bike, one brother would sit on the cross bar, another behind him and between them they would carry harmonium and tabla – all on one cycle. And that he was to be such a hit, speaks volumes about his ability.” Bai recalls Sikander as a jovial man with characteristic ‘meethe mazak’, “Once we were sitting at Jalandhar Doordarshan studio and a singer sang out of tune, when I exclaimed, ‘what was it’, he goes, “Inha de suran naal matbhed ne’, he was kind, compassionate and outright funny.”Sikander was married to actor-singer Amar Noorie. He is survived by his wife and sons - Sarang Sikander and Alaap Sikander – both of them are carrying forward their musical lineage. His musical legacy would survive in music lovers across generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sardool-sikander-a-humble-singer-whose-legacy-will-live-forever-217009
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cybercrime units to be set up across Punjab||DGP Dinkar Gupta on Wednesday announced the recruitment of around 200 cyber crime and digital forensic experts and setting up of cybercrime units in all districts. “Amid Covid-19, many people are using online banking and students attending online classes still don’t aware about the term cybercrime,” said the DGP . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cybercrime-units-to-be-set-up-across-punjab-217010
25-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||Loan of Dasuya farmer-son duo was not waived: SDM||Primary investigation in the suicide of farmer and son at Muhaddipur village in the Dasuya subdivision has revealed that their farm loans had not been waived as they did not fulfil the eligibility criteria.  Dasuya SDM Randeep Singh Heer said the loan waiver was applied twice by Jagtar Singh and his son Kirpal Singh but it was not waived as the concession was only for those having less than 5 acres of land. He said Jagtar Singh in 2018 transferred one-acre each to his sons. They then applied for the loan waiver again, but since at the time of taking the loan, Jagtar Singh had seven acres of land and Kirpal had none, so the applications were not approved again. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/loan-of-dasuya-farmer-son-duo-was-not-waived-sdm-217011
25-02-2021||---||Amarinder announces minibus permit policy||Chandigarh, February 24Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced an Open-Ended Mini Bus Permit Policy, with no deadline for rural youth to apply for such a permit.Laying foundation stones of Rs 55.16-crore high-tech State Transport Department institutes, the Chief Minister also virtually launched distribution of 3,000 minibus permits for the rural youth to give a boost to the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar’ mission, with token presentation of permits to five beneficiaries.He said while 3,000 permits were being handed over today, another 8,000 would be given during the rest of the year, generating both direct and indirect employment.Captain Amarinder directed the Transport Department to create a user-friendly online facility within the next three months for receipt and processing of applications of all bus permits to make the system far more transparent and eliminate corruption.Rural connectivity These novel initiatives will go a long way in providing smooth rural connectivity and seamless delivery of citizen-centric services. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterThese novel initiatives would go a long way in providing smooth rural connectivity and seamless delivery of citizen-centric services, said the Chief Minister, lambasting the previous SAD-BJP regime for issuing illegal permits to chosen people without due publicity or adherence to legal procedures/rules.Recalling that his government had promised cancellation of all illegal bus permits to ensure that genuine people get the benefit of the scheme, Captain Amarinder said under the transparent system adopted by the department, a public notice for minibus permits was issued for the first time in newspapers. People were encouraged to apply online without any hassle, and as many as 12,384 applications were received.While inaugurating home delivery of driving licences and registration certificates, the Chief Minister said Punjab was the first state in the country to implement this unique system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-announces-minibus-permit-policy-217012
25-02-2021||---||Behbal case: SIT to get CCTV footage of court complex||Faridkot, February 24The court of the District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, on Wednesday accepted an application of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police and asked the superintendent of the court to provide the CCTV footage of the periphery of the court complex to the investigating team.Also read: Umranangal tried to influence witnesses, says SITProbing the Behbal Kalan police firing case on Tuesday, the SIT had accused the suspended Inspector General of Police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal of trying to influence the witnesses and put undue pressure upon the prosecution agency by reaching the court complex with a large number of persons in order to create pressure on the prosecution agency and witnesses. To detect all these persons, the SIT wanted to procure the CCTV footage of cameras installed on the periphery of the court complex.The SIT had moved an application for procuring the CCTV footage of the periphery of the court complex of February 19, timing between 11 am to 12 noon when the IGP had appeared in the court of the District and Sessions Judge in the Kotkapura police firing case.Sources in the SIT revealed that there is not much clarity in the CCTV footage provided to it by the court to identify the persons. Sources revealed that while some of the CCTV cameras installed in the court complex were not functioning properly, the quality of picture in other cameras was not of good quality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-case-sit-to-get-cctv-footage-of-court-complex-217013
25-02-2021||Abohar||Youth found dead in car||A 19-year-old youth was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his locked car parked near a ghee factory on Tuesday. Preliminary investigation into the case has indicated that he might have died due to leakage in a carbon monoxide cylinder that he was carrying in his car on Abohar-Malout stretch of the National Highway-10.According to sources, kin of Waris Kalra of Malout suspect that he might had been murdered. The police said inquest proceedings had been initiated under Section 174 of the CrPC and other aspects would be examined after getting detailed post-mortem report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-found-dead-in-car-217014
25-02-2021||---||Vijay Sampla takes charge as SC panel chairman||New Delhi, February 24Former Union minister Vijay Sampla, who today assumed the charge of chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, said he would adopt “a three-tier appoach” to resolve all issues being faced by the Dalit community.Sampla, who served as Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment from 2014 to 2019 and is counted among prominent Dalit faces of the BJP in Punjab, said it was a matter of pride for him that the Union Government had assigned him such an important responsibility.Elaborating on the three-tier mechanism, Sampla said his focus would be on resolving the social issues being faced by the Dalit community. “Second, I will work to ensure that Dalits get justice in the government departments, whether it is the state or central, so that they are not subjected to any sort of exploitation,” he asserted.In order to prevent injustice, exploitation, and resolve various issues being faced by the Dalits, whether socially or in government departments, from time to time, he will be submitting his report, in the form of suggestions, to the President.Union ministers and prominent leaders from the region, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash and former Punjab minister Tikshan Sud and several BJP functionaries were present during the ceremony.They all extended their wishes to Sampla for a successful tenure.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, DV Sadananda Gowda, Hardeep Puri and Anurag Thakur also greeted Sampla.Prominent dalit faceSampla served as Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment from 2014 to 2019 and is counted among prominent Dalit faces of the BJP in Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vijay-sampla-takes-charge-as-sc-panel-chairman-217015
25-02-2021||---||Punjab to amend Prisons Act, will strengthen security||Chandigarh, February 24To strengthen the security across the state’s prisons, the Punjab Cabinet led today approved draft of the new penal provisions in the Prisons Act, 1894, through stringent punishment for offences like rioting, escape from prison, damage to jail property, assault on jail staff, possession of drugs and other violations. A Bill to bring in the necessary changes will be introduced in the Budget Session scheduled to begin on March 1.The amendments would be useful in wake of cases of use of mobile phones by the inmates in recent times, as well as riots inside the jails, assault on jail staff, damage to jail property and drug trafficking.Under the amended provisions, it has been proposed to extend imprisonment up to seven years from existing three years with fine, not exceeding Rs 50,000 or with both for offences against prison discipline. The existing provision provides for a maximum of one year imprisonment and a fine exceeding Rs 25,000 or both.The Cabinet also paved the way for construction of more than 25,000 houses for the economically weaker sections, with developers and authorities required to develop 5 per cent of the project area for EWS housing. These houses would be constructed in reasonably sized pockets, along with social infrastructure, such as schools, community centres and dispensaries, at convenient locations to ensure comfortable living for the beneficiaries. They will be provided access to basic civic amenities.The houses under the new policy would be constructed with the latest brick-less technology, using services of qualified Project Management Agencies (PMAs). They will be offered to eligible families, who will be financed by banks at affordable monthly instalment rates.The Cabinet also approved the bifurcation of the common cadre of the Departments of Health & Family Welfare and Medical Education and Research. The move is aimed at prompt resolution of disputes arising out of the establishment matters between these two departments through separation of controlling authority and rules of both the departments. Since the beginning, the two departments were a single entity, with a common set of promulgated in 1945.Changes in motor vehicle taxThe Cabinet on Wednesday gave approval to amend Section 3 and Schedule of the Punjab Motor Vehicle Taxation Act, 1924 (Amended) to deal with issues like refund of lump sum tax paid in case of a motor car or motorcycle owner shifting to another state with the vehicle and ceasing to be resident of Punjab, or transfer of ownership of the vehicle to a person having residence outside Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-amend-prisons-act-will-strengthen-security-217016
25-02-2021||Moga||Rs 26L fraudulently withdrawn from Labour Dept account||An amount of Rs 26 lakh was withdrawn from the official bank account of the Labour Department by forging signatures on the cheques in Moga.After a preliminary inquiry, the police have registered a criminal case against Rajinder Singh, a Class IV employee of the department, and his five associates. The case has been registered under Sections 381, 465, 467, 471 and 120B of the IPC at the City-I police station here.The special cell of the Crime Branch of the state police is investigating the scam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-26l-fraudulently-withdrawn-from-labour-dept-account-217017
25-02-2021||Fazilka||Victory flame reaches Fazilka||To commemorate the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 war, the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal (victory flame) reached Asafwala War Memorial today. Rich tributes were paid to martyrs on the arrival of the victory flame.Brigadier Hardeep Singh Burn, Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu and Fazilka MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya laid wreaths and pay homage to 218 fallen soldiers of the Indian Army. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/victory-flame-reaches-fazilka-217018
25-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Cong leaders on stone-laying spree||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 24Seemingly entering into election mode post the victory of the party in the recent civic bodies poll, the Congress MP, MLAs and councillors have begun making huge announcements regarding starting various projects in the city.It being the last year of the term of the present government, the leaders have begun holding foundation stone-laying or ground-breaking ceremonies to show to the people that they are bringing in some development works.A slew of projects have been started in the region in the recent days, including construction of flyovers, development of parks, sewage treatment plants, upgradation of railway stations, setting up rooftop rainwater harvesting systems, LED streetlight system, digitisation of government libraries, all at a cost of crores of rupees.As Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh laid the foundation stones of some projects digitally from Chandigarh, the MLAs did attend the online event but then also went to the sites, organised gatherings, held foundation stone laying events and even got their pictures posted on social media.“All this drama is being done to garner support of the masses ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll. We all know that these works will not get over within a span of less than a year. These will only cause inconvenience to us and hinder our day-to-day movement. Ideally, all such projects should have got started in the first year of the inception of the government,” said Surinder Setia, a resident of Chuggiti area where work for a new flyover has started.Even the Opposition has been raking up the issue as former BJP MLA KD Bhandari said, “All the projects which the CM announced yesterday are actually being done from funds they have got from the Centre under the Smart City or AMRUT schemes. The ruling Congress in Punjab is taking completely undue publicity out of these funds. The Congress leaders have gone to the extent that they are laying two foundation stones for one road. These stunts won’t work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-leaders-on-stone-laying-spree-217019
25-02-2021||---||SAD (D) protests fuel price hike in Bathinda||Bathinda, February 24Members of the SAD (D) sent a memorandum to the Centre via the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner today.The memorandum stated that increased fuel prices were burning a hole in the pockets of common man and the government must decrease the rates immediately.SAD (D) Bathinda district Jathedar Sarbjit Singh Doomwali led the party members, holding placards with slogans against the increased fuel prices, to the DC office.Former MP Paramjit Kaur said, “We demand that the Centre must reduce fuel prices as soon as possible otherwise we will be forced to hold string of protests in the coming days. We have sent a memorandum to the government via DC to express the concerns of common man.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-d-protests-fuel-price-hike-in-bathinda-217020
25-02-2021||Abohar||Man killed over domestic dispute, four booked||A 60-year-old man, Prithvi Raj, was allegedly beaten up by his relatives due to a domestic dispute on Tuesday in Rampura village near Abohar. The victim succumbed to his injuries.Promila, daughter of the deceased, who was staying with her parents, said her brother Vinod and his wife Nirmala, who lived in a neighbouring house, engaged in some dispute last night. Following this, Vinod reportedly moved out of his house and later Nirmala along with her son Arjun, sister Anju and her son Karan barged into their house and attacked them.A case has been registered against four persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-over-domestic-dispute-four-booked-217021
25-02-2021||New Delhi||Govt ready to talk with protesting farmers, says Tomar||The government is ready to resume talks with protesting farmers if they respond to its offer to put the three contentious farm laws on hold for one-and-a-half years and work out the differences during that time through a joint committee, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday.Tomar said the government is committed towards the interest of farmers and agriculture. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it is making efforts to double farmers’ income and strengthen the Indian agriculture sector, he said at an event to mark the second anniversary of PM-Kisan scheme.On whether the government is making any effort to resume talks with unions in view of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s threat to march to the Parliament on 40 lakh tractors if laws are not repealed, Tomar said the government has been holding discussions with farmers sympathetically.“Even today, whenever their response comes, the government is always ready to hold talks,” he said.Meanwhile, riding high on bumper rice and wheat output, India’s foodgrains production in 2020-21 is slated to touch a record 303.34 million tonnes (MT) up from the 297.5 MT produced in 2019-20, according to second advance estimates of crop production.Announcing the latest production estimates, Tomar said, “The second advance estimates of production of major crops reveal a record production of 303.34 million tonnes of food grains, which clearly outlines the tireless hard work of farmers, research by agricultural scientists, and farmer-friendly policies of the Central government. All-round agricultural reforms will also benefit the country in the long run.”As per the estimates, rice production is expected to be 120.32 MT and wheat 109.24 MT. The production of maize too is expected to be a record one at 30.16 MT while oilseed production during 2020-21 is estimated at 37.31 MT, 4.09 MT more than the production of 33.22 MT during 2019-20. Pulses production is slated to get a boost to 24.42 MT, nearly 1.4 MT more than the previous year.Estimated production of major crops during 2020-21Foodgrains: 303.34 MT (record)Rice: 120.32 MT (record)Wheat: 109.24 MT (record)Nutri/coarse cereals: 49.36 MTMaize: 30.16 MT (record)Pulses: 24.42 MTTur: 3.88 MTGram: 11.62 MT (record)Oilseeds: 37.31 MTGroundnut: 10.15 MT (record)Soyabean: 13.71 MTRapeseed and Mustard:10.43 MT (record)Sugarcane: 397.66 MTCotton: 36.54 million bales (of 170 kg each)Jute & Mesta:  9.78 million bales (of 180 kg each)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-ready-to-talk-with-protesting-farmers-says-tomar-216940
25-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma explains why he was wheelchair-bound at Mumbai airport; details inside||Actor-comedian Kapil Sharma was recently spotted in a wheelchair on the Mumbai airport. Several sent in good health and speedy recovery wishes.The 39-year-old, who has taken a break from The Kapil Sharma following the birth of his son, was wearing a mask and was being wheeled out of the airport by an attendant when the photographers saw him.Now, the Kapil Sharma Show host has shared a health update.“M good, bus gym me thorra back injury ho gyi, it will b fine in few days, thank you for the concern regards. (I am good. My back got hurt in the gym, but I will be fine in a few days)” Kapil told Bollywood Hungama.The Firangi actor’s fans shared their concerns about his health.Also read: Kapil Sharma remembers Sardool Sikander, shares video of him holding newborn Anayra; sings ‘Ek Onkar’Black and white photos of Dharmendra, Asha Parekh, Shammi Kapoor surface; Priyanka Chopra retweets Twitter threadOne of them wrote on Twitter: “We are all blessing you so that you will be as healthy as before.” Another tweet read, “@KapilSharmaK9 Sir You’re Always in My Thoughts and prayers, ❤ Please Get Well Soon…”@KapilSharmaK9 Get well soon Sir. Indian Stand up Comedian..We are all blessing you so that you will be as healthy as before.#KapilSharma @kapiliansfans @KapilFansDelhi @KapilDelhiFC @Kapilsthan @AKapilfan @VivekKola @TaniyaKapilian @KapilzLoverx__ @Soniamollik2 pic.twitter.com/Zp79BuCCrk  Videos of Kapil’s exchange were widely circulated on social media and websites.One of the photographer is heard asking, “How are you Kapil sir? We are taking a video sir.”Can anyone explain please 🥺#KapilSharma pic.twitter.com/NUIOP4n66D  To this, the comedian asks him to step back and is then heard muttering a Hindi expletive, translating to idiots.The paparazzo then tells him, "We have recorded that. Thank you sir."  A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  The comedian has taken paternity leave to be with his wife Ginni, who gave birth to a boy at the beginning of the month. The couple already has a daughter. — With PTIA post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  Comedian Kapil Sharma spotted at the airport in a wheelchair@KapilSharmaK9 pic.twitter.com/w3i5lxnnWz||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharma-explains-why-he-was-wheelchair-bound-at-mumbai-airport-details-inside-216913
25-02-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander dies at 60||Chandigarh, February 24Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander passed away at Fortis hospital at Mohali on Wednesday.He was 60. Sikander was under treatment for kidney damage and other ailments for the past few days."Sikander, who was diabetic, was recently treated for COVID-19. He had undergone renal transplant in 2016 and Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in 2003," the hospital said in statement. He was admitted to Fortis Mohali on January 19 in a very serious condition with complaints of low oxygen levels, it added. He is known for his songs, ‘Ek charkha gali de wich dha laya’ and ‘Sanu ishq brandi char gayi’. As word spread, celebrities and fans expressed condolences on social media.Sikander had made his first appearances on radio and television in the early 1980s with his album, ‘Roadways di Laari’. He also acted in Punjabi films like ‘Jagga Daku’.His father, late Sagar Mastana, was a noted tabla player. Sikander was married to Amar Noorie, also an accomplished singer and actress.Born at Kheri Naudh Singh in Fatehgarh Sahib, Sikander belonged to the Patiala gharana of music and had 27 albums to his credit. His album ‘Husna de Malko’ released in 1991 sold more than 5 million copies worldwide.Sikander leaves behind wife and sons Sarang and Alaap.बहुत ही दुखदायक ख़बर है,इनका गाना सुन के आम आदमी भी सुर में हो जाता था, मैं ख़ुशक़िस्मत हूँ कि पाजी मेरी बेटी की पहली लोहरी के मौक़े पर पहली बार हमारे घर आए, हम सब बहुत खुश थे, पर पता नहीं था की वो मुलाक़ात आख़िरी होगी, आप बहुत याद आएँगे पाजी, ईश्वर आपको अपने चरणों में जगह दें 🙏 https://t.co/q4xh5uavFe  Saddened by the demise of legendary Punjabi singer and music icon Sardool Sikander Ji. His death has left a big vacuum in Punjabi music industry and also in the hearts of millions of fans worldwide. My thoughts and prayers are with the family. RIP. pic.twitter.com/YrwtsHT0mN  Paying condolences to the family members of Sardool Sikander Ji whose contribution towards Punjabi music induatey is immense. May his soul rest in peace. pic.twitter.com/tCnn2hqFnk  Extremely saddened to learn of the demise of legendary Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander. He was recently diagnosed with #Covid19 and was undergoing treatment for the same. The world of Punjabi music is poorer today. My heartfelt condolences to his family and fans. pic.twitter.com/PDaELYIPbZ  Saddened to learn about the demise of legendary Punjabi playback singer Sardool Sikander. A huge loss to Punjabi movie & music Industry. Prayers for his family, friends & fans. May his soul rest in peace! pic.twitter.com/ED5O68HBkc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-sardool-sikander-dies-at-60-216890
