26-02-2021||New Delhi||Fight not yet over, says sister on Nodeep Kaur’s bail||The bail granted to labour rights campaigner Nodeep Kaur is far from a victory, her elder sister Rajvir Kaur said on Friday, noting that the fight is still on as the list of activists lodged in jails is “very long”.Kaur was on Friday granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court around six weeks after her arrest in a criminal case filed under several charges, including attempt to murder.Kaur was arrested in Haryana’s Sonepat for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from a company on January 12. Police had claimed that a team of cops was allegedly attacked with sticks, resulting in injuries to seven policemen in the incident.Rajvir said, “We have not won this fight. How can we win this fight till the time activists like Shiv Kumar (arrested with Kaur), Umar Khalid (accused in Delhi riots’ conspiracy case), Khalid Saifi (booked under UAPA in Delhi riots case), the list is very long, are inside jails? They all are our country’s true leaders.“Our fight will go on till the time they all are out (of jails) and till their fight for what is right and just is not won. So it is important that we all stand united and continue raising our voice in their support.”         She was speaking at the Press Club of India here during a public meeting, marking a year since the arrest of Saifi and Ishrat Jahan, both booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February last year.The whole family supports Nodeep. She told us that she wants to join the movement and continue with her work for farmers and labour rights once she is out, Rajvir added.Nodeep, who was lodged in Haryana’s Karnal jail, in her bail plea had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested by the Sonepat police on January 12.The police have denied the charge as “baseless”.Kaur had claimed that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The activist had also claimed she was targeted and falsely implicated in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmers’ movement against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws.She is a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan and a resident of Giadarh village in Punjab’s Muktsar district.At the event, Nargis Saifi, wife of Khalid Saifi, also alleged that her husband was tortured inside the jail.Senior advocate Prashant Bhushan came down heavily on the police who he alleged are investigating cases with “malafide intentions”—be it the JNU attack in January last year, Jamia Millia Islamia incident in 2019,  2020 Delhi riots or violence during farmers protest at Singhu border.He urged the courts to take suo moto notice of what’s happening and put the accused police officials, making mockery of the rule of law, behind bars. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fight-not-yet-over-says-sister-on-nodeep-kaurs-bail-217846
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Badshah’s latest song talks about Punjabi’s migrating to Canada; here's his reaction||Rapper Badshah in a new song has shared his take on people from Punjab who dream of migrating to Canada.The music video, filmed in Punjab, was shot for the upcoming daily soap Udaariyan.“It is such a great feeling to be in Punjab, being surrounded by lush fields and the amazing people of this land. It was ‘Udaariyan’ that got me here back home,” Badshah said.Talking about the issue highlighted in the song, he said: “I have known a lot of people who have dreamt the same dream and the struggle is very real.” On the show, he described it as one “that portrays the hopes, dreams, aspirations and the journey of a lot of people from Punjab who dream to go to Canada”, adding: “This is a show about a family and their struggle to migrate to a foreign land, which is a reality I have observed first hand.”The promotional music video also features Punjabi actress turned producer Sargun Mehta.The promo was shot at Bagrian Haveli, where Badshah performed together with the cast members Ankit Gupta, Isha Malviya and Priyanka Chaudhary of the show. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badshahs-latest-song-talks-about-punjabis-migrating-to-canada-heres-his-reaction-217827
26-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh shares a sneak-peak from ‘Jodi’ set; Nimrat Khaira is ‘clapping’; seen it yet?||Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Donsajh teased his Instagram family with a sneak-peak of his upcoming project, Jodi. The Punjabi singer had announced last year that he is working on Punjabi rom-com which is slated to release in 2021.He will be sharing the screen with Punjabi singer and actress Nimrat Khaira.In the sneak-peak, the singer was seen wearing an orange kurta and red lungi. Diljit rounded up his look with a red pagri and was seen standing on a stage whereas Nimrat was seen donning a red and green suit. She also wore matching jewellery with her outfit, and had her hair tied up in a neat bun.A post shared by DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh)  The picture hints towards a singing and dancing scene.Later, Nimrat shared the same picture on her Instagram profile.A post shared by Nimrat Khaira (@nimratkhairaofficial)  As soon as the post went up, a number of his fans shared how excited they are about this project. Many also said how adorable the two celebs looked together.Several requested the filmmakers to reveal more updates about the film as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-shares-a-sneak-peak-from-jodi-set-nimrat-khaira-is-clapping-seen-it-yet-217817
26-02-2021||Bathinda||Six months on, farmers protest still going strong||Farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for over six months now.The protests remain strong and united, but since the January 26 R-Day violence, a resentment between a section of leftists and Sikhs was noticed, which if not controlled, could create trouble in the long run. During the R-Day violence protest, it was witnessed that people with left ideology, and Sikhs were seen sharing space, but after the protests, Kisan Unions labelled Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana as traitors.Apart from this, they also failed to come out in support of Navreet Singh, who died during R-Day violence, and other Punjabis who were arrested by the Delhi police.   There are several Sikh youth bodies in Punjab, that took youngsters into the protest, and several of them got NIA notices in January, but they weren’t “happy with farmer unions” for allegedly not supporting them.This led to a section of Sikhs and youths coming out in support of Deep Sidhu, Lakha Sidhana, and other Sikhs arrested by Delhi police.In a rally at Mehraj, they also appealed to Kisan Unions to be united, and take youth along if they want to win this battle against the union government.However, farmers present at Tikri and Singhu borders said that the government is only on social media platforms which is nothing like the ground level. Everyone is standing united to fight against the three farm laws, they said.  Moreover, this spur between Sikhs and leftist has the potential to damage the farmers' movement.A low point was witnessed on January 26, but farmers have handled it well and the protests are still going on with full support.This was evident from the mahapanchayats organised by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Even the rally organised by Lakha Sidhana at Mehraj village on February 23 in Bathinda also evoked good response.Lakha Sidhana, in his recent video, said: “I want to tell farmer unions, that we are with you, and urged farmer leaders to hold a programme at the Delhi borders in the coming days, and asked the youth to join the protest sites in large numbers”.BKU Ekta Ugrahan state secretary, Shingara Singh Mann, said: “This protest will go long, and they are ready for it. It is totally wrong if anyone tries to portray this agitation as left versus Sikhs as this protest is above all, and is being run by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha against the farm laws”.He added further that anyone could come forward to support farmers’ agitation, but in case anyone tries to run its own agenda on the name of the farmers, they would not allow it.Dal Khalsa leader, Baba Hardeep Singh Mehraj, said: “They are standing against the people, who have been booked by the Delhi or Haryana police in their fight against the farm laws, and they want these cases to be cancelled against them”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-months-on-farmers-protest-still-going-strong-217802
26-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra says 'I love you' to workers at his farm, makes them laugh; watch||Veteran actor Dharmendra recently visited some workers at his farm, and shared inside details about the same.In the clip, the 85-year-old actor is seen chatting with workers. The actor laughs with them, and even says ‘I love you’ to them.Sharing the video on Twitter, Dharmendra wrote: "This is how we enjoy, while working at my farm. Be kind humble and human. Bila mazhab o millat ho jao .....koi chhota nahin .....koi bada nahin..........ye duniya ....badi khoobsoorat ho jaye gi dosto love you all (See beyond your religion, where no one is higher than the other. This world will become so beautiful my friends),"This is how we enjoy, while working at my farm. Be kind humble and human. Bila mazhab o millat ho jao .....koi chhota nahin .....koi bada nahin..........ye duniya ....badi khoobsoorat ho jaye gi dosto 🙏 love you all. pic.twitter.com/H3NS1Vou2w  On Tuesday, Dharmendra got his fans concerned after tweeting about feeling sad lately.He shared a fan-made video montage of his popular film roles and wrote: "Sumaila, iss be-ja chaahat ka haqdaar...Main nehin...masoomiyat hai aap sab ki ...hansta hoon hansaata hoon..magar..udaas rehta hoon ...'iss ummr mein kar ke be-dakhil ..mujhe meri dharti se...de diya sadma ...mujhe mere apnon ne' (Sumaila, I am not worthy of so much love. It is you who are the innocent ones. I laugh and I make others laugh... I have been feeling sad lately. 'In this age, my loved ones hurt me by throwing me out of my land'), he wrote.pic.twitter.com/f3v3TcQrRN. Sumaila,iss be-ja chaahat ka haqdaar...Main nehin...masoomiyat hai aap sab ki ...hansta hoon hansaata hoon..magar..udaas rehta hoon ...”iss ummr mein kar ke be-dakhil ..mujhe meri dharti se...de diya sadma ...mujhe mere apnon ne” .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-says-i-love-you-to-workers-at-his-farm-makes-them-laugh-watch-217788
26-02-2021||---||GNDU former professor BL Chakoo passes away||Chandigarh, February 26BL Chakoo, former professor of English and Dean of Languages at Guru Nanak Dev University, passed away on February 24. He was 75.He was born and raised in a Kashmiri Pandit family in Srinagar.Chakoo, who wrote books, essays and research papers, was a Fulbright fellow at Yale University and British Council scholar at Warwick University. He taught for over 40 years at Guru Nanak Dev University.Later, as Chancellor’s nominee at Panjab University, Chandigarh, he worked with the university administration for close to a decade in selecting the academics as its faculty. He was a regular contributor to The Tribune for four decades.He did literary research in eastern philosophies and more recently on the neuroplasticity of the human mind.He is survived by wife and two sons. Many faculty and students from across the globe expressed their grievances at his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gndu-former-professor-bl-chakoo-passes-away-217780
26-02-2021||Manit Joura||Nature care: Manit Joura visits family in Punjab to rejuvenate||Says Manit, “I have been too invested in work and my character Harsh is too physically and mentally draining, I decided to take a short break. Whenever I feel I need to start something fresh, I spend time in nature. And as it had been really long since I had met my family, so there was no better option than unwinding with them. And how much did I miss riding my horses! I love to spend some quality time with them. Also, once on a break I eat all the parathas with makhan, sarso ka saag and makke ki roti, gaajar ka halwa and what not. And now I am back to work, all rejuvenated and waiting for my next break.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nature-care-manit-joura-visits-family-in-punjab-to-rejuvenate-217711
26-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Sikander the great!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 25His sudden demise due to Covid is much of a personal loss for those who spent 80s and 90s charmed with his iconic songs. Noted for the mischief in his voice and unwavering humility in his persona, the music fraternity feels the departing of Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander on February 24 since an era of meaningful Punjabi music came to an end.Hailing from the Kheri Naudh Singh village at Fatehgarh Sahib, Sardool Sikander shot to fame with the iconic song “roadways di laari” in 1987. He was among the artistes credited with ushering in an era of tasteful Punjabi music for TV and AIR.He was a little-known singer in his brother’s Gamdoor Singh Aman’s group when he happened to be discovered by the doyens at the Doordarshan.Filmmaker, director, producer and author Dr Harjit Singh, who discovered Sikander and first recorded his iconic ‘roadways di laari’ for Doordarshan, says, “Sardool came from a traditional music family. Music wasn’t a means of livelihood…it was a way of life. He was among the singers of the era who were completely dedicated to music irrespective of the dividends. While working on a play, I chanced upon a recording of the artiste who emulated the likes of Ghulam, Gurdas Mann and Yamla Jatt with panache. His brother Gamdoor Singh was a B-high artist with AIR and Sikander sung with his brother’s troupe and Co. But in his pursuit, when I first happened to hear him live, I was moved to the core. I believe we were lucky to have found a talent like him.”Sikander first crooned ‘roadways di laari’ for Dr Harjit Singh’s famous programme ‘Raunak Mela’ – and a star was born.The iconic singer didn’t forget to call Singh to his wedding day with singer Amar Noori, he, unfortunately, wasn’t able to make it due to a personal crisis at the time.On the way back after attending the singer’s last rites, Dr Singh adds, “The loss can’t be explained in words. In those days there was a clamour for studios. So, we had to do recordings in a bind to clear it for the next producer or director. He would keep his costumes ready and would accomplish recordings in minutes. Due to a personal crisis at the time, I couldn’t attend his wedding. But he still kept a chair for me on the occasion. Later, every time he met me, he would say “bhaji tusi bande tan bare vadhiya ho, par tusi mere vyah te nahi aaye (brother, you are a diamond, but you didn’t come to my wedding).” At his last rites on Thursday, his words rung in my ears, with his demise an era of music is lost. It is a huge personal loss for me.”Dr Lakhwinder Johal, president Punjab Press Club Jalandhar and director and producer at DD, added, “We began our association with Sikander when he was yet to be popular and went on to become the most iconic of luminaries of Punjabi music. But, he had the same aura and same humility around him. He met with the same warmth and love. He was among the most talented musicians in the Punjabi music industry, and while famous for flawlessly mimicking Punjabi legends, he also caught us off guard on many occasions. He would often call impersonating another artiste and we would talk for minutes thinking it is someone else. He had faced many lows in life but his personal relations and warmth always remained the same.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikander-the-great-217695
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-cricketer Yuvraj moves HC for quashing FIR on casteist slur||The High Court today issued notice to Haryana on a petition filed by former cricketer Yuvraj Singh for quashing an FIR registered against him at the Hansi police station under provisions of the IPC and SC/ST Act for making “casteist remarks”.Yuvraj was booked for promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony and other offences on a complaint by Hansi-based lawyer-cum-activist Rajat Kalsan.Appearing before Justice Amol Rattan Singh’s Bench, senior advocate Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain contended that the petitioner and Rohit Sharma were having a live chat on a social media platform in April 2020 and were discussing to how lives had changed amid the pandemic.In the video, Yuvraj mentioned two cricketers in a friendly manner. Bali stated the two were teammates and friends of the petitioner and it was never the petitioner’s intent to disrespect them or any community during the conversation.Bali further submitted that Yuvraj had, on June 5, 2020, released a public statement, apologising and conveying his true intentions on the entire controversy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cricketer-yuvraj-moves-hc-for-quashing-fir-on-casteist-slur-217662
26-02-2021||Sandeep Dikshit||Resuming Wagah trade could be next step to restoring India-Pakistan ties||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 25After an understanding between the two armies to hold peace along the LoC, the reopening of trade at Wagah could be the next step to restore civility in India-Pakistan diplomatic ties, said sources here.India and Pakistan had started holding back-channel talks ever since it became evident that Joe Biden would be the next US President. While trade and ceasefire are low-hanging fruits, sources said Islamabad was looking at a gesture from India on Kashmir.MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India was always ready for talks to address issues, if any. On key issues, the Indian position remained unchanged, he said when asked if New Delhi was still maintaining its position that terror and talks could not go together.Pakistan is understood to have conveyed that it expected some kind of statement from India about not changing the demography in Kashmir.Sources said Islamabad had claimed there was no state-sponsored cross-border militancy, though a sure giveaway of its involvement had been the tell-tale cover firing on Indian posts to facilitate infiltration. They expect Pakistan to take some more hard action on cross-border terrorism as Biden’s consistent stand ever since he was a Senator two decades back was that this kind of activity was inconsistent with the desire to settle the Kashmir dispute by bilateral talks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resuming-wagah-trade-could-be-next-step-to-restoring-india-pakistan-ties-217590
26-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC seeks details of cases pending against sitting, former lawmakers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made clear its intent to fast-lane cases involving sitting and former MPs and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh by not only seeking details of pending matters, but also issuing directions for their expeditious disposal.Of Vohra committee & special courtsThe suggestion for special courts flows from recommendations of a committee set up in 1993 under the chairmanship of NN Vohra, then Union Home Secretary, to take stock of info on activities of crime syndicates having links with govt functionaries/political personalities. The panel had suggested a ‘nodal cell’ for the purpose.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh made it clear that the information to be furnished would include details of cases pending with the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and other central agencies. “In spirit of the order passed by the Supreme court titled ‘Ashwani Kumar Upadhyay versus the Union of India and another,’ an officer of the rank of IGP shall be present on the next date of hearing to furnish the requisite information of all cases pending against MPs/MLAs, sitting or erstwhile, in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh,” the Bench said.The District Judges of the two states and the Union Territory too were directed to furnish details of all such cases. “They shall also send a report regarding the stage of such trials,” the Bench added. As the suo motu case, “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs”, for monitoring the progress of cases pending against the lawmakers came up for resumed hearing, amicus curiae (friend of the court) Rupinder Khosla, citing the information provided by the Registry, submitted that two matters were pending before a Single Judge. He said information may also be required from the Union of India, the CBI, the ED and other central investigating agencies. This, he added, was necessary as the operative part of the Supreme Court order specifically mentioned monitoring the trial of all criminal cases instituted by the state. The Registry was asked to examine the possibility of listing the matter for physical hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-seeks-details-of-cases-pending-against-sitting-former-lawmakers-217597
26-02-2021||Aman Sood---||Power corpn in debt trap as govt defaults||Tribune News Service Patiala, February 25 The much-hyped power sector reforms and subsidy to various sectors, including farming, have come at a cost for the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) — an estimated loan of Rs 17,277 crore.  The PSPCL is now caught in a debt trap, with major expansion and development works suffering due to paucity of funds. The roughly Rs 25,000-crore company is managing itself on more and more loans. The reason: the state government’s inability to clear the pending bills for the subsidy it provides to agriculture consumers and below poverty line/reserved category consumers. The total estimated loan against PSPCL for the next financial year stands at Rs 17,277 crore. The total long-term loan is Rs 5,767 crore and the interest payable on it is Rs 731 crore. The loan against working capital is Rs 9,860 crore and the interest payable on long-term loans is Rs 720 crore. The total interest payable by the PSPCL is Rs 1,705 crore. The interest on security deposits is Rs 180 crore.  The working capital loan is taken for the running of thermal and hydropower stations, which include fuel cost, operation, and maintenance cost spares and receivables. The subsidy amount for the current financial year payable by the Punjab Government is Rs 16,400 crore. Of this, the subsidy amount of Rs 10,621 crore is for 2020-21 and the last year’s arrears are Rs. 5,779 crore. On a pro-rata basis, the subsidy payable till February 15 was Rs 15,014 crore. While the Punjab Government has paid Rs 7,099 crore in cash and after adjustment of electricity duty and infrastructure development fund amount of Rs 1,671 crore, there is a shortfall of Rs 6,446 crore. The balance subsidy payable up to March 31 is about Rs 7,850 crore. The government took a major part of PSPCL loans under the UDAI scheme. After adjusting UDAI bond interest of Rs 1,306 crore and a guarantee fee of 38.75 crore, the balance subsidy payable to PSPCL in the current financial year will be about Rs 6,500 crore. Meanwhile, the total defaulting amount of Rs 2,381 crore is due from various government departments. The defaulting amount due from various government departments and electricity subsidy exceeds Rs 8,600 crore as of today. “The credibility of PSPCL suffers as it has to take short-term loans for its day-to-day expenses after the state government fails to pay timely subsidy as required by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) tariff order every year. The banks and other commercial institutions charge a slightly higher rate of interest keeping in view the financial status of PSPCL,” says VK Gupta, spokesperson, All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF). “Only when government confirms to pay subsidy, the tariff ARR order is issued. Even though government gives written confirmation to PSERC, it defaults and thus the PSPCL suffers,” claimed a senior PSPCL official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-corpn-in-debt-trap-as-govt-defaults-217549
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Congress to gherao Punjab Raj Bhavan over fuel price hike||To protest against an exorbitant hike in prices of kitchen gas, diesel and petrol, the Punjab Congress Committee will gherao Punjab Raj Bhavan on March 1, ahead of the beginning of Punjab’s Budget session.State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said, “The party will take the voice of people against this steep rise in prices of essential commodities to the Centre. We will keep pressurising the central regime, which has completely forsaken the interest of common man, to force it to control spiralling prices.”Castigating the Centre for looting the public, the senior Congress leader slammed the Rs 25 hike in LPG prices effected today while pointing out that the price had increased by almost Rs 100 in the past month.Jakhar said the Akali Dal was trying to shield the Centre over the price rise issue and agricultural legislations.“I request Parminder Singh Dhindsa to be present in the coming session of the Vidhan Sabha to clear the facts as he was Finance Minister in the SAD-BJP Government,” said Jakhar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-to-gherao-punjab-raj-bhavan-over-fuel-price-hike-217550
26-02-2021||Sameer Singh||Sirhind canal renovation work to begin soon||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 25Work on renovation of the Sirhind canal in Bathinda district by the Irrigation Department will begin soon. A local unit of the department has already got administrative approval from the state government for the same and tender for the project work would be floated in the next financial year (after March).As part of the renovation project, a canal stretch of around 22km starting from Bibiwala village till Multania village would be concretised (cemented) with an estimated cost of Rs 45 crore. Notably, concretisation of the canal would provide much needed relief to scores of farmers in many villages whose crops used to get destroyed after frequent breach in embankments, submerging fields sprawling in hundreds of acres of agricultural land every year.Talking to The Tribune, Ramanpreet Singh, XEN Canal department Bathinda zone, said, “The renovation project to concretise a 22-km stretch of Sirhind canal from Bibiwala village till Multania village is in the nascent stage. We have got the administrative approval for the project but are yet to draft specifications, float tender and prepare estimated cost for the same. As per the initial surveys, it is expected that the work on stretch would require approximately Rs 40 to Rs 45 crore. It will take few more months before the work could be started.”Notably, there are seven tributary channels — Kot bhai tributary, Teona, NFL, Bathinda, Bathinda Cantt, Raikalan and Behman tributary channel — of Sirhind canal whose water is used for irrigation purposes in several villages of the district.Frequent breach in the canal especially during rainy season causes sizable damage to the standing crops in many villages every year but concretisation of the canal would prevent such incidents and thereby protect crops from vagaries of nature, added Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sirhind-canal-renovation-work-to-begin-soon-217551
26-02-2021||Abohar||1.3-kg opium, 7,300 sedative tablets seized||The police here have seized 800-gm opium by intercepting a truck near Gumjal village on the highway.  A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the truck driver. In another case, 500-gm opium was seized from two persons as cops intercepted a car. A team seized 7,300 sedative tablets in Sriganganagar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-3-kg-opium-7-300-sedative-tablets-seized-217552
26-02-2021||---||Health insurance: 63 hospitals issued notice for violations||Chandigarh, February 25 Acting on the reports and complaints of discrepancies regarding the implementation of AB-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY), the State Anti-Fraud Unit (SAFU) has issued 77 show-cause notices to 63 erring hospitals. Disclosing this here today, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the SAFU had been directed to monitor and take stringent action against frauds under the AB-SSBY.  He said Amit Kumar, who is chairman of the SAFU committee, informed that 77 show-cause notices had been issued so far to hospitals and penalty of Rs 27,67,358 had been recovered from various hospitals. As many as 14 hospitals had been de-empanelled, nine temporarily suspended and 24 issued warning letters. To avail easy access of secondary and tertiary treatment services under the SSBY, the minister said the government had also established the District Anti-Fraud Units (DAFU) in all districts to check violations.  “To reduce financial burden on people, the government is vigorously working to cover all patients and around 828 hospitals have been empanelled across the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-insurance-63-hospitals-issued-notice-for-violations-217553
26-02-2021||---||Over 2K selected for master cadre posts||Chandigarh, February 25 School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla today said the Education Recruitment Board, under the aegis of the Education Department, had released a list of 2,823 candidates, who have been selected for recruitment against the 3,704 master cadre  posts in the government schools.  Singla and Secretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar congratulated the selected candidates. Giving details, Singla said the Education Department was keen to make up for the shortage of teachers in government schools so that quality education facilities could be provided to students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2k-selected-for-master-cadre-posts-217554
26-02-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Caste politics at play as race for Batala mayoral post intensifies||Tribune News Service Batala, February 25 Even as the race for the post of the first-ever mayor of Batala has intensified, caste and gender configurations have surfaced, forcing the two kingmakers — Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar — to do a hard rethink to ensure the party does not split once the final selection is made.  Councillor from ward No. 30 Sukhdeep Singh Teja, who won by a massive margin of 2,200 votes, is the frontrunner for the post. His supporters’ confidence stems from the fact that he enjoys the unstinted support of Bajwa. Both Jakhar and Bajwa are working in tandem to arrive at a consensus candidate. The minister is eyeing the Batala seat in the 2022 Assembly poll and one mistake here or there has the potential to upset his electoral applecart.  “Bajwa’s position is akin to a trapeze artiste. One ill-calculated move can prove to be disastrous. He knows very well that electoral politics is all about balancing the caste factors,” said a mayoral aspirant. Sunil Sarin, a prominent Hindu face and Harinder Singh, both four-time councillors, have thrown their hats in the ring. Sarin’s visit to Chandigarh early this week where he met CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Sunil Jakhar has the grapevine working overtime. He, however, reiterated that his Chandigarh trip had nothing to do with “his mayoral ambitions”. Harinder Singh belongs to the Ramgharia caste which has a 30,000-strong presence in the city. “Clearly, the claims of Harinder cannot be brushed aside. Bajwa knows that if he contests the Assembly poll, under no circumstances can he ignore the Ramgharia vote bank. This brings Harinder into direct contention,” said a loyalist of the minister. Three time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri is trying hard to get his sister Naveen Nayyar, a first-time councillor, into the reckoning by impressing upon the powers-that-be to allocate the top post to a woman.  Observers say it is highly unlikely that all three top posts — mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor — will be taken by male councillors. And if a woman has to be adjusted, it obviously will be Sekhri’s sister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caste-politics-at-play-as-race-for-batala-mayoral-post-intensifies-217555
26-02-2021||---||Govt shelves plan to reserve mayoral posts for women||Chandigarh, February 25Buckling under pressure from MLAs and party leaders, the Congress government has dithered on its move to reserve 50 per cent of posts of mayors in municipal corporations and presidents in other civic bodies for elected women councillors in the recently held civic body polls.A proposal to bring the statutory provision by the Local Government Department is learnt to have been shelved after discussion in the recent Cabinet meeting. Sources said some cabinet ministers and MLAs argued that the reservation would disturb power equations in their respective areas. After detailed discussions, the Chief Minister constituted a high-powered committee of Cabinet ministers and MLAs to give due representation to all categories. It has been pointed that so far, there was no statutory provision for women reservation.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar, who heads the committee, said due representation would be given all categories in the appointments for the posts of mayors in the municipal corporation and presidents in other civic bodies.In the recently held civic body polls, women candidates had been elected in nearly 1,100 wards. From the Congress, 675 women candidates were elected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-shelves-plan-to-reserve-mayoral-posts-for-women-217556
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Pargat Singh: State must take steps to curb sand, liquor mafia||As the Punjab Congress has launched a concerted campaign to fight the 2022 Assembly elections under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, disquiet against the state leadership surfaced when Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, a close associate of Navjot Singh Sidhu, on Thursday questioned the performance of his own government.Not satisfied with the four-year performance of the government, Pargat Singh said, “The government needs to work on issues like controlling the drug, sand and liquor mafias.” The former Olympian’s utterances have come when the party high command and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat has been working for return of Sidhu to the mainstream politics, either in the Cabinet or the party platform.Incidentally, both Sidhu and Pargat were conspicuous by their absence at a pre-wedding lunch hosted for party MLAs and MPs by the Chief Minister in connection with the wedding of his granddaughter. Congress MP Paratap Singh Bajwa, a bete noire of the Chief Minister, was present at the lunch.Pargat Singh’s statement at this juncture when PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, after the results of the civic body polls announced ‘Capt for 2022’, has put the state party leadership in a spot. The former Olympian also said it was the prerogative of the party high command to decide the CM face. Jakhar said he had only said the election would be fought under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh. Sources said with Harish Rawat in town on Thursday, there were efforts by some ministers to control damage. Rawat was not available for comments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pargat-singh-state-must-take-steps-to-curb-sand-liquor-mafia-217557
26-02-2021||Abohar||Four arrested for murder||The police today nabbed all four persons who were named in the FIR that was registered at the Wahabwala police station in connection with a murder.  A 60-year-old man, Prithvi Raj, was allegedly beaten to death by his relatives due to a domestic dispute on Tuesday in Rampura village near Abohar. The victim had succumbed to his injuries. Promila, daughter of the deceased, who was staying with her parents, said her brother Vinod and his wife Nirmala, who lived in a neighbouring house, engaged in some dispute. Following this, Vinod’s wife along with three others barged into their house and attacked them. A case had been registered against the four persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-arrested-for-murder-217558
26-02-2021||---||Amendment to job rules for sportspersons challenged||Chandigarh, February 25 More than six months after the Punjab Government carried out an amendment to recruitment rules to change the definition of sportspersons, the modification today came under judicial scanner with a petition challenging it before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In his petition placed before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, the petitioner through advocate Vijay K Jindal and Vipul Jindal contended that the Punjab Recruitment of Sportspersons Rules were modified to make participation in senior national championship mandatory for reservation. Going into the background of the matter, the petitioner claimed that Punjab Public Service Commission issued an advertisement for filling 77 vacancies in the Punjab State Civil Service Combined Competitive Examination. As many as three posts were reserved for sportspersons. Referring to the unamended Punjab Recruitment of Sportspersons Rules, 1998, the petitioner added three per cent of the vacancies were required to be filled by direct recruitment in all state civil services and other posts connected with the affairs of the state of Punjab. Sportsperson, as defined in the rules, meant a person of either sex, who had won national championship. Vijay K Jindal submitted the petitioner was fully eligible as he had won gold and other medals in national championships. But the Punjab Government, in July last year, came out with the Punjab Recruitment of Sportspersons First Amendment Rules, 2020. The amendment made it clear that a sportsperson who participated in senior national championship would be eligible for reservation persons during the process of recruitment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amendment-to-job-rules-for-sportspersons-challenged-217559
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Flaws in portal for online transfers, claim teachers||The Education Department’s move for introducing online transfers for teachers in the government schools has courted controversy with teachers alleging that the portal doesn’t show all options where they can apply for shifting. Democratic Teachers’ Front president Vikram Dev Singh said: “The government’s claims on transparency in transfers have fallen flat with a sizable number of stations not even showing on the portal. This gives us enough reasons to suspect that these places will be offered to teachers who have connections in the department.” “The department had intentionally put lesser preferred stations with vacancies in far-flung areas on the portal,” said Mukesh Gujrati, general secretary, DTF. Teachers have also sought that vacancies created after promotions of masters as lecturers be uploaded on the portal to give options to them. Replying to a representation by the DTF, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “The portal has been created as per the existing vacancies in the schools. Due to Covid conditions, the department could not open the options given by teachers last year. We are resuming the exercise in the most transparent manner. In fact, teachers have now been given another chance to update their choice for places of posting.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flaws-in-portal-for-online-transfers-claim-teachers-217560
26-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Repressive tactics won’t work: Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee||Tarn Taran, February 25The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, addressed a state-level ‘maha rally’ here today and said organisational skill, patience and revolutionary ideas were needed to make the farm agitation a success.The rally, dedicated to the martyrs of Nankana Sahib and those who died at the Delhi protest sites, was attended by a large number of people.Repeal of the three farm laws, MSP for all crops under government procurement system and release of arrested farmers were the main issues taken up by the leaders in the rally.Sarwan Singh Pandher, committee general secretary, condemned the Union Government for its repressive tactics, saying these would not demoralise the farmers. He said farmers would move en masse to Delhi on March 5 and 20 in their tractor-trailers from Amritsar and Tarn Taran. Families of Delhi martyrs were honoured by the organisers on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repressive-tactics-wont-work-kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-217561
26-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||State imposes 75% cut in fee reimbursement for SC pupils of pvt colleges||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 25A sudden move of the state government to impose a cut of almost 75 per cent in the reimbursement of fee to SC students studying in private colleges has caused resentment in the Dalit community here.The students said their college authorities had begun telling them that they would have to pay the balance amount which the government had now decided not to reimburse to the colleges. The students said had they known that they would meet this fate, they might not have even taken admission and were now unable to decide whether they should continue or not.The principals of colleges across the state on February 22 received a communiqué from the scholarship branch of the Directorate of Education (Colleges), Punjab, to update the fee amount as per the government rates in the SC scholarship portal by the next day. The college authorities are learnt not to have made any change as per the government’s directive.After a meeting of the council of ministers recently, a decision was taken that the amount of fee to be returned to the colleges under the scheme be made equivalent to the government college fee. Since the scheme has been redesigned as per an agreement with the Centre in the 40:60 ratio, the state is to pay only 40 per cent of the fee.Hence, from now, while the fee of a private BEd college will be Rs 64,500, the college will be repaid only Rs 16,500, with just Rs 6,600 coming from the state. For ETT courses, even if the colleges are charging Rs 40,000, they will be reimbursed only Rs 8,500, with an amount of only Rs 3,400 coming from the state.Minister Charanjit Channi said, “The state government will pay the fee amount according to the policy of the Centre. We are to repay just 40 per cent of the share to which the Centre agreed. So we have to act by the final charges decided by it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-imposes-75-cut-in-fee-reimbursement-for-sc-pupils-of-pvt-colleges-217562
26-02-2021||---||Hold exams online: Child rights panel||Jalandhar, February 25With the increasing number of Covid cases among students in the state, the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to the Punjab Education Secretary and recommended not to conduct offline exams for pre-nursery to Class VIII students, and instead hold online examinations.Commission chairman Rajinder Singh said the commission had been receiving a number of emails and phone calls from students and parents against the offline mode of examinations.Also, in a communique to the secretary of the Central Board of School Education (CBSE), the commission has stated that, “It has come to the notice of the commission that the CBSE has decided to conduct the examination of Class IX-XII via offline mode. Students and teachers in Punjab schools have got affected by Covid and the parents are worried.”In its recommendation to the board, the commission has stated that the exams for Class IX and XI students should be conducted through online mode and said guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare should be followed strictly for the offline board exams of Class X and XII students.Notably, from Nawanshahr alone, 331 students have tested positive for Covid until now.5 teachers, 3 students positive in patialaPatiala: Five teachers and three students of government schools in Patiala tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. While three teachers and equal number of students tested positive at Government School, Nuagawan, two teachers were infected at NTC School, Rajpura. With this, 55 teachers and 12 students have tested positive in February alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-exams-online-child-rights-panel-217563
26-02-2021||Vishav Bharti||Disregard for Covid norms behind spike: Nodal officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25Throwing all Covid safety norms to the wind now seems to be costing dear to Punjabis as the number of cases has increased threefold in the past three weeks.Till the January-end, the daily average number of cases in the state was between 200 and 225. Now it is nearing 600. Health officials are worried over the fact that when cases are either static or declining in the neighbouring states, Punjab has witnessed a sudden spike.State health officials say nobody in Punjab seems to be worried about wearing mask or maintaining social distancing. “We have figured out that the main reason behind the current spurt in the number of cases is laxity towards wearing masks and social distancing shown by people in the state,” says Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid.He says in Punjab it seems people feel that Covid threat is over. “But we should not forget that on an average, we are losing 15 lives to Covid every day,” he says. Another worry is continuous increase in active cases.The number of active cases last month had come down to 2,000 but at present the number, the active cases have increased to 3,870.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/disregard-for-covid-norms-behind-spike-nodal-officer-217564
26-02-2021||---||BJP leaders face protests in Amritsar, Jalandhar||Amritsar/ Jalandhar Feb 25A group of farmers raised anti-BJP slogans when Rajya Sabha MP and former BJP state president Shwait Malik visited the Regional Passport Office (RPO) here today.Protesters associated with left parties These protesters are associated with the Left parties. I will consider them farmers if they quit their political membership. They have been misguiding the farmers about the central agricultural laws. — Shwait Malik, BJP MP As Malik came out of the office, a farmers’ group, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), blocked the exit gate and started raising slogans. A heavy contingent of the police, deployed there, facilitated the cavalcade of Malik to pass through and averted any untoward incident.Malik said the protesters were not “real” farmers, but a group of people with ulterior political motives. “They are associated with the Left parties. I will consider them farmers if they quit their political membership. They have been misguiding the farmers about the farm laws that were enacted for the benefit of farmers,” he said.It is not the first time that Malik and other senior leaders had to confront agitating farmers of the same farm organisation. On December 7 too, Malik faced protest during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of BJP’s new office in New Amritsar.Meanwhile in Jalandhar, as BJP leader Vijay Sampla today returned to his hometown after taking charge as National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman, members of BKU (Rajewal) indulged in sloganeering against him and other leaders. BKU spokesperson Kashmir Singh and other union members were among protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-face-protests-in-amritsar-jalandhar-217565
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Five Covid deaths in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur district reported five deaths, including 45 Covid cases, in the past 24 hours. As per the official health bulletin, the state reported 566 cases and 13 deaths in the past 24 hours. Among districts, Hoshiarpur reported five deaths, followed by SBS Nagar with three deaths, Jalandhar and Patiala two each and one death was reported in SAS Nagar.On Thursday, among districts, SBS Nagar remained the worst affected with 111 cases and three deaths, followed by Jalandhar with 65 cases, Amritsar 64, and Patiala 62. At present 82 patients are on oxygen and 11 are on ventilator. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-covid-deaths-in-hoshiarpur-217566
26-02-2021||Faridkot||Follow Covid rules in buses, schools told||The School Education Department has asked government and private schools to ensure safe transportation of schoolchildren by implementing the Safe School Vahan Scheme (SSVS).With the reopening of the schools, many operators were exposing children to the Covid-19 threat by throwing physical distancing norms to the wind in the vehicles.The Director, School Education (Secondary) has asked all schools to implement it and make the parents aware about these safeguards in the parent-teacher meetings.As per the orders, the school head will ensure all school buses shall not carry the children in excess than its registered seating capacity and ensure the medical check-up of drivers. A transport committee shall be also constituted in each school. It should meet once in a month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/follow-covid-rules-in-buses-schools-told-217567
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||UDID cards: 7th rank for state||ChandigarhAmritsar woman hits Rs 1-crore jackpotThe lady luck has smiled on a housewife from Amritsar, who has won the first prize of Punjab State Dear 100+ Monthly Lottery worth Rs. 1 crore. The lucky winner, Renu Chauhan, on Thursday submitted the ticket and required documents to the state Lotteries Department here for claiming the prize. TNSAmritsarAAP claims ex-PM’s ‘cousin’ joined party, retracts laterThe Punjab AAP unit today claimed that a “cousin of former PM Dr Manmohan Singh” had joined the party along with others. However, Randeep Singh Kohli, son of Dr Manmohan Singh’s nephew, said no one from the family had joined the AAP. Party spokesperson Gurbhej Singh said a revised “press note” was being sent shortly with correction. TNSBathindaManwala panchayat takes ‘illegal possession’ of landThe gram panchayat of Manwala village in the Talwandi Sabo block of Bathinda has been accused of taking illegal possession of a large chunk of land of the Forest Department. However, the sarpanch of Manwala village said, “We do not know anything about illegal possession.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/udid-cards-7th-rank-for-state-217568
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis plan to gherao Delhi Police||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) will gherao Delhi Police personnel for singling out Punjabi youth for arrests by registering false cases against them in connection with the January 26 incidents in the national capital. Disclosing this here after a meeting of the YAD, its president Parambans Singh Romana said the wing had received reports of Punjabi youth being unfairly targeted for punishment by the Delhi Police and the central government. “We have decided to stand by our youth. Our rank and file will rush to support any youth who is unfairly targeted by the Delhi Police. I request all affected families to seek the support of the YAD in this connection.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-plan-to-gherao-delhi-police-217569
26-02-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Killed in encounters, gangsters ‘alive’ on FB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25A youth with a twirling moustache sits before a birthday cake on his bed smugly. Dozens of guns placed on the bed around the cake adorn it more than the customary cherries.Scores of celebratory greetings calling the youth a lion; a real son of the soil, are seen in the thread of comments below. Some have even posted clippings or lyrics of highly eulogising Punjabi songs about the gangster. It does not matter that the man died four years ago in the prime of his youth in a police encounter.Live or die by the gun but stay alive and kicking on social media platforms to keep the fan following. That seems to be the maxim of Punjab gangsters, where pages or accounts of dead ones continue with fresh posts.On the one hand, these posts pose an open challenge to security forces and on the other, they provide an insight into the life of the gangsters.While gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana is defying security agencies these days, followers of dead gangsters are keeping their following intact through Facebook pages. The police view these pages as potential recruiting grounds for impressionable minds.The posts also carry hashtags like save girl child, respect women, no to drugs and help poor, claiming the man as a social-reform messiah. Then you see more posts: “This is to inform all that (such and such person) whose photos are posted here claims to be a member of our gang. We have nothing to do with him. He will pay soon for misusing our name.” Other posts celebrate the killing of rival gangsters. “Today, our great brother and soldier of our group has killed (name) and avenged the murder of one of our gang members killed four years ago.”Devinder Bambiha, Vicky Gounder and Prema Lahoria are some of the several names whose pages continue to be active. Wikicelebs.com even puts up a detailed profile of several Punjab gangsters listing them as popular and famous. A Facebook page ‘Gangster of Page’ is thriving too.The problem gets grim when the platform is used to threaten persons or to claim a crime. Gangster Sukha Gill Lamme’s page claimed recently responsibility for the murder of a dera follower in Bathinda (the post was later removed). Another gang is held responsible for Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Bhikhiwind’s murder in Tarn Taran last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/killed-in-encounters-gangsters-alive-on-fb-217570
26-02-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Budget expected to focus on agri sector||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25The last Budget to be presented by the Capt Amarinder Singh government will focus big on agriculture, so as to douse some flames raging because of the farm laws.Armed with additional funds granted by the 15th Finance Commission for the agriculture sector, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal is expected to make some big announcements.The Budget proposals in the upcoming session of the Vidhan Sabha from March 1 will also focus on improving health and social sectors. On the cards is a major overhaul of the public healthcare sector, necessitated after the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, expanding and increasing the social security cover for senior citizens, women and youth is expected in the Budget.The government is likely to stick to its stand of not imposing any new taxes in its Budget proposals.Sources in the Finance Department said the government would be allocating an unprecedented percentage of total monies available with them for crop diversification, crop residue management and strengthening the agriculture infrastructure.With the Finance Commission recommending a grant of Rs 350 crore to Punjab for crop diversification between 2021-22 and 2025-26, the additional allocations will aim at weaning away farmers from the water-guzzling and environmentally unsafe wheat-paddy crop rotation and instead pushing them towards maize cultivation, horticulture and other allied activities like goat-rearing and dairy development and fisheries.A sizeable allocation for agriculture sector will be used for the debt relief of landless and farm workers. The families of those who have been killed in the farmers’ struggle will also be accommodated for providing relief. Sources say money will also be set aside by the Finance Minister for the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission for employees, though the report has not yet been submitted.Additional grant for crop diversificationWith the 15th Finance Commission recommending a grant of Rs350 crore to Punjab for crop diversification between 2021-22 and 2025-26, the additional allocations will aim at weaning away farmers from the water-guzzling and environmentally unsafe wheat-paddy crop rotation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/budget-expected-to-focus-on-agri-sector-217571
26-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Driver killed in mishap||Sriganganagar, February 25A truck driver died and over 12 persons were injured when it collided with a luxury bus outside Bamboo village near Hanumangarh today.The luxury bus was returning from Haridwar when it reportedly collided with the truck. Truck driver Madho Singh (45) of Soniasar died on the spot. The police extricated the injured from the bus with the help of villagers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/driver-killed-in-mishap-217581
26-02-2021||---||Farm union protests harassment by finance companies over loans||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 25Members of the Kirti Kisan Union women wing staged a protest before the district administrative complex alleging harassment by micro-finance firms for recovery of loans and demanded that they be exempted from interest against loan taken and harassment by them must be stopped at the earliest.The union members met SSP Bathinda and submitted a memorandum of demands to him demanding immediate action against the accused. The members rued that they were being harassed by micro-finance firms for recovery of loans and apart from being served notices, they even were being threatened of making the recovery by taking stuff from their houses.President of the union Amarjit Honey said, “While loans of big corporate houses worth crores are being waived-off, women from poverty stricken families are being harassed by micro-finance firms for repayment of loans. The matter has been brought to the notice of the state government a number of times but if such harassment by companies persists then we will be left with no other alternative than to intensify our stir in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-union-protests-harassment-by-finance-companies-over-loans-217585
26-02-2021||Muktsar||Don’t know why I was kept in Tihar jail: Kabaddi commentator Jaswinder||A 40-year-old farmer, Jaswinder Singh from Assa Buttar village here, who was arrested by the Delhi Police on the night of January 26 on the charge of violence, was accorded a warm welcome on his return to his village on Wednesday night.Kabaddi commentator Jaswinder, a landless farmer who takes land on lease for cultivation, said, “I am unaware of the reason why I was put in Tihar jail. I was not involved in any violence. On the night of January 26, I had gone to search a fellow protesting farmer at Nangloi police station, but the cops bundled a few of us into their vehicle, shifted us to Paschim Vihar police station and registered a criminal case against us. I was released from the jail on Tuesday with the efforts of a panel of advocates formed by the DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.”Notably, Jaswinder was welcomed by the residents of Kotbhai, Doda, Kauni and Assa Buttar villages, who raised slogans of the kisan morcha and welcomed him by terming him as a hero of the area. Jaswinder said, “I am thankful to all those who gave a rousing welcome to me. I am a poor man, but got a lot of love from the local residents. I will soon be returning to the protest site at Delhi border and had earlier spent almost a month there. I am ready to sacrifice anything to get the three farm laws repealed.”He said nobody from his family was allowed to meet him in the jail. Iqbal Singh and Chand Singh, residents of Assa Buttar village, said, “He doesn’t even own a small piece of land, but his contribution towards the ongoing agitation has made him a hero.” — TNSWarm welcomeJaswinder Singh 40, who was arrested by the Delhi Police over R-Day violence, was accorded a warm welcome on his return to Assa Buttar village in Muktsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-know-why-i-was-kept-in-tihar-jail-kabaddi-commentator-jaswinder-217586
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar housewife bags Rs 1 crore from lottery ticket that cost Rs 100||A housewife from Amritsar has won the first prize in a lottery worth Rs 1 crore from a ticket that cost her Rs 100.As per a statement from the state government, the lucky winner, Renu Chauhan, on Thursday submitted the ticket and required documents to the State Lotteries Department for encashment of her prize.Expressing elation for the godsend amount, Chauhan said that the blessing has come as a huge relief to her middle-class family."My husband runs a cloth shop in Amritsar and this bumper prize money will be a great help so that our family can lead a smooth life," she said.The results of the Punjab State Dear 100 + monthly lottery were announced in a draw on February 11, an official spokesperson from the Punjab State Lotteries Department informed."Renu, the winner of Ticket D-12228, has submitted the documents today and the prize money will be credited to the winner's account soon," the official said. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-housewife-bags-rs-1-crore-from-lottery-ticket-that-cost-rs-100-217420
26-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmers angry over government notices, closure of main roads at Ghazipur border||The anger of the protesting farmers has started to boil over after three months of the agitation as they are upset with the government and the police over closure of the main roads at Ghazipur border and notices sent to several protesters.Farmer leaders held a press conference at Ghazipur border expressing displeasure over notices by the government sent to protesters for involvement in the January 26 violence.Farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa said: "The police and the central government have crossed the limits of dictatorship. The government is working to suppress the movement, there is resentment among our colleagues in the entire peasant movement."Giving an example, Bajwa said: "A woman has got a notice, and she has works in Delhi. Just because her phone was active in the area on Republic Day, she was sent a notice for it.""Have faith in a democratic country, stop harassing people in support of the movement."Farmer leaders have made it clear that the people to whom notices are being sent should refuse arrest. A legal panel set up by farmers will respond to these notices.Appealing to those who have got the notices, the farmer leaders told them not to attend the inquiry without a lawyer. Farmer leaders on the Ghazipur border claim notices have been sent to more than 100 farmers while notices for inciting violence have been sent to 1,700 farmers across the country.The farmers said that a panel of 10 lawyers from Punjab is reaching the Ghazipur border by this evening which will inform the farmers about the issues related to the legal action.Farmer leaders also expressed their displeasure at the closure of roads as they say it has been three months since they have been protesting on the roads, but they do not want to disturb the local people.Farmers have appealed for roads to be reopened on the border. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-angry-over-government-notices-closure-of-main-roads-at-ghazipur-border-217371
