28-02-2021||Chandigarh||7 more Covid deaths, 582 new cases in Punjab||Punjab continued to see an upswing in fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday as it reported 582 new infections, pushing the infection tally to 1,82,176, officials said.On Saturday, the state had witnessed 595 new COVID-19 cases.With seven more fatalities, the toll rose to 5,832, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases also jumped from 4,436 on Saturday to 4,632 on Sunday.Jalandhar reported the maximum new cases at 108, followed by Kapurthala (75), Mohali (67), and Patiala 64.A total of 376 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering, taking the number of cured people to 1,71,712, the bulletin said.There are nine critical patients who are on ventilator support while 81 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 49,99,390 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-more-covid-deaths-582-new-cases-in-punjab-218709
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Third round of COVID-19 vaccination to commence from March 1 in Punjab||The third round of COVID-19 vaccination is set to commence across Punjab from March 1, informed Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu here on Sunday.In this round, vaccine will be administered to senior citizens above 60 years age and citizens aged 45 to 59 suffering with co-morbidities as specified by government.They shall be required to provide certification from Registered Medical Practitioner regarding the co-morbidity.The pre-registration for vaccination is not mandatory in this round and people desirous of vaccination can pre-register or just walk-in for the same, he said, adding “however, it is advisable that senior citizens may pre-register in order to avoid waiting in the health facility for vaccination”.The vaccine will be administered free of cost in all government hospitals while private hospitals are authorised to charge Rs 150 per dose and may charge up to 100 rupees additional as service provision charges, he added.He said that in the meanwhile, the vaccination for healthcare workers and frontline workers would continue along with this round of vaccination even if they have not registered earlier they can get onsite registration by walk in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/third-round-of-covid-19-vaccination-to-commence-from-march-1-in-punjab-218704
28-02-2021||Phagwara||Punjab: 45-year-old woman found murdered, matricide suspected||A 45-year-old woman was on Sunday found murdered in an open plot near Khothran colony here, police said.Behram Station House Officer Rajiv Kumar identified the victim as Urmila Devi, a resident of local Onkar Nagar.A case of murder was registered against the victim’s son Deepak on a complaint of Urmila’s daughter Rekha, he said.Deepak was absconding but will be arrested soon, the SHO said.The woman was allegedly murdered with a sharp-edged weapon and her face was disfigured with repeated blows, he said.The face was virtually smashed and her family members had a hard time in recognising her, he said.The motive behind the murder was being investigated, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-45-year-old-woman-found-murdered-matricide-suspected-218642
28-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill goes under quarantine in Canada; shares new nerdy look; seen it yet?||Bigg Boss 13 fame Shehnaaz Gill treated her Instagram fans with a nerdy-look. She is currently in Canada, where she will begin shooting for her Punjabi film, Honsla Rakh, which also stars Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa.The actress is currently under quarantine. She shared a picture from her hotel in Canada. She completed her nerdy-look with a pair of glasses.She captioned the photo with a butterfly emoji.A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)Earlier this week, Punjabi actor Diljit Dosanjh took to his Twitter handle to release the first-look of the Rom-Com.He shared, "This Dusshera #HonslaRakh, 15th Oct, 2021 (sic)."This Dusshera #HonslaRakh, 15th Oct, 2021!! pic.twitter.com/uFU6TtXDBMHonsla Rakh promises to be a laugh riot. In the poster, Diljit is seen carrying a toddler in the first-look poster of the movie. Directed by Amarjit Singh Saron, the film will release on October 15, 2021.On February 23, Shehnaaz shared the first-look poster of her upcoming song, Fly, on Instagram. Sharing the first-look poster of the song: Shehnaaz Gill wrote, "Coming soon, Fly. @badboyshah @theuchana @sonymusicindia (sic)."A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)Apart from this, Shehnaaz will also be seen alongside Sidharth Shukla in a song, which is sung by Shreya Ghoshal and composed by Arko. This will be their third collaboration after Bhula Dunga and Shona Shona.#BhulaDunga100M trended on Twitter as the music video reached 100 million views on YouTube.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gill-goes-under-quarantine-in-canada-shares-new-nerdy-look-seen-it-yet-218636
28-02-2021||---||Lakha Sidhana’s Facebook page disabled in India||Bathinda, February 27The Facebook page of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, wanted for the Republic Day violence, has been ‘disabled’ in India. He used to upload videos on the page to connect with his more than three lakh followers regularly.While his supporters in India claimed they couldn’t access the page, those in the US, Italy and other parts of the world aren’t complaining of any such restriction.Reacting sharply over the development, the Lakha Sidhana Fan Club page on Facebook has posted a video of the gangster and written that the “government can’t suppress the voice of Lakha Sidhana, this is illegal.” It urged people to create posts in favour of the activist.On the run, Sidhana had last week posted a video on his page in which he announced holding a rally against the farm laws at Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh’s ancestral village Mehraj in Bathinda district on February 23.After hearing Sidhana’s message in the 13-minute-long video, a large number of people, including youth, turned out in the rally in the support of Sidhana.On February 23, Sidhana again posted a video in which thanked people for coming out in large numbers in the rally.BJP: Why is CM mum on Lakha? Chandigarh, February 27The BJP today accused CM Capt Amarinder Singh of maintaining “silence” and adopting a “no-action strategy” against two gangsters for vote bank politics. Former state secretary Vineet Joshi said by not arresting Lakha Sidhana and not transferring Mukhtar Ansari to Uttar Pradesh, Capt Amarinder was being selective in his action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakha-sidhanas-facebook-page-disabled-in-india-218389
28-02-2021||---||CM announces Rs50 lakh relief, job for martyr’s kin||Chandigarh, February 27Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced an ex gratia compensation of Rs 50 lakh, along with a government job to a family member of Naib Subedar Parwinder Singh from 22 Punjab, who laid down his life in the Batalik sector (Leh) along the Line of Control. The JCO is survived by his father, wife and two sons.Extending his sympathies to the family of the martyr, the Chief Minister said the state government would provide all possible help and support to them. The mortal remains of the martyr will reach his native place in Jagraon on Sunday and the cremation will be held the same day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-announces-rs50-lakh-relief-job-for-martyrs-kin-218390
28-02-2021||Archit Watts ---||Black marketing of Rs2,000 notes up due to short supply||Tribune News Service Muktsar, February 27 Even though the Rs 2,000 note was brought into the system after demonetisation to curb black money and hoarding, large-scale black marketing of these notes is under way. Some local businessmen said they got 100 notes of Rs 2,000 denomination for Rs 2.2-2.4 lakh. Notably, the printing of Rs 2,000 denomination currency notes has been significantly lowered. A bank employee said fewer Rs 2,000 notes were being deposited in the banks these days. “New currency of Rs 2,000 notes is not coming, thus the circulation has lowered in the market and this created a shortage. Some people might be making money due to this shortage,” he said. A businessman said, “I needed 200 notes of Rs 2,000, but nobody was willing to give these even after charging some extra amount. Later, I paid Rs 4.08 lakh for 200 notes of Rs 2,000.” A businessman of Fazilka said some people approached him in the past few days for Rs 2,000 notes and even offered to pay a higher amount. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha in September last year, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur had said, “During the year 2019-20 and 2020-21, no indent has been placed with the presses for printing of Rs 2,000 notes. However, there is no decision to discontinue the printing of Rs 2,000 notes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-marketing-of-rs2-000-notes-up-due-to-short-supply-218391
28-02-2021||Our Correspondent ---||71 booked under NDPS, Arms Acts||Tarn Taran, February 27  The district police intensified its crackdown by filing cases against 71 smugglers under different sections of the NDPS and Arms Acts on Friday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said nine of these 71 smugglers had been arrested with 755-gm heroin. A car and a motorcycle had been recovered from them.  He said the smugglers had been identified as Baljinder Singh of Wan Taran Singh, Harjinder Singh Sugga, Chamkaur Singh of Mehindipur, Shamsher Singh of Khemkaran, Satnam Singh Chackwalia, Manpreet Singh of Sursingh, Sarabjit Singh of Dilawalpur, Satnam Singh of Goindwal Sahib and Jaipal Singh of Fatehbad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/71-booked-under-ndps-arms-acts-218392
28-02-2021||---||Rs30L transferred fraudulently,  case filed||Sangrur, February 27 The Sangrur city-1 police have registered a fraud case after Rs 30 lakh were allegedly transferred from the bank account of a local.  SHO Pritpal Singh said Baljit Singh alleged on February 11 and 12, some unidentified persons transferred Rs 30 lakh from his bank to their accounts. “We have registered a case and conducting further investigation,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs30l-transferred-fraudulently-case-filed-218393
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||HC: List steps to frame uniform policy on MTP||Nearly a year has lapsed since a Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha to amend the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971, for termination of advanced-stage pregnancies in view of medical opinion. But the same was stated to be still pending.Referring to the Bill and other aspects related to termination of pregnancies in advanced stages, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that a uniform policy was required to be formulated to deal with all such cases. The assertion came as the High Court issued a notice to the Union of India for March 1.Justice Arun Monga also asked Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain to apprise the court on the steps being taken or contemplated to frame a uniform policy on legal termination of pregnancies, where medical opinion was strongly in its favour. Apart from easier access to justice, such a policy would also ensure the deserved dignity and confidentiality to the women, confronted with such legal impediments, Justice Monga added.The matter was brought to Justice Monga’s notice by a pregnant woman through counsel Ranjan Lakhanpal. Justice Monga asserted the legal and moral predicament of the court, yet again, was whether to permit a pregnant mother to abort the life of foetus aged 23 weeks plus five days, before completion of gestation period. Medical reports to terminate pregnancy were in the mother’s favour. But, legal impediment in view of the statutory mandate envisaged under the provisions of the Act did not allow the doctors to implement their medical recommendation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-list-steps-to-frame-uniform-policy-on-mtp-218394
28-02-2021||---||Accused escapes from CIA custody||Sangrur, February 27 Arrested in an Arms Act case, a Sirsa resident allegedly  escaped from the custody of Crime Investigations Agency (CIA),  Mansa, near Cheema town of Sangrur last night  while cops thwarted the escape attempt of another man wanted in the same case.   On the complaint of ASI Gurtej Singh, who is posted in the CIA, Mansa, the police have registered a case under Sections 224 and 225B of the IPC. Gurtej, ASI Ujagar Singh and Balwinder Singh had taken Surjit Singh from Muktsar and Jashandeep Singh  from Sirsa to the office of the Counter Intelligence in Mohali for questioning in an FIR registered at the Sardulgarh police station on February 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accused-escapes-from-cia-custody-218395
28-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Rise in cases likely to hit restoration of rail services||Abohar, February 27The Railways may not go ahead with its programme to restore local trains from April 1 due to the sudden increase in Covid-19 cases in some states.North-West Railway General Manager Anand Prakash, who arrived for inspection in Sriganganagar after visiting Bathinda in a special train, said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Railways had suffered a revenue loss of Rs 50,000 crore since March-end last year.Agreeing that withdrawal of coaches earmarked for Chandigarh from the Barmer-Bathinda-Kalka Link Express caused inconvenience to passengers in Punjab and Rajasthan, he said a plan to launch a new train for Chandigarh was under active consideration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rise-in-cases-likely-to-hit-restoration-of-rail-services-218396
28-02-2021||---||2 held for red mercury fraud in Bathinda||Bathinda, February 27Two men have been arrested in an alleged red mercury scam in Bathinda.The accused have been identified as Surjit Singh, alias Bhola Singh, of Bir Behman, and Balraj Singh, alias Doctor, of Mandi Kalan village in Bathinda. A motorcycle, Rs 4.50 lakh in cash and an alleged red mercury tube were recovered from them.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “People have been deceived by this scheme for the past few months. Radios and small glass tubes of TVs were being used by the accused. They spread rumours on social media that some of the glass tubes contained a metal called red mercury, which could be used to treat Covid-19 and had many other benefits.”The SSP said Surjit Singh got information about the red mercury from social media and made a plan to dupe people. He bought an old TV, painted the glass tube with red colour and filled it with cough syrup. Later, he made videos of the tube and shared them on social media claiming that he had a glass tube containing ‘red mercury’ which he wanted to sell for a small amount of money.He and Balraj Singh started contacting people to sell the tube. Balraj Singh managed to convince Swaraj Singh of Bhagu village to buy the tube for Rs 5 lakh and promised him triple returns by selling it further. A case under Sections 379B, 420 and 34 of the IPC was registered against the accused at the Cantt police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-red-mercury-fraud-in-bathinda-218397
28-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||5 yrs on, horticulture institute in Amritsar remains on paper||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 27Residents of Chhiddan village on the Amritsar-Attari road are peeved at the long delay in setting up of the Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education (PGIHRE).The announcement had given a hope to farmers of the region of diversifying their crops. The residents of villages around the proposed site of PGIHRE believe it would herald tremendous business opportunities for them. Ahead of the state budget, the demand is growing for a separate budgetary allocation of funds for the proposed institute.Even five years after the announcement of the ambitious PGIHRE, the state government is yet to acquire land for it. Four months back, the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had issued a notification for the commencement of social impact assessment to purchase over 32 acres of land. The task was to be undertaken by Guru Nanak Dev University.A chunk of 100 acres was transferred in the name of ICAR at Attari village in 2015 and three years later, a site selection committee of the ICAR had approved the site at Chhiddan village, which is situated 10 km from the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post and nearly 12 km from the holy city.Kulwant Singh, a farmer, said, “The development of the prestigious institute of national importance remains in the initial stage. The undue delay in the establishment and functioning of the institute is causing huge losses to the farming community as researchers and scientists of the institute will be instrumental in providing modern techniques, infrastructure and horticulture-related knowledge to us. Crop diversification, drip irrigation and spray irrigation will be promoted among farmers which will also improve the depleting water table.”Manmohan Singh Brar, president of the Amritsar Vikas Manch, demanded that the government must authorise the finance and agriculture ministries to complete the formalities regarding budget allocation for the purchase of land, so that ICAR may start the development of PGIHRE, Amritsar, at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-yrs-on-horticulture-institute-in-amritsar-remains-on-paper-218398
28-02-2021||Vishav Bharti||2nd wave? 1,200 cases, 27 deaths in 2 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 27With almost a three-fold increase in Covid cases in the past two weeks, the state seems to be heading towards second wave.With almost 1,200 cases and 27 deaths in the past two days, the state seems to be inching towards September-like situation, when over 60,000 cases were reported. After September, there was continuous decline in cases. By January-end, the daily average of cases had come down to just 200.Though health officials say there is no doubt the cases are dramatically increasing but vaccination can save situation.“A significant section of society has already been vaccinated. Now in two days, it will open for the general population, which will help to stop further spread of the virus,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, nodal officer for Covid.The state reported 628 cases and 16 deaths on Friday and similarly, 595 cases and 11 deaths were reported today.The bigger worry for the state is doubling of the number of active cases. Last month, the number of active cases had come down to around 2,000. However, now it has more than doubled. As per a media bulletin released today, the number of active cases has increased to 4,436.Even the number of casualities is increasing. In the district-wise break-up of casualities, Hoshiarpur district with four deaths remained worst affected. It is followed by Ludhiana with three deaths, Patiala two, Mansa and Tarn Taran one each. Apart from that around 79 persons are on oxygen support and 14 on ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-wave-1-200-cases-27-deaths-in-2-days-218399
28-02-2021||Sangrur||11 Sangrur jail inmates test positive||Eleven inmates of the Sangrur Jail and seven teachers are among 37 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours.As per details, of the 37, four are from the Malerkotla block, three from Sangrur, two from Moonak, three from Dhuri, three from Amargarh, one from Longowal, 14 from Fatehgarh Panjgrayan, one from Kauhrian, four from Sherpur and two from Ahemdgarh.“Patients include 11 inmates of the Sangrur Jail and seven teachers of a private school. Our teams are conducting tests across the district,” said Dr Anjna Gupta, Civil Surgeon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-sangrur-jail-inmates-test-positive-218400
28-02-2021||Tarn Taran||Debt-ridden farmer kills self in Tarn Taran||A debt-ridden farmer, Sarabjit Singh (55), died allegedly by suicide in his house at Darapur village in the district on Saturday. He was under a debt to the tune of Rs 30 lakh of various banks and a commission agent.  Harwinder Singh, brother of the deceased, said Sarabjit went into depression when in spite of spending lakhs of rupees on the treatment of his wife, he could not save her. He hanged himself from an iron grill in the house.  SHO Balwinder Singh said on the statement of the family, a report under Section 174, CrPC, had been lodged by the police. The body had been handed over to the family after post-mortem examination. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-ridden-farmer-kills-self-in-tarn-taran-218401
28-02-2021||---||BJP demands CBI  probe into scholarship scam||Chandigarh, February 27BJP national general secretary Tarun chugh today blamed the Capt Amarinder Singh government for meting out step-motherly treatment to thousands of Scheduled Caste students after depriving them of their post-matric scholarship money.In a statement, Chugh said more than 50,000 SC students had been groping in darkness after their degrees were blocked due to non-payment of the scholarship amount.The BJP national general secretary alleged since 2017 more than Rs 1870 crore had been embezzled by the Amarinder government, putting the future of SC students at stake. Seeking a inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the embezzlement of the central funds, he urged the state government to help save the future of SC students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-scholarship-scam-218402
28-02-2021||Mansa||Mansa contract workers demand regular jobs||Contractual employees from different government departments under the banner of Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha organised a district-level convention in Mansa. Among other demands, they sought regularisation of jobs. The union has started mobilising support for the state-level protest rally in Patiala district on March 12. Union leader Jagrup Singh Lehra said, “While the government is making claims of providing one lakh jobs, it is retrenching staff in the garb of privatisation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-contract-workers-demand-regular-jobs-218404
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to raise MSP,  loan waiver issues in House||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided to raise the MSP, post-matric scholarship, farm loan waiver and electricity issues in the upcoming Budget Session. The decision was taken during a meeting of MLAs presided over by Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema today.Addressing the media after the meeting, Cheema said Captain Amarinder Singh had failed to fulfil all promises that he made in 2017. “It has been four years since then and we have reached the final Budget Session and promises are yet to be fulfilled,” he said.Cheema said as the principal opposition party in the Assembly, the AAP would take up all these issues in the session so that people come to know about the failures of the Congress government. Taking a dig at the CM, Cheema said Capt Amarinder along with the SAD helped the “black” laws’ passage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-to-raise-msp-loan-waiver-issues-in-house-218405
28-02-2021||---||70-yr-old councillor on ‘swachh ward’ drive in Kotkapura||Faridkot, February 27A week after winning the civic bodies election, a 70-year-old first-time councillor in Kotkapura town of the district has launched a cleanliness drive in his ward.A small grocery shop owner, ward No 21 councillor Babu Ram said staff crunch in civic bodies and lack of dedication among sweepers had hit cleanliness drive for the past many years in Kotkapura. “For the past many years, there has been no cleaning of the drainage and sewer lines in my locality. Choked lines have been overflowing,” he said.“I had promised to improve the situation during campaigning. Now as people have elected me, instead of waiting for the government machinery to work, I have hired a private trailer mounted suction machine (Gully Emptier) at Rs 6,000 per day to clean the drains and sewer lines,” he said.For the past four days, Babu Ram along with his supporters has been sweeping the ward. “I have plans to install dustbins in my ward through public contributions so roads can made garbage-free,” he said. Chander Ram, a resident, said: “Babu Ram is setting an example for other politicians by fulfilling his poll promise. He also encouraging residents not to depend on the government, and take the initiative in keeping the area clean.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/70-yr-old-councillor-on-swachh-ward-drive-in-kotkapura-218406
28-02-2021||---||Slash VAT on fuel, SAD asks govt||Bathinda, February 27Former Union Minister and SAD Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal today asked the Centre as well as the state government to reduce the fuel prices by Rs 5 per litre to give much-needed relief to the common man.Harsimrat Badal today the city to congratulate Akali workers for wresting seven of the nine seats in the recently concluded local bodies elections. Talking to mediapersons, Harsimrat said prices of essential commodities had also risen after the sharp hike in prices of petrol and diesel and that these prices should be reduced immediately to contain inflation. Asking the Congress government to take the lead and reduce the VAT by Rs 5 per litre on both petrol and diesel, she said it was strange that instead of doing this the Punjab Congress had planned a phony protest on March 1 to demand the Centre reduced prices of fuel.She said if the Congress government was really concerned about the welfare of the people it should reduce VAT on petrol and diesel to bring down prices. “It is a shame that the Congress is trying to befool the people by resorting to fake protests”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/slash-vat-on-fuel-sad-asks-govt-218407
28-02-2021||chandigarh||PSPCL provided over 10K jobs: CMD||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is performing a fundamental role in powering the wheels of progress in the state besides making enormous contribution in the implementation of the Ghar Ghar Naukari, an initiative of the Punjab Government.Disclosing this, PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said in order to provide better facilities to consumers, the PSPCL had recruited 10,378 employees in the past four years. “The PSPCL has given jobs to 7,866 technical employees of 17 different categories and 2,512 non-technical employees of 10 different categories,” said the CMD.Pointing out further, the CMD said recently the PSPCL had advertised 2,632 posts of five different categories, including 1,700 assistant linemen. He further said the recruitment process for the appointment of the posts would start in near future.Meanwhile, the CMD also added that the PSPCL had already given employment to 1,406 dependents of deceased employees of the corporation since January 2017. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-provided-over-10k-jobs-cmd-218408
28-02-2021||Sameer Singh||Newlyweds hand over shagun to Tikri farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, February 27In a noble gesture, an NRI couple from Vancouver, Canada, who got married recently, donated the shagun amount of Rs 50,000 to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three contentious farm laws at the Delhi-Tikri border.Baljit Singh Gill, 35, who is in construction business in Canada and Manveer Kaur, 30, had tied nuptial knot on January 21 and decided already that they would donate the shagun amount collected during the marriage function.Baljit, who hails from Uddat Saidewala village in Mansa district, along with wife and relatives went to the Tikri border and donated the amount to farm leaders. During his address, he exhorted everyone to contribute to the farmers’ movement.Talking to The Tribune, Baljit said, “Our family has been involved in philanthropic activities in the past as well, we will come to India for some time and assist poor families in getting their daughters married. After holding successful protest rallies in Vancouver, I wanted to contribute my bit to the farmers’ movement here as well. So, instead of taking the shagun during the marriage, we had put up a box at the venue to donate money to the cause.”Baljit, who has been financially assisting village and block-level units of farm unions in Mansa, said, “Many farmers have lost their lives, it’s high time that the governments shun its obdurate stance and accedes to the just demands of farmers and repeal these farm laws. I also urge the youth not to lose patience and support the movement whole-heartedly peacefully because their have been attempts to sabotage the movement with by misguided youth.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/newlyweds-hand-over-shagun-to-tikri-farmers-218409
28-02-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Crossing the threshold: Agitation against farm laws turns the spotlight on Punjabi women||History is replete with stories of their heroism because valour runs in the Punjabi blood. But, unfortunately, so does patriarchy. And, there is absolutely no dearth of ghastly tales of honour killing, of female foeticide, of subjugation of the fairer sex and worse. These, however, are dark alleys and just not the place to be when the frost in the air gives way and spring is knocking, when the fields are yellow with mustard flowers, when the wheat crop stretches endlessly like a carpet of green and farmers await its shiny golden hues.This, then, can’t be a season for pessimism. Not in Punjab, most certainly. The farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders against the controversial farm laws right through the three long months of a harsh winter and though no end is yet in sight for their agitation, there is a silver lining to this cloud of struggle. And that comes from the very women who have always lived in the shadows of their men — of fathers and brothers and sons and husbands — and only stepped out when asked to.“The young girls visiting the borders where the protests are on are realising there is a world beyond the confines of the four walls of their homes, life outside their village and rights they must fight for. This farmers’ agitation has opened new vistas and given them wings to fly. It will be difficult to cage them and deny them this liberty they have tasted when they come back,” believes 38-year-old Sarabjeet Kaur, a panch of Bhadaur village in Barnala district.Adversity does bring out the best in most women and the sentiment of valour — dominant in the Punjabi lexicon — and qualities of perseverance are gaining new recognition and meaning amid the raging farmer protests at the Singhu and Tikri borders, while the build-up at the Ghazipur border is still gaining momentum.A country for women, finally!They are everywhere — leading from the front at the borders where the agitation carries on, holding tractor rallies, participating in meetings, conducting the stage, singing, reciting poems of revolution, cooking, making a splash all around with their presence.But, that is not all. Back home, in the villages where they have been the behind-the-scenes workforce, they are holding fort while the men are away for the protest — watering the fields, spraying the crop while managing their homes, their traditional role all along.In Jalandhar, Amritpal Kaur, a mother of two girls and a boy from Bahu Majra village, says this protest has been an eye-opener. “I will make sure both my daughters are financially independent before marrying them off. It was difficult for me to find my feet in the field since the men and hired labour managed everything. Now that we have learnt the ropes, we won’t need to wait for the labour anymore,” she states.Out of this struggle and this juggling of work have emerged new faces and newer aspirations. Karti Dharti, a fortnightly publication for women at the borders, is chronicling this “stepping out” by the women and getting their feet wet as the agitation spreads. The protest saw a ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’ celebration to recognise the presence of women and their effort. A labour rights activist, 24-year-old Nodeep Kaur, became the poster girl as voices for her release grew following her arrest at Singhu. She is not alone in this discovery and recognition. Every woman counts. Across barriers of age and caste, religion and section they represent. In this unfolding, they are all one.In her 20s, Ramdeep Kaur of Algon Kothi, a quaint village in Tarn Taran, has her own story to share. Her village, among a handful of border villages struggling with developmental issues for decades, has most families caught in a grip of debt, landlessness, receding income and a bleak future for their kids.“Most of the women in our village had never stepped out of their homes on their own and led restricted lives, limited to the house or the farm. The agitation has changed the way we are looked at,” she says. Ramdeep is among the 40-50 women actively participating in the movement and mobilising others.A new epoch in makingFor Ramandeep and her mother Harjinder Kaur, the call to join farmer brothers at Singhu has been life-altering. “My mother is not educated and I have seen her do household chores. I grew up with a similar sense of gender stereotyping. In a community where one had to be veiled while going out or follow what the men in the family decided, coming out of the confines and joining the movement is a big step,” she says.Her trips to Singhu and Tikri have now made her mother an active participant as well. “I have been there thrice and even delivered a speech last time. I never thought I would be able to do it. I feel I will not have to live a pre-decided life,” vows Ramdeep.Will the movement bring a change in social standing of women? “It most definitely will. I have never seen women more determined to find their voice,” she avers.Transitioning from being a passive audience to an active player in leading campaigns and support rallies, women from many a village seem to have found their calling.“From domestic abuse to unemployment to living debt-ridden lives, there was a deep sense of despair among women. The boiling point came with the pandemic and the farmer movement gave them a chance to channel their anger and take the lead,” says Rupinder Kaur, general secretary, Tarn Taran unit of Punjab Istri Sabha, a wing of the CPI-affiliated National Federation of Indian Women.In Malanwali village of Gumtala in Amritsar district, at the ripe old age of 80, Avtar Kaur has been sewing flags for kisan jathas for free. She is contributing her bit to the agitation. This new-found usefulness to the cause keeps her going.Leading the fieldShamsher Singh from Bagli Khurd village near Samrala in Ludhiana district returned from the protest site and was awe-struck seeing how the women in his village were working the fields. “The field role was limited to arranging food for the labour. However, they are now working in the fields independently,” he says.“My wife and I alternate between home and the protest site. Being at the protest has made me realise that cooking itself is a full-time job and my wife does so much more with the same time,” says Harbans Lal of Fazilka.In Talwandi Sabo, Rupinder Kaur, who has worked on women’s issues in Punjab, feels the change coming in. “This agitation is a game-changer about how women are perceived. Once back, nobody should expect to see the same timid, quiet women in their homes. Women will no longer be dummy sarpanches and will learn to question everything after having experienced the outside world and tasting liberation. Change is on its way and the first indication is that the men have begun to see their women and their work with respect,” she maintains.Barnala’s Manveer Rahi, an advocate closely associated with the Lakhowal farmers’ union, is relieved to see women at the borders and leading protests. “This is the change all of us were waiting for. Our girls who come back from protest sites will never be the same again. Once this agitation is over, these women will know no rest. They will take up other issues and forge ahead,” she insists, adamant that the four walls of the houses will no longer hold the spirits ignited by this agitation.Writing stories of women at the borders in Karti Dharti, Sangeet Toor echoes a similar sentiment. “This agitation has given value to the household chores which, so far, did not count. The arrival of women on the scene of the agitation underlined their discipline and commitment to whatever they were assigned and brought them together with the men in the same political and social space. All these are indications of change that is bound to happen,” she states.Voices of apprehensionWhile the picture may seem rosy from afar and things might be moving in the right direction for the women of Punjab through this agitation, for every few votaries of change-is-inevitable, there are the sceptics, though they, too, are keeping their fingers crossed.Theatre director Kewal Dhaliwal hopes this build-up will not go in vain. He is hopeful it will flow in the blood of the young ones, who will become harbingers of change. “Once the ball has been set rolling, there is no stopping it. How far it goes will depend on how the young carry it and take it forward,” he observes.“I have mixed feelings to this development. Though I am convinced that political and other organisations will focus on tapping women power to their advantage, I am not too sure if this change will translate into anything significant within the households. The agitation has had a positive impact on the way women are being seen but how long this will last is the big question since patriarchy is deep-rooted in our psyche,” feels Anupama of the Department of Economics, Punjabi University, Patiala. She has been actively associated with surveys related to women.Hers is not the sole voice of apprehension. “Those looking at this movement as a cultural revolution may just be too optimistic. If you see the songs that came out during the agitation, the women, subjected to taunts in Punjabi songs, were replaced with Delhi but the essence remained unchanged. I can’t say about the men but there is a possibility of a slight change in the thinking of women who have been a part of the agitation. Again, how long this will last is anybody’s guess,” believes Neetu Arora of Punjabi University’s constituent college in Ghudda (Bathinda).Lending credence to this scepticism is 70-year-old Jasmer Kaur of Sangrur, who has been camping at Tikri. “We never needed to step out from our homes. Once we get what is rightfully ours and the laws are repealed, we will go back to the lives we were living. We did not need to step out all these years. We won’t need to after this,” she quips. Her fellow villagers nod in unison.The victims of a patriarchal culture are also its carriers, or so it seems, but all revolutions start with baby steps and storms usually begin with a gentle breeze. The farmers’ protests have ignited the fire of hope for change. Now, this around-the-corner brand of hope may well fuel the change.— With inputs from Aparna Banerji (Jalandhar), Manav Mander (Ludhiana) and Neha Saini (Amritsar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crossing-the-threshold-agitation-against-farm-laws-turns-the-spotlight-on-punjabi-women-215517
