03-02-2021||Editorials||On global criticism, tread with caution||The farm protests have captured global attention, with a set of political, cultural, and environmental figures — including the popular artiste, Rihanna, the fourth-most followed person on Twitter — tweeting their solidarity with the protests. This has led the ministry of external affairs (MEA) to issue a statement, blaming “vested interest groups” and pointing to the evolution of the farm laws, the need to see protests within the framework of India’s democratic structure, the efforts made to reach an agreement with farm groups, and the violence on Republic Day. This is unusual simply because the government usually ignores comments from non-State actors. There are two distinct issues here. The first is the international solidarity that the movement has been able to generate, either due to the Sikh diaspora’s network, the larger mobilisation by liberal, left, and human rights groups, or the nature of the international media’s coverage of the protests. At a time when it is not unusual for narratives to be controlled through influencer networks and IT cells — and India is no stranger to either — it is entirely possible (no matter what the probability) that at least some of these displays of solidarity have been engineered. But irrespective of the causes and the merits of the criticism (or the merits of the underlying protest), the fact is that it erodes India’s soft power and image as a democracy. The government will have to recognise the intricate ways in which domestic developments intersect with global politics, especially at a time when social media has disproportionate power in shaping perception. The most substantive and effective way in which the Indian State can respond is by strengthening its own democratic framework and reiterating its commitment to individual liberty and the right to dissent, in principle and practice. Rihanna, for instance, with over 100 million followers on Twitter is unlikely to be cowed down by a troll army, or fears of falling sales of her music in India. The second issue is the ability of this criticism — confined at the moment to private, even if influential, citizens in the West — to become a matter of inter-State deliberations. This is where the MEA’s statement comes in. It can be read as an attempt to both counter what the government sees as “propaganda” to discredit India, and an effort to pre-empt foreign governments from being guided by the social media storm. It is unlikely that foreign governments, particularly the US, will, even if they issue token statements, make it a top diplomatic issue. But what is clear is that India, because of the ideological and economic shifts underway in the country and the subsequent polarisation, will face questions. This requires ensuring that these transformations are democratically managed internally, and smarter strategic communication about the nature of these changes externally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-global-criticism-tread-with-caution-101612363020209.html
03-02-2021||Editorials||India’s democratic dilemma | HT Editorial||With Myanmar witnessing a coup, bringing to an end a period where the military and the democratic forces coexisted in a complex political structure, India is confronting a familiar dilemma. As a democracy, India’s sympathies naturally lie with a popularly elected system of government, an open society, free speech, and civilian control over military. Its role is underestimated, but, as scholarly work by Constantino Xavier has shown, India has often — without making too much noise about it — promoted democracy in the neighbourhood through active interventions or technical support.The challenge arises when there is a mismatch between immediate national interests, values, and India’s own power in shaping outcomes. In the case of Myanmar, India shares a critically important relationship with the military — which has been cooperative in helping tackle extremism in the Northeast and is uncomfortable with China’s intrusive presence in its ethnic politics. India also does not have either the tools or the leverage to be able to persuade the military to roll back, or help carve out an inclusive political regime. In this backdrop, Delhi will have little choice but to work the regime in power in Myanmar.This is, however, a call that needs to be taken depending on the specifics of each case. In Nepal, the alignment between values, interests, and India’s ability to shape outcomes means New Delhi should stand with constitutional democracy, which Prime Minister KP Oli is undermining. In Sri Lanka, the Rajapaksa regime, by withdrawing from an infrastructure agreement with India, has once again shown that besides being authoritarian and exclusivist internally, it is not necessarily receptive to Indian interests externally. This should prompt a rethink in Delhi about its Sri Lanka policy. Or in Bangladesh, the Sheikh Hasina government has been remarkably sensitive to Indian security interests — but its own internal democratic record is weak. This has resulted in Delhi working with Dhaka, at the cost of turning a blind eye to the regime’s excesses. India’s dilemma will only increase because, on one hand, China’s footprint in the region will make Delhi focus on interests, even when its democratic commitment and global partnerships with other democracies will add pressure to focus on values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-democratic-dilemma-hteditorial-101612275523918.html
03-02-2021||Editorials||In Ghazipur, farm protests take a turn | HT Editorial||After the unacceptable violence and vandalism on Republic Day, the farm movement had lost the moral high ground. A majority of protesters were demoralised and upset about how their movement had been hijacked. But the effort by the Uttar Pradesh government to clear the Ghazipur border last week, and farm leader Rakesh Tikait’s passionate appeal to persist with the protests, changed the situation in three ways. It led to a revival in the momentum of the protests; the key geographical base of the agitation expanded from Singhu and Tikri to Ghazipur; and it has created a real political challenge for the government.The farm movement is the most serious mass movement in the last six years. But as long as it was largely confined to the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, the government’s political calculus was that this would not lead to a major electoral backlash against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in its stronghold regions. But developments in western Uttar Pradesh (UP) has changed the calculus. Since the 2013 riots, with a breakdown in Jat-Muslim relations, Jats in large numbers moved to supporting the BJP. This has not always been an easy relationship, but over three elections, in 2014, 2017 and 2019, their support has helped the BJP in maintaining its dominance in west UP. With state elections a year away, the party is worried about alienating this large demographic in a crucial state.But no side should think it has the upper hand in this constantly shifting dynamic. This newspaper continues to believe it would be best for farm groups to take the government’s offer of an 18-month suspension of the laws and join a consultative exercise to come up with a revised framework. The R-day violence and Ghazipur developments only show the dangers of a prolonged stalemate for both the State and the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-ghazipur-farm-protests-take-a-turn-hteditorial-101612275103876.html
