04-02-2021||Editorials||The power of nationalism | HT Editorial||After tweets from a set of global figures expressing solidarity with the farm protests, and a strong ministry of external affairs statement defending the farm laws and rebuking “vested interest groups”, the battle over the narrative on the farm protests escalated on social media. The hashtag wars, in essence, saw those who oppose the government and its perceived crackdown on liberty leverage global support to push a narrative of India’s democratic backsliding. On the other side, those who were sympathetic to the government’s views framed it as an issue of national sovereignty and expressed their opposition to any external view on the matter. The Twitter battle actually throws up a larger question for India’s liberal political stream and critics of the government. At a time when they — rightly or wrongly — feel that the rules of the game have become skewed in favour of the ruling regime domestically, they end up seeking or leveraging international support as a way to enhance pressure on the government. This can be viewed in two ways. For those who believe in the idea of absolute national sovereignty, the prospect that external players should be participants in a domestic issue is unacceptable. For those who believe that democracy and human rights are universal values and override sovereignty, the idea of external participants raising their voice is entirely acceptable. This is a tricky terrain. Yes, international support — even if it is from private citizens, irrespective of whether it is spontaneous or encouraged — can help in magnifying internal weaknesses. And yes, in these times of interconnectedness, despite the anarchy that exists in the international system, any State, including India, has to take into account global conventions and norms. At the same time, as the social media pushback against this external display of solidarity showed, it is easy for this to become a tool of nationalist mobilisation for the government. Once again, irrespective of whether the tweets by Indian celebrities backing the government’s narrative were orchestrated or not, it adds to the narrative that a “foreign hand” is out to weaken India — which suits the political regime just fine in consolidating its domestic base and deflecting blame. The bottomline is simple. There are limits to external engagement, and India’s internal battles will have to be fought internally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-power-of-nationalism-ht-editorial-101612446250118.html
04-02-2021||Editorials||In states, don’t curb the right to protest | HT Editorial||The Bihar government has decided that those who engage in “criminal activities” during law and order incidents, protest demonstrations and blocking of roads and have been named in chargesheets will not get government jobs, government contracts, assistance for grants and bank loans and passports. This comes soon after the state government said that “offensive” social media posts against the government, ministers, parliamentarians and legislators will be treated as a cyber crime. Separately, the Uttarakhand government has said that the process of police verification before passports are issued will take into account comments made on social media, with an eye out for “anti-national posts”.This is disturbing. It is, of course, the duty of the State to maintain order. But, the State also has a duty to abide by the democratic Constitution — a key tenet of which is the right to free speech and assembly, including the right to dissent and protest peacefully. In both cases, the states seem to be backtracking on this democratic commitment.At a time when criticism of the government is often interpreted as being “anti-national”, there is a high risk of Uttarakhand’s move being used to silence inconvenient voices and impose an arbitrary punishment on them. Bihar’s case is even more striking. This is a state with a long history of political mobilisation, and an entire generation of the state’s leadership was socialised during the Emergency. For this state to then create legal room for any protest to be criminalised, and any protester to face a series of excessive and disproportionate government actions in the form of denial of rights and services, will have the impact of curtailing the space for dissent. Both state governments must step back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-states-don-t-curb-the-right-to-protest-hteditorial-101612445947510.html
04-02-2021||Editorials||On global criticism, tread with caution | HT Editorial||The farm protests have captured global attention, with a set of political, cultural, and environmental figures — including the popular artiste, Rihanna, the fourth-most followed person on Twitter — tweeting their solidarity with the protests. This has led the ministry of external affairs (MEA) to issue a statement, blaming “vested interest groups” and pointing to the evolution of the farm laws, the need to see protests within the framework of India’s democratic structure, the efforts made to reach an agreement with farm groups, and the violence on Republic Day. This is unusual simply because the government usually ignores comments from non-State actors.There are two distinct issues here. The first is the international solidarity that the movement has been able to generate, either due to the Sikh diaspora’s network, the larger mobilisation by liberal, left, and human rights groups, or the nature of the international media’s coverage of the protests. At a time when it is not unusual for narratives to be controlled through influencer networks and IT cells — and India is no stranger to either — it is entirely possible (no matter what the probability) that at least some of these displays of solidarity have been engineered.But irrespective of the causes and the merits of the criticism (or the merits of the underlying protest), the fact is that it erodes India’s soft power and image as a democracy. The government will have to recognise the intricate ways in which domestic developments intersect with global politics, especially at a time when social media has disproportionate power in shaping perception. The most substantive and effective way in which the Indian State can respond is by strengthening its own democratic framework and reiterating its commitment to individual liberty and the right to dissent, in principle and practice. Rihanna, for instance, with over 100 million followers on Twitter is unlikely to be cowed down by a troll army, or fears of falling sales of her music in India.The second issue is the ability of this criticism — confined at the moment to private, even if influential, citizens in the West — to become a matter of inter-State deliberations. This is where the MEA’s statement comes in. It can be read as an attempt to both counter what the government sees as “propaganda” to discredit India, and an effort to pre-empt foreign governments from being guided by the social media storm. It is unlikely that foreign governments, particularly the US, will, even if they issue token statements, make it a top diplomatic issue. But what is clear is that India, because of the ideological and economic shifts underway in the country and the subsequent polarisation, will face questions.This requires ensuring that these transformations are democratically managed internally, and smarter strategic communication about the nature of these changes externally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-global-criticism-tread-with-caution-ht-editorial-101612363126065.html
04-02-2021||Editorials||The significance of Chauri Chaura, 1922||On February 4, 1921, in Chauri Chaura in the wider Gorakhpur region of the then United Provinces, the non-cooperation movement — Mahatma Gandhi’s first national agitation against British colonial rule — took a turn towards violence. A group of protesters, in the wake of tensions with local authorities which escalated into a police crackdown, burnt down the local police station. Three civilians, and 22 policemen, died. A week later, remorseful about the use of violence despite his avowed commitment to ahimsa, the Mahatma called off the non-cooperation movement, overruling many of his close associates who believed that one incident should not lead to a retreat from the wider struggle.As India approaches the centenary of the Chauri Chaura incident, there are abiding lessons it. The first is the significance of Gandhi’s principled commitment to non-violence. This was tactically astute — Gandhi bet on the moral power of peaceful protests against the coercive machinery of the colonial empire — but it went beyond that to a recognition that violence undermines just causes. At a time when India is witnessing a spate of social movements, this is a principle that protest organisers must internalise. If Gandhi could pull back against a colonial power because violence was unacceptable, surely, non-violent methods should be sacrosanct when opposing the policies of a democratically-elected government.At the same time, as subaltern historian Shahid Amin has shown in his seminal work on Chauri Chaura, the incident reflected the nationalist impulse of the local peasantry — and depicting it as criminal discounts the local roots of political discontent. But there is a way to reconcile the differing schools of thought, for all three things can be right at the same time: Chauri Chaura violence had roots in local discontent; the violence was wrong; and Gandhi displayed tremendous moral conviction in pulling back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-significance-of-chauri-chaura-1922-101612363134634.html
