11-02-2021||Editorials||The right place of the border dispute | HT Editorial||In an article, titled China and the World in the Year of the Ox, published on a website, The Policy Chronicle, China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, has written that the two countries should “put the boundary dispute in the appropriate place in bilateral relations, address differences in a rational and constructive manner, and not allow differences to become disputes”. The core argument of the piece is that the cooperative element of the India-China relationship outweighs the areas of differences, common interests are greater than inconsistencies, and the two sides should respect each other, enhance mutual trust, and shelve differences while meeting each other halfway.As reasonable as this sounds, China is wrong. The appropriate place of the border dispute is at the centre of the relationship at this juncture. Yes, India has recognised — at least since 1988 — that there is no easy resolution of the border dispute. That is why both countries evolved a framework to keep peace at the border, while maintaining their respective stated positions on it, and deepening other elements of the bilateral ties. The unilateral and unprovoked Chinese aggression at the border in eastern Ladakh, the clash at Galwan, and the prolonged military stand-off, however, have changed things. If the border is not peaceful, if India’s territorial integrity is at stake, and if Indian lives have been lost, then no Indian government can proceed with the relationship in business-as-usual mode.If China wants to repair overall ties, there is a simple solution. In the Year of the Ox, it can disengage, demobilise and restore status quo ante at the Line of Actual Control. Reports of disengagement from the Pangong Tso area on Wednesday evening are positive — but India must carefully monitor whether Beijing translates words into meaningful action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-right-place-of-the-border-dispute-hteditorial-101612965367895.html
11-02-2021||Editorials||PM’s outreach in the House | HT Editorial||On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi bid farewell to four retiring members of the Rajya Sabha, including senior Congress leader, former Union minister and the leader of the Opposition in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad. The PM broke down while tracing his own relationship with Mr Azad, in particular the time when as chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mr Azad had called Mr Modi, who was then Gujarat chief minister, to inform him about the terror attack on Gujarati tourists in the Valley.The episode can be read in two ways. For one — and this is laudable — it indicates that despite the bitter political exchanges that mark proceedings in the House or on television screens during debates, there remains personal warmth and camaraderie between top leaders across the spectrum. A degree of elite harmony is essential for the smooth functioning of democratic institutions. As personal relations have become a victim of political rivalries, Indian democracy has suffered, polarisation has deepened, ugliness has seeped into the discourse, and government-Opposition communication and trust have broken down. Mr Modi’s attempt to convey personal warmth and show that politics need not just be contentious is a good step.But, at the same time, there appears to be a political subtext in the PM’s outreach. At a time when there is a deepening Hindu-Muslim communal rift as well as trust deficit between the Indian State and the Kashmiri street, was the PM reaching out to Azad — a tall nationalist Muslim leader from Jammu and Kashmir — to send a broader signal of reconciliation to minorities in Kashmir and beyond? At a time when relations between the treasury and Opposition benches are bitter, was the PM — by referring to not just Mr Azad but also speaking of Sharad Pawar with respect — sending a message to the House to find a new mechanism to work together? And at a time when Mr Azad is a prominent dissenter within the Congress, and he remains active politically, was the PM encouraging the G-23, as the group of dissident letter writers in the Congress has come to be known, to persist? Irrespective of motivation, Parliament was enriched by a rare display of cordiality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/pms-outreach-in-the-house-hteditorial-101612965366385.html
