16-02-2021||Editorials||India’s new mapping policy is a good step | HT Editorial||The government has announced radical changes to the country’s mapping policy by liberalising regulations on geospatial data and maps. With this constructive step, the Centre aims to make geospatial data and modern mapping technologies available to Indian companies so that they are not dependent on foreign resources. The existing regime is outdated since it imposes significant restrictions on the mapping industry, and requires Indian companies to follow a cumbersome system of pre-approvals and permissions to get licences. In recent years, there has been an increase in the use of geospatial data by many businesses such as app-based delivery companies, telecom and banking, to name a few. The private sector has been demanding a more comprehensive, accurate, granular, and constantly updated representation of geospatial data. The government too needs similar data for national infrastructure projects such as the creation of industrial corridors, deployment of smart power systems, modernising urban transport systems, and emerging initiatives such as Digital India and Smart Cities. But it is nearly impossible for the government alone to map the entire country, that too with high accuracy and quickly. With more players coming into the fray, this process will speed up. While Indian entities will be free to use this data and build on it, foreign entities and foreign-owned or -controlled Indian companies can license from Indian entities. This can augment public-private partnerships. The government also expects an increase in investment in the geospatial sector by private companies. The next generation of mapping technology is coming into its own, and the policy will enable Indian innovators to create substantial advances in mapping domestically, and eventually play a role in the sector globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-new-mapping-policy-is-a-good-step-hteditorial-101613486758878.html
16-02-2021||Editorials||Reboot the vaccine strategy | HT Editorial||In the span of a month since it began the coronavirus vaccination drive, India has administered roughly 8.5 million doses till February 15. Large supplies and a profuse network of centres meant India delivered more doses than any other country in the initial couple of weeks. But, as this newspaper noted on January 29, the trajectory stagnated, contrary to the rapid expansion seen in other countries and the expectations of authorities. This is best captured in India being overtaken by the United States (US) in the race for the first 10 million doses — the US took 31 days, while India is unlikely to hit that mark until later this week, or at least till 35-36 days after January 16.A host of problems are impeding efforts to scale up. The most persistent is hesitancy, which is catalysed by the fact that the outbreak has receded in recent weeks. Misplaced fears about serious side-effects and confusion about who needs a dose, when they should take it, and which vaccine is safe have also played a part in keeping the turnout under 50% (of targeted vaccinations per session) on average. Lately, this seems to be an even bigger concern when it comes to getting people to take their second doses — the turnout for this is even lower. The government has said it has a target of 300 million vaccinations by August, a little under six months away. One month in, it has managed to hit less than 3% of that target.Experience from other countries suggests the lull in the Covid-19 case count in India may be short-lived. It could face a surge as citizens becomes complacent and careless with regard to Covid-appropriate behaviour, or the population now protected due to past infection could start to see reinfections. Data from Maharashtra, for instance, suggests a rise in cases. Worse still, mutations of the kind seen in the United Kingdom, South Africa or Brazil could arise. On the logistical side, the millions of doses stockpiled by vaccine makers will begin to near the end of their shelf life, while summer temperatures could raise the risk of wastage even further. Altogether, these factors mean the window may be shrinking for India to avoid another wave by using vaccines. It is imperative now that at least a million vaccinations are done in a day, and five million a day by April. And the process can begin by opening up access to the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/reboot-the-vaccine-strategy-hteditorial-101613486757620.html
16-02-2021||Editorials||Disha Ravi’s arrest is wrong||Disha Ravi, a 22-year old Bengaluru-based environmental activist, has been accused of sedition, promoting religious enmity and engaging in criminal conspiracy, among other offences. After the Delhi Police detained her in Bengaluru on Saturday, and formally arrested her the next day, a Delhi magistrate has remanded her to a five-day police custody. The principal basis for the allegations against Ms Ravi is that she was involved in framing and editing a “toolkit”, which outlined measures to protest against farm laws; that she provided activist Greta Thunberg the “toolkit”; that the violence on January 26 copied the “action plan” in the toolkit; and this also had the involvement of Khalistani groups.Ms Ravi’s arrest throws up three issues. The first is the role of the State. The government has decided to politically invest in a narrative of a global foreign conspiracy against India, of which the “toolkit” is evidence. But the evidence to suggest such a conspiracy is limited. Despite its objectionable characterisation of the Indian State in parts, did the “toolkit” — a common technique in both political and civil society campaigns now — really lead to the violence on January 26? Is there direct evidence? At a time when India is facing criticism for growing illiberalism, is arresting young activists the most ethical or prudent course of action? How does it sync with India’s constitutional guarantees on free speech and political activity?The second is the role of the judiciary. The metropolitan magistrate’s decision to remand Ms Ravi to custody, without her private counsel being present, without questions about the process of her arrest, and without adequate scrutiny of the charges and evidence, does not reflect well. Courts must treat cases involving personal liberty with more rigour, rather than casually send people to jail when bail should be the norm. And finally, there is the role of activists themselves. Dissent is indeed a right, and taking up positions — even if they are logically inconsistent (how environmental activists stand in support of the ecologically unsustainable practices of Punjab’s farmers is a mystery) — is also a right. But often, activists end up getting used in larger political games. The fact that pro-Khalistan groups are actively seeking to leverage the current farm protests is not a secret, which makes it even more important for civil society to maintain its distinct identity and position on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/disha-ravi-s-arrest-is-wrong-101613395013507.html
16-02-2021||Editorials||The State must ensure safe mobility options||The State must provide safe mobility options and better roads; regularly conduct road safety audits; overhaul the accident response systems; scrutinise detailed project reports on road construction; cond-uct fitness checks of on-road vehicles; and push auto manufacturers to ensure better safety features. But first, India must accept that the accidents on its roads now constitute a serious public health crisis.Sixteen labourers died and five others were hurt after a truck in which they were travelling overturned in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district on Sunday. On the same day, in another road mishap, 14 people were killed and four others injured after a minibus collided with a truck in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district. These two accidents are a stark reminder that India’s roads have become death traps. Last week, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari acknowledged the dire situation, and said that India’s road accident scenario is more “dangerous than the Covid-19 pandemic”.According to a just-released World Bank report, Traffic Crash Injuries And Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society, despite having only 1% of the world’s vehicles, India accounts for the highest number of road accidents globally, killing 150,000 people and leaving more than 450,000 with disabilities every year. The poor suffer the most. More than 75% of poor households reported a decline in their income due to a road mishap. Low-income households (LIH) reported twice the numbers of deaths post-crash vis-à-vis high-income households, while victims from LIH and rural areas are also twice more likely to suffer a disability after a crash than high-income households.The State must provide safe mobility options and better roads; regularly conduct road safety audits; overhaul the accident response systems; scrutinise detailed project reports on road construction; conduct fitness checks of on-road vehicles; and push auto manufacturers to ensure better safety features. But first, India must accept that the accidents on its roads now constitute a serious public health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-state-must-ensure-safe-mobility-options-101613394655290.html
