19-02-2021||Editorials||The rise of freak weather events||A huge winter storm is sweeping across the southern United States (US), with Texas being the worst-hit. Millions of people in the state have been struggling to cope with the lack of power and frigid conditions. The extreme weather is expected to continue until the weekend, and deaths attributed to the storm have been recorded in four other states, besides Texas. Many other parts of the world — The Netherlands, Russia, Syria, Greece — also saw unusually cold weather this week, but nowhere is it as bad as in Texas. Difficult weather conditions across the US have had serious implications for the pandemic: Some shipments of vaccines have been delayed and some clinics have had to cancel vaccine appointments.While scientists are trying to establish the link between this particular episode of freak weather in the southern US and the climate crisis, there is a growing body of research that has established the connection between the climate crisis and a phenomenon called the polar vortex. Scientific research suggests warming in the Arctic, where temperatures are rising faster than anywhere else on the planet, may be weakening the jet stream that confines the cold air in the northern hemisphere. A weakened jet stream allows freezing air to move to lower latitudes. As experts have pointed out, what is happening in Texas can’t be just seen as a natural event, and is in part due to the climate crisis.The Texas event and other freak climate events across the world — India too has witnessed such incidents in recent years — are a reminder for governments that they must re-evaluate their nation’s utility infrastructure for climate resilience, and invest heavily to upgrade them so that they can quickly adapt and function during freak and extreme weather events. For example, the main electric grid in Texas was built with the state’s most common weather extremes in mind — soaring summer temperatures that cause millions of Texans to turn up their air conditioners all at once — but now it has to be recalibrated to tackle such cold events too. All over the world, operators have to be ready for intense heat waves, floods, water shortages and other calamities, all of which could create unknown risks for electricity set-ups. This transition won’t be easy, because most planners face an unprecedented challenge. The extreme weather events of the 21st century will look nothing like those that happened before — and years of past preparation will not provide any workable template.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-rise-of-freak-weather-events-101613738513582.html
19-02-2021||Editorials||The implications of Biplab Deb’s gaffe | HT Editorial||Tripura’s chief minister Biplab Deb recently said that home minister Amit Shah — while he was the president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — had joked, at a closed-door meeting, that after achieving electoral success domestically, the party would expand in Nepal and Sri Lanka. “We were talking during a meeting at the state guest house when Ajay Jamwal (BJP’s zonal secretary for the northeast) said the BJP was in a good position as it was in power in many states. In reply, Amit Shah said Sri Lanka and Nepal are still left. We have to take the party there and win there as well,” said Mr Deb, with a laugh.In the absence of a comment from Mr Shah on the issue, it is not possible to know whether he did indeed make such a remark. Mr Deb’s comments can be read as a light-hearted joke about the BJP’s tremendous success in recent years at home. But, in the neighbourhood, it is being read as the characteristic arrogance of Indian leaders in assuming that smaller neighbours have little agency of their own and fall within an Indian “sphere of influence” where political ideologies can be exported and political configurations determined. This may not have been the intent, but given the sensitivities on nationalism and sovereignty in the neighbourhood, this reading of the comment is not surprising.Remember, in Nepal, there is an active conservative constituency which seeks the restoration of monarchy and the Hindu state — and Nepali commentators have been left wondering if the BJP has plans to actively intervene in the country with such an objective in mind. India’s past political interventions in these countries only leads to further apprehensions and has prompted official responses from both Sri Lanka and Nepal. The lesson for Indian leaders, particularly those occupying constitutional positions, is to be more responsible, recognise boundaries, and know that jokes aren’t always funny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-implications-of-biplab-deb-s-gaffe-hteditorial-101613658825260.html
19-02-2021||Editorials||Engage with the academic world | HT Editorial||In January, the ministry of education, in consultation with the ministry of external affairs (MEA), issued revised guidelines for virtual conferences/seminars/trainings. The guidelines stipulate that any ministry or department, central educational public institutions, public-funded universities, and state-owned companies would require the approval of the relevant administrative secretary for both the event and list of participants. The subject matter must not be related to the security of State, border, Northeast states, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh or “any other issues which are clearly/purely related to India’s internal matter/s”. The guidelines add that there must be “appropriate level of scrutiny” to “identify the nature and sensitivity of data/contents of presentation/information” shared by the Indian delegation. MEA approval will be required for all events related to “India’s internal matters”, events with foreign funding, and events “involving sensitive subjects (political, scientific, technical, commercial, personal) with provisions for sharing of data in any form”.India has always taken pride in being a democracy and an open society. A fundamental tenet of an open society is the free and frank exchange of views and, in academic settings, cutting-edge research on all subjects, including those which may not align with the State’s narrative or priorities. Given the interconnected nature of disciplines which blurs the line between internal and external domains, the presence of specialised academics working on India abroad, the value of comparative perspectives in sharpening the understanding of events at home, and the fact that “internal affairs” can encompass every subject related to India, the guidelines are excessive and will stifle academic discussions. At a time when the pandemic has accelerated the shift towards virtual conferences, this is a moment to deepen international knowledge-sharing, rather than curtail it.A range of academic organisations and scholars — from the American Historical Association and 17 other umbrella American academic organisations to the Indian Academy of Sciences and Indian academics in foreign universities — have criticised the provisions, and rightly so. India has legitimate security concerns and must be fully vigilant. But India is also a confident democracy, willing to examine its strengths and weaknesses, and open to learning from the best. And that is why it must not be insecure about free academic exchanges on all subjects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/engage-with-the-academic-world-hteditorial-101613658823116.html
