22-02-2021||Editorials||In Puducherry, a political crisis | HT Editorial||In Puducherry, on Monday, the Congress government, led by chief minister V Narayanasamy, lost power. Faced with desertions of four legislators — two resigned on Sunday — the government fell short of a majority, and the CM choose to resign instead of facing a floor test. The fall of the Congress government is significant, for it comes weeks before the Union Territory will hold elections. It has also happened days after the President of India, on the Centre’s recommendation, divested Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi of her charge and assigned it to Telangana’s governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who asked the CM to prove his majority. The fall of the Congress government has led to a predictable exchange of accusations — with the CM accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of destabilising his government and the BJP accusing the Congress of misgoverning the UT.Puducherry has confirmed, yet again, three broader trends in national politics. The first is the inability of the Congress to manage its internal affairs. Reports suggest that there had been brewing disenchantment with the CM’s style of functioning, and legislators were looking out for political opportunities. Despite being the only southern region where the party is in power, the Congress high command clearly did not pay enough attention to these rumblings and address the internal discord. The fact that internal discord cost the Congress power in Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Karnataka just recently — and the party was about to lose its government in Rajasthan — should have alerted it to the need to stem internal factional divisions.Second, the developments confirm the BJP’s political aggression and willingness to deploy all means to weaken the Congress and ensure non-Congress governments, even if the BJP cannot, on its own, provide an alternative as is the case in Puducherry. But, most importantly, as analyst Chakshu Roy pointed out in this newspaper, the episode exposes the utter failure of the anti-defection law. It fails in stopping legislators from shifting allegiances and the ouster of governments due to these shifts, while stifling genuine voices from among legislators, beyond party lines, on issues of public importance. The practical realities of Indian politics — the ineptness of the Congress and the BJP’s quest for power — and the dysfunctionality of existing legal frameworks such as the anti-defection law has led to Puducherry’s pre-poll political shift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-puducherry-a-political-crisis-hteditorial-101614006570699.html
22-02-2021||Editorials||A year on, Delhi riot victims await justice | HT Editorial||After 1984, Delhi pledged never again. The national Capital has still not been able to heal the wounds left behind by the anti-Sikh violence after Indira Gandhi’s assassination. The fact that the State apparatus did not perform its role in maintaining order, and was actually seen as encouraging the perpetrators of violence (or being completely incapable of dealing with them), set the template, off and on, for similar events witnessed over the past three-and-a-half decades.Last year, the Capital saw its most horrific violence after 36 years. Coming in the wake of a prolonged agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, a polarised election campaign, and a deep trust deficit between Hindus and Muslims, it took place even as United States President Donald Trump was visiting India. It took days for the national security apparatus to restore order. And it exposed, yet again, the dangerous combination of extreme political rhetoric and sub-optimal law enforcement.India has learnt little from past riots. The investigation into the riots has been criticised for being partisan — where it is mostly the critics of the central government who find themselves being scrutinised, arrested and charged even as those pledging allegiance to the ruling party at the Centre appear to have escaped legal accountability. Delhi, and India can’t afford that. There has to be an independent examination of what happened last February and the law will have to take its course without considering political affiliations and victims will have to be provided justice. If that doesn’t happen, the wounds of 2020, like those of 1984, may remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-year-on-delhi-riot-victims-await-justice-hteditorial-101614006567141.html
22-02-2021||Editorials||Australia is on the right path||To understand Australia’s attempts to create a legal framework to get big tech firms to pay media publishers for the use of their content — and the recent deal between Google and News Corp whereby the latter will pay the former — it is important to go back to first principles. A mainstream media company invests enormous resources in reportage and news- gathering, fact-checking and editing, and production. The news and views which are generated after due editorial diligence inform readers about the world around them, set the agenda for policymakers, and shape discourse and narratives — central to the functioning of a democracy. Big tech media companies, such as Google or Facebook, then use this content (produced by others) on their platforms. Advertisers then, based on the dominance of tech firms over the online space, shift their ad expenditure away from traditional media companies towards these firms. And so the work is put in by mainstream media companies, expenditure is incurred by them, but the profits are largely monopolised by the tech firms, leaving the original content producers struggling for survival.This model is economically unsustainable. Full disclosure — this newspaper has suffered, along with other Indian publishers, due to the predatory practices of tech firms. But the issue goes beyond the specifics of one company, for the very task of producing good journalism is being rendered economically difficult due to the revenue model at play. This model is ethically flawed — should a distributor of content, by sheer power of access to users, whose private data is mined, often through dubious means, profit off work done by producers of the content? This model is also politically dangerous — in a democracy, accurate information and civilised debate are essential to hold power accountable, and this requires good journalism. It is not a coincidence that there is proliferation of fake news when those who produce accurate news are getting weaker.Australia’s decision to take on big tech firms and adopt a principled stand on the issue is welcome. And so is Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi — where, according to the Australian readout, Mr Morrison spoke of the progress in the media-related legislation. Democracies must work together to hold big tech firms accountable and preserve the basic building blocks of open, informed societies. India must follow suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/australia-is-on-the-right-path-101613913977423.html
