01-08-2021||Calcutta||Trust won in Mumbai hotel ends in murder of 62-year-old in Lake Town||A man who worked at a Mumbai hotel had apparently won the trust of an elderly guest and moved to the city to work as her help at her Lake Town home where she lived alone. The woman was found murdered and the house robbed a few days ago. Police have arrested the man from his home in Uttar Pradesh and recovered the stolen items and the woman’s mobile phone. Dipa Mukherjee, 62, was found dead in her home on Bangur Avenue on July 21. The jewellery she had been wearing was missing and the cupboards were ransacked, the police said. Relatives had found the decomposed body when they went to check on her after she did not respond to their calls. “Tapas Mukherjee, the woman’s son, had lodged a complaint of murder against a man who was living in the house since June this year. According to his complaint, the victim had gone to Mumbai in 2019 and stayed in a hotel where she met a hotel boy. The same man came here and started living in the house from June 18 as a domestic help,” said an officer of Lake Town police station. The police said they verified the son’s statement and found that a man named Dinesh Prasad, 35, was working in the Lake Town house. The Bidhannagar police contacted the Mumbai hotel and got Prasad’s details, an officer said. Based on investigation, the police conducted a raid in Shilhari in Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh and arrested Prasad. He was produced before Budaun court and brought to Calcutta on transit remand. “We have recovered the entire stolen booty and the victim’s mobile phone from his possession. He has been charged with murder and theft,” said an officer. Prasad was produced before a Bidhannagar court on Saturday that remanded him in police custody. Several incidents have been reported in the past where elderly people living alone have been robbed or killed by their help. “It is always advisable to submit details of the new domestic help at the local police station. Sometimes this acts as a deterrent to crime as the help would know that he or she would be caught in case they commit an offence as police already have the details. Or, if a crime is committed and the domestic help is a suspect, it always helps if the identity details of the house’s domestic help is readily available,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdown: Most halls shut on opening day||Cinemas can reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity from Saturday, said a notification issued from Nabanna a couple of days ago. But most halls, single screen as well as multiplexes, remained shut on Saturday. Most owners said the preparations for Covid protocols would take a few more days. But the absence of new films was the main hurdle for reopening of the halls, they said. The halls in Calcutta have remained shut for three months. Many employees have returned home in districts. In the absence of regular train services, coming back to the city is a challenge. “Ensuring the Covid protocols, sanitisation and checking the operational readiness of projectors, screens and other equipment will take a few more days. We are expecting to be ready for opening by next weekend. But the question is content. In the absence of new releases, there is a serious lack of content,” said Pranab Roy, the owner of two standalone halls — Menoka in Southern Avenue and Asoka in Behala. The Mumbai film industry is the main supply line that feeds halls. The absence of new Hindi film releases has hurt the distributors and hall owners badly. Many upcoming big budget films have been stalled for a long time because of the pandemic. The Telegraph has reported multiple times how the Covid-19 pandemic has sounded a possible death knell for many single screen theatres across Bengal. Unable to bear the mounting losses and fixed overhead expenses, several halls have shut down for good in and around Calcutta. Most multiplexes were also shut on Saturday. “The preparations for re-opening are underway. We will open from August 5,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director-east, INOX Leisure Limited. For content, the chain is for now banking on a couple of upcoming Hollywood releases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CMC to vaccinate bedridden persons by visiting their homes||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will vaccinate bedridden persons by visiting their homes considering their cases as special, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the corporation’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. Hakim made it clear that the services will be extended as special cases only to those who have no other way to get vaccinated. No one else in the family of the person will be administered the jab at home. The family members of the bedridden people have to visit the nearest primary health centre of the CMC to register. Around late afternoon, after vaccination at the centres winds up and when a vial has only one or two doses left, the vaccinators will visit the ailing person’s home to administer the jab. Hakim said that the CMC does not want to waste vaccine doses by carrying a new vial to the home. Civic officials managing Covid vaccination said each vial of Covishield and Covaxin has 10 doses but efficient drawing from the vials allows 11 people to be vaccinated from one vial. “We have decided to visit the homes of those who are bedridden and for whom it would not be possible to visit any vaccination centre to take the Covid vaccine. But these people are exposed to getting infected as nurses, physiotherapists or other caregivers come to tend to them every day,” Hakim said on Saturday. “We will treat them as special cases and vaccinate them by visiting their homes. I have spoken to the health secretary about this. Please do not think this to be a case of taking vaccination to people’s doors. This is a rare exemption for those who need it. We will not vaccinate anyone else in their families who can visit a vaccination centre,” he said. The Covid vaccination guidelines do not permit vaccination at people’s homes, said CMC officials, while pointing out that only very rare special exemptions will be offered to those who are immobile. A senior doctor of the CMC said that the services will be offered only to those who cannot be brought to the Covid vaccination centres of the CMC even in an ambulance or on a stretcher. “There have been some instances where our vaccinators went to the gate of the centre and administered vaccines to the elderly who sat inside cars. Our vaccinators will visit the homes of only those who cannot even come to the gate of the centre in a car,” said the doctor. Covaxin second doses Hakim said on Saturday that some of the dedicated vaccination centres opened only for the Covid shots would administer Covaxin second doses from Tuesday. These centres had administered some Covaxin first doses earlier and many of those recipients are now waiting for their second doses. This facility will be separate from the administration of Covaxin second doses from select primary health centres of the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Lease of life for malkhanas in 79 Calcutta police stations||⚫1974, Alipore — Rs 2,059.74 seized in a theft case ⚫1982, Gariahat — a gold chain seized in connection with a cheating case ⚫1994, Amherst Street — Rs 12 left unclaimed after a road accident The malkhanas in 79 city police stations contain seized articles, some of which are over half-a-century old. As part of a project announced by Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, renovations have started across malkhanas — rooms inside police stations where seized articles are stored —  to preserve old and seized articles in a better way. Majority of these malkhanas — sometimes the most neglected room in all the police stations — marked with dust and cobwebs, have a manual register where an officer, who is in charge of the malkhana, — referred to as the “Malkhana Babu” makes the entries. However, with the malkhana renovation project in hand, Calcutta police got a chance to restore and preserve the old and important seized items in the past few decades. “Several police stations in central Calcutta like Burrabazar and Posta have a large quantity of demonetised notes and gold jewellery that need to be preserved,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Similarly, many police stations have 20-30-year-old arms that can be disposed of following a uniform rule, the officer added. Selected police officers have been trained to build e- malkhanas where each of the seized articles will have tags and their entire data. Their case references will be maintained online through a software. Several police station malkhanas have got a fresh coat of paint and new racks to segregate the seized articles. A senior officer said separate standard operating procedures are being planned for sorting them. A train completed the first trial run between Phoolbagan and Sealdah stations on the East-West Metro corridor on Saturday. The six-coach train left Phoolbagan at 3pm and reached Sealdah a few minutes later before going back to Phoolbagan. The East-West corridor, which will connect Howrah Maidan and Salt Lake once fully functional, is now operational between Sector V and Phoolbagan. The stretch between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations is elevated. The route goes underground from Phoolbagan to Howrah Maidan. “We expect to run trains till Sealdah by December,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs: Night curfew is a mixed bag, some people abide and some flout||A notification, extending the Covid-19 curbs till August 15, was issued by Bengal’s chief secretary on Thursday. “All outdoor activities including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am except for health services, law and order, essential commodities including agricultural produce and other emergency services,” the notice reiterated. Chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, had instructed police to ensure strict compliance of the night curfew following several instances of rampant violation of the norms, especially by restaurants. A tour of some of Calcutta’s busier thoroughfares on Friday night, between 11pm and 12.30am, suggested night curfew was a mixed bag in the city. In some areas, the curbs were being maintained. In some other areas, a section of people made a mockery of them. Harish Mukherjee Road A much-loved dhaba next to the gurdwara in Bhowanipore, popular among night birds and morning walkers alike, had its shutter partially rolled down. It left just enough space for waiters to get in and out. The pavement in front was busy. Two men and a woman were busy taking pictures of themselves. A man and a woman sat on two plastic chairs, the former with a glass of a blue drink. There were half a dozen other persons on the pavement. Every now and then, a waiter stepped in and came out of the eatery with one or more trays. Their destination — around a dozen cars parked on the road in front. Most of the cars had their windows rolled up. The glasses came down for a refill of food. One waiter came out with a plate of papads and headed to a Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza. Another took a plate of paneer kebabs to a Hyundai Creta. A third waiter took two hot tandoori rotis into a Maruti Suzuki Swift. The dhaba is popular for its vegetarian fare but like on days before the pandemic, the hottest selling late-night item was doodh chai (milk tea). Rich and frothy, the tea came in large earthen pots, each priced Rs 30. One large kettle served 10-12 bhaands. The lot was placed on a giant tray, which a waiter carried up to people waiting on roads or inside cars. One tray was full to empty in a few minutes before the entire process repeated itself. All of this unfolded as a police control room (PCR) van was parked right opposite the dhaba. Two policemen chatted outside the van.  Sarat Bose Road The road is dotted with several restaurants, some of them known for late-night buzz. Most of the eateries were shut. But a dhaba — which, for many Calcuttans, is the best place for north Indian food in the city and exceptionally popular with nightbirds — was open. A usual Friday night outside the dhaba would mean scores of cars, often parked in double lines as the night progressed. The stretch would be buzzing with waiters and the air filled with the aroma of tadka, kebabs and other delicacies. Even inside, a meal would usually need a waiting time. On Friday, the scene was nothing like. There was hardly any car parked on the road outside. One of the shutters was rolled down. But a portion of the ground floor dining section was open. A counter there was operational. In around 20 minutes this newspaper spent outside the eatery, three people came and ordered food for takeaway. A notice was pasted on the walls outside. “Only takeaway and home delivery allowed after 8pm,” it read. “What are the non-veg options,” a man asked at the counter. “Please have a look at the menu, place your order and stand aside. A crowd at the counter would catch the attention of police,” said the man sitting at the counter. A handful of online food delivery executives also dropped by on their two-wheelers for collecting food. According to the existing curbs, online delivery of food is allowed through the night. From 9pm, the night curfew sets in and any movement of people or vehicles is barred. Ballygunge Circular Road The Telegraph had reported a few days ago how two eateries on the road flouted the night-curbs rampantly by serving diners inside cars as well as inside the restaurants late into the night. On Friday, the long queues of cars outside both eateries were not to be seen. The stretch outside both eateries was deserted. A police vehicle was parked outside one of the joints, next to the IAS officers’ quarters. As soon as a white sedan arrived at the eatery, a cop went rushing to the vehicle and spoke with the man at the wheels. Within seconds, the car left the spot. The gates of both the restaurants were half shut and only online food delivery executives dropped by once in a while.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
