02-08-2021||Calcutta||East Bengal will play ISL, differences with SCL will be sorted, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee once again has come forward and assured the fans of East Bengal that the club would play in the Indian Super League despite its management's ugly tussle with investors Shree Cement Limited (SCL). Banerjee, who had played a key role in the tie-up of SCL with East Bengal in their last minute bid to play in ISL last season, took a dig at the club management for being adamant in not signing the final agreement. “Ektu chere khelun, ektu chere khelle ota hoe jabe (Allow some space. It will be alright then),” Mamata said during a programme at the Netaji Indoor Stadium here. The club's participation in India's top tier league for the upcoming season was put in jeopardy as East Bengal club executive members refused to sign the final agreement with Shree Cement, claiming discrepancy in the initial term sheet. The initial document was signed by both parties in the presence of Banerjee in September 2020, that paved the way for a dramatic entry of East Bengal into ISL. “Last time also I had interfered at the last moment as there was no other way after Mohun Bagan had tied up with ATK. Now also as per my information, they will be able to play in ISL. It's about being flexible, and allowing some space (to SCL),” Banerjee said. “I want the Bengal clubs to compete in the ISL, and play a proactive role in the development of Indian football.” She said the "little differences" will be solved and soon the East Bengal fans will have their smiles back on their faces and the club will play in the ISL. “Taking responsibility for five years is also not a joke. The investor has to spend close to Rs 50 crores. Last time we had convinced them to come and invest in the club.” Banerjee's assurances came less than a month after two groups of East Bengal supporters had clashed in the Maidan. One group had planned a protest against the club officials and demanded Banerjee's intervention to end the logjam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Roof collapse kills 50-year-old woman on Bondel Road||A 50-year-old woman died after a portion of a roof of a dilapidated building on Bondel Road collapsed on Sunday afternoon. Disaster management personnel and police rescued Jashbindar Kaur and took her to SSKM Hospital, where she died. Police said the victim's husband and son were not at home when the roof collapsed around 2.10pm. A portion of a second-floor balcony of a three-storey building on Nanda Ram Sen Street in Shyampukur collapsed on Sunday afternoon. Police said no one was injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Several pockets in New Town and VIP Road remain under water till Sunday||Many pockets in New Town and stretches of VIP Road, including a 1-km section near the Haldirams outlet, remained under water till Sunday, more than 36 hours after the intense spell of rain had stopped. The areas remained flooded despite the deployment of suction machines on gully pits and rainwater channels by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). Traffic crawled through the flooded stretches while workers cleared gully pits and opened manholes so the water could be drained out. “We deployed men and suction machines but gully pits and channels are completely choked by cement, sand and stone chips,” said a PWD official, who was overseeing the drainage operations along VIP Road. In New Town, a 1.5-km stretch that leads to Derozio College from the first signal after crossing City Centre II was under knee-deep water till late on Saturday. Samaresh Das, a resident of Greenwood Elements, which is on this stretch, wondered why the authorities had not cleared the gully pits and drainage networks before the onset of the monsoon. “This is unacceptable in a planned city that has come up only recently,” Das said. The entire Balaka Abasan in Action Area I and the road in front of it were flooded. An NKDA official said most of the rainwater channels and gully pits had been choked by construction materials dumped along roads. “Despite deploying suction machines, we could not clear gully pits and channels. Most of them were choked as sand, cement and stone chips had fused together. Labourers with hammers and chisels were deployed to chip away the blocks,” the NKDA official said. Construction materials dumped along roads in New Town are not hard to miss in this otherwise planned township of parks, boulevards, smart residential highrises and mixed-use buildings. A Hidco official said they had asked construction material.supply syndicates not to dump the items on the streets but they rarely comply. “We tried to impose fines but since the syndicates are all politically connected, nothing much could be achieved,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Forehand fit for world champions||The first time Samir Chatterjee played table tennis was at a friend’s place, just after the Matriculation examination. “It was March, 1939,” says Chatterjee. They had placed a net on a dining table, though they had proper racquets. Chatterjee’s life changed that day. “It was as if I found a part of me that was lost,” says Chatterjee, who turned 99 in July. He went on to become a table tennis star in Bengal, feared for his forehand topspin and smash. A state champion, he met world champions, though could not represent India officially ever, to his regret. Later in life, he would be considered a “living encyclopedia” on table tennis, a master of every aspect of the game, as a player, coach, umpire and mentor of younger players. He was also a prolific writer on table tennis who contributed articles to several newspapers and journals in Bengal and outside. His friend Kumar Ghosh, at whose dining table it all began, would become another top player. Nothing came easy to Chatterjee. But nothing diminished his passion. A resident of Bhowanipore, he is waiting for me at the Ballygunge residence of a family friend. He is a small, frail, gentle man and he cannot see very well. But his eyes light up as he begins to talk. His memory remains surprisingly sharp. He remembers the year and month and sometimes the exact date of an event — and these are delivered with a stunning precision, memory marking a triumph against time. He has seen many ups and downs, and material rewards have eluded him, but he looks at his long life as a wonderful, rich, exciting journey. He dwells on every detail. Growing up in a large family in Bhowanipore, he loved every sport, including football and cricket. “But I was a thin child and a bhalomanush (simple) and was teased for being both,” smiles Chatterjee, who was a student of South Suburban school and Mitra Institution, where stalwarts like the poet Kalidas Roy and the mathematician K.C. Nag taught him. So he stayed away from the rough sports. Then table tennis struck. Like fate. “I passed Matric in the first division and took admission in the science stream in Asutosh College,” but he was obsessing about table tennis. “I could not sleep or eat. The books looked frightening, too big, and the War had started,” recalls Chatterjee. “Prices were going up.” His family had limited resources. “And I was making progress neither in studies nor in table tennis. I could not take the Intermediate examination,” he says. He felt guilty. Being the eldest of nine siblings, also responsible for his family. “On August 19, 1941, at 19, I took up a job as a clerk at the war office, in the department of the chief controller of purchases department (munitions), at Dharamatalla, for Rs 45 a month,” he says. A year or so later, Japanese war planes began to mark the Calcutta sky and the bombings began. “I remember the shattered glass at a bombed building in Dalhousie,” says Chatterjee. All the while he had been practising table tennis, mainly at the Bhowanipore YMCA, which later became Khalsa School. He began to travel to other Indian cities to participate in major tournaments. An encounter at a Hyderabad tournament in 1943 made him find his game. It had basically been “chop-defence” and an occasional backhand smash. He could never master the forehand. At the tournament he saw a player from Bombay (Indian cities were still known by their colonial names), 40ish, who wore adjusting heels because one of her legs was shorter. Her forehand smashes were electrifying. “I got a 440 volt shock,” says Chatterjee. “If she can, why can’t I? I asked,”. He mastered the forehand, his biggest weapon, the very same day, after missing it for years. He did not ever need any distraction, not even romance. “No woman ever came as close to me as table tennis,” laughs Chatterjee. He remained a bachelor all his life. He lives alone now, with some family members living close to him. He quit his job too, after a promotion, as he could not manage the greater responsibilities and keep practising. Being in the game itself was tough. Table tennis was never a star sport. “I left my job in January, 1945. On January 13, 1947, I would join my next job at Indo-Burma Petroleum, where my father also worked, and from where I would retire,” he says. “But in March, 1946, I enrolled at YMCA Chowringhee. It was the best place for table tennis, along with the College Street YMCA.” The best five years of his life followed, to end rather drastically. He remembers with great pleasure the “historic” tournament held at the University Institute Hall in Calcutta in 1947, “between December 22 and 31”. “It was the first time a reigning world champion, the Czech player Bohumil Vána, was participating at an Indian tournament.” Vána’s forehand was a legend. In a match, Chatterjee and Vána were even for long, till “19-19”, but Vána won at “21-19”, says Chatterjee, recalling every score. “We could not organise enough matches those days because of the price of the balls. They cost Rs 60 a dozen,” he says. A few months earlier, India had become independent, which had brought its own trauma. Returning from Puri a few days after Independence, Chatterjee had seen the body of a riots victim being eaten by vultures in front of Government House (Raj Bhavan). In 1948, Chatterjee became the Bengal champion, and also won two other titles with the singles. In 1949, in an exhibition match in Batanagar, he met reigning world champion Richard Bergmann, an Austrian-British player. Chatterjee gave Bergmann grief and was ahead in the game at “17-13”, but Bergmann won at “21-18”. He is very clear-sighted about his strengths and weaknesses. “I would have been ranked between No. 8 and No. 10 in India if there was ranking system then,” he says. “My defence was weak. There were better players than me in Bengal itself, such as my friend Kumar Ghosh and Tej Bahadur Kichlu. But my forehand had class,” he says. Talent is not the everything, however. In 1949, Chatterjee found himself inexplicably excluded from the India team. He and others were convinced that he deserved a place. “I came back home and tore up my racquet in front of my mother and then burnt it. I was so hurt.” Though he represented Bengal at Colombo the next year, he decided not to play at major tournaments any more. But not everything is winning and losing. Among his friends, Chatterjee counted another world champion, British-Hungarian player Viktor Barna, who became a mentor. Chatterjee remembers Barna as a warm, generous person, whom he could interview once at length at Grand Hotel, Calcutta, just walking in. For years, Barna kept sending high quality racquets to Chatterjee. Chatterjee considers Barna’s interview one of his best pieces. The best piece he has written, says Chatterjee, is one about Shri Ramakrishna, whose devotee he is. Among Chatterjee’s other friends are also the numerous younger people that he coached and mentored. He was a well-known referee and umpire. He proudly mentions another close friend, filmmaker Hrishikesh Mukherjee, his classmate. They were in touch always. Chatterjee has left his major trophies and all his writings, in five bound volumes, with his grandniece, in case anyone is interested. By the way, he is also a champion bridge player, which he started playing at 53. First auction bridge, then contract bridge. He is up for a tournament right now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||23-year-old abducted woman rescued from Mathura||A woman abducted from Maheshtala in South 24-Parganas five months ago was rescued in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura on Friday after police tracked down her location with the help of the SIM card that she had retained keeping her abductors in the dark. Raju Kumar Singh, the woman's elder brother-in-law, has been arrested for his alleged role in facilitating the abduction. Police said the 23-year-old’s phone had two SIM cards when she was kidnapped. Her abductors had asked her to destroy the SIMs but she managed to retain one. Investigators tracked her down after the woman exchanged messages with a friend, who was among the few who knew the second number and dropped a message a month back. Senior officers of the Diamond Harbour police district refused to reveal from where in Mathura the woman was rescued, saying more arrests were likely. On Saturday, the woman recorded her statement before a magistrate under Section 164 of the Indian Penal Code. The police later handed her to her parents, who live in Ranaghat in Nadia. The woman, who has a two-year-old child, was abducted moments after she had stepped out of her in-laws’ house in Maheshtala on a February afternoon. She told the police that she was stopped by a few men in a car, who asked her to read an address on a piece of paper for them. While she was reading out the address, the abductors allegedly pulled her in and injected something into her. She immediately passed out. The woman’s in-laws informed her parents that their daughter had gone missing. Her parents reached Maheshtala from Ranaghat and lodged a missing diary with the police. “She was carrying two SIM cards. The abductors wanted her to destroy both but she managed to retain one. But it did not have any balance left,” said an officer. In June, one of her friends, who were among the few who knew the number, sent her a message. When the woman didn't respond, she called her. “The woman answered the call and asked the friend to top up the card. The conversation lasted less than a minute. The woman told her friend the two would be in touch only through messages,” said a senior officer of Maheshtala police station. That was in June; four months after the woman had gone missing. Once the friend learnt that the woman was held up somewhere in Mathura, she alerted the police, triggering a search based on her mobile location. A police team left for Uttar Pradesh, while another monitored the woman’s tower location till the members of the other team rescued her. “We came to know during our investigation that the woman's elder brother-in-law had facilitated her abduction by tipping off the abductors after she had stepped out," the officer said. “An inter-state racket could be at work. We need some time to unearth it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Three arrested for smuggling in cannabis from US and Canada||Two women in their late 20s and a 30-year-old man have been arrested for allegedly smuggling in cannabis from the US and Canada. One of the accused women has an MBA degree. “They would sell the high-quality cannabis smuggled in from abroad in all major cities,” said an officer of the Narcotics Control Bureau. Shraddha Surana, 25, and Tareena Bhatnagar, 26, were picked up from their homes in Ballygunge. “Bhatnagar has an MBA degree and was working as a financial analyst. Surana was involved in family business,” the officer said. The third accused is Karan Kumar Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||RKM college to admit undergraduate students through online screening||Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, will admit undergraduate students in all departments through online screening. The college on Saturday said the students applying to study honours in history, physics, English and economics will be screened through online admission tests and viva. The other eight departments, including chemistry, mathematics and statistics, will shortlist candidates based on their plus-II marks and then screen them based on online viva. “Dates of the online interview and viva have been mentioned in the notification (issued on Saturday),” said Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college. The college, which used to admit students through on-campus admissions tests till 2019, had last year admitted students based only on board marks in all departments other than English. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce. The state government has barred colleges and universities from conducting admission tests for undergraduate programmes this year. RKM institutions are outside the purview of the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Twin events mark Prince Dwarkanath Tagore’s 175th death anniversary||Across continents, Prince Dwarkanath Tagore was remembered in the lands of both his birth and death on his 175th death anniversary on Sunday. The Bengal Heritage Foundation (BHF), a UK-based group of diaspora members promoting Bengali heritage and culture across the world, held a memorial meet at Kensal Green Cemetery in London where the merchant prince was laid to rest in 1846, two and half hours after heritage enthusiasts of Narayankuri village near Raniganj commemorated him on the Damodar bank beside the jetty that Carr, Tagore & Company had built for running the coal mine he had acquired. “Dwarkanath was a pioneer in Indo-British trade relationship in being the first Indian to hold an equal partnership in a company with the British. This was a tremendous achievement in that period. He had personal audiences with Queen Victoria and knew her family, so when he passed away at a London hotel, royal carriages were sent to carry his remains,” BHF president Sourav Niyogi told The Telegraph from London. BHF has worked with the cemetery authorities to clean the Aberdeen granite tombstone and restore his resting place in 2018. Other than BHF members, the event was attended by Henry Vivian-Neal from the Friends of Kensal Green Cemetery, Rohit Vadhwana, first secretary, High Commission of India, and Neil Mukherjee, a Tagore descendant. Jonathan Kennedy, director, arts, British Council India and British deputy high commissioner Nick Low delivered virtual addresses. “It is great that Dwarkanath’s contribution to industry and his enterprise are being celebrated,” said Mukherjee, a London-based anesthesiologist whose great great grandmother was Dwarkanath’s niece. On the Damodar banks, villagers of Narayankuri, 12 km from Raniganj station, have fought to preserve the remains of Carr, Tagore & Co. under the banner of a memorial committee which bears the year 1832 in its name. “This is when Dwarkanath first visited the area to start work on acquisition of the coal mine from a British company. He would start scientific mining and transportation to turn the business around. The company built a jetty on the bank to facilitate coal transportation by schooners. Earlier elephants did the job. A section of the jetty wall still stands,” said Santanu Banerjee, a teacher of Kazi Nazrul University, who is part of Asansol Heritage Research Group which is helping the villagers preserve local history. Tagore, who had imported steam engines from England, had tried to get permission to start a rail service from Calcutta but was refused by the East India Company till nine years after his death. “The haulage room where coal brought from the pit was dumped is there but the manager’s bungalow has crumbled. The villagers have resisted attempts at mining at the site so three of its walls remain,” said Banerjee. The group collected video comments from its own members as also key figures involved in research on the topic like Bashabi Fraser, who heads the Scottish Centre of Tagore Studies at Edinburgh Napier University. “The comments were sent to be screened at the London event,” Banerjee added. The villagers hold a three-day fair during Makar Sankranti in memory of Dwarkanath and have installed his bust near the jetty wall. “Sourav (the BHF president) is from Asansol and during his visit here this February, he proposed an event parallel to theirs on August 1. We are planning to mark this day annually henceforth,” said Gautam Chowdhury, a village heritage committee member. Raniganj MLA Tapas Banerjee, who had got the jetty base concreted on the committee’s request, attended the event held next to Mathurachandi temple where the Tagore bust is installed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Youth holding two pistols arrested in Maniktala, 1 pistol seized||The picture of a youth holding two pistols that had gone viral on social media led to the arrest of the 24-year-old in Maniktala on Saturday and has turned the focus on arms dealers who lure potential buyers with pictures. Kishan Jayasara was arrested after a team of officers went around looking for someone with a watch similar to the one in the youth's post. Police said an 8mm pistol with a few bullets was seized from him. Kishan has denied links with illegal arms trade and claimed that someone had hacked his Facebook profile and planted the picture. “Asked about the second pistol, he denied before saying it was with a friend in Bhatpara,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. The police conducted a raid in Bhatpara but did not find the accused. Officers said they learnt that the Bhatpara youth was a murder accused and part of a criminal gang. “It seems the two were trying to form a close group to sell improvised firearms,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
