03-08-2021||Calcutta||ATM snoop waits in line and steals Rs 90,000 from 74-year-old woman||A 74-year-old woman from Golf Green who had gone to withdraw money from an ATM with her son’s debit card met a man in the queue outside the kiosk who offered her his place and allowed her to withdraw money before him. However, the man allegedly entered the kiosk after her and confused her by saying that double the amount she typed had been debited from her account. He then apparently advised the woman to take out a mini-statement to verify the withdrawal. The man allegedly spied on her PIN when she entered it to take out the mini-statement before replacing her ATM card with another card of the same private bank where her son has an account. Even before Sanghamitra Ghosh could return home, a short walk from the ATM, Rs 90,000 had been withdrawn from her son’s account. Police suspect the card handed to the woman was a stolen one. Ghosh, who has lodged a complaint with Golf Green police station, went to an ATM of the State Bank of India on Uday Shankar Sarani on Saturday morning, the police said. “She mentioned in the complaint that she saw a man standing outside the ATM kiosk waiting for his turn to enter. But on seeing her, he offered to let her go in first. The woman had withdrawn Rs 10,000 when she suddenly realised that the man had entered the kiosk and was standing behind her,” an officer of the police station said. The woman’s son, Bodhisatwa, a senior executive at an advertising agency, said he was on an office call when he started receiving text messages about money being debited from his account. “I knew my mother had stepped out to withdraw Rs 10,000. But then there were messages of withdrawal of another Rs 90,000 in multiple transactions,” Ghosh said. As his mother returned home and told about the person who “helped” her at the ATM, he discovered that the card she was carrying was not his. It belonged to one “Rupam Das”, Bodhisatwa said. “I am worried about my stolen money. I am equally concerned about the safety and security of all elderly persons, who are so vulnerable to such frauds. Is it not the duty of the bank to deploy a guard to help people of her age so they can’t be duped like this?” said Bodhisatwa. The police said the Golf Green kiosk from where Ghosh had withdrawn the money was unguarded. “Despite repeated communications, banks are reluctant to deploy guards at ATMs,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The majority of the banks — private as well as nationalised — do not deploy guards at ATM kiosks as a cost-curtailment measure, several bank officials told The Telegraph. A bank official said guards are only posted at the ATMs that are attached to branches. “There are CCTVs in the ATMs and in case of any crime, if the victim can fill in a form and prove that he or she was not at fault, the amount is usually compensated,” the bank official said. “As the money is insured, banks, too, do not incur any loss.” The officers investigating the Golf Green case said they had collected the details of “Rupam Das”, who is a customer of the private bank where Bodhisatwa has an account. Das has not yet reported any ATM card theft, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Blockade by passengers delay trains in Howrah-Burdwan section||Scores of special trains and long-distance trains were delayed on Monday morning after a section of passengers staged a blockade at Pandua station in the Howrah-Burdwan section, said an official of the Eastern Railway. Local train services are suspended as part of the Covid curbs. Only special trains meant for essential service providers are running. But such trains are being crowded by daily commuters. On Monday, a scuffle broke out after some essential service providers protested the crowding of trains by others, the official said. The daily commuters demanded trains for them and blocked the tracks from around 7am till 10am, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University to admit undergraduate students solely based on board marks||Presidency University will admit students to its undergraduate courses this year solely based on board marks as admission tests could not be held following an objection from the state government. An admissions notification issued on Monday says the merit lists for all subjects, except statistics and economics, would be prepared on the basis of marks obtained in the Class X and Class XII board exams. For economics and statistics honours, students will be admitted based on their plus-II board marks. The details of the selection process for the 665 undergraduate seats have been uploaded on the university’s website. Aspirants have to submit applications between August 2 and 20, in keeping with a deadline set by the state government. The notification says that for physics honours, the marks in math and the average marks in physical science and life science in Madhyamik, or scores in the science group in equivalent exams, will be added to the plus-II aggregate and the plus-II marks in math before drawing up the merit list. For chemistry honours, the average marks of physical science and life science in Madhyamik, or the marks in the science group in equivalent exams, will be added to the plus-II scores in chemistry, math and English. Marks-based admission was necessitated at the College Street institution after education secretary Manish Jain had during a meeting with vice-chancellors on July 7 said no government-aided colleges and universities could conduct admission tests for undergraduate courses this year, apparently because of Covid-19 and the digital divide among students. Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia told The Telegraph on Monday: “For marks-based admissions, the performance of an aspirant in secondary board exams is being factored in. This will help us segregate candidates in case scores are tied and identify students with the potential to pursue a subject.” None of the boards could conduct the school-leaving exams this year because of a rise in Covid cases. A teacher of a humanities department said screening prospective students through some sort of a test would provide a solution, as that would give a level playing field to the applicants. According to him, this year has witnessed a sharp decline among top-grade scorers in the state higher secondary exams and a rise in the number of such scorers in the CBSE Class XII and ISC exams. “But after the higher education department last week struck down Jadavpur University’s proposal to give some weightage to online group discussions or viva while screening undergraduate students in science, marks-based admission remains the sole option,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||ISC topper aspires to be pastry chef, chooses to pursue hospitality course||An 18-year-old girl who scored 99.5 per cent in ISC (Class XII) wants to be a pastry chef and has chosen to pursue a course in hospitality. Sameeksha S. Kumar of Delhi Public School New Town said “not marks but aptitude and passion should decide one’s career”. Teachers across schools said students were now making unusual choices of courses unlike some years back when engineering, medicine or commerce were the most sought after. Top performers have decided to pursue textile designing, jewellery designing, film studies, sports management, and hospitality in recent years, they said. Sameeksha, who has been baking since Class VII, said she felt “at home in the kitchen”. “When I got my result, a lot of people were sceptical about my decision to choose hospitality. My career choice has nothing to do with my marks because this is what I have wanted to do for a long time. No percentage will determine your passion,” said the humanities student. “If you want to provide for others, then hospitality is definitely for you. When I go to a restaurant and a waiter comes to our table with food, I don’t see him as serving me but providing for me.” She was speaking at a webinar ‘Hospitality. The Passion of Champions!’ hosted by IIHM on Monday on hospitality as a career alternative. Speaking on the occasion, David Foskett, hospitality professional and author, who joined from London, said a pastry chef should ideally be equally comfortable with the arts and science. “Of all the crafts and skills there are in the culinary world, pastry and bakery are the most scientific. It is also the biggest art form that we have in the culinary world. To be a pastry chef is to be a skilled practitioner. To have the scientific knowledge of things like fermentation, emulsification and the science of sugar, the science of chocolate...and then the artistic value...If you are a pastry chef you have... all this scientific knowledge, all this skill but you are an artist,” he said. He said pastry chefs can command a lot of money go straight to the top because they are artists and “many pastry chefs throughout the world are earning more than executive chefs”. Suborno Bose, chairman, IIHM, said the hospitality industry has resumed recruiting. “We are very upbeat,” he said. “Food is not just about creating food but using technology, e-commerce... how you can monetise, how you can get the commercial value to your food business. I think that is the big thing happening in the pandemic and that is what we are going to teach our students,” he said. “It is not just about creating.... Our mantra over the last 10 years has been art and commerce of the hospitality industry...where we teach our students the product and the revenue,” he said. Celebrity chefs Ranveer Brar and Shaun Kenworthy shared their insights at the webinar. Several schools have noted a change in the career paths chosen by some of their top performers. “This is not exclusive now. Earlier, students would tread the traditional path which is not true anymore. There have been toppers pursuing home science and it has nothing to do with marks,” said Devi Kar, director, Modern High School for Girls. “Students have become more assertive and parents have become more open,” said Seema Sapru, principal, The Heritage School. “Earlier, students would decide to study something but after a few years decide it’s not their calling and switch. But that has changed now and they are making unconventional choices,” she said. Teachers said that parents are now no longer very “strict and parochial” and students get both liberty and recognition. “Students are now more privileged as parents are giving them a lot of freedom... There are students who are studying, getting a stipend and supporting themselves,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal, La Martiniere for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Transgender activist gunned down outside Nimta home||Bike-borne youths gunned down Sumana Dhar, a transgender person, when she was about to step into her house in Sabitri Pally in Nimta, about 16km north from the heart of Calcutta, on Sunday evening. Sumana was a prominent voice within the community, who would protest against alleged wrongdoings by some of the members in Birati, Nimta and adjoining areas. Some of those who knew the 32-year-old said Sumana used to attend meetings and conferences on transgender rights and tried to persuade several of the community members not to engage in infighting. In Nimta, Sumana organised small meetings to try and influence some of the community members to refrain from certain activities that create a wrong impression about transgender people in public minds, police said. “Sumana came across as a very upright individual who wanted to reform some members of the community across parts of North 24-Parganas,” said Ranjita Sinha, a transgender activist and former member of the West Bengal Transgender Welfare Board. “This murder sends out very disturbing signals for our community.” The police said four youths came riding motorcycles around 7pm and fired four bullets from close range, leaving Sumana in a pool of blood on the road leading to her house, which is located in an area under North Dum Dum Municipality. The bullets pierced Sumana’s back, the police said. Alarmed at the sound of gunfire, some residents of the locality rushed to the spot and took Sumana to Panihati State General Hospital in Sodepur. Sumana was later shifted to a nursing home in Barasat, where the activist died. “We have learnt that Sumana had gone out in the afternoon to attend an invitation and was returning home in the evening when she was shot. It appears the assassins had information about Sumana’s schedule,” said a senior officer of Nimta police station. The police are scanning CCTV footage and also Sumana’s mobile call records. Officers have also spoken to some members of the community who knew Sumana closely. Officers have also met those who had invited Sumana for lunch on Sunday afternoon. “We have got in touch with officers from police stations adjoining Nimta, which look after areas that have a sizable transgender population. It seems assassins were hired for the job,” said the officer of Nimta police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Over 3,000 nurses from state government hospitals protest seeking end to pay disparity||About 3,000 nurses from state government hospitals marched in the SSKM Hospital compound on Monday demanding an end to an alleged disparity between their pay and that of other government employees with similar qualifications. The nurses have been holding a sit-in at SSKM since July 26 on the issue. The protests have gained traction because of the timing — more than a year into the Covid-19 pandemic, during which nurses played a critical role in tending the sick, earning accolades from all quarters. The protesting nurses, however, said that while the government was lauding their efforts, it has not raised their pay. “Nurses in the government sector have been putting up with pay discrimination for years. A nurse with a diploma should be entitled to Level-12 pay but they get Level-9 pay. Nurses across all categories - diploma-holder, BSc-degree holder, experienced, fresher - get less than what they should be entitled to,” said Bhaswati Mukherjee, the secretary of Nurses Unity, an association of nurses. “An engineering diploma-holder gets Level-12 pay. There is a difference of nearly Rs 8,000 between levels 9 and 12. We want an end to this discrimination,” said Mukherjee. The “pay disparity”, she said, has been there for years and nurses have protested against it time and again. The state health department had promised to address the nurses’ grievances in 2019, the last time they protested before the current round of agitation, but nothing was done, the protesters alleged. Chandrima Bhattacharya, the junior health minister of Bengal, said the government would look into the nurses’ demand. “If they have a grievance, they can raise it and the government will look into it. As the minister of state of the department, I cannot take any policy decision,” Bhattacharya told Metro on Monday evening. The nurses said they started the protests after realising that the government had ignored all their pleas. “We had written to the chief minister (also the state’s health minister) on July 7 detailing our grievances, but none from the government wanted to know our demands. We started a sit-in on July 26, yet none from the government felt it necessary to talk to us. We are left with no other option but to hit the streets. But we are assuring patients that services will not be impacted. There will always be nurses in all wards attending to patients,” said a protesting nurse. The protests, while the country is in the midst of a pandemic, have caught the attention of many in the medical community. Many of the nurses who have joined the protest said they felt hurt by the way they had been dealt with by the government and the health administration. Nurses monitor patients’ health around the clock. They check the vitals, create channels in a patient’s hand to administer medicines and ensure that medicines are being given to patients in the right dose. “Doctors come once a day. It is the nurses who monitor patients throughout the day. Nurses have to be present inside Covid wards for much longer duration than doctors. We are not demanding any favour. We are just asking for the right compensation for our services. Won’t a doctor protest if he or she is given a diploma holder’s salary?” asked a nurse who works in a teaching hospital in Calcutta. Bengal suffers from an acute shortage of nurses as far fewer nurses graduate from the state every year than the requirement. An official of a private hospital said only 30 per cent of the nurses in Bengal were from the state. The rest are from northeastern states, Jharkhand, Kerala and Karnataka. The shortage also means that the nurses are often overworked as they spend more time at hospitals than they are supposed to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Vivekananda College for Women in Behala reduces semester fees||A women’s college in Behala has reduced the fees for the July-to-December semester this year. Vivekananda College for Women in Barisha in a meeting on Friday decided to charge a subsidised fee as many of its students come from financially-disadvantaged families. The college will charge Rs 75 a month for BA (honours), Rs 50 a month for BA (general), Rs 110 a month for BSc (honours), Rs 85 a month for BSc (general) and Rs 60 a month for BCom (general) till December. Principal Soma Bhattacharya said that during admission last year, students had to pay Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 for various courses for six months, even after the fees had been reduced by about 25 per cent. “There are many applicants who under the circumstances (of job loss and slump in business) would find it difficult to pay even Rs 3,000. We felt that because of that these girls might quit studies. We, therefore, decided to reduce the fees,” said the principal. Bhattacharya said that in January many students had sought reduction in fees, in addition to the concession offered. “We realised that existing students could at least approach us but new students might be hesitant to approach,” she added. The college had a strength of 1,500 odd students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government increases truck load limit||The Bengal government on Monday issued a circular allowing trucks to carry more load than what was permissible, in compliance with a notification by the Centre that is in force in most states. The increase in load will be proportional to the axle weight of transport vehicles and the number of tyres. Transport department officials said a 12-wheel truck, which could carry up to 20 tonnes, would now be allowed to carry around 25 tonnes. Similarly, a 10-wheel truck will now be allowed to carry 19 tonnes, instead of 16 tonnes. Truck operators said raising the load limit had been their long-standing demand and the decision would give them the freedom to carry additional load. Their counterparts in several states have been enjoying the freedom since July 2018, the operators said. Many truck operators said they would bring out their vehicles after months because the state government’s order would finally help make their business viable. “Just a little over 30 per cent of around 1.75 lakh 12-wheel trucks have been operating. The rest have been idling because it made no sense to carry less load with diesel prices spiralling,” said Subhas Chandra Bose, the general secretary of the West Bengal Truck Operators Association. “Now, at least 60 per cent of the remaining truck owners will start accepting orders.” Senior officials said the state, too, would gain from the order because the road tax of a transport vehicle is calculated on the basis of its carrying capacity. The road tax for each 12-wheel truck will go up by close to Rs 2,000. Monday’s directive comes close on the heels of a decision by the Bengal government to slap a fine of Rs 20,000 on any truck operator found overloading. On July 31, the state government issued an order stating that apart from the fine, an errant truck operator would also have to pay Rs 2,000 for each tonne of excess load. The fine is aimed at serving an “effective deterrent to the menace of overloading”, the order had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||‘Almost 100 per cent’ candidates clear higher secondary, announces West Bengal HS council||“Almost 100 per cent” candidates have crossed the higher secondary barrier this year, the state HS council announced on Friday following a review of the marks of the 18,000 students who were initially declared unsuccessful. The council had announced on July 22, when the plus-II results were announced, that 97.69 per cent of the 8,19,202 candidates had cleared higher secondary. The council had to devise a methodology to assess the candidates as the school-leaving exams were scrapped this year because of Covid. Mahua Das, the president of West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, on Monday said the pass percentage rose to “almost 100 per cent” after the council decided to pass the unsuccessful candidates on compassionate grounds. “Previously, the pass percentage was 97.69 per cent. Now the pass percentage has gone up to almost 100 per cent. 18,000 students who had appealed to the council after being declared unsuccessful have now passed…. We got them passed after awarding the minimum marks on grounds of compassion. The state government had advised us to consider the appeals favourably,” Das said. Out of 500, a student has to score at least 150 (30 per cent) to pass HS. The council announced the jump in pass percentage on a day submission of online applications for undergraduate admissions started across the state. The top brass of the state government had decided on July 26 to depute officials to speak to unsuccessful examinees across the state and assure them that their grievances would be addressed by July 30. Sources said the move followed a realisation that agitations by unsuccessful students would send a wrong message about the evaluation process. All 10,79,749 candidates cleared Madhyamik this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Surgeons outline history of India’s healthcare||A book written by a cardiac surgeon-debater traces the journey of healthcare in India. A discussion between Kunal Sarkar, the author of The Sickness of Health, and neurosurgeon and fellow debater Sandip Chatterjee at Calcutta Club on Friday offered insights into the then and now of healthcare in the country. The discussion was moderated by Pradeep Gooptu. Snippets from the discussion Animals in zoo Gooptu wondered how an insider like Sarkar could come up with a book on the healthcare system. “Whatever you write may either be misunderstood or may be construed as pleasing to some people. Aren’t you too close to the fire to be writing such stuff?” Sarkar concurred. “We are not just close to the fire; we are in the fireplace. But there is another way of looking at it. You have a series of films called A Night at the Zoo, Night at the Museum. We are like animals in a zoo, a very peculiar zoo. It is absolutely imperative for society. It has got its own peculiarities,” he said. “The trouble is society at large only interacts with this facility on a need-to-use basis. But in these times, we have been swept by a crisis of enormous proportions. I think therein comes the necessity of us becoming a little more familiar — as we do with politics, economics, entertainment. This has been a little effort to make people familiar with the realities, the trials and tribulations of healthcare,” Sarkar said. Watershed line Sarkar said India was “a lower middle class” nation when it came to indices like human development and education. But the same country is a healthcare destination for people from much developed countries. “We should have never been a country which does complex neuro work, cardiac work, transplant work. Can you imagine the entire Middle East and central Asia, countries with three times our per capita GDP? People from these places come to India for healthcare. This is an anachronism,” he said before going on to explain what set India aside. “This precocious development of healthcare in India happened because there was a generation of people, just before you (Chatterjee) and me. So, the 1970s was that watershed line in medicine. A lot of people who went abroad and got training, came back, worked, and not only made a name for themselves but started a lineage and legacy of training. They gave us the expertise...,” he said. Chatterjee said his decision to pursue neurosurgery was considered incredulous. “Nobody wanted to do a very specialised subject at that time…. The neurosurgery we were exposed to as medical students… was dreadful. With all due respect to the people who were doing it, they had no facilities…,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Schools celebrate International Yoga Day||Delhi Public School, Howrah Yoga and music played a significant role in maintaining sanity in the lives of DPS Howrah students. They recently released a video, which shows the students combining yoga with music to mark the International Yoga Day (June 21). They performed yoga and played a variety of instruments such as sarangi, veena, synsthesiser and guitar to maintain mental and physical health that would help them fight the pandemic better. Children from all classes also took part in a mass yoga, conducted online by the physical education department. They learnt about the importance of yoga and its positive implications. “We celebrated the International Yoga Day and the World Music Day together and with a difference. Our students took it to a notch higher by performing asanas that were synchronised gracefully with strands of musical instruments,” said principal Sunita Arora. Asian International School Junior section of Asian International School celebrated the International Yoga Day by organising a special assembly on the topic Fit India. It began with a welcome speech by Class IV student Sujaan Ghosh, who highlighted the importance of yoga in our life. Yoga teacher Tripti Kana Bhowmik conducted a live yoga session, where she performed asanas and pranayama. Dance teacher Chaiti Das conducted a musical aerobic session. “The occasion delivers a message that alignment of energy body, physical body and mind is the key to a healthy being. It has been there with us as our ancient culture and yet it holds a profounding relevance in the modern world. As a school it is our prime responsibility to make children aware about the integration of yoga in our day to day lives,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Ruby Park Public School Ruby Park Public School celebrated the International Yoga Day virtually with a yoga training session for the students of classes II to X. The programme commenced with prayer and was followed by presentation of basic yoga postures, pranayama and meditation. An inter-house quiz competition on asanas and the history of yoga were conducted for classes VIII to X. The Ganga House was declared the winner. “Yoga has become the best way for physical and mental fitness. It has been accepted as the best way to release our negative energies and embrace positivity in life. Our aim was to motivate students to get into the regular practice of doing a fitness regime. The students learnt many asanas and were happy to be a part of this celebration,” said principal Joyita Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
