04-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta HC orders release of Suvendu Adhikari aide||A division bench of the Calcutta high court on Wednesday ordered immediate release of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s aide Rakhal Bera. He was granted bail on Monday by a single bench but was shown as arrested on Tuesday in another case although the single bench had said that Bera cannot be arrested in connection with any case in any part of Bengal without the court’s order. Bera’s advocate Lokenath Chatterjee said the division bench of justice Tapabrata Chakraborty and justice Subhasis Dasgupta on Wednesday asked the state to release Bera from the Contai jail in East Midnapore district immediately. Bera walked free on Wednesday evening. The next hearing will take place on August 26. Bera was charged in several criminal cases in East Midnapore in June. On July 1, a case was registered against him at the Manicktala police station in Kolkata as well. He was subsequently arrested. “The division bench did not interfere with the order of the single bench of justice Rajasekhar Mantha. Also, the division bench did not grant any stay in favour of the state government,” said Chatterjee. Justice Mantha passed his order after hearing Bera’s petition seeking bail and a stay on the investigations. In the order passed on Monday, justice Mantha said, “Considering the repeated attempts by persons to lodge one complaint after the other against the petitioner and in a planned and systematic manner and the repeated arrest after bail in one case or the other, this court is persuaded to grant interim relief to the petitioner.” “…it is reiterated that the petitioner is being punished by the ruling dispensation for changing political affiliation and for being close to the present leader of the opposition by causing to foist false cases against him,” said the order. “There appears to be a pattern being followed by police in coordination with one another in attempting to keep the petitioner in custody by hook or crook on one pretext or the other and by registering an FIR after the other,” justice Mantha said in his order. Challenging the order, the West Bengal government on Tuesday moved the division bench of justice Tapabrata Chakraborty and justice Subhasis Dasgupta. While the hearing was in progress, the court was informed that instead of being released from the jail, Bera had been arrested in connection with another case registered at Nandakumar police station in East Midnapore district on June 16. Chatterjee told the division bench that the arrest was illegal, especially after the single bench said on Monday that the cases were politically motivated. The division bench asked the state to file a report within 24 hours. “On Wednesday, the state government withdrew the application for Bera’s arrest in the case registered at Nandakumar police station,” said Chatterjee. Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee at Nandigram in East Midnapore in the recent assembly polls, joined the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) in December last year. In May, he became the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly. After Bera’s arrest, his lawyers told the court that he was a victim of “political vendetta” because of his proximity to Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||ATM fraud: Police officers on kiosk hunt||Police officers probing the ATM fraud that left a 74-year-old woman’s son poorer by Rs 90,000 have written to the bank where the victim has an account to know about the locations of the ATMs from where the money was fraudulently withdrawn. Sanghamitra Ghosh, a resident of Golf Green, had gone to the ATM of a nationalised bank on Uday Shankar Sarani on Saturday with son Bodhisatwa’s debit card. The officer heading the probe said they had collected CCTV footage of the accused from the ATM kiosk where the woman was duped and the card replaced, and circulated his photographs among all police stations in the city. “The man was wearing a mask. His face is not fully visible,” the officer said. An investigator said the accused must have withdrawn the money from various ATMs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||45-year-old man arrested for posing as central government official||A 45-year-old man was arrested on Monday night for allegedly posing as a central government official and as the chairman of “International Human Rights Commission”, a fictitious organisation. Tarak Mondal used to introduce himself as a human rights official of the central government to businessmen and promoters in New Town and offer to “settle cases” in lieu of money, police said. Mondal’s driver and his two “bodyguards” were also arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Fake cop arrested for duping people with false job promises ||A man who was allegedly impersonating an officer of the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department at Lalbazar has allegedly duped several people with false promises of getting them jobs with the police. The man who lived at a Behala address shifted to a rented apartment in Parnasree a week ago after people he allegedly cheated started going to his home demanding he return their money, police said. He was arrested early on Tuesday. “We have arrested a man named Partha Dutta for cheating at least three youths of Rs 11.6 lakh against false promises of getting them a police job,” said a senior police officer. Complainant Bapan Sardar, 23, has reported to the police that he and two of his friends had paid Rs 11,60,000 to Dutta who had introduced himself as an officer of the ARS at Lalbazar and promised them jobs in the police department. Cops suspect Sardar and his friends may not be the only victims Dutta cheated. An officer said during investigation they found several people were visiting his Behala home demanding he return their money, after which he changed his residence. Dutta has been charged under sections of cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. Several cases of impersonation — where people have been posing as police officers to either extort money or cheat them with false promises — have been reported in the city in the past few weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||NGT's eastern zonal bench passes several directives on bio-toilets||The eastern zone bench of national green tribunal (NGT) has passed several directives on Howrah and Sealdah stations regarding maintenance of environmental norms and bio toilets on long-distance trains. It has asked the West Bengal Pollution Control Board to monitor their compliance. The bench, upon hearing Howrah station’s submission that they were in process of finalising the effluent treatment plant (ETP) in Tikiapara for last three years; observed that “this means that the said ETP is not fully operational” and asked railways “to submit its time schedule and plan of action” regarding its completion. During an earlier hearing, the state water investigation agency (SWID) informed the NGT that it had fined Howrah station for illegally withdrawing under-ground water without permission. On Monday, the bench also directed Sealdah station authorities to inform by next hearing — September 9 — when they would be completing the ETP in Sealdah station. Effluent treatment plants are extremely important to treat the water coming out of the stations or else the water will severely pollute the rivers or water channels nearby. The directives were passed by the bench comprising Justice B. Amit Sthalekar and expert member Saibal Dasgupta on Monday in response to a report filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta that stations have failed to comply with several environmental norms; and the counter responses of the railway authorities. The bench asked the state PCB to monitor the compliance of stations with regards to setting up of the ETPs and also asked it to check randomly whether all long-distance trains have been fitted with bio-toilets or not as decided by the railway ministry. “I pointed out to the bench that the actual number of coaches being used in Howrah station is much more than 1,634, the number that railways quoted as coaches with bio-toilet set up, and hence clearly railway is not complying with the mandate of fitting bio-toilets with all long distant train coaches,” said Datta. The bench also asked the PCB to monitor whether the cleaning of train tracks as well as yards linked to both stations as well as the waste, particularly plastic waste management system are being complied or not. Datta alleged that the tracks and yards remain scattered with waste, which has been denied by railway authorities. “We will be submitting our report as directed,” said a senior PCB official to The Telegraph. “This is not the first time that Howrah station has been indicted for violating environmental norms. In 1994, the Supreme Court rapped Howrah station for discharging polluted effluent into the Ganges; and forced it to build effluent treatment plant; first of its kind decision in the country, ” said Biswajit Mukherjee, the former chief law officer of the state pollution control board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Cyclonic circulation over Bay of Bengal triggers sharp spell of rain in Calcutta ||A fresh cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal triggered a sharp spell of rain in Calcutta on Monday night and early on Tuesday. The system is likely to bring more rain to Calcutta over the next three days, the Met office has said. Between 8.30pm on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday, the Met office recorded around 40mm of rain in Alipore. The Met observatory in Salt Lake recorded over 70mm of rain during the same period. In Met parlance, 60mm or more rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. Monday was exceptionally humid and sweaty and the rain brought some relief the next morning. The relief was short-lived and as the sun came out, the weather became sweaty again. “The cyclonic circulation is over the north Bay of Bengal. It is unlikely to intensify into a low-pressure area. But the system will lead to a wet spell over south Bengal over the next three days,” said a Met official. “Coastal districts of South and North 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly can get a spell or two of heavy rain because of the system. Calcutta is likely to get moderate rain,” the official said. The next few days are also likely to be sweaty. The sun will be out when it is not raining. The intervals between the showers are likely to be uncomfortable, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Give no space to hatred, economist Kaushik Basu tells students||Economist Kaushik Basu spoke about India's tradition of “openness, tolerance and compassion” that Swami Vivekananda and Sri Ramakrishna embodied and stressed the need to say no to hatred, while addressing students and teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur. Basu, Carl Marks Professor of International Studies in the department of economics and SC Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University, New York, was speaking virtually on the occasion of the concluding programme of the diamond jubilee celebration of the college on Tuesday. Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said the inaugural function a year ago was held online and everyone then hoped the concluding ceremony would be conducted in a conventional manner. “We have gone online once again due to the persistence of the Covid pandemic. Nonetheless, I am delighted to note that this pandemic has not dampened the spirit of the college in organising various programmes…” he said. Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said: “During this period (60 years since inception) the college has produced not only thousands of good professionals but good human beings….” Principal Swami Shastrajnananda and Bimal Kumar Roy, the chairperson of National Statistical Commission, also spoke on the occasion. Excerpts from Basu’s speech: Unemployment I just want to remind you that India is going through a very very difficult phase. All nations in the world have slowed down because of the pandemic but India has slowed down more than other nations…. Inequality is astronomically high.... At one level India is rich, there are very very rich people but youth unemployment is one of the highest in the world with 24 per cent of people — youngsters — unemployed in India, which is really intolerable. Poor people, the middle classes are suffering. We pay too little attention to that. Hatred There is a lot of hatred and division in society and I urge you as students going out into the world, teachers who are providing service, we must not give any space to hatred. Remember India's great heritage of openness, tolerance and compassion that comes to us from Swami Vivekananda, from Ramakrishna. Great ideas of progress and science. The tradition that comes to us from Vidyasagar, Jagadis Chandra Bose, Ramanujan, Har Gobind Khorana. This is our tradition in India. We have to have a questioning mind, an open mind and once again I have to give a tribute to Narendrapur because I know from the students who have come out, some of whom were my students, some of whom have become my friends, that the tradition that they carry forward is extremely important. I will urge you at a time like this to keep that tradition in mind, take this further forward. Hard and soft power Power plays a role. The military plays a role. Unfortunately we are in a world where those things matter. But more important than hard power is what is called soft power. The power of the mind. The power of education. I am sitting in the United States today. Lots of people point out the United States’ hard power. But I feel one reason why the United States of America has been successful is not something that people always talk about but people realise, America's soft power. The importance given to the education sector in the United States is huge. Higher education is respected, valued. People put effort into that and that has given the United States the soft power…. And India was on that path. We were nurturing our space for soft power, for democracy, for ideas, for opinions and we must continue with that great tradition. And as students, I would urge you to try to keep it up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Nurses in govt hospitals set to organise rally to demand an end to pay disparity ||Nurses in government hospitals are set to organise a rally on Friday to demand an end to an alleged pay disparity and have threatened to cease work if police use force to stop them from joining the march. Thousands of nurses have been taking turns in joining a sit-in at SSKM Hospital since July 26 to press for a pay parity with other state government employees with similar qualifications. The protesters are alleging that a diploma-holder nurse gets much less than a diploma-holder engineer working in some other government department. The difference in the basic pay between the two is as much as Rs 8,000, according to the protesting nurses. The disparity, they said., exists across all categories of nurses — fresher, experienced, diploma-holder and BSc degree-holder. On Monday, around 3,000 nurses from various government hospitals joined a march in the SSKM Hospital compound demanding pay parity. “No one from the government has approached us for talks yet. We will hold the rally on Friday. We hope the government will show its keenness to talk to us before that. If the government does not reach out to us by then, we will go ahead with the rally,” said Bhaswati Mukherjee, the secretary of Nurses Unity, the association that is spearheading the protests. “We will not be responsible if the police arrest anyone or use force on us on Friday and the movement escalates into a ceasework. It will be difficult to control the emotions of so many young boys and girls who have joined the movement,” she said. According to her, there are about 64,000 nurses working in state government hospitals in Bengal. Mukherjee and other protesting nurses said they were participating in the protests in a way that patient services are not disrupted in any hospital. Nurses are joining the sit-in only when they are off duty, they said. “Till now, no one has joined the protest skipping duty,” said a protesting nurse. Friday’s rally will start at SSKM Hospital, move past Rabindra Sadan and Birla Planetarium, and pass through Elgin Road before coming back to SSKM. Bengal’s health-care suffers from severe shortage of nurses as the number of nurses graduating from the state each year is far fewer than the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Police oppose cycling lanes, cite too little road space and chaotic traffic||Calcutta is not among the 11 cities chosen for funding under a programme to promote cycling in urban India, though neighbouring New Town has made it to the list. Officials of the state government who were involved in the process of applying for a competition to promote cycling said the Bengal capital lost it when its authorities refused to create lanes for cycles. The city’s police have steadfastly opposed cycling lanes, citing too little road space and chaotic traffic. A statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) in September said Calcutta was one of the 107 cities that had registered for the “India Cycles4 Change” challenge. But Calcutta could not progress further. “We had registered according to the guidelines. We had also conducted a survey on the zones with more cyclists and who are the people cycling in the city. Then came a point where we needed to have lanes for cycles. We were to send proof of the lanes with cycles running through them. This is where Calcutta lost because no cycle lane has ever been created in the city,” said a state government official who was part of the process. At a recent meeting, the city police’s top brass ruled out the possibility of creating cycling lanes for now at least. A senior officer of Calcutta police told The Telegraph on Tuesday that the issue had to be “thought of from a practical point of view”. “Mumbai and Delhi have between 9 and 11 per cent road space, while Calcutta has about 5 per cent road space. Most of our major thoroughfares have roadside parking bays that have taken up a portion of the carriageway. It is almost impossible to create lanes for cycles from the available space. Moreover, different roads in Calcutta have different widths, which is another impediment towards creating dedicated cycle lanes,” said the officer. Advocates of cycling, however, said the stubborn refusal by the city authorities — primarily the police and the civic body — to allow cycle lanes was promoting more fossil fuel-driven transport. “Cycle has multiple benefits from the point of view of health, climate and air pollution. There is also a question of equity involved here. If the authorities are concerned about preserving road space for motorised transport, it in a way encourages more people to buy cars. The poor and the lower-income group will feel that the government is not thinking about them. A car costs lakhs while most cycles are available in the range of Rs 4,000-Rs 5,000,” said Sharif Qamar, a fellow at the Centre for Sustainable Mobility in The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). Another cycling advocate said the policies of successive governments had always benefited the owners of private cars. When roads get congested, the government invests crores to build flyovers that are again reserved only for private cars, they said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has kept its parking rates unchanged since 2015, which, too, incentivises purchase of cars. A recent development had kindled some hope for cycling advocates — Calcutta’s police commissioner Soumen Mitra was spotted cycling across the Maidan area to review security. But officers said the maximum the police would allow was a bar on motorised transport in the Maidan area on one day or one morning in a week. Cycling advocates said it would only promote recreational cycling and not serve the needs of those who use cycles as their mode of transport. Calcutta’s loss stands in contrast to New Town’s win. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said they had submitted their short, medium and long-term plans for cycling, along with what was being practised now. Entry among the top 11 means New Town will get funds to create cycling infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Excise department extends liquor ban at The Park and HHI ||The excise department on Tuesday extended the liquor ban at The Park till September 9. The ban was imposed last month after a number of people were arrested at the Park Street hospitality address for allegedly partying on a corridor till early hours in violation of Covid curbs. In a separate order, the department slapped a 60-day liquor ban on Hotel Hindustan International (HHI). The ban came into effect on Tuesday. “The ban on serving liquor at HHI, at the bars and in the rooms, would remain effective till October 2,” said an excise department official. Like The Park, HHI, too, has come under the scanner for allegedly serving liquor post-8pm on July 10. “Today both hotels were slapped with a 60-day ban on serving liquor at the bars and in the rooms. Since The Park ban came into effect 23 days ago, following an earlier order of the excise department, its 60-day period will end before that of HHI,” the official said. “We have reasons to believe that both hotels had violated the state government order against serving liquor after 8pm, as a precaution against Covid. The decision to impose the ban was taken after taking into account the department's findings and other evidence. The ban will be reviewed after the 60-day period.” At The Park, police had arrested 37 persons for allegedly partying on a second-floor corridor beyond midnight, to the accompaniment of loud music. The revellers were allegedly drinking, too. An FIR was drawn up at Park Street police station. The excise department initiated a probe into the incident after slapping a liquor ban on the hotel on July 11. On July 30, officials of The Park had apparently told excise department officials that they were not sure whether the bottles and glasses seized by the police were from the hotel's stocks or brought by the revellers from outside. “We also went through the FIR registered at Park Street police station and checked the hotel's liquor stock as well as the seized bottles,” an official of the department said. The department had also summoned HHI officials for a hearing on July 22 following a report submitted by a team of senior excise officials who had raided the hotel’s sixth floor on the night of July 10. The officials mentioned in the report that they had reasons to believe that liquor had been served in a suite on the floor after 8pm. “Officials of HHI couldn’t explain why our officers were prevented from visiting other floors of the hotel that night and why lights and elevators were switched off after they turned up,” the official said. Officials of The Park and HHI said they had no comment to make on the excise department’s order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Block printing kindles hope during pandemic||On the ground floor of a house on the southern fringes of Calcutta, a group of people has been making tote bags, doormats and cushion covers for sale for the past four months. Women from economically impoverished families, trained in stitching fabric, are part of the production unit. As are some people with intellectual disabilities like autism and Down syndrome, for whom the unit is a renewed shot at mainstream life. Many people with cognitive impairments had been part of some skill training or other as part of their rehabilitation efforts. But the pandemic abruptly halted everything and confined them inside their homes once again. Teaching them social integration took years, said trainers and parents. Just when they made some progress, the pandemic forced social distancing on them. Since a March launch, the unit, called The Charkha, has been making over 500 bags every month. The buyers include a handful of boutiques. E-commerce sites also account for a significant section of the unit’s sales volume. For the past two months, the crew has been trying out one of the most artistic forms of textile printing. A pattern carved out of a wooden block, lends the name of the form — block printing. The block is then covered with dye and pressed firmly onto a fabric before being struck firmly so that it leaves an imprint on the cloth. The distressed look created by block printing is hard to replicate with a machine. “We have been producing over 300m of block-printed fabric every month, in addition to a wide range of bags, doormats, cushion covers and other home décor stuff. We have barely started but so far, the response of buyers has been encouraging,” said Amrita Roy Chowdhury, the founder of Transcendent Knowledge Society. Her NGO, which is behind The Charkha project, works for economic and social rehabilitation of differently abled people. The production unit operates out of the ground-floor of a two-storey house, a five-minute walk from the 3A Bus Stand in Thakurpukur on Diamond Harbour Road. One of the participants at the unit is Aishika Banik, 15, who suffers from autism as well as visual impairment. She is a student of a school run by the Transcendent Knowledge Society in the Karunamoyee area of Tollygunge. Before the pandemic, she had a fixed routine and seemed to enjoy it. She went to the school and interacted with other students. She was being trained in vegetable printing at the school. But the Covid-19 curbs changed everything. “Her sleep pattern has changed. She refuses to leave bed before noon. Earlier, she had an incentive to leave the bed — to go to school or some other learning session. But if I try to wake her up in the morning now, she says there is nothing to do after getting up,” said Srabani, her mother. Shivangini Santra, 25, who also suffers from cognitive impairments, has learnt stitching for two years before being a part of The Charkha. “She was missing out big time on being part of a team because of the pandemic. She loves being engaged,” said her elder sister Shivoli, who is also associated with the project along with her mother, Aditi. The unit runs from the ground floor of the Santra home. On July 28, when this newspaper visited the unit, Shivangini and Aishika were pressing a wooden block against a fabric. They were helped by other women in the group. “People with intellectual disabilities are good at repetitive work. The use of colours has a therapeutic effect on them,” said Roy Chowdhury. A cafe on Lake Road run by young people with intellectual disabilities was forced to shut down last year because of the pandemic. Roy Chowdhury plans to include some people who worked there in The Charkha. “We will also bring in some acid attack survivors and transgenders in the near future,” she said. The NGO has hired professionals for training the group. “Block printing is a dying art. If the art helps in improving the lives of these people and they help in keeping the form alive, it is a win-win situation,” said Muhammad Rafiq, the chief trainer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
