05-08-2021||Calcutta||16-year-old girl rescued from aunt's house hours before wedding||A 16-year-old girl, a student of Class XI, was rescued from her aunt's house in Budge Budge hours before she was to be married off on Tuesday evening. A team of officers from Maheshtala police station reached the venue, all decked out, and rescued the girl. The girl’s father is a daily labourer who does odd painting jobs and the mother, a homemaker, places chumki on saris to add to the family income, police said. The teenager who was to be married off is the second of three daughters of the couple. The eldest daughter is married. The father has been ailing for a few months and lost his earning following the outbreak of Covid-19. “The girl cleared Madhyamik this year and was admitted to a higher secondary school in Bishnupur, on the southern fringes of the city. With the family struggling to make ends meet, the parents decided to get her married,” said an officer. The Telegraph has reported how pandemic-induced poverty has led to a rise in child marriage and child trafficking. An NGO had tipped off the police that the Class XI student was being married off at her aunt’s house in Maheshtala, far away from the village where the girl lives with her parents and sister. The man to whom she was to be married earns a living by selling vegetables. The police said he also worked as a tout at the state transport department's office in Alipore. “Since the marriage didn’t take place, we have not arrested anyone. But the girl’s parents and her aunt had to give us in writing that they would not marry her off till she came of age and they would allow her to complete her education,” an officer at Maheshtala police station said. “Some neighbours have agreed to help the family so that the girl could complete her education. The parents will open a bank account in the girl’s name and the neighbours would transfer money there.” “When our field workers got to know about the wedding, they tried to talk the parents out of it. When that failed, we alerted the police,” said Dalia Roy, of Jeevika Development Society, which works with women across South 24-Parganas. “Over the last year and a half, during the pandemic, we have been able to save a dozen underage girls from being married off.” Hundreds of contractual labourers in Budge Budge, Maheshtala, Bishnupur and other areas in South 24-Parganas have been struggling to eke out a living during the pandemic, which has crippled the economy. “Some of these families are agreeing to proposals to get their underage girls married off, unable to feed them any longer. Once, we had rescued a girl after she had boarded the groom’s car after marriage,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||CPM retracts on 'Beejemul' theory, considers BJP main enemy||The CPM has acknowledged there’s no hobgoblin called “Beejemul” and that the Trinamul-BJP battle is “not a got-up game”, doing a somersault that may not fetch an Olympic medal but will please those who want the Left to identify the BJP as the main enemy. The ideologues in Alimuddin Street have prepared a discussion note that draws a clear distinction between Trinamul and the BJP. While not calling it a historic blunder, the Bengal CPM has said the stress on the fictitious “Beejemul” — a term that sought to club the BJP and Trinamul as one entity — created confusion ahead of the Bengal polls. The CPM’s note has been sent to the district units as well as the headquarters in Delhi and various state CPM offices. The note is to be discussed on August 5, the birth anniversary of Muzaffar Ahmad, one of the founders of the Indian communist movement. “Some slogans regarding the party’s position on the BJP and Trinamul have created confusion. The party’s understanding is, the BJP is in no way similar to any other political party, because the BJP is run by the fascist RSS,” the three-page note says. “The use of slogans like ‘Beejemul’ and assertions that the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin created confusion during the time of the election. The 2019 Lok Sabha elections made it clear that the fight between the two parties (the BJP and Trinamul) is not a got-up game.” Titled “Post-election situation and our work”, the note covers several subjects such as the slide in the party’s support base, Trinamul’s success in defeating anti-incumbency with initiatives like Duare Sarkar (government at the doorstep) and Didike Bolo (Tell Didi), and the need to develop a strong organisation up to the booth level. The big surprise — the paragraph that distinguishes Trinamul from the BJP — comes on the second page. This understanding had eluded the CPM before the Assembly elections, where it drew a blank. “All the political lines we have been adopting since 2006 have been proved wrong — it was no different this time,” said a CPM old-timer who did not wish to be named. The CPM’s 2021 poll campaign had begun with a tall claim — “Amrai bikolpo, amrai dharmoniropekkho, amrai bhobishyot (We are the lone alternative; we alone are secular; we are the future)” — at the February 28 rally of the Sanjyukta Morcha, a fledgling alliance of the CPM-led Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front, on the Brigade Parade Grounds. Thereafter, CPM leaders travelled across the state equating the BJP and Trinamul and insisting that both needed to be defeated. When CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya argued the Left Front and the Congress should identify the BJP as “political enemy number one” and desist from clubbing it with Trinamul, CPM leaders like Biman Bose had swatted the suggestion away. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury had gone further to say that siding with Trinamul would hand the entire anti-incumbency vote to the BJP. So, the campaign was built around assertions of a “Didi-Modi understanding”. Although the note claims there was no confusion in the party’s own mind over the differences between the BJP and Trinamul, some Alimuddin insiders recalled the address delivered by state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra at the 2018 state conference. “Responding to the question why the party had struck an alliance with the Congress, the state secretary said in his report that the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin,” a CPM veteran said. This clubbing of Trinamul and the BJP was a feature even of the CPM’s main campaign slogan for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which urged voters to defeat the BJP and stop Trinamul. The slogan, believed to be the brainchild of Mishra and former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, had raised questions even within the party. The doubters had asked whether asking voters to stop Trinamul was the right strategy for the parliamentary polls, but the state leaders had ridden roughshod over all the objections. “Politburo members like Prakash Karat and Manik Sarkar never shared this view and that’s why they were not welcome to campaign ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls,” a party source said. “The party’s East Burdwan unit, which is not on the same page with Mishra, had invited Manikbabu on its own, which the state leaders didn’t like.” The latest note has raised some comrades’ hopes of a rethink in Alimuddin about the approach to Trinamul, but some others are sceptical. “This discussion note is full of contradictions…. While it admits that the party’s support base has dwindled over the years, it also makes silly claims, for instance, that the party has done better in 2021 compared with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” a party insider said. “How can the state committee of a party that failed to win a single seat make such a claim?” The source said the disclaimer on “Beejemul” owes to the CPM central leadership’s insistence at a time an Opposition platform centred on Trinamul and the Congress is shaping up in Delhi. “The CPM would clearly like to be a part of that initiative and, probably, that’s the reason the Bengal unit is under pressure to formally distinguish between the BJP and Trinamul,” he said. Besides, with party leaders in Kerala and Tripura having clearly spelt out that the BJP is the main enemy, the Bengal unit could not continue to be seen ploughing a lone furrow for too long. “This, however, doesn’t mean the Bengal CPM will edge closer to Trinamul to take on the BJP. Under the current crop of leaders, who still want to settle scores with Mamata Banerjee over Singur, Nandigram and the 2011 defeat, that seems an impossibility,” another CPM source said. One part of the note appears to lend credence to this apprehension. “The BJP may have lost the (Assembly) polls, but we can’t afford to make the mistake of taking them lightly,” it says. “On the other hand, if the fight against the autocratic and corrupt Trinamul, which has come to power (for the) third time in a row, is weakened, it will benefit the BJP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: People from districts flock to city vaccination centres||Patients from districts are flocking to Covid vaccination centres in Calcutta as the availability of doses there is much less than in the city. The result is that in some of the facilities in Calcutta the number of people queuing for the shot is three to four times the number of doses available. “This has been the scene for at least two months and there is no end in sight,” said an official involved in Covid vaccination in the city. Many people from districts are taking the jab at private hospitals in Calcutta, shelling out a hefty sum, as they are unable to stand in a queue for hours outside government vaccination centres near home. Similar queues are for-ming outside government centres in Calcutta, too. So such people from districts are opting for private facilities. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has reported to the state health department that between 25 and 30 per cent of recipients at its vaccination centres were from other districts. Data available on the CoWIN portal reveals the disparity. The number of Covid vaccination centres in Calcutta on Wednesday was 365, compared with 68 in Howrah, 65 in Hooghly, 266 in South 24-Parganas and 254 in North 24-Parganas. Availability of doses in Calcutta, too, is much higher than in neighbouring districts. The difference becomes starker when one considers the fact that Calcutta was the least populated of these five districts according to the 2011 Census. Murshidabad, another district that was more populated than Calcutta according to the same Census, had only 76 CVCs on Wednesday. Officials in the state health department said no other civic body in Bengal could match the CMC’s drive in getting people vaccinated against Covid. The CMC alone runs 192 CVCs. “No other municipality or municipal corporation in the state has shown such keenness in setting up vaccination centres like the CMC,” a health department official said. The presence of private hospitals has helped Calcutta. There are 129 private CVCs in Calcutta, compared with only 64 in North 24-Parganas, which has the second highest number of private CVCs in the state. “Covid-19 broke out first in cities and then spread to rural areas. So we had prioritised cities. Calcutta, the epicenter of the spread, gets the majority of the doses. If doses were abundant, we would not have needed to prioritise one place over another,” said Asim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Regulatory panel to meet hospitals on advisory on capping test rates||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission will meet private hospitals on Thursday to discuss its advisory issued in July on capping the rates of some pathological and radiological tests. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) had earlier written to the commission stating their objections to the advisory. “We will meet the private hospitals on Thursday regarding the advisory…. The hospitals had some objections,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said on Wednesday. The commission had on July 3 fixed a limit on the rates that private hospitals could charge for a number of pathological and radiological tests. The advisory has capped the chest X-ray PA rate at Rs 400 and the HRCT (128 slice CT scan) rate at Rs 5,200. Among pathological tests, the Procalcitonin test rate has been capped at Rs 4,000 and the IL-6 test rate at Rs 3,500. Days after issuing the advisory, the commission clarified that the cappings would not apply to patients with medical insurance. In its letter to the commission, the AHEI wanted to know the mechanism or the basis behind fixing the rates. An official of a private hospital, who is a member of the association, said the commission had to understand that private hospitals had to be sustainable. “One private hospital may have equipment worth Rs 10 lakh to conduct certain tests, while another may have equipment worth Rs 40 lakh to conduct the same tests. How can both charge the same rates? At the end of the day, each private hospital has to be sustainable,” said the official. The commission on Wednesday asked Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 82,660 to a patient’s family in accordance with the advisory on test rates. The family of the patient, a 70-year-old woman who was admitted with Covid, was supposed to pay Rs 5.71 lakh post-discount. “Medica agreed to offer a further discount of Rs 71,000 when the patient’s son said he had lost both his parents during the pandemic and his business was not running well,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Couple found dead in rented flat in Nayapatty near Salt Lake||A couple in their 40s were found dead in their rented flat in Nayapatty on the fringes of Salt Lake on Wednesday, police said. Officers suspect the couple — Debashis Dasgupta, 45, and Shrutidipta Guha Biswas, 40 — lost their jobs at a Chennai-based company. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they received an alert from residents of Vasundhara Housing Complex that a couple who had moved into flat number B2 of the complex had not opened their door since morning. “The first alert came from the help engaged by the couple. As they did not open the door even after repeated knocks, the help alerted the caretaker of the complex. The caretaker got in touch with other residents, who in turn alerted us,” the officer said. A team from Sector V police station went to the complex and broke open the door. Debashis was found hanging from the ceiling fan in one of the rooms and Shrutidipta was lying in the bedroom. The police team took the two to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital, where they were declared dead. Another officer of the commissionerate said an initial forensic probe revealed that Debashis had strangulated Shrutidipta before killing himself. “We have started a probe and got to know that the couple had learnt about the flat through a mobile app. Both of them used to work at a Chennai-based company and it seems they lost their jobs. They did not interact much with neighbours,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||ATM swindler arrested after elderly man raises alarm||Police on Wednesday arrested a man who allegedly duped elderly people in the Narendrapur-Sonarpur area on the pretext of helping them withdraw cash from ATMs. The police said they had seized six ATM cards of different banks, which they suspect could have been stolen from other elderly victims, from Jagannath Gharami, the accused. “An old man raised the alarm inside an ATM kiosk in the Narendrapur area on Wednesday when the accused tried to exchange his card with another after pretending to help him withdraw money. People outside the kiosk caught the accused. One of our patrol vehicles was not far from the spot and rushed there,” said an officer of Sonarpur police station. The police said Gharami, a resident of Sonarpur, turned out to be the same person they were looking for in connection with another ATM fraud in the same area, which was reported on July 4. An elderly person named Arun Kumar Das had reported that a man had first tried to “help” him withdraw money from an ATM and then exchanged his debit card with another card. Money had been fraudulently withdrawn from his account by the time Das realised his card had been replaced. Both incidents bore an uncanny resemblance with the ATM fraud that was recently reported from Golf Green. Sanghamitra Ghosh, a 74-year-old resident of Golf Green, had gone to the ATM of a nationalised bank on Uday Shankar Sarani on Saturday, with her son Bodhisatwa’s debit card of a private bank, when she was duped. The elderly woman had met a man in the queue outside the ATM kiosk who allowed her to withdraw money before him. However, the man allegedly entered the kiosk after her and apparently confused her by saying that double the amount she had typed had been debited from her account. He told her that she needed to take out a mini statement to check the transaction. The man allegedly spied on her PIN when she took out the mini statement before replacing her ATM card with another card. Even before the woman reached her home, Rs 90,000 had been withdrawn from the account. A senior officer of Sonarpur police station said they had shared details of the arrested person with Golf Green police to find out whether the same man had duped Ghosh. “The accused has admitted that he had been operating in Rajpur, Narendrapur, Sonarpur and pockets of Calcutta. We are trying to get more details of the cases in which he has been involved,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Online tests for Rahara RKM UG admission||Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College, Rahara, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses based on online tests. While drawing up the merit list in each of the seven BSc courses, the college will take into account 50 per cent marks scored in the online tests. Along with it, 30 per cent of the marks in the Class X board exams and 20 per cent of the marks in the Class XII board exams will also be considered. Last year, the college had admitted students solely on the basis of marks. The dates of the admission tests and the subject cutoff for applying have been uploaded on the website of the college. Mock tests are being conducted to familiarise students with the pattern of online merit tests. The admission notification says: “All candidates have to appear in an online merit test. This online merit test is based on the syllabus of 10+2 standard. It comprises both MCQ (multiple choice question) and MSQ (multiple select question).” The mock test link is https://forms.gle/Ktt7qE1W3pRYEB6V8 and will be active up to August 14 till 4pm. “An online merit list will help us determine the merit of a prospective student. The college has acquired the required proficiency on how to conduct the tests by conducting classes and exams over the digital platforms during the past one and a half years as a precaution against Covid19,” Swami Kamalasthananda, the principal of the college, told Metro. An official of the college said since the Class XII exams could not be conducted across the boards, admitting students on the basis of equal weightage to board marks and admission test was the best option to determine the potential of a candidate to pursue a programme. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce. Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, will admit undergraduate students in all departments through online screening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||New Town, Sector V flooded after heavy downpour||Officer-goers and other commuters headed to Sector V, New Town and the airport as well as residents of those pockets faced a tough time negotiating roads as they were under knee-deep water till late on Wednesday. All major roads in Sector V went under water shortly after the day’s downpour started around around 4.45am. A number of roads in New Town and the airport area were flooded by 9am. At one point, the water on some roads was waist high. The Salt Lake and Dum Dum stations of the weather office recorded more than 80mm of rain from 4.45am till 6.30pm. In other parts of the city the showers started around 11am, an official in the Met department said. A 2.5km-long stretch of VIP Road, near the Haldiram's outlet, and a stretch of the Major Arterial Road, near the Chinar Park crossing, were under knee-deep water around 6pm. Traffic snarls were reported from both arteries, which lead to the airport. Cars and two-wheelers headed to Sector V from the Chingrighata crossing of EM Bypass had to negotiate the pothole-ridden stretch of the flooded Sector V-bound flank of the Salt Lake Bypass. Quite a few vehicles ran into potholes, which were hidden under water. If reaching Sector V was a challenge, a tougher challenge awaited commuters inside the township. Vehicles crawled through streets knee-deep in water, while those who got off buses had no option but to wade through water. Key crossings such as Wipro, College More and Godrej Waterside were under water, too. Office-goers were spotted hailing rickshaws, which charged up to Rs 100 to travel short distances. Subhrajyoti Roy said he had to shell out around Rs 100 to travel 1.5km, from College More till the Wipro Crossing, by rickshaw. "There were no other options. I tried booking multiple app cabs but they all cancelled the bookings once I told them that I was at College More,” Roy said. An official of Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which looks after the amenities of the tech township, said all three pumping stations were pressed into service to drain out water but they hardly proved enough. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said the Eastern Drainage Canal, where the pumps discharge water, was flowing at the danger level. In New Town, too, all pumping stations were pressed into service. Officials had to keep watch to prevent flowback from the Bagjola and Kestopur canals, which were flowing at the danger level, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Heavy rain lashes city, some areas record over 100mm in few hours||Heavy rain lashed the city for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, with some areas recording over 100mm in just a few hours. The weather office has issued a rain alert for the next two days. The downpour led to waterlogging in several stretches. “The lock gates of the Hooghly were open when the rain was at its peak. Otherwise, things would have been worse,” said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The rain was triggered by a cyclonic circulation over the north Bay of Bengal, which had led to the rain on Tuesday as well, and the position of the monsoon trough. The trough passes over Santiniketan and Diamond Harbour and merges with the circulation, said a Met official. The city is likely to get more rain over the next two days, he said. “The system is unlikely to intensify but is likely to persist till Friday. It is close to the Bengal coast and will have an impact for the next 48 hours,” the official said. On Wednesday, rain-bearing clouds travelled from east to west and, aided by strong monsoon currents, brought rain to Calcutta. The city experienced the bulk of the rainfall from 10am to 4pm, in multiple spells. In many places, a drizzle persisted till late evening. From 8.30am to 8.30pm on Wednesday, the Met office recorded around 80mm of rain each at Dum Dum and Salt Lake observatories. Alipore recorded around 25mm. Ultadanga was the wettest area in the city, having received over 110mm of rain between 11am and 4pm, according to CMC figures. Maniktala got around 85mm, Topsia 78mm and Thanthania got 75mm. In comparison, Kalighat got 35mm and Jodhpur Park 45mm. Areas along the EM Bypass received heavy rainfall, too. CMC’s Dhapa pumping station received 90 mm of rainfall. In Met parlance, 60-120mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. Sukeas Street, Amherst Street, Muktaram Babu Street, College Street and BB Ganguly Street had ankle deep water by the afternoon. Around 3pm, parts of Central Avenue, Shakespeare Sarani and Camac Street were flooded, too. Traffic was stalled as busy thoroughfares across the city went under the water. “The water receded from most areas in the evening. Only a few areas, like Thanthania, Muktaram Babu Street, some parts of Central Avenue and College Street were waterlogged even after 6pm,” said an official of the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
05-08-2021||Calcutta||NGO raises Covid awareness among slum kids through comics||A city NGO has created a comic book to share Covid-related information and safety precautions amongst children in slums. The narrator of the book is an urban slum girl who the children would relate to and the book has scenes and issues from the daily lives of these children who are growing up amidst deprivation worsened by the pandemic. The idea behind the publication “Stay safe stay strong” by NGO Ek Tara is that children across the country “who do not have access to correct information will use this to gain a better understanding” of the Covid pandemic to keep themselves and their families safe. “Comic books are more relatable for children and we created a character named Tara who our children could identify with and situations that they face in their everyday life without being preachy,” said Anupriya Bhattacharya, executive programme manager, Ek Tara. The comic book includes a situation where Tara talks about employment being affected in the pandemic — “my father has no job now”. In another instance, she says: “My school is closed. I miss my teachers...I miss my daily meals and my classroom...” What follows is why Tara thinks she must “behave in a responsible way” — precautions such as wearing a mask, following physical distancing, washing hands, avoiding large gatherings and getting her family vaccinated. The importance of wearing masks correctly is heightened because of the small space these children live in. The publication in four languages, Hindi, Bengal, Marathi and English, has been given to 40,000 children across the country so far. The book has been illustrated by Falguni Gokhale. Bhattacharya said it was important to address people living in slums. “For them, the main problem is not the Covid disease but the issues arising out of it, like losing a job, no access to disposable income and no food. We have to tell them that to address other issues, Covid has to be addressed first,” she said. The book also addresses the emotional needs of a child — if he or she is sad, to approach an adult, mother, sister or a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine certificate must for NIT Durgapur returnees||NIT Durgapur has asked the PhD scholars returning to the institute from August 2 to bring certificates and “show through CoWin” that they have been fully vaccinated to enter the campus. A notice signed by the dean of students’ welfare at the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, said “at the gate, they may be asked to show through the COWIN website also” to verify that they had received both doses. The institute last month had asked those returning to the campus to give an undertaking that they had received both doses. Now, with cases of fake jab camps and fake certificates being reported from several places, the institute wants to authenticate the students’ undertakings. “We are exercising caution following reports of these instances. What if a student, desperate to return to the campus, procures such certificates to secure entry? The details regarding registration and Aadhaar are being run through the portal to verify their claims as part of a random scanning mechanism,” said an institute official. Entry is being allowed only if those managing the gates are satisfied with the scanning. Last month, cases of fake vaccination camps were reported from Kasba and Sonarpur. “Such cases might have happened elsewhere. We get students from all over India. So, extra caution has to be exercised... At a time when there is a dearth of vaccines owing to shortage of supply, acts of desperation on the part of students eager to return to the campus cannot be ruled out,” said an official of the institute. The scholars’ desperation stems from concerns that their work is stuck in the final stage of research because of the lack of access to laboratories and equipment, said a teacher. The Telegraph reported on August 3 that the Centre had till August 2 provided around 497 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to the states, nearly 20 million short of the 516 million doses it had said it expected to supply by July 31. In April, the Durgapur institute had been forced to send all the research scholars — who had been called back to campus in February — back home following a spurt in Covid cases on the campus. On July 17, the institute had asked the project and research scholars to return to the institute after giving an undertaking that they had taken both vaccine doses. “We want to maintain the maximum possible caution,” said NIT Durgapur director Anupam Basu. “Even as the scholars are being called subject to recommendation from the supervisor and the head of the department, maximum caution is being observed while allowing entry,” said an official. The students have been asked to bring an RT-PCR negative report, which is not older than 72 hours. IIT Kharagpur, while recalling the 500 BTech students facing resource constraints because of lack of access to smartphones or laptops and unstable connectivity at home, has made it mandatory for the returnees to have taken at least the first dose of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
